THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICEE, 21 CORNHILL,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisement making less than one square inserted three time for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LEBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is thee World, our Countrymen are all Mankind. 
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers 
VOL. XXX. NO. 5. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1860. WHOLE NUMBEER, 1519.
SELECTIONS. 
<c01>
WHO ARE THE POLITICAL DISUNIONISTS AND ON WHAT GROUNDS.
Extracts from a Speech on 'THE DISUNION FOLLY.' delivered by Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, in the U. S. Senate, Jan. 25, 1860:-
Now, Mr. President, I intend to place before the Senate, and, as far as I can, before the patriotic, liberty-loving and Union-loving men of the Free States, the predictions of disunion, the arguments for disunion, and the menaces of disunion, made by some of the presses and some of the men in the interests of slavery, presses that are the exponents of, and men who are the acknowledged leaders of, the sectionalized, slavery-extending Democracy. I want the people of Massachusetts, and of the country, to see that the political secessionists and disunionists are the trusted exponents and the accepted leaders of the national Democracy. I want the alarmed conservatives of the North, who hasten into Union-saving meetings, to see and to realize that the men who are now blurting their disunion sentiments into the unwilling ear of a loyal people, are the leaders of that party which they, by their shrinking timidity, are upholding in power. I want the deluded masses of the Northern Democracy to see the hypocrisy, the arrant cowardice, of their leaders at home, who are fatiguing the weary ear of the country with their worn-out professions of love and devotion to the Union, while they dare not rebuke the disloyal avowals and menaces of the leaders they follow with craven soul and fettered lip.
When, Mr. President, the Republican party, summoned into being and into action in 1856, by the aggressions of slavery, by the crimes against the people Kansas, appealed in tones as earnest as ever issued from human lips to the American people, to their sense of justice, their love of liberty, their emotions of humanity, and their sentiments of patriotism, to all that is highest, noblest, and holiest in human nature, to rescue the Government, arrest slavery extension, redress the wrongs of the people, and give repose to the country, by restoring the Government to the policy of Washington and Jefferson, Democratic presses and Democratic leaders, whose vital and animating-principle is the propagation and expansion of human slavery on the North American continent, raised the startling war-cry of disunion. Timid and selfish conservation which saw, unmoved, liberty cloven down in a distant Territory, and heard the imploring appeals for protection of freemen whose sacked and burning cabins illumed the midnight skies, shrank appalled when it heard this cry of disunion, opened its long purse, and continued the destinies of the country in the keeping of men who avowed their intention to ruin, if they could not rule it. 
Sir, when that uncertain contest was going on, when the election of Fremont seemed to the leaders of the Democracy not only possible, but probable, the Senator from Louisiana, (Mr. Slidell,) one of the most skilful leaders of the slave Democracy-the acknowledged friend and champion of Mr. Buchanan-declared to the country, that 'if Fremont should be elected, the Union would be dissolved.' The bold, dashing and out-spoken Senator from Georgia (Mr. Toombs) declared, with emphasis, that 'if Fremont was elected, the Union would be dissolved, and ought to be dissolved.' The Senator from Virginia (Mr. Mason) then, as now, at the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who avowed on the floor of the Senate that 'the South has the right to the natural expansion of slavery as an element of political power,' declared in a public letter, that unless the aggression upon the rights of the South-as he was pleased to designate the resistance of the people of the North against slavery extension-ceased, he was for 'the separation of these States.' Mr. Butler of South Carolina, then a leading member of the body, which placed him at the head of the important Committee on the Judiciary, said,-
‘When Fremont is elected, we must rely upon what we have-a good State government. Every Governor of the South should call the Legislature of his State together, and have measures of the South decided upon. If they did not, and submitted to the degradation, they would deserve the fate of slaves. I should advise my Legislature to go out at the tap of the drum.' 
Sir, I might quote other declaration of Senators, in which these ideas are expressed; but I must pass on. In the House, as the records will bear evidence, these sentiments were profusely uttered by the men who upheld the course of oppression in Kansas, said dictated the policy of the Democratic party. Mr. Keitt, in a fiery and vehement speech to the people of Lynchburg, Va., exclaimed, in view of the apprehended election of Fremont-
'I tell you now, that if Fremont is elected, adherence to the Union is treason to liberty. (Loud cheers.) I tell you now, that the Southern man who will submit to his election is a traitor and a coward. (Enthusiastic cheers.)' 
This speech, so contemptuous, so defiant towards the people of the North, so emphatic in its avowals of disunion, was promptly endorsed as ‘sound doctrine by John B. Floyd, now Mr. Buchanan's Secretary of War-a gentleman of whom the Boston Post, the leading Administration organ in New England, in 1850, said, 'Henceforth he must be treated as a disunionist, and the most dangerous of them all.' In the autumn of 1856, Mr. Brooks of South Carolina received from the people of his district an ovation. Senator Butler and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Toombs) attended, and other Southern Democratic leaders sent applauding letters. To the assembled people of his district, Mr. Brooks said,-
'We have the issue upon us now; and how are we to meet it; I tell you, fellow-citizens, from the bottom of my heart, that the only mode which I think available for meeting it, is just to tear the Constitution of the United States, trample it under foot, and from a Southern Confederacy, every State of which will be a slaveholding State. (Loud and prolonged cheers.) I believe it, as I stand in the face of my Maker I believe it, on my responsibility to you as your honored Representative, that the only hope of the South is in the South, and that the only available means of making that hope effective is to cut asunder the bonds that tie us together, and take our separate position in the family of nations. These are my opinions. They have always been my opinions. I have been a disunionist from the time I could think.’
‘Now, fellow-citizens, I have told you very frankly and undisguisedly, that I believe the only hope of the South is in dissolving the bonds which connect us with the Governments,-in separating the living body from the dead carcass. If I was the commander of an army, I never would post a sentinel who would not swear that slavery is right.’
'I speak as a man-as a private gentleman-as a slaveholder; and I tell you that our hope is alone in the South; and the only mode of making that hope available, is for the South, by some act, to effect a dissolution of the American Union. And I say this,
<c02>
that if John C. Fremont is elected President of the United States, our people ought to have sense enough to know that the issue is upon them, and cannot be avoided.
'I speak on my individual responsibility: if Fremont be elected President of the United States, I am for the people in their majesty rising above the law and leaders, taking the power into their own hands, going by concert or not by concert, and laying the strong arm of Southern freemen upon the Treasury and archives of the Government. (Applause.)'
These emphatic avowals of disunion were applauded by the people who had, by a unanimous vote, sustained his action, and commissioned him to speak for them in this Capitol. Well might the Charleston Mercury declare, as it has, that-
'Upon the policy of dissolving the Union, of separating the South from her Northern enemies, and establishing a Southern Confederacy, parties, presses, politicians and people, were a unit. There is not a single public man in her limits, not one of her present Representatives or Senators in Congress, who is not pledged to the lips in favor of disunion. Indeed, we well remember that one of the most prominent leaders of the co-operation party, when taunted with submission, rebuked the thought by saying, "that in opposing secession, he only took a step backward to strike a blow more deadly against the Union." ’ 
Sir, the erratic, aspiring, blustering Wise, who ‘would introduce slavery into the heart of the North,' who 'would allow slavery to pour itself out without restraint, and find no limit but the Southern ocean,' in the autumn of 1856, told the people of Virginia that-
‘The South could not, without degradation, submit to the election of a Black Republican President. To tell me we should submit to the election of a Black Republican, under circumstances like these, is to tell me that Virginia and the fourteen Slave States are already subjugated and degraded (cheers); that the Southern people are without spirit, and without purpose to defend the rights they know, and dare not maintain. (Cheers.) If you submit to the election of Fremont, you will prove what Seward and Burlingame said, to be true,-that the South cannot be kicked out of the Union.'
He avowed his readiness to put the military force of Virginia upon a war footing; and he gave the valorous assurance to his disunion associates that 'the chivalry ' of Virginia ' would hew its bright way through all opposing legions.' Rumor said, and I believe truly, that this Democratic aspirant to the Presidency held correspondence with Southern Governors, to concert measures preparatory to disunion; that he and his disunion compeers organized a plot to seize the arsenal at Harper's Ferry; to take possession of the navy yard at Norfolk, and inaugurate rebellion, revolution and disunion, in the event of Fremont's success. The Washington correspondent of the New Orleans Delta, a journal high in the confidence of the Pierce administration, wrote,-
'It is already arranged, in the event of Fremont's election, or a failure to elect by the people, to call the Legislatures of Virginia, South Carolina and Georgia, to concert measures to withdraw from the Union before Fremont can get possession of the Army and Navy, and the purse-strings of Government. Governor Wise is actively at work already in the matter. The South can rely on the President in the emergency contemplated. The question now is, whether the people of the South will sustain their leaders.'
Mr. Corry of Ohio reports Mr. Banks of Virginia as having said to him, a few days after the election in 1856, that-
'The South would have dissolved the Union, if Fremont had been elected President of the United States; that Gov. Wise and the Virginia leaders were ready to take the field-march on Washington, depose the Federal officers, take the Treasury, archives, buildings, grounds, &c.-declare the Confederation de facto overthrown. He said the thing would have been easy; there were thirty thousand men ready; twenty thousand cavalry; sets of accoutrements; that the public mind was sufficiently excited to overcome all domestic resistance, and that they could whip the North in the fight.'
Evidence of the disloyal, revolutionary and treasonable course of Henry A. Wise is also furnished by Charles J. Faulkner, late Representative of the Harper's Ferry District, chairman of the Congressional Democratic Committee in 1856, and now Minister to France. At a Democratic meeting, recently held in Virginia, over which Mr. Faulkner presided, he said,-
‘When that noble and gallant son of Virginia, Henry A. Wise, declared, as was said he did, in October 1856, that, if Fremont should he elected, he would seize the National Arsenal at Harper's Ferry, how few would, at that time, have justified so bold and  decided a measure? It is the fortune of some great and gifted minds to see far in advance of their contemporaries. Should Wm. H. Seward be elected in 1860, where is the man now in our midst who would not call for the impeachment of a Governor of Virginia who would silently suffer that armory to pass under the control of such an executive head?’
This 'noble and gallant son of Virginia' who, in 1856, 'saw far in advance of his contemporaries,' who was ready, it Fremont had been elected, 'to seize the arsenal at Harper's Ferry,' is now looking with hungry eye to the Charleston Convention, and is now the applauded and favorite hero of a class of men in the North, who are stammering into the ears of a doubting people their uxorious love of the Union; and the Democratic orator, who would demand the impeachment of a Governor of Virginia, if he should permit the arsenal at Harper's Ferry to pass under the control of William H. Seward, if elected to the Presidency, is nominated by a Democratic President, and confirmed by the united voice of the Democratic Senators, to represent the Republic at the Court of Louis Napoleon. This Democratic administration, and this Democratic party, which invokes the support of the Union-loving, conservative men of the Free States, sends to the proudest monarchy of the Old World the man who uttered this insurrectionary and disloyal sentiment. Yes, sir; Democrats, with the accents of Union upon their lips, sanction the appointment of a man who is avowedly in favor of civil war and disunion. Let the real friends of law, of order, and of the unity of the Republic, mark and remember this want of fidelity to the Union by the administration, and the men who lead the Democratic party. 
Sir, the Richmond Enquirer, the leading Democratic organ south of the Potomac, during the canvass of 1856, avowedly advocated disunion. That exponent of the slave Democracy said,-
'Sumner and Sumner's friends must be punished and silenced. Either such wretches must be hung or put in the penitentiary, or the South should prepare at once to quit the Union.’
'If Fremont is elected, the Union will not last an hour after Mr. Pierce's term expires.' 
‘If Fremont is elected, it will be the duty of the South to dissolve the Union and form a Southern Confederacy.'
'Let the South present a compact and undivided front. Let her, if possible, detach Pennsylvania and southern Ohio, southern Indiana, and southern Illinois, from the North, and make the highlands be-
<c03>
tween the Ohio and the lakes the dividing line. Let the South treat with California; and, if necessary, ally herself with Russia, with Cuba, and Brazil.' 
Sir, this journal, which, during the canvass, had avowed the rankest disunion sentiments-this journal, which had been the trumpet of the alarmists, after the election had been won by the aid, by the ‘material aid,' of alarmed and quaking conservatism, very naively announced to the victims of this disunion panic, that 'Governor Wise threatened disunion only to save the Union'! Yes, sir; the valiant Wise, ready to put the military force of his dominions on a war footing; ready to hew his bright way through all opposing legions; ready to seize Harper's Ferry, 'only threatened disunion to save the Union '! Patriotic Wise! Who, in view of the sagacious patriotism of that 'noble and gallant son of Virginia,' will not accept the tribute of the admiring Faulkner, that 'it is the fortune of some great and gifted minds to see far in advance of their contemporaries'? May not shivering, despairing conservatism indulge the faint hope, that other ' noble and gallant sons of Virginia,’ and of the sunny South, may, in humble imitation of the far-seeing Wise, be 'threatening disunion only to save the Union '?
We are entering, Mr. President, upon another Presidential election: another great struggle for supremacy in the national councils, between the opposing forces of slavery extension and slavery restriction. The nation once more presents to mankind 'the interesting spectacle of justice in conflict with avarice and oppression.' This 'conflict' is stirring the country to its profoundest depths. Conscious of their waning power, the advocates of slavery expansion are again haughtily menacing the dissolution of the Union, in the event of their defeat by the people. Again, in the public press, in assemblages of the people, in State Legislatures, and in these Chambers, disloyal and revolutionary threats are made to intimidate the people. 
Sir, the Senator from Georgia, (Mr. Iverson.) before the meeting of Congress, boasted before the people of his State, that 'the proud and enviable condition of the poor men in the South, compared to the degraded WHITE SLAVES OF THE NORTH, is owing to the existence of African slavery in the South;’ and he emphatically declared, that 'slavery must be maintained-in the union, if possible, out of it, if necessary; peaceably; if we may, forcibly, if we must.' And the Senator drew this flattering view of a Southern confederation:
‘In a confederated government of their own, the Southern States would enjoy sources of wealth, prosperity and power unsurpassed by any nation on earth. No neutrality laws would restrain our adventurous sons. Our expanding policy would stretch far beyond present limits. Central America would join her destiny to ours, and Cuba, now withheld from us by the voice and votes of Abolition enemies.' 
Coming into this Chamber, the honorable Senator early sought occasion to say:
'Sir, I will tell you what I would do, if I had the control of the Southern members of this House and the other, when you elect John Sherman. If I had control of the public sentiment, the very moment that you elect John Sherman, thus giving to the South the example of insult, as well as injury, I would walk, every one of us, out of the Halls of this Capitol, and consult our constituents; and I would never enter again until I was bade to do so by those who had the right to control me. Sir, I go farther than that. I would counsel my constituents instantly to dissolve all political ties with a party and a people who thus trample on our rights. This is what I would do.’
In a carefully prepared and very elaborate speech, recently delivered, the Senator from Georgia said:
'Sir, there is but one path of safety to the South; but one mode of preserving her institution of domestic slavery, and that is, a confederacy of States having no incongruous and opposing elements-a confederacy of Slave States alone, with homogeneous language, laws, interests, and institutions. Under such a confederated republic, with a constitution which would. shut out the approach and entrance of all incongruous and conflicting elements, which should protect the institution from change, and keep the whole nation ever bound to its preservation by an unchangeable fundamental law, the fifteen -Slave States, with their power of expansion, would present to the world the most free, prosperous and happy nation on the face of the wide earth.
'Sir, with these views, and with the firm conviction which I have entertained for many years, and which recent events have only seemed to confirm, that the "irrepressible conflict" between the two sections must and will go on, and with accumulated speed, and must end, in the Union, with the total extinction of African slavery in the Southern States, that I have announced my determination to approve and urge the Southern States to dissolve the Union upon the election of a Black Republican to the Presidency of the United States, by a sectional Northern party, and upon a platform of opposition and hostility to Southern slavery.'
The Senator from Mississippi, (Mr. Brown,) in the speech to his constituents, from which I have already quoted, and in which he avows his desire to acquire territory in Central America and Mexico, 'to plant slavery in,’ says:
'Whether we can obtain the territory while the Union lasts, I do not know; I fear we cannot. But, I would make an honest effort, and if we failed, I would go out of the Union, and try it there. I speak plainly-I would make a refusal to acquire territory, because it was to be slave territory, a cause for disunion, just as I would make the refusal to admit a new State, because it was to be a slave State, a cause for disunion.' 
Surely, no one can mistake the position of the Senator. If the people of the Free States, who believe slavery to be what <illegible> Clay said it was, ‘a curse,' 'a wrong-a grievous wrong,' that ‘no contingency could make right,' should refuse to acquire territory' because it was to be slave territory he would make that refusal ' cause for disunion. The Senator has laid upon our desks an address, delivered in the capital of the State he so ably and faithfully represents; and in this address I find this declaration:
'The election of Mr. Seward, or any other man of his party, is not, per se. justifiable grounds for dissolving the Union. But the act of putting the government in the hands of men who mean to use it for our subjugation, ought to be resisted, even to the disruption of every tie that binds us to the Union.' 
On the 6th of July, the Senator from Mississippi, (Mr. Davis,) whose ability and large and varied information are acknowledged by the Senate and the country, delivered an elaborate address to the people of this State. By common consent, the country recognizes the Senator from Mississippi as one of the foremost leaders of his section and of his party, and his opinions command attention and consideration. In this address, the honorable Senator says:
'For myself, I say, as I said on a former occasion, in the contingency of the election of a President or the platform of Mr. Seward's Rochester speech, led the Union be dissolved.  Let the "great, but not the greatest, of evils" come.'
On the 11th of November, 1858, after his return 
<c04>
from a visit of several months to New England, the Senator addressed the people of his State at Jackson. In this address the Senator is reported to have said: ‘If the Republicans should elect a President, the question would be presented, what should the South do? For his part, he had but one answer to give. When that happened, when the Government was in hostile hands, when the presidency and the houses of legislation were controlled by the enemies of the South, he was for asserting the independence of Mississippi; he was for immediate withdrawal from the Union.' And in view of the aspect of public affairs, the honorable Senator ' advised the people of the South to turn their old muskets into Minnie rifles, prepare powder, shot, shell, ammunition of all kinds, and fortifications, so as to be ready against any emergency.'
The Senator from Alabama (Mr. Clay) early addressed the Senate upon the resolution introduced by the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Mason); and in this speech, prepared with the elaborate care that Senator is accustomed to bestow upon the subjects he discusses here, the Senator assumes, in effect, the position that it is impossible for the people of the South to live under a government administered by the Republican party. He says:
'Do you suppose that we intend to bow our necks to the yoke; that we intend to submit to the domination of our enemies; that we intend to sit here in your presence as hostages for the good behavior of our conquered people-a people who will be under your administration, not as sovereigns to rule, but as subjects to be governed?’
In response, the Senator says:
'I make no predictions, no promise for my State; but, in conclusion, will only say, that, if she is faithful to the pledges she has made and principles she has professed; if she is true to her own interest and her own honor; if she is not recreant to all that State pride, integrity and duty demand, she will never submit to your authority. I will add, that unless she and all the Southern States of this Union, with perhaps but two, or, at most, three exceptions, are not faithless to the pledges they have given, they will never submit to the government of a President professing your political faith and elected by your sectional majority.'
When the Senator from Alabama took his seat, the Senator from California (Mr. Gwin) rose, and declared that he considered ' it as the inevitable result, that the South should prepare for resistance, in the event of the election of a Republican President.’ The Senator went on to argue that the South must, could, and would, dissolve the Union, if the Republican party succeeded in the coming election. That Senator went on to show how the South could carry out the scheme of disunion; how she could seize the public property within her limits; that, by doing so, before the Government passed into the control of such an Administration, to administer the Government in that portion of the country. And he declared that ' it is impossible for a Republican President to administer this government over the slaveholding States of the Confederacy; ' and that 'the election of a Republican President is the inevitable destruction of this Confederacy.' 
The Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Clingman) assures us, that in the South ' there are hundreds of disunionists now, where there was one ten years ago;' that in some of the States men who ' would willingly to-day see the Union dissolved' are in the majority; and in other States a large class of men are ' ready to unite with them upon the happening of a cause.' And he says:
'In my judgment, the election of the Presidential candidate of the Black Republican party will furnish that cause.'
To the suggestion that they' ought to wait for some overt act,' the Senator says:
‘No other "overt act" can so imperatively demand resistance on our part, as the simple election of their candidate. Their organization is one of avowed hostility, and they come against us as enemies.'
Referring to the distinguished Senator from New York, (Mr. Seward,) he declare that-
‘The objections are not personal merely to this Senator, but apply equally to any member of the party elected by it. It has, in fact, been suggested that, as a matter of prudence, for the first election they should choose a Southern Free Soiler. Would the colonies have submitted more willingly to Benedict Arnold than to Lord Cornwallis?'
But the Senator seems to be in favor of the secession of the States, but not of the secession of the members of Congress. He says:
‘I may say, however, that I do not think there will be any secession of the Southern members of Congress from this Capitol. It has always struck me that this is a point to be voluntarily surrendered to the public enemy.’
The Senator from North Carolina evidently indulges in the pleasing illusion that 'the public enemy,' as he is pleased to characterize his fellow countrymen, will abandon the Capitol, if ' the southern members of Congress' remain in the Capitol. 'If lives should be lost here,' exclaims the Senator,' it would seem poetically just that this should occur'! If, after this declaration of seeming valor, the Republicans, in the event of their success in November, do not flee from the Capitol with as much haste as did the 'chivalry' of this region in the late war with England, I am quite sure the Senator from North Carolina, who is 'struck' with the original idea ‘that this is a point not to be voluntarily surrendered to the public enemy,' will be disappointed in his expectations. But the Senator goes on to express his emotions of contempt for men of the non-resistant school. ‘I cannot find,’ says the Senator, 'words enough to express my abhorrence and detestation of such creatures as Garrison and Wendell Phillips, who stimulate others to deeds of blood, and, at the same time, are so cowardly that they avoid all danger themselves.' This expression of ' abhorrence and detestation ' for such non-combatants, such ‘cowardly creatures,' is, I suppose, intended to admonish us on this side of the Chamber that the Senator is terribly in earnest when he makes proclamation of his wishes in these words:
'As from this Capitol so much has gone forth to inflame the public mind, if our countrymen are to be involved in a bloody struggle, I trust in God that the first fruits of the collision may be reaped here.’
This language, Mr. President, admits of but one interpretation. Gentlemen from the South, who are in favor of a dissolution of the Union, do not intend, in so doing, to secede from this Capitol, nor surrender it to those who may remain within the Union. Having declared that, if lives are to be sacrificed, it will be poetically just that they should be sacrificed here on this floor; and that, as so much has gone forth from this Capitol to inflame the public mind, it is but proper that the first fruits of the straggle should be reaped here, the Senator gives us, therefore, distinctly to understand that there may be an physical collision-'a bloody struggle;' that the scene of this conflict is to be in the legislative halls of this Capitol. To simply say, in reply to this threat, that northern Senators cannot thus be intim-
<c05>
idated, is too tame and common-place to meet the exigency. Therefore, I take it upon me to inform the Senator from North Carolina that the people of the free States have sent their representatives here not to fight, but to legislate; not to mingle in personal combats, but to deliberate for the good of the whole country; not to shed the blood of their fellow members, but to maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and uphold the Union-and this they will endeavor to do here, in the legislative halls of the Capitol, at all events and at every hazard. In the performance of their duties, they will not invade the rights of others, nor permit any infringement of their own. They will invite no collision, they will commence no attack; but they will discharge all their obligations to their constituents, and maintain the Government and institutions of their country in the face of all conceivable consequences. Whoever thinks otherwise has not studied either the history of the people of the free States, or the character of the men dwelling in that section of the Union, or the philosophy of the exigency which the Senator from North Carolina seems to invoke.
The freemen of the North have not been accustomed to vaunt their courage in words; they have preferred to illustrate it by deeds. They are not fighting men by profession, nor accustomed to street broils, nor contests on ‘the field of honor,' falsely so called, nor are they habitual wearers of deadly weapons. Therefore it is that when driven into bloody collisions, and especially on sudden emergencies, it is as true in fact as it is sound in philosophy, that they are more desperate and determined, and more reckless of consequences to themselves and to their antagonists, than are those who are more accustomed to contemplate such collisions. The tightest band when once broken recoils with the wildest power. So much for the people of the free States. As to their representatives in this Capitol I will say, that if, while in the discharge of their duties here, they are assaulted with deadly intent, I give the Senator from North Carolina due notice, here, to-day, that those assaults will be repelled and retaliated by sons who will not dishonor fathers that fought at Bunker Hill and conquered at Saratoga, that trampled the soil of Chippewa and Lundy's Lane to a bloody mire, and vindicated sailors' rights and national honor on the high seas in the second war of independence. Reluctant to enter into such a contest, yet once in, they will be quite as reluctant to leave it. Though they may not be the first to go into the struggle, they will be the last to abandon it in dishonor. Though they will not provoke nor commence the conflict, they will do their best to conquer when the strife begins. So much their constituents will demand of them when the ‘bloody struggle’ the Senator contemplates is forced upon them; and they will not be disappointed when the exigency comes. I say no more; I await the issue, and bide my time.
Mr. President, during the protracted and excited contest in the other end of the Capitol, the leaders of the Democracy have avowed the rankest disunion sentiments; and these avowals of disloyalty to the Union have been often rapturously applauded on the Democratic side of the Chamber and in the galleries, crowded, as they have often been, by Government officials, Government contractors or dependents. Sir, if the Union-loving, liberty-loving, patriotic men of the country could have heard these menaces of disunion; could have witnessed the applauding throngs in the galleries, and the applauding Democracy on the floor; and could have witnessed the Democratic smiles, the Democratic nods, and the Democratic congratulations, they would visit upon the actors in this farce, and upon their compeers here and at home, the stern rebuke and with during scorn of an indignant people.
Early in the session, Mr. Nelson of Tennessee, a distinguished member of the Southern Opposition, rebuked the disunion sentiments which had been so profusely scattered through the debates by the secessionists; and he avowed his devotion to the Union in tones of thrilling eloquence. His patriotic and national sentiments received the enthusiastic applause of the Southern Opposition and the Republicans. The patriotic sentiments of the eloquent Tennesseean, reminding us of the days before the advent into these Halls of the secession disciples of Calhoun, when the followers of Clay, aye, and of Jackson too, had made the Chambers echo with sentiments of devotion to the Union, seemed to grate harshly upon Democratic ears. Mr. Pryor of Virginia, who, in 1856, as one of the editors of the Richmond Enquirer, echoed the disunion sentiments of Governor Wise, rose and propounded to Mr. Nelson this question: 
'Would you be willing Wm. H. Seward should take possession of the army, the navy, and all the powers of the government-I mean all the constitutional powers of the President of the United States? Would he allow Wm. H. Seward to take possession of those powers, or would he resist it even to the extent of going out of the Union?’ 
Sir, this question clearly implied that Mr. Pryor would resist, even to the extent of going out of the Union, the inauguration of Wm. H. Seward. But that was early in the session.  Gov. Wise, who, if Faulkner is to be relied upon, ‘sees far in advance of his contemporaries,' had not then avowed his resolution to fight in the Union, and to stay in the Union. The Enquirer, the family organ, which is engaged in warning the people of the South not to 'precipitate disunion, but to prepare for it,' has made the wonderful discovery that 'the election of a Black Republican advocate of the "irrepressible conflict," will be the withdrawal of the State, supporting such election from the Union.' As Governor Wise has resolved to fight in the Union, and as his family organ has declared that the election of a Republican is a withdrawal of the States supporting his election from the Union, Mr. Pryor will not now resist the inauguration of Wm. H. Seward, 'to the extent of going out of the Union;' but cling to this new 'Virginia abstraction,' and assume that the States voting for Mr. Seward are out of the Union.
Mr. Curry of Alabama, in a speech which is by far the most comprehensive and philosophical presentation of the issues yet mad on the slavery side, in the House, said:
'However distasteful it may be to my friend from New York, (Mr. Clark.) however much it may revolt the public sentiment or conscience of this country, I am not ashamed or afraid publicly to <illegible> that the election of William H. Seward or <illegible> P. Chase, or any such representative of the Republican party, upon a sectional platform, ought to be resisted to the disruption of every tie that binds <illegible> Confederacy together.' (Applause on the Democratic side of the House.)
Mr. Pugh of the same State, in a speech of much rhetorical beauty and eloquence, said:
‘If with the character of the Government well defined, and the rights and privileges of the parties the compact clearly asserted by the Democratic party the Black Republicans get possession of the Government, then the question is fully presented, whether the Southern States will remain in the Union, as subject and degraded colonies, or will they withdraw and establish a Southern confederacy of coequal home <illegible> sovereigns? 
‘In my judgment, the latter is the only course com-
<c06>
patible with the honor, equality and safety of the South; and the sooner it is known and acted upon, the better for all parties to the compact.
‘The truest conservatism and wisest statesmanship demand a speedy termination of all association with such confederates, and the formation of another union of States, homogeneous in population, institutions, interests and pursuits.’
Mr. Moore of the same state, said:
‘I do not concur with the declaration made yesterday by the gentleman from Tennessee, that the election of a Black Republican to the Presidency was not cause for a dissolution of the Union. Whenever a President is elected by a fanatical majority at the North, those whom I represent, as I believe, and the gallant State Which I in part represent, are ready, let the consequences be what they say, to fall back on their reserved right and say—" As to this Union, we have no longer any lot or part in it." 
Mr. Boyce of South Carolina, before the meeting of Congress, addressed his constituency in an elaborate and very carefully prepared speech, in which he says that the election of a President by the Republican party 'would constitute of itself a good reason why the South should refuse to submit to their rule.’ ‘Our policy is, first, to prevent, if possible, the election of a Republican President; second, if this must occur, in spite of all our wise exertions to the contrary, to cause it to occur under such issues as will best enable us to set up a southern government.' ‘The great point, then, is to ripen public opinion at the South for a dissolution of the Union, in the contingency referred to-the election of a Republican President.' He avows that ‘it is the fixed policy of this State to secede as soon as the Republican party elect their President.' ‘If we desire to ripen public opinion among ourselves for southern independence, in the event of the election of a Republican President, we must exercise the policy of moderation in our movements preliminary to that result. We must use the most consummate prudence now, that we may be able to profit by the most desperate boldness then.'
Mr. Bonham, of the same State, said on the floor of the House:
'As to disunion, upon the election of a Black Republican, I can, peak for no one but myself and those I have here the honor to represent; and I say, without hesitation, that upon the election of Mr. Seward, or any other man who endorses and proclaims the doctrines held by him and his party-call him by what name you please-I am in favor of an immediate dissolution of the Union. And, sir, I think I speak the sentiments of my own constituents, and the State of South Carolina, when I say so.'
Mr. Crawford of Georgia, as a quotation from his speech will show, spoke not only for himself, but for his associates from that State; and his disunion sentiments received the applause of his Democratic friends:
‘Now, in regard to the election of a Black Republican President, I have this to say, and I speak the sentiment of every Democrat on this floor from the State of Georgia: we will never submit to the inauguration of a Black Republican President. (Applause from the Democratic benches, and hisses from the Republicans.) I repeat it, sir-and I have authority to say so-that no Democratic Representative from Georgia on this floor will ever submit to the inauguration of a Black Republican President. (Renewed applause and hisses.) ‘The most confiding of them all are, sir, for “equality in the Union, or independence out of it;” having lost all hope of the former, I am for "INDEPENDENCE NOW, AND INDEPENDENCE FOREVER!”’
Mr. Gartrell, also of Georgia, has supported the position assumed by Mr. Crawford. He declares:
‘Just so sure as the Republican party succeeds in electing a sectional man upon their sectional, anti-slavery platform, breathing destruction and death to the rights of my people, just so sure, in my judgment, the time will have come when the South must and will take an, unmistakable and decided action; and that then "he who dallies is a dastard, and he who doubts is damned." I need not tell what I, as a Southern man, will do-I think I may safely speak for the masses of the people of Georgia-that when that event happens, they, in my judgment, will consider it an overt act, a declaration of war, and meet immediately in convention, to take into consideration the mode and measure of redress. This is my position; and if that be treason to the Government, make the <illegible> of it.'
Governor McRae, of Mississippi, declared that he was not willing to submit to the election of a Republican President upon a Republican platform:
'I said to my constituents, and to the people at the capitol of my State, on my way here, that if such an event did occur, while it would be their duty to determine the course which the State would pursue, it would be my privilege to counsel with them as to what I believed to be the proper course; and I said to them what I now say and will always say in such an event, that my counsel would be to take independence out of the Union, in preference to the loss of constitutional rights, and consequent degradation and dishonor, in it. That is my position, and it is the position which I know the Democratic party of the State of Mississippi will maintain.’
Mr. DeJarnette of Virginia will resist the inauguration of the candidate of the Republican party, if that candidate is Mr. Seward, for he says:
‘Thus William H. Seward stands before the country a perjured traitor; and yet that man, with hands stained with the blood of our citizens, we are asked to elect President of the United States. You may elect him President of the North, but of the South, never. Whatever the event may be, others may differ; but Virginia, in view of her ancient renown, in view of her illustrious dead, and in view of her <illegible> tyrannies, will resist his authority. I have done.’
Mr. Leaks, unlike his colleague, Mr. Pryor, will not follow the lead of the late Governor <illegible>, and fight inside the Union. Mr. Leaks evidently does not see so far in advance as does that noble son of Virginia. He says:
'I repudiate the sentiment which the gentleman ascribes to the late Governor of Virginia. I choose rather to refer to the Representatives of that State to hear her sentiments then to any other source. It never entered my head, and I undertake to say that it never entered the brain of any Representative of Virginia on this floor, to fight inside the Union. The idea is ridiculous in the extreme. It is <illegible> ad absurdum.’
And Mr. Leake emphatically declares that-
‘Virginia has the right, when she <illegible>, to withdraw from this Confederacy. (Applause from the Democratic benches.)’  ‘That is her doctrine. We will not fight in the Union, but quit it the instant we think proper to do so.’
Mr. Singleton, <illegible> openly <illegible>, on the floor of the House, that 'their determination is fixed and unalterable: that they will have an expansion of slave <illegible> in the Union, if you will allow it, or outside of the Union if they <illegible>' and that, sentiment was received with <illegible>, applause. He goes on to say:
‘The question now is, if we sever the <illegible> which binds us and the North together, how are we to preserve the <illegible> of slavery! <illegible> but one mode by which, in my humble judgment, it can
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The <illegible> Constitution <illegible> with death, and an agreement with hell.'
‘Thee free <illegible>, We Their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind <illegible> has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly <illegible> and Christian resolution…No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, it experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' 
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be perpetuated for any considerable number of years, ... ï¿½That mode is by expansion, and that expansion must be in the direction of Mexico.ï¿½ . . . ï¿½There is in Mexico a large extent of territory that is suited to the cultivation of cotton, sugar and rice. In my opinion we must, and we are compelled to expand in that direction, and thus perpetuate itï¿½a hundred or a thousand years, it may be.'
. . . .
ï¿½It may be asked, when will the time come when we shall separate from the North? I say candidly, if the views expressed by the gentleman form lows are, as he says, common to the Republican party, and if they are determined to enforce those views, I declare myself ready to-day. I would not ask to delay the time a single hour.' 
. . . . 
'You ask me when will the time come? when will the South be united? It will be when you elect a Black Republicanï¿½Hale, Seward, or Chaseï¿½President of the United States. Whenever you undertake to place such a man to preside over the destinies of the South, you may expect to see us undivided and indivisible friends, and to see all parties of the South arrayed to resist his inauguration.ï¿½
....
We can never quietly stand by and permit the control of the Army and Navy to go into the hands of a Black Republican President.'
Union sentiments, whenever or by whomsoever uttered, grate harshly on Democratic ears, tuned to the accents of disunion. When Mr. Stokes, of Tennessee, the other day rebuked the disloyal sentiments which so glibly fall from Democratic lips; when he, in eloquent, manly, and patriotic language declared his devotion to the Union; when he quoted and endorsed as his own the words of Henry Clay, 'ï¿½ that he would consent to the dissolution of the Union-never! never! never!ï¿½ the Democracy foamed, and gnashed its teeth in impotent wrath. 
Governor Letcher, of Virginia, in his recent message to the Legislature of his State, avows the rankest disunion and revolutionary sentiments. In this document he declares that if a Republican President is elected in 1860-
'It is useless to attempt to conceal the fact that, in the present temper of the Southern people, it cannot be and will not be submitted to. The ï¿½irrepressible conflict" doctrine, announced and advocated by the ablest and most distinguished leader of the Republican party, is an open declaration of war against the institution of African slavery wherever it exists; and I would be disloyal to Virginia and the South, if I did not declare that the election of such a man, entertaining such sentiments, and advocating such doctrines, ought to be resisted by the slaveholding States. The idea of permitting such a man to have the control and direction of the Army and Navy of the United States, and the appointment of high judicial and executive officers, postmasters included, cannot be entertained by the South for a moment.'   
I might quote, Mr. President, the avowals of disunion sentiments by other Democratic leaders, and other Democratic presses; for these avowals of disloyalty to the unity of the Republic are scattered, in rank luxuriance, broadcast over the land. But I must pause. I have, however, gathered up enough of these noisy menaces of disunion, which are falling thick and fast around us, to show to the Senate and the country that the accepted leaders of the Democratic party are secessionists and disunionists, with the accents of disunion perpetually on their lips, and its spirit burning in their hearts. I have also gathered up, from the mass of facts which lie at my feet, enough to show that the Democratic party is tainted with the odor of disunion, that the stain of disloyalty is now indelibly stamped upon its brow. I have shown, too, that these menaces of disunion, which Democratic leaders are hurling around us in this Capital, go unrebuked by the northern Democracy, whose glory it is to follow these apostles of secession and disunion. The country will not fail to see, and to mark, too, the discreditable fact, that while Democratic leaders in these Chambers are muttering angry menaces of disunion, and while such madness goes unrebuked, even by the faintest whispers of the Democratic representatives of the loyal North and West, the Democratic presses in the North and West are busyï¿½not in raining upon the heads of Democratic disunionists the withering rebuke of patriotismï¿½but in the work of misrepresenting and maligning those who cling to the Union with unswerving fidelity, alike in victory and in defeat. The country, too, will not fail to see that the Democratic orators dare not, even at a safe distance, utter the softest censure against the disloyalty of leaders they follow as the bondman follows his master; but they are appealing to the selfish fears of men to disown their manhood, and by acts of humiliation appease the awakened wrath of the Democratic chieftains now menacing the integrity of the Union. 
Mr. President, the American Democracy, led by slave perpetualists and propagandists, secessionists and disunionists, now in the light of this age, stands before the nation the enemy of human progress, and in favor of the conservation and propagation of old abuses. No longer does the Democracy utter the accents of popular rights. No longer does the Democracy sympathize with man at home or abroad, struggling for the recovery of lost rights, or the enlargement of existing privileges. Does the Legislature of Kansas pass an act for the abolition of slavery there? Democracy resists it, and arrests it by Executive action. Does the Legislature of Nebraska, left ï¿½perfectly free to form their own domestic institutions in their own way,' pass a bill to wipe from that vast Territory the pollution of slavery? Democracy resists it, defeats it by the Executive veto, and applauds that veto, Does the Legislature of New Mexico enact a bloody slave code? Democracy prompts it, praises it, applauds it. Does a sovereign Commonwealth lighten by humane legislation the burdens of a prescribed race, so that it may rise into the sunlight of a broader and higher manhood? Democracy is outraged, shocked, and it avenges itself by gibbering taunts, jibes, and jeers. Does a slave State enact or propose to enact statutes to still more oppress these already bending under the iron heel of oppression, or to check the action of its own citizens who may be prompted by sentiments of benevolence or a sense of justice to lessen the bitterness of bondage, or give freedom to their own bondmen? Democracy approves and applauds it. Does Walker, at the head of a lawless band of fillibusters, decree slavery in Central America? Democracy hails and applauds that decree. Does any indication point to the possible abolition of slavery in Cuba? Democracy protests, cannot permit it, will pay $200,000,000 for that slaveholding isle, but will not accept the ï¿½Gem of the Antilles,' if burdened with freedom. Does England strike the fetters from the limbs of eight hundred thousand West India bondmen? Democracy deplores it, disapproves it, and persists in misrepresenting the effects of that great act of justice and humanity. Does the Emperor of Russia propose a plan for the emancipation of millions, not of the African race, but of white men? Democracy shakes its head, shrugs its shoulders, utters no note of joy, sends no word of encouragement or greeting to the enlightened monarch who would enlarge the rights and elevate the condition of men. Does the Republican party, imbued with the sentiments of the Republican fathers, propose to arrest the expansion of slavery over the Territories of the Republic, and save these Territories to free labor, cheek the re-opening slave traffic, and put the national Government in harmony with a progressive Christian civilization? Democracy, smitten with the consciousness of its waning power, raises the startling cry of disunion. To its abandonment of the sentiments, opinions, and policy of the Republican fathers then, to its betrayal of the rights and interests of free labor and the cause of human rights at home and abroad, is now added disloyalty to the integrity of the Union. Let the intelligent patriotism of the nation rebuke this mad exhibition of folly and fanaticism which would shiver this Union into broken fragments, and proclaim, in the words of Andrew Jacksonï¿½'The Union must and shall be preserved.' 

DEATH OF MRS. ELIZA LEE FOLLEN. 
A heavy cloud was over the Anti-Slavery Anniversary in Boston, last week, in consequence of the painful intelligence of the sudden death of the gifted, beloved, and greatly honored Mrs. ELIZA LEE FOLLEN, widow of the late Professor Charles Follen, at Brook-line, on Thursday, 27th ult. after an illness a few days, of typhoid fever, aged 72 years and 6 months. A full tribute to her character and worth hereafter. 
FREDERICK BROWN, brother of Capt. John Brown, being now in the vicinity of Boston for a short time, will be happy to visit a few places and address audiences on subjects of paramount interest at the present time. Persons desirous to avail themselves of this opportunity to hear a strong and earnest friend of liberty, will please write immediately to SUMUEL MAY, Jr., 21 Cornhill, Boston. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 3,  1860.
ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY. 
The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti -Slavery Society was held in Boston, at the Tremont Temple, commencing on Thursday, January 26. 
At half-past 10 o'clock, the meeting was called to order by FRANCH JACKSON, President of the Society, and opportunity for prayer, vocal or silent, was given. 
Rev. Mr. BALDWIN, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, offered prayer. 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer of the Society, made the Annual Report of the Treasurer's finances. It showed Receipts $9,863 78; Expenditures, $9,272 47; Balance in Treasury, Jan. 1, <illegible>. The report was certified by the Auditor, WM L. BOWDITCH, Esq., to be correct. 
Voted, To accept the Treasurer's Report, and publish it with the proceedings. 
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE was nominated and appointed Assistant Secretary.
James N. Buffum of Lynn, William Whiting of Concord, Josiah Hay ward of Salem, Samuel Dyer of Abington, Charles K. Whipple of Boston, and Pliny B. South wick of Milford, were appointed a Committee to nominate the usual Committees of the Annual Meeting. 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent of the Society, made a brief report of the Society's doings, and of the progress of the cause during the year past.
The Nominating Committee reported the following Committees:-
On Business-Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, J. H. Stephenson, Stephen S. Foster, Maria W. Chapman, Abby Kelley Foster, Charles C. Burleigh, Andrew T. Foss, Charles L. Remond, Oliver Johnson. 
On Finance-James N. Buffum, Elbridge Sprague, E. H. Haywood, Miss Sallie Holley, Miss Georgiana Otis. 
To Nominate Officers of the Society-Edmund Quincy, James N. Buffum, William Whiting, William Ashby, Joseph Merrill. 
The Society, by a unanimous vote, elected the Committees as reported. 
A brief discussion, on the Petitions to the Legislature for a Law against Slave-Hunting, took place, in which G. W. Stacy, S. May, Jr., A. T. Foss, E. D. Draper, Lewis M'Lauthlin of Pembroke, Mr. Allen of West Newton, J. Merrill of Danvers, and others, participated. 
Mr. PHILLIPS did not think it at all wonderful that petitions, especially such as that asking for the removal of the Webster statue, should recently have fallen somewhat into the shade. The events of Harper's Ferry, so exciting and so energetic, have generated an impatience of mere intellectual discussion. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, from the Committee on Business, reported the two following resolutions: 
1. Resolved, That the present condition of Church and State demands of us the most stern and rigid application of absolute right to national affairs, holding each to its highest duty. 
2. Resolved, That the proposed laws of Senators Douglas and Bigler indicate the purpose of the Slave Power to make Free Speech, a Free Press, and Anti-Slavery action in the Free States, an indictable offence, and probably to carry offenders into the Slave States for trial. 
Mr. Phillips spoke at some length and with much force, in support of these resolutions. 
In the conclusion of his speech, Mr. Phillips having said that a brother of Capt. JOHN BROWN was in the audience-Frederick Brown, of Ohio-a very strong interest was manifested to see and to hear him. 
FREDERICK BROWN, being invited, came to the platform, and was greeted by the cheers of the meeting, who rose spontaneously to welcome him. As he expressed his thanks to the audience, in a few words, for their sympathy with him, and with his brother's family, tears flowed freely down the rugged cheeks of men, as well as from the eyes of women, throughout the meeting. 
T. W. HIGGINSON, of Worcester, rose to explain the circumstances relating to the dismissal of the Principal of the Worcester High School, which Mr. Phillips had spoken of, and represented to be owing to the teacher's anti-slavery principles and character. He (Mr. H.) thought that gentleman was not removed on this account; he had investigated the whole matter, and was satisfied that Mr. Sprague's anti-slavery sentiments and course were not the reasons of his removal. He also dissented from Mr. Phillips's opinion that Worcester, or that Massachusetts, would not protect her citizens from an assault of the Federal power, acting in behalf of slavery. It will be time enough to bring this charge when she has been tried and found wanting. When persons claimed as slaves, or persons charged with treason to the Slave Power, will, instead of flying to Canada, or to Europe, trust Massachusetts to protect them, and she fails to do so, then let her be arraigned. At present, it has never been tried. To sustain and strengthen freedom, you must trust freedom. Every fugitive sent from Massachusetts to Canada has helped to demoralize Massachusetts, accustoming her to yield, instead of standing her ground. Worcester has publicly invited the fugitive slave to remain and live within her borders. 
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, of Worcester, dissented entirely from Mr. Higginson's ideas respecting the true reasons of the dismissal of the High-School teacher of that city. He believed that the teacher's anti-slavery action was the reason of his removal. Nor could be share Mr. Higginson's confidence as to the people of Worcester making any resistance to United States authority in defence of persons assailed in Worcester.
Mrs. ABBY K. FOSTER-I reside in Worcester. Worcester has never invited the fugitive slaves, or alleged traitors to this pro-slavery government, to come there for protection. A question answered by a promiscuous audience in Worcester is not to be taken as the voice of the city. Neither the Mayor nor any responsible official of that city has ever given countenance or assistance to such a measure. Even the mechanic Senator from Worcester said, in a public meeting there, that he could not vote for the protection of Massachusetts citizens against the Federal Government, and no disapprobation came from the meeting. There is a strong under-current of feeling in that city against any man who takes a disunion position.
Mr. HIGGINSON explained. Mrs. Foster never comes short of her duty in telling the people of Worcester of their deficiencies and faults, in respect to the Anti-Slavery cause; and she always predicts that they will fail in protecting fugitive slaves and their defenders. She has said that no official of Worcester had sanctioned the measure of protecting the fugitive slave at all hazards; she appears to have forgotten that the gentleman (William W. Rice, Esq.) who presided at the Worcester meeting which invited the fugitive slave to remain there, had since been elected Mayor of the city by a triumphant vote. We have one place in Massachusetts in advance of the rest of the State. Let us trust it, and make trial of it in time of need. 
JOHN BEESON made a few remarks on the subject of the wrongs of the Indians of this country; and as he proceeded to call up a young Indian woman to sing a song, objection was made by Mrs. Foster, <illegible> out of order; and the singing was postponed until after the adjournment.
<c03>
Voted, That the hours of assembling, during the Annual Meeting, be 10 A. M., 2 3-4 P. M., and 7 P.M. 
Adjourned to the afternoon. 
AFTERNOON.-Re-assembled at the <illegible>; FRANCIS JACKSON in the chair.
Mr. JACKSON exhibited a small bell, recast from the old bell on Liberty Hall in New Bedford, which had been presented to him, as President of this Society,
by the Hon Rodney French. 
The little bell, which has a beautiful tone, bears this inscription:
ï¿½Made from a fragment of Liberty Hall Bell New Bedford, Jan. I860.' 
The resolutions reported in the morning being before the meeting, remarks were made by GEORGE W. STACY and DANIEL RICKETSON, who prefaced his remarks by the following resolutions: 
Resolved, That, dreadful as slavery is, its abolition, in order to secure the highest good of humanity, must be accomplished without bloodshed.
Resolved, That to be a true abolitionist, it is necessary to be true to humanity, and therefore any measures which violate the great cause of human rights, though intended for the good of the slave, cannot be sound. 
Resolved, That so long as the Anti-Slavery agitation is conducted on the principles of peace and good will, we can reasonably absolve ourselves from any violent measures adopted by others for the liberation of the oppressed.
The discussion was continued by DANIEL S. WHITNEY, who thought there need be no clashing on this subject; that it was the duty of every one to oppose slavery with those instrumentalities which he believed to be right. Being a 'Non-Resistant himself, he could wish that every man in the land were as Wm. Lloyd Garrison is; if that could not be, he should wish him to be as John Brown was.  (Applause.) 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:
3. Resolved, That in view of the present activity of thought on the subject of Slavery, we recommend to the friends of freedom throughout the State to institute, each in his or her own neighborhood, discussions for the consideration of all questions relating to human rights in this so-called Union. 
4. Resolved, That he who asserts that there is not an ï¿½irrepressible conflict' between Freedom and Slavery-between free institutions and slavo slave institutions-between the spirit which abolishes human chattelism and the spirit which perpetuates it-but that these are harmonious elements, or by compromise and forbearance can be made such in the same government, and can be brought into collision only by the efforts of fanaticism or sedition-is either idiotic, morally speaking, or a self-convicted demagogue, intent on nothing but the gratification of his own desperate ambition. 
5. Resolved, therefore, That the party which talks of ï¿½the glorious Union' existing between the North and the South, and of the duty of maintaining it as an object of paramount importance, Is smitten with judicial blindness and bereft of reason-talks of what has never been, and, in the nature of things, can never be possible-is either the dupe or the ally of a stupendous imposture, which an insane and criminal experiment of three-score years has demonstrated is working the overthrow of all the safeguards of freedom-and, consequently, is a party neither to be trusted nor followed. 
6. Resolved, That ï¿½the glorious Union,' ever since its formation, has signified nothing but the supremacy of a Southern slave oligarchy, as unscrupulous in the attainment of their object as a band of pirates, as murderous in spirit as they are knavish in conduct, who have always dictated the policy of the nation, and who claim a divine right to rule, according to their pleasure, alike the slaves on their plantations and the people of the Free States, without remonstrance or interrogation, and as the condition of the perpetuation of ï¿½the glorious Unionï¿½ aforesaid. 
7. Resolved, That the privileges accorded to Northern citizens sojourning or traveling in the South, under this Union, are these:ï¿½to wear padlocks upon their lips-to forswear their manhood by bowing down to the Moloch of Slavery-to speak in behalf of the enslaved at the peril of their lives-to be tarred and feathered, if they are suspected of cherishing anti-slavery sentiments-to be thrust into prison, and sold as slaves on the auction-block, if they are of African descent-to be scourged, branded, lynched, and driven out by mobocratic violence, even while in the prosecution of their legitimate business, simply because they are Northern men. 
8. Resolved, That the privileges accorded to Southern citizens sojourning or traveling in the North, under this Union, are these:ï¿½to speak with impunity whatever they please as against free institutions and free society-to advocate slavery and the slave traffic as worthy of universal extension, without interference, menace or personal danger, and to an unlimited extent-to hold any meeting or publish any journal they may choose, In which to assail the uncompromising friends of freedom as fanatics and traitors, and to glorify ï¿½the lords of the lash' as the only true friends of their country-and, in short, to threaten, bully, and calumniate, ad libitum, whatever or whoever is deemed by them to be adverse in spirit and. sentiment to ï¿½the sum of all villanies.' 
9. Resolved, therefore, That the motto of the American Anti-Slavery Society, ï¿½No Union with Slave holders,' commends itself to the reason, conscience, and hearty adoption of every man claiming to be loyal to the Declaration of Independence; and it becomes the solemn duty of the North to carry it into immediate practice, as demanded by every instinct of self-preservation, and by all that is obligatory in the claims of justice and humanity.
ANDREW FOSS said that the Democratic party had once occupied higher anti-slavery ground than the Republican party occupies to-day. But there is now no longer anything left in the Democratic party to: respect; all the really good and liberty-loving men have been sifted or driven out of it, by its successive: humiliations before Slavery. Its base pro-slavery character is to-day everywhere recognized. But the Republican party, which once took high ground against Slavery, and which in some quarters still professes to be the anti-slavery party of the land, has been so far demoralized by its efforts to obtain supremacy in the country that it has become, said Mr. F., in my judgment, one of the chief hindrances to the progress of true anti-slavery. 
J. B. SWASEY, Esq., of Boston, spoke of the duty of the citizen in the present aspect of affairs. He thought every citizen would soon be called upon for action, and not the expression of opinion merely. No people can go on prosperously, in direct and habitual violation of the laws of God. Slaveholding is such a violation. Yet the great majority of our citizens will still deny that they are in any measure responsible for this, even while they are directly contributing to the slaveholding power by their taxes, &c. He had been asked if he was willing to break up the Union, founded with so much pains, and productive of so many advantages; and he would answer, that it was with the greatest reluctance, and very slowly, that his mind had come to the idea of the necessity of a dissolution of the present Union. He had no desire to interrupt or weaken, much less to destroy any good thing connected with the Union; but he knew, and no man could deny, that this Union stands upon an unjust, unhallowed and despotic bargain-a bargain which consigns millions of our fellow-men to the endurance of unutterable wrongs; and he knew that such m Union ought not to endure; that the mischiefs which flow from it must for out-weigh all its benefits; that it must be, as he verily believed it was, an en-
<c04>
<illegible> to tyrants, and a curse to mankind, throughout the world. 
J. H. FOWLER, of Cambridge. We want action. Every step of the anti-slavery movement is towards action. We want to know what rights have the People as against, and in spite of, this tyrannical government. Mr. F. introduced and road a very long series of resolutions, expressive of his own anti-slavery faith and mode of action. He proceeded to say that he had been a non-resistant; he was so in the time of the delivery of Anthony Burns into slavery from Boston. Twice at that time he had been threatened by the soldiery with blows; he had bared his head, and told them to strike if they chose. Now, however, he was a non-resistant no longer. The non-<illegible> Abolitionists, he thought, must stand aside, and make room for a phalanx of fighting men. At such a time as this, he did not see how a warm-blooded young man, who believed in such a thing as human rights,ï¿½ could be a non-resistant. He himself was ready for the conflict-ready for anything but slavery, He knew that sometimes these words fell from the lips with but little meaning to them. He thought he understood their meaning, and that he was prepared to give his life for the cause of liberty. 
W. L. GARRISON said he appreciated the spirit, and honored the manly utterances of his friend Fowler. Every man should try his own spirit, and make sure of his own position. Mr. F. had said that in the Anthony Burns' times, he was a Non-Resistant; but was no longer so. Probably, said Mr. G., there has not been so much of a change in my young friend as he himself thinks. He has condemned the non-resistant spirit-as slavish and servile, and has quoted resolutions: of the New Hampshire and Tennessee Legislatures condemnatory of such non-resistance. Mr. G. said, he, too, would condemn such non-resistance; that was not the non-resistance in which he believed. Who was the true representative of non-resistance? We, all say Jesus Christ. Was there aught servile in him? The farthest from it, of course, all say. He leads us to nothing slavish, mean, or cowardly. 
EVENING. The Society assembled in the large Tremont Temple, which was well filled by a most attentive audience. 
Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT, of Boston, took the chair.
An anti-slavery hymn was sung-
'Hark! a voice from heaven proclaiming 
Comfort to the mourning slave,' &c 
The resolutions were read by Mr. Quincy; after which, 
Rev. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAM, of Portland, being called upon, came forward and was warmly welcomed. He made an earnest, logical, and eloquent speech, in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause, which we hope, at a future time, will be published in full.
OLIVER JOHNSON, Esq., of New York, was invited to address the meeting, and received a warm greeting from his old Massachusetts friends, as he came to the platform. He vindicated the Anti-Slavery movement; he acknowledged JOHN BROWN as its legitimate result; he spoke of its wonderful progress and triumphs in the land. He said that Congress had not only been made (as had formerly been said) an Anti-Slavery Debating Society, but had lately been converted into an Association for advertising Anti-Slavery books; and to such an extent, that not less than five steam-presses are now at work, day and night, to meet the public demand for Helper's Impending Crisis.' 
Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, of Boston, [a young colored preacher of the city, a native of Tonnessee,] made an eloquent, enthusiastic and stirring speech,  which was received by the audience with great applause. He paid a very handsome and respectful tribute to Mr. Garrison and Wendell Phillips, and eloquently claimed a high place among the human races, in the great work of civilizing the world, for the Negro. He said it was a very great mistake to suppose that the slaves at the South were quiet and submissive.ï¿½ A dozen insurrections occur yearly. I lived eleven years in Georgia, and I know whereof I affirm. These attempts are carefully and systematically kept out of the papers.' He believed that John  Brown had more disciples to-day than any other man in the land. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS was loudly called for. He made a most masterly address, reviewing the position of the Country, and of the Anti-Slavery Cause. [A full report of this speech will appear, it is expected, at an early day.]
At the close of Mr. Phillips's speech, which had been received with the most eager attention and applause, the Society adjourned to Friday morning. 
FRIDAY. 
The Society met, according to adjournment, at the Meionaon, at 10, A. M., FRANCIS JACKSON in the chair. 
Mr. STEPHENSON, of West Newton said it seemed to him that no circumstance connected with slavery is so bad as slavery itself. The assumption that one human being can own another is the worst thing that can be assumed. Nevertheless, it is well to consider the horrible details of cruelty and injustice to which, that claim gives rise; the scourgings, brandings, burnings alive of slaves, and the infringements upon the constitutional liberty of every white man who is a friend of the slave. These should all be studied and pondered, if we would know slavery as it is. Slavery exists in Massachusetts to-day, as well as in South Carolina. 
One of the resolutions offered yesterday suggests a mode of action which every one can use, and which will greatly assist the Anti-Slavery cause, namely, the formation of town, village, neighborhood meetings, to consider, inquire into, and act upon, the question of slavery. Great numbers of our people now know little about it. 
JAMES N. BUFFUM, of Lynn, wished to give his testimony to the efficacy of the mode of operation last mentioned. His observation and his experience had shown him that great good was accomplished in that manner. 
Mr. STACY, of Milford, spoke of the importance of active exertion on the part of every true friend of the cause. He mentioned the stimulus we should  receive from the apostacy of the Church, and mention ed the shameful conduct of Henry Ward Beecher, who left an appointment unfulfilled in Boston, for the express purpose of going home to defend the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and who succeeded so well in this shameful work, that his church had just decided, by a large vote, still to sustain that pro-slavery Board. 
If the American <illegable> largely composed of 'rascalsï¿½ as one of its ministers last night has admitted, how is it better than the world? But it is an enormous blunder and falsity to assert that the Church of Christ is composed of such materials. The Church of Christ never contained a rascal, and never will; never contained a slaveholder, and never will; never contained an apologist for slavery, and never will!(Applause)
Mr. HOLDEN, of Lynn, gave his testimony to the great advantage of holding frequent meetings, small as well as large, for the discussion of slavery, all its parts, all its characteristics, all its results, and all the methods of opposing it. He also justified the position taken by many persons, who decline to sign our petition to the Legislature for a law against slave-hunting, because they could not ask a man to break his oath. I cannot ask a man to break his oath. [A.T. Foss, earnestly, ï¿½I can; I can.'] I will ask him, said <illegable>., to renounce his oath, and abandon his official place.
CHAS. C. BURLEIGH. I honor the feeling of fidelity to principle which our friend Holden manifests. But we must not concede more than fidelity demands. We ask no man to do any wrong. In petitioning the Legislature for a law to protect the fugitive slave, we 
<c05>
ask a thing right in itself, and in strict accordance with the will and commands of Almighty Justice and Mercy. If any man has taken an oath contrary to these, ought he to keep such an oath?
Mr. MAY moved that the subject of donations and a pledges to the Society, for its operations during the coming year, be now taken up, and that the Finance Committee now proceed to this work. 
Agreed to, unanimously. 
Mr. FREDERICK BROWN, of Ohio, brother of JOHN BROWN, came forward in reply to the statement of the President that many persons in the audience earnestly desired to hear him speak. He gave a full and clear exposition of his religious and moral conviction, that it is our duty to labor, work and fight against slavery, until it ceases from the face of the earth.
CHARLES L. REMOND wished to thank Mr. BROWN for his speech, in the name of the slave and the nominally free colored man. He thanked him for his frank and full manner of speaking, and for his sentiments. He proceeded to make an impassioned and eloquent speech, in vindication, of the equal manhood and rights of the colored people, which was received with great applause, and made as evident impression. 
Mr. FOWLER disclaimed the purpose, which had been attributed to him by one speaker, to undervalue or to speak slightingly of the Peace principle, or of any true Non-Resistant. He utterly repudiated such a thought. No man in the land had produced so extensive and so wholesome an influence, to speed the cause of Freedom, as WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, the Non-Resistant. (Applause.) 
Mr. BURLEIGH followed, defending ADIN BALLOU from the imputation of want of justice and sympathy towards the colored race. 
Adjourned to quarter to three o'clock. 
AFTERNOON. At the Meionson, according to adjournment; FRANCIS JACKSON in the chair. 
HOMER B. SPRAGUE, Esq., of Worcester, by invitation, addressed the meeting. After expressing his respect for those steadfast and faithful friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause, who have labored so long and perseveringly, amidst every reproach and opposition, he proceeded to examine the position of the Republican party, which he believed to be anything but an anti-slavery party. He spoke also of the Church,-said he had been pained at some remarks made here about the Church; he thought that a distinction should be made between the Church, and the Leaders of the Church. The former, he thought, are honest in the main, and ready to go right when they should see the right. But with the leaders the case is different, and they have grievously misled the people. He spoke of the ï¿½Church Anti-Slavery Society,' of its insignificant numbers while asserting the inherent sinfulness of slavery, and of the probability that, to purchase numbers and influence, it will soon reduce its platform and lower its standard. 
In concluding his speech, Mr. Sprague spoke very feelingly of the comparatively late day at which his attention had been called to this momentous subject, and in which his efforts had become enlisted in its behalf, and repeated with much impressiveness the following lines: 
Last of the laborers, thy feet I gain, 
Lord of the harvest,-and my spirit grieves 
That I am burdened not so much with grain,
As with a heaviness of heart and brain: 
Master! behold my sheaves! 
Full well I know I have more tares than wheat,
Brambles and flowers, dry stalks and withered leaves. 
Therefore I blush and weep, as at thy feet
I kneel down reverently, and repeat. 
Master! behold my sheaves! 
(Warm applause followed.) 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions: 
10. Resolved, That no language can more truly describe the American Union, in its slaveholding guarantees, than that used by the prophet Isaiah, in regard to a similar compromise with sin in his own day, namely, it is A COVENANT WITH DEATH, AND AN AGREEMENT WITH HELL;ï¿½ and the warning then given is as terribly prophetic now,-ï¿½Thus saith the Lord, Judgment will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the plummet; and your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand: when the overflowing scourge  shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.'
11. Resolved, That even if the Union were clear of every moral stain, still, to regard its perpetuation as of the first importance, and the preservation of liberty as of minor consideration, would indicate absolute fatuity of mind, and an idolatry of spirit not surpassed in folly or criminality by anything existing in Burmah or Hindostan; but, dripping as it is with the blood of four millions of slaves held in captivity by its collective strength, and incurably infected as it is with its pro-slavery compromises, by which the whole country is slavishly subjugated and fearfully dishonored, it deserves to be execrated and assailed by every friend of God and man. 
12. Resolved, That the acme of impudence and profligacy is seen in the constant accusation of the Republican party, by the Democratic leaders and organs, as disloyal in spirit, if not in action, to the Union,-at the very time they are threatening to rend it asunder, and overturn the government by force, if a majority of the voters shall choose the Republican, instead of the Democratic candidate for the Presidency-thus proving themselves to be a most desperate faction, full of treasonable intentions if they are not allowed to have their own way. 
13. Resolved, That we are ready to certify, that the Republican party has never even menaced the existence of the Union in any contingency; and that, of all the political parties that have yet been organized in this country, none has ever surpassed the Republican party in its slavish subserviency to the Union; for while it is outlawed in all the South, and can neither hold meetings nor nominate candidates in that part of the country, and while neither Mr. Seward, nor Mr. Sumner, nor any other of its prominent men, is permitted freedom of speech south of Mason's and Dixon's line, it is still insanely engaged in glorifying the Union, and pledging itself to frown upon all attempts to dissolve it. 
14. Resolved, That the proposal of the Republican party to go back in our national policy to the days of Washington and Jefferson, is as wise as it would be, in case of the universal prevalence of the small pox or the Asiatic cholera, to propose to go back to the first few cases of infection, from which all subsequent ones have proceeded; for the present appalling state of the country is the legitimate fruit of the pro-slavery concessions made in the formation of the Constitution; and were the same experiment to be tried over again, as many time as there are sands on the sea-shore, the same results would inevitably follow. No strange thing has happened. Our fathers sowed the wind, and we are reaping the whirlwind. They sacrificed the rights of the enslaved, in order to secure a Union; and God has decreed that, in consequence of that sacrifice, the Union shall be dashed in pieces, 'as a potter's vessel is broken.' ï¿½Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and TRUST IN OPPRESSION AND PERVERSENESS, and stay thereon: therefore THIS INIQUITY shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant.' 
15. Resolved, That if Massachusetts had no other complicity with slavery than that of holding herself bound to restore the fugitive slave to his master, if legally arrested within her limits, it would suffice to make her citizens a commonwealth of kidnappers, and to involve her in all the guilt of the slave system; hence, that her first duty is, to decree the abolition of slave-hunting on her soil, and to declare, come what may, that, henceforth, no person shall be arrested or put on trial by any process whatever, as 
<c06>
the slave or property of any other human being; thus carrying out the first article of her own Constitution, which declares that all men are created free and equal, and have a right to be secure in their persons against all oppression.
16. Resolved, That there can be no binding obligation upon a State, whether self-imposed or forced upon her, to ï¿½frame mischief by a law,' and to consent that the poor and the needy shall be the prey of violent and bloody men; that no oath to commit crime is to be observed, if taken, though it should never be taken; and, consequently, that the State of Massachusetts has no excuse for refusing to proclaim freedom to every fugitive from bondage, seeking a refuge in this Commonwealth.
Dr. JOHN S. ROCK, of Boston, made an able address in vindication of the Rights, and of the Moral and Intellectual Capacity of the Colored Race. He said that the hardest question hed had to answer in Europe was- 'Why do free colored people remain in the United States?' It was not easy to make Europeans understand this matter. The fact, however, was that the colored people, like other Americans, prefer, and choose, to remain in their own country. They wish to remain here to help to make it a better country. They aspire even, ultimately, to make it fit for decent people to live in.
The Republican cry-'No more Slave States'is good so far as it goes; but it does not go far enough.
They should say, rather-'No more slavery!'
A notice, in relation to the funds of the Society and the expenses of the Annual Meeting, was given by the Secretary.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, of Worcester, gave, at, some length, his view of the great service which John Brown had rendered to the Anti-Slavery Cause, as well as to the country. He thought it entirely owing to the strict logical and moral consistency of John Brown's life and example, that he had made so deep and extensive an impression. It was owing to a want of this consistency on the part of the Abolitionists, as he thought, himself included, that they had accomplished no more than they have. Mr. Foster said he had recently been studying the Constitution of the United States:-he had never before given it thorough examinationï¿½and his views of it had undergone a great change. He was now convinced that the Constitution is an Anti-Slavery instrument, and the views to which he had arrived had met the entire concurrence, in regard to their legal correctness, of some of the ablest lawyers in the city of Worcester. Hence he desired to organize an Anti-Slavery Political Party, to carry out and enforce this interpretation of the Constitution.
CHARLES C.BURLEIGH said the immense power of John Brown over the people of this country is due, not to his consistency, but to his genuine and through self-devotion, his disinterested and self sacrificing efforts for the welfare of others.
EDMUND QUINCY, from the Committee to nominate officers of the Society for the year ensuing, made a Report. This report was, on motion, unanimously accepted, and the following persons were selected officers of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, for the ensuing year:
President.-FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston. 
Vice Presidents.-Andrew Robeson, New Bedford; Edmund Quincy, Dedham; Adin Ballou, Milford; Jefferson Church, Springfield; Josiah Henshaw, West Brookfield; Henry I. Bowditch, Boston; Gen. Flint, Rutland; John T. Hilton, Brighton, Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; William Ashby, Newburyport; John Bailey, Lynn; Richard Clap, Dorchester; David P. Harmon, Haverhill; Thomas F. Stone, Bolton; William Whiting, Concord; Ezekiel Thacher, Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remond, Salem; John Clement, Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood, Newburyport; Joshua T. Everett, Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitehburg; George Miles, Westminister; Timothy Davis, Framingham.
Corresponding Secretary-SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester.
Recording Secretary-ROBERT F.WALLCUT , Boston.
Treasurer-WM.I.BOWDITCH, Brookline.
Auditor-EDMUND JACKSON, Boston.
Councillors -William Lloyd Garrison; Edmund Quincy; Wendell Phillips; Maria W. Chapman; Charles K. Whipple; Anne W. Weston; William I. Bowditch; John T. Sargent; Charles E. Hodges; Charles Follen.
Adjourned to the evening.
EVENING. The meeting was again held at the Tremont Temple, EDMUND QUINCY in the chair. 
Mr. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:
17. Resolved, That the warnest expressions of gratitude fail to do justice to our feelings on receiving the letters and donations of our British friends for the year 1860. And in the name of the common cause of freedom, so dear to both, we assure them that every contribution from our mother country binds us afresh to them that are in bonds in our own land, whose fate is our fate, and whose cause is our cause.
18. Resolved, That the excellent address of our friend, Mr. James Haughton, of Dublin, to his countrymen in these States, be printed with the proceedings of this meeting, and circulated as widely as we can possibly do it among them.
19. Resolved, That since the last meeting of this Society, we have to lament the loss to our ranks of our laborious treasurer, Samuel Philbrick, over faithful, ready and outspoken; and of one of the oldest and most devoted and clear-sighted of our members, Effingham L. Capron; and of one, disinterested, fearless, and never wanting, Charles F. Hovey, whose munificent legacy to this and kindred reforms shows how truly he was a model reformer in his utter devotion to duty, and his catholic interest in every good work.
20. Resolved, That we have heard, with deep of fliction, of the sudden death of our beloved friend and coadjutor, ELIZA LEE FOLLEN, who, in the earliest days of our cause, stood side by side with her noble husband, Dr. Follen, exerting all their great intellectual ability and social influence to hold up the hands of these who were laboring for an unpopular cause. Through all the long series of years, this dear and gifted friend has stood faithfully by our side-al-ways hopeful, always strong-kindling cold hearts, sustaining the timid, and converting the hostile. May her brave and loving spirit be with us to the end of the contest, helping us to imitate the great example she has left us!
21. Resolved, That, in refusing to vise the passport of Miss Remond, (and that with insult and threats of force.) George M. Dallas has shown himself a fitting minister of a government which asserts, as a leading principle, that ï¿½black men have no rights which white men are bound to respect;' and that he has thus forfeited all claim to the character of a gentleman-for no gentleman ever insults a lady, be she black or white.
22. Resolved, That-although Non-Resistants may appropriately criticise one feature of the enterprise John Brown(as they do one feature of the else rightfull and glorious enterprise of Washington, Hancock and Adams)-no one but a Non-Resistant is authoried to complain of the use of arms by the slaves, and in their behalf; and that the censure which has been thrown on John Brown's pikes and muskets by men in the State who have always praised the Revolutionary War, and by men in the Church who have always bitterly opposed Non-Resistance, is fresh evidence of the dishonesty of the one, and the hypocrisy of the other.
23. Resovled, That if capital punishment be ustiflable in any case, then a tragical mistake has been made in Virginia; and Gov. Wise, Senator Mason, and the whole body of Virginia slaveholders should have
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
been placed on the scaffold, instead of freedom-loving John Brown and his companions, under the law, “He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.’
Whereas, the attempt of John Brown and his associates, at Harper's Ferry, to emancipate a considerable number of the slaves in Virginia, ended in their own destruction on the scaffold and in the mortal conflict; and whereas, the authorities of Virginia claimed to have jurisdiction of the case, to the exclusion of any jurisdiction on the part of the government of the United States, which claim was yielded to by the latter; and whereas, Gov. Wise officially proclaims to the whole country, the ability of Virginia to protect herself against all her enemies; and whereas, if there are any other persons legally implicated in the doings of John Brown, the courts of Virginia and the courts of the United States are competent to dispose of them; therefore,
24. Resolved, That the appointment of an Inquisitorial Committee, by the U.S. Senate, at the instigation of Senator Mason, the infamous author of the Fugitive Slave Law, with full powers to call for persons and papers in relation to the Harper's Ferry tragedy, is an act of flagrant usurpation which ought to be resisted by every free State; is palpably oppressive, insulting and malignant in its purpose, and a daring step toward ’crushing out' every vestige of civil and personal liberty at the North, by procuring such action on the part of Congress as shall make the liberty of speech, as against slavery, constructive ‘incendiarism’ and ‘treason.'
25. Resolved, That the satanic design of this inquisition must be palpable to the dullest vision, in view of the fact that the Senate, by a strict party vote, refused to adopt Senator Trumbull's amendment, also to inquire into the seizure of a U. S. arsenal in Missouri by the ‘Border Ruffians,' who, stealing there from their weapons, went over into Kansas, wounding and murdering its free citizens, and perpetrating an extended series of horrible outrages in the service of slavery.
26. Resolved, That in giving their unanimous support to Senator Mason's resolution, after this refusal to allow an impartial investigation, the Republican Senator of the North not only stultified themselves, but became accessory to all the villany wrapped up in that resolution, and deserve the severest condemnation.
WM. WELLS BROWN said a great benefit to the cause had been rendered by Mrs. Child's admirable letter to Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. He should suppose that no Southern man or woman could read the letter of Mrs. Mason, without feeling their cheeks tingle for shame. He had, however, found one lady in Massachusetts to justify that letter; though he must, in justice, say that the lady in question was connected by marriage with slaveholders. He urged that all rights and privileges which belonged to, or were good for, the white man, are equally good for, and equally belong to, the colored man.
Mr. BROWN thought that his friends Remond and Rack need not spend much more time in talking on the subject of prejudice against colored people—he thought the subject was coming right, and we need only to ‘wait a little longer'; in corroboration of which, he told an amusing anecdote of an experience he had had on board a Western steamboat, in which the feelings of the company had been completely turned against a pompous man who had endeavored to drive him from the table.
E.H.HEYWOOD reviewed, in a spirit of humorous satire, the recent Faneuil Hall ‘Union’ Meeting, at which Caleb Cushing exhibited himself so characteristically. He vindicated the character and motives of John Brown, as a man of the highest faith and courage, as the most perfect specimen of a true, a noble, an heroic man, that our country has yet produced.
Mr. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, further reported as follows:
Resolved, That, in the name of the Constitution of Massachusetts, and the Constitution of the United States, we record our solemn protest against the veto of Gov. Banks, subversive of the equal rights of the colored citizens of Massachusetts in relation to the militia law, and against the opinion of the Supreme Court in support of that veto, and of the proscriptive law of Congress of 1793; for no where does the U.S. Constitution give to Congress the right to insult and outrage any portion of the recognized citizens of any of the States; and the State that consents to such treatment, while demanding full allegiance of its victims, deserves not to be called a free State, but is  guilty of the meanest oppression and the basest treachery.
28. Resolved, That the erection of the statue of Daniel Webster on the State House grounds, by the consent of the  Legislature, on the advice of Gov. Banks, was a fraud upon the people, and an insult to the Commonwealth; and it becomes the duty of the present Legislature, while with one hand putting an end to slave-hunting in this State, with the other to hurl from its pedestal the brazen image of the man whose last years were spent in calling upon the people to be ready to engage in every slave-hunt in their borders, and to ‘conquer their prejudices' against aiding and abetting the two-legged bloodhounds of the South.
Mr. GARRISON, spoke of the successive bereavements of early and faithful friends which the Anti-Slavery cause has suffered, in unusual number, during the year now past; then of the importance of yet more energetic and consistent labor among those that remain; and finally, of the miserable inconsistency of the Republican party, who shout for the Union while it is destroying the liberty, both political and individual, of their own members.
The meeting was next addressed by WENDELL PHILLIPS.
[We hope that the speeches of Messrs. Garrison and Phillips will appear in full, from a phonographic report.-Secretaries.] 
Mr. GARRISON read a very interesting letter from THOMAS GARRETT, of Wilmington, Delaware.
He also read an extract from the New York Tablet, (the Roman Catholic organ in that city,) referring to the recent case of the lynching and unusually base treatment of a young Irishman in South Carolina, in which that paper, its eyes remarkably clear of vision in the existing case, denounced the cruelty and its perpetrators in very proper terms, and declared the ‘Union not worth preserving,’ where such things could be done with impunity.
The resolutions before the Society were adopted, and the Society, on motion, then adjourned, sine die.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President,
SAMUEL MAY, Jr. CHARLES K.WHIPPLE, Secretaries.

SUBSCRIPTION- FESTIVAL AND ANNUAL MEETING.
The Annual Anti-Slavery Subscription-Festival was held at Music Hall, in this city, on Wednesday evening, 25th ult. The attendance was numerous, (two or three thousand persons being present during the evening.) drawn together from various parts of the Commonwealth, and constituting a rare assemblage of intellectual strength, moral excellence, and world-embracing philanthropy. All felt it to be a delightful and strengthening occasion. A liberal supply of refreshments was gratuitously provided-there was excellent music, both vocal and instrumental-and speeches made by Edmund Quincy, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and Phillip Gangooly, the converted Brahmin. The amount contributed for the cause was upwards of FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS.-[Further particulars hereafter.]
The Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts A.S. Society held six interesting and well-attended sessions on Thursday and Friday. The proceedings were spirited, high-toned, and very harmonious. 
<c02>
SPEECH OF DR. JOHN S. ROCK, 
Delivered at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts 
Anti-Slavery Society, in Boston, Jan. 27, 1860. 
MR.PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
It is no trifling matter, no childish play, to attempt to make a speech upon slavery on this platform, where every phase of the pet institution of this Republic is presented from time to time by these noble men and women, who have devoted their lives to exposing this ‘sum of all villanies,’ and who have so thoroughly canvassed this question that it is difficult to find a place to put in a word edgewise. It is true the present aspect of the slavery question is enough to make even ‘the stones cry out,' yet to make a speech after the gentlemen who have addressed you, and before those who are to follow me, is (to borrow a few lines from Shakespeare) to attempt 
‘To gild refined gold, to paint the lily, 
To throw a perfume on the violet, 
To smooth the ice, or add another hue 
Unto the rainbow, or with taper light 
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish-
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.'
Such being my feelings, I shall not make an attempt at a speech. I desire simply to present you with a few thoughts on this subject, for I think that in times like these, every man can afford to say something. Yes, now when the impudent negro has entered both Houses of Congress, and is stubbornly persisting in remaining there, notwithstanding his seat is closely contested both by Democrats and Republicans; when Wendell Phillips and Henry Wilson are to be driven into Canada, and Gov. Wise is to carry the war into England; when Wm, Lloyd Garrison, Parker Pillsbury, and the entire anti-slavery host is to be swept away by the powers that be; when the free colored people are being more severely persecuted than ever; when many men claiming to be the friends of liberty are seeking to preserve an unholy alliance, and are avowing again and again that they have no desire to interfere with the abomination of abominations; and when every thing tends to convince us that we are sleeping on the crater of a slumbering volcano, I may, I think, be pardoned as an interested party, if I express my feelings on some of the points which I have mentioned, and others which have been stated in the resolutions. 
Within the last six months, certain pro-slavery and Republican newspapers have been discussing the question, ‘What shall be done with the free colored people?' Such a question, in any other country than this, would be regarded as monstrous. But then it must be remembered that this is in democratical and republican America, where an enlightened Court of Supreme Ignoramuses (applause) have decided that men with black skins have no rights that men with white skins are ‘bound to respect.’ Having failed, by barbarous treatment, to blot out the humanity of a race, they now add insult to injury. Like Alexander the Great, when he found out that he could not conquer the Seythians, he called them barbarians. But do the men who attempt to discuss this question feel themselves to be slaveholders, and we their property? If not, upon what principle of right can we be disposed of? Has a man or a set of men a right to dispose of that which does not belong either to him or to them? Have the whiles a greater right to dispose of the blacks, than the blacks have to dispose of the whites? (Several voices-'No, no!') To be sure, the whites have the physical power, and the means to annihilate the blacks, but has the great moral power of the American people dwindled down to brute force? To entertain such a question is creditable to neither the heads nor the hearts of the freemen of the North. (Applause.) 
You know too well that much of the wealth and prosperity of this country has been extracted from the sweat and life-blood of the black man. Now, when his intelligence teaches him to refuse to labor without compensation, you seriously entertain a pro-position for removing him from the country! Have you overlooked the fact, that this country is ours as well as yours-that we have won our rights here, not only by incessant toil, but by shedding our blood in its defence? There is not a battle-field from Maine to Louisiana, that has not been crimsoned by our blood, and whitened by our bones. 
It is said that the two races cannot exist together in freedom. Such an idea is preposterous. No one doubts our ability to remain here at as slaves; but the, moment we become free, we become an antagonistic j race, and exceedingly objectionable. Even in freedom, there is but little prejudice against those who are exceedingly degraded, but in proportion as we become educated and elevated, the prejudice increases, and we become antagonistic. And it is only as a cultivated, industrious, and highly moral people, that we are objected to! The Americans have certainly an elevated standard! 
Those who advocate our removal say the free blacks are an incumbrance. If such were the fact, I think we could easily trace it to causes outside of us, and within the detestable policy which this government pursues towards us, and which, if removed, the? objection would cease. When white men, with every advantage and stimulant, become incumbrances, it would not be surprising if colored men, who have but little to hope for, and nothing to aspire to, should be as worthless as themselves, or, as a class, that we should become indolent and improvident. But the charge is false. We will compare favorably with the Germans, Italians and Irish, who are not oppressed. 
In many of the Free States, we are not only deprived of every political and nearly every social right, but we are taxed to support schools and institutions that we are not permitted to enter. In Philadelphia, where there is a larger free colored population than is to be found in any other city in the United States, we are in possession of property, real and personal, to the value of several millions of dollars. We pay taxes enough to support our own poor, and have a handsome surplus left, which goes to support the free schools and other institutions that we are net permitted to enter, and to take care of those poor whites who ’can't take care of themselves.'— (Laughter and applause.) 
The masses of those who have discussed this question, argue that colonization is the remedy. Perhaps it is. There are many reasons and much philosophy in abandoning a country and people who have so diligently sought to crush us but, then, it must be remembered that there is no other country that is particularly inviting to us, and on this account the masses of the colored people, who think for themselves, have believed that the same effort made in working our way up in this country, and in civilizing the whites, would accomplish our object as certain and as easy as we could by emigrating to a foreign country, and overcoming the disadvantages of language, climate, low wages, and other obstacles which would tend to embarrass us in a strange country. This being our country, we have made up our minds to remain in it, and to try to make it worth living in.(Applause.) These are our reasons for not wishing to leave this slavery-cursed land. You are sadly mistaken, if you suppose that we prefer being oppressed here, to being freemen in other countries. The intelligent portion of the colored people are rapidly losing their attachment for this country. But, then, we have ties here, and friends that we are unwilling to leave to their fate. John Brown's sympathizers will never die while we live.(Applause.) The hardest question that I had to answer in Europe, was,-Why do the free colored people in the United States, who have means, remain in that country? Europeans, in general, have no confidence in the success of liberty in this country; and they ridiculed the idea of attempting to work out a moral victory among a people who trample liberty under their feet, and who think it no more a crime to enslave a man than to work a horse; and who have never, since the establishment of slavery in this country, wanted an apology
<c03>
for enslaving us, or for robbing us of our inalienable rights. A Frenchman said to me, one day, ‘You might as well preach fasting to a starving man, as morality to an American.’ (Laughter.) 
Now, those men who object to giving us our rights, say, ‘If we give them their rights, we must invite them to our houses, and mingle with them in marriage.' This is a mistake. We ask only for our rights.(Hear.) So far as the social relation is concerned, that must regulate itself. There may be those colored men who have a morbid desire to mingle, socially, among the whites; but I do not think that the desire is greater on our part, than it is on yours. (Laughter and applause.) We all have our prejudices, and our reasons for them. Much of your prejudice against us is, no doubt, on account of the difference in our social and intellectual conditions. Much of our prejudice against you is the result of the injuries we have received at your hands. (Applause.) While I am forced to accord to the people of this country an unparalleled degree of grosierte, and especially so towards the colored man, yet, all colored men do not suffer alike. I see many respectable colored men, who complain of being insulted nearly every day in the streets of Boston. I have been more fortunate: I have never been insulted in this city. I can say more: I have no friends among that class of men called pro-slavery(applause); and yet I have met, from every grade in society, the most unequivocal marks of respect. No one insults me; no one ever says a pert thing to me. Even drunken loafers pass me by without unpleasant remarks made in my hearing. I have no friends ashamed to meet me anywhere, or to invite me to their houses, or to visit me in return. I have not one word of complaint to make in this direction-not one. 
MR. REMOND. Will my esteemed friend Dr. Rock tell us why it is that he is not insulted? We know that there is a gentleman in this city who goes to the Slave States, and is not insulted; but we know the reason. Will my friend Dr. Rock explain how it is that he escapes? This very day, when I had not left this hall more than ten minutes, I was assailed with the remark, ‘There's that d-d nigger that spoke this morning.' I consider the Doctor's point an important one, and hope he will explain how he escapes insult. 
DR. ROCK, resuming. I have been speaking only of myself. I cannot speak for Mr. Remond; and you perceive that he has not seen fit to tell us where he was, when he was insulted.(Uproarous laughter and applause.) 
I confess that I do not feel so thin-skinned, on this color question, as my much-esteemed and very able and eloquent friend, Mr. Remond, seems to feel. I believe there is, to a certain extent, a legitimate prejudice existing in all communities. It is not founded on the accidental distinctions of color or race. Such a prejudice is simply the result of ignorance. But there is a deeper prejudice:-it is of morals and intelligence. If a man feels that I am his inferior, I do not see why he should be expected to associate with me. All men prefer to associate with their equals. The rich prefer to associate together, the learned together, the moral together, and the vicious together; and to attempt to associate the refined with the vulgar, the moral with the vicious, or the anti-slavery with the pro-slavery, is to attempt to mix oil with water. 
Besides, every man has a right to choose his company, or to fancy this color more than that. If any man is not pleased with my color, that is his business; and I do not think I have a right to meddle with it. I have neither the time nor the disposition to trouble myself because he lacks good taste. (Laughter.) I desire the society of no one, unless it is mutual.’ If a gentleman takes a seat beside me in a lecture-room, a concert, or a railroad-car, before making the discovery that I am a colored man, and then shows his ill-breeding by appearing uneasy, and finally seeking a seat elsewhere, we are both pleased-he, because he has avoided the presence of a ‘nigger,' and I that of a fool. (Applause.) We are, thenceforward, kept apart by the force of mutual repulsion. There is both truth and poetry in the remark of Swift- ‘If a man makes me keep my distance, the comfort is, he keeps his at the same time.' (Applause.) 
The prejudice that I complain of, is that which robs me of my inalienable rights; and which not only closes against me every avenue to wealth and position, but which refuses me even the common facilities for gaining an honest livelihood,-thereby forcing me to remain poor and degraded, and that simply because I am a colored man. 
As to the ‘mingling in marriage, that has nothing to do with our rights. Certain enemies of the Anti-Slavery movement, when cornered on this question of Human Rights, have a contemptible manner of begging the question, by saying, Why! would you be willing to have your daughter marry a nigger? Just as though your daughter, and everybody else's daughter, were crazy to marry ‘niggers;' and the moment you gave the black man his rights, that moment they would seize upon and take him, nolens volens! (Laughter.) If this is to be the result of freedom to the blacks, it is indeed sad (laughter); and especially so to the blacks themselves, who are to be still the victims first, of avarice, then of mad love. O, I am almost tempted to complain of the Creator for first giving us such beautiful complexions, and then placing us among a people who are continually trying to extract the virtues from it. (Laughter and applause.) Do you not really pity those fathers who have daughters with such strange affections:? (Laughter.) Have you seriously thought of what is to become of those timid young men who have been, for years, trying to muster up courage enough to ‘pop the question'? (Laughter.) What desperate crimes will they not commit on their frail ‘human natur,' on beholding the darling objects of their affections, like genuine Amazons, bearing off ‘great big niggers' in triumph? (Laughter and applause.) 
My friends, you are brave men. You cannot, I know you will not, suffer this exciting question to pass away without a manly resistance. ‘Only to think' of the blacks and zamboes dying out with the first generation, the mulattoes with the second, the quadroons with the third, and then, in the fourth generation,-O! horrible to relate,-the twain will be of ‘one flesh.' These glorious meetings will be abolished. You will not have the pleasure of destroying the Constitution or dissolving the Union. Your ‘occupation’ will be ‘gone;' and you will not have the pleasure of saying of the blacks, as we can all now say of our democratical amalgamation propagandists, that ‘the time and places that know them now, will shortly know them no more forever.' (Laughter and applause.) 
So far, I am most happy to say, that the practical friends of amalgamation have been pro-slavery white men, with strong African tendencies, (great laughter,) and one million of mulattoes in the United States demonstrates very clearly the character of American prejudice, and the irrepressible antagonism of the races. (Applause.) 
Now, my friends, the blacks are not yet disposed of, and it will be some time before we are. We may leave this country quietly, or be driven into Canada or the West Indies, but that does not dispose of us. We are still within speaking and acting distance. At present we are, to all appearances, perfectly indifferent as to the result of this great contest-but appearances are often deceitful. Every man who snores is not asleep. Now, what impression do you think the institution of Slavery at the South, and prejudice at the North, is making upon the Africo-American race in this country? I will tell you. It is making every intelligent colored man hate his country, and swear vengeance against it,. I doubt very much whether any considerable number of colored men would, in case of war with any foreign country, take up arms to defend a government which has never ceased to op-
<c04>
press them. (Hear.) There is no country in the civilized world, no matter how despotic, that would abolish our citizenship, or deny us equal privileges with others, or refuse to protect us with its strong arm. (Hear.) The Austrian Government is far preferable to this. We hear enough of French despotism, but the despotism of France, as compared to that of the United States, is as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. Napoleon watches with a parental eye over the interests of the humblest of his subjects. He is a great statesman, and knows that the interests of his subjects are his own interests. But the wicked rulers of this Democratical Government, which lives only by devouring her subjects, and, like the ours ou asson of Brazil which forms its nest of the bones of the animals it has killed, build up and support this despotism by the gold wrung out of the flesh, blood, and bones of the negro. I have no desire to insult the Christian world by a comparison between this unhappy country and France I would no more think of comparing Napoleon III. with Buchanan the Last, than I would the Saviour with Beelzebub. And in case of war between the two countries, the colored man would have everything to gain by fighting on the side of France. 
We have suffered too much to be indifferent to the result of a war with any other country. If Governor Banks (who is, no doubt, more deeply interested in the Chicago nomination than in the removal of the word ‘white' from our statutes) refuses to give us arms to defend our country, you ought not to be surprised if the opportunity offers, and we should resent it. This is natural. If you tread on a snail, she will shoot out her horns. 
At present, the colored population of this country is a third larger than, the entire population at the time of the war of the Revolution, in which our fathers took part. To-day, one hundred thousand freemen, capable of bearing arms, and three-quarters of a million of slaves, wild with the enthusiasm caused by the dawn of the glorious opportunity of being able to strike a genuine blow for freedom, will be a power that ‘white men’ will be bound to respect.' Will the blacks fight? Of course they will. The black man will never be neutral-he would not if he could, and he could not if he would. Will he fight for this country right or wrong? This the common sense of every one answers; and when the time comes, and come it will, the black man will give an intelligent answer. And those who are continually seeking new modes to oppress u’, ought to remember that ‘the lion had need of the mouse. 
I am certain that if foreign nations knew of the smothering fires that are in need only of a breath of pure air to fan them into a flame, and the sympathy they would meet with here, they would have less respect for the strength of this government. 
Civil and foreign wars are scourges which every Christian man must deprecate. I am certain that colored men are patriotic. No man ever heard of a colored traitor. We love this country, and we love you. Nothing could be more foreign to our desires than the necessity for taking up arms against our own country. But there must be an end to this persecution. We cannot suffer forever. And as Mr. Everett has said, and perhaps truly, that at least civil war must be the result of this conflict, then I would be prepared for it. If the blacks are to be annihilated, then let it be done when we are contending for our rights. We had much better die freemen, than live to be slaves. (Applause.) When Mr. Everett spoke of the terrible scenes which are to close up this conflict, and cited Hayti as an example, he ought to have been honest enough to have stated who were the aggressors, and the terrible crimes and savage barbarities that were resorted to, tore-fasten the shackles on the limbs of the blacks; and to state also that the acts which he spoke of were not deliberate crimes committed in cold blood, but the result of the most barbarous treatment that disgraces the pages of history, and which goaded them on to revenge. They were fighting for their liberty, and were perfectly justifiable in annihilating everything that stood in their way. (Applause.) Mr. Everett quotes from some unknown author, whose name he no doubt felt would not add to his cause. I am certain that it was not from Ardouin's Etudes sur l'Histoire d'Haiti, which is the most perfect and complete history of the Island that has ever been published. But Mr. Everett is not particular to be correct. He hates justice, facts, and black men, and garbles from slaveholders, newspapers, and history, and uses them all to aid him in a bad cause. He is one of that class of great men who are fond of being exceedingly little. (Applause.) He condemns the blacks for wresting their Independence from the French and English, and driving them from the Island. His arguments remind me of the ignorance of the Greek priest, who, in his condemnation, praised the pictures of Titian, that he refused to accept. ‘Your scandalous figures stand out,' said he, ‘from the canvass like a group of statues.' And, Mr. Everett, ‘your negroes are so imbued with the contemptible spirit of liberty, that they will attempt to do on a vast scale what was done in St. Domingo.' As an offset to the quotation which that honored gentleman made in his Faneuil Hall speech, I will read an extract which will give you another idea of Hayti. It shows what may be expected from immediate emancipation, and what an oppressed people can do alone. It was written by Baron de Vastry, one of the counsellors of Christophe, himself a pure negro, who published some reflections on the state of Hayti, about thirty-five years ago. He says: 
‘Five and twenty years ago, we were plunged in the most complete ignorance. We had no notion of human society, no idea of happiness, and no powerful feelings. Our faculties, both physical and moral, were so overwhelmed under. the load of slavery, that I, myself, who am writing this-I thought the world finished at the line which bounded my sight, and my fellow-countrymen were as ignorant as myself, and more so, if that were possible. I have known many of us who have learned to read and write without the benefit of instruction. Such men have become notaries, attorneys, advocates, judges, administrators, and have astonished the world by the sagacity of their judgment. Others have become sculptors and painters by their own exertions, and have astonished strangers by their works. Others, again, have succeeded as architects, mechanics, and manufacturers: others have worked mines of sulphur, fabricated saltpetre, and made excellent gunpowder, with no other guides than books of chemistry and mineralogy. And yet the Haytiens do not claim to be a manufacturing and commercial people. Agriculture and arms are our professions. Like the Romans, we go from arms to the plough, and from the plough to arms.' (Applause.)
This is the kind of progress which our humane, democratic government is determined to put a stop to. The negro has no right to become industrious and intelligent. These things only tend to render him more barbarous. It is the lash and ignorance which have raised him to the elevated position which he now holds in this, his paradise. 
But, let me tell Mr. Everett a fact which cannot be successfully refuted; and that is, in proportion to the population, Hayti to-day numbers more finished scholars than the United States. I do not mean men who pass through a four years' course of study in a college, where it is the interest of the Institution to graduate as many as possible; but educated gentlemen, who will compare favorably with the best European scholars on the Continent, where they have graduated. Have the brawlers about negro inferiority forgotten that, a few months since, three black gentlemen-Messieurs. Faubert, Dupuy, and Delva, from Hayti, took all the prizes, at the reunion of the colleges of France-that the Emperor sent a detachment of his National Guards, with a band of music, to wait upon Mr. Faubert, the gentleman who took the first prize, the prize of Honor, and to congratulate him on his success? This honor was achieved over students from this, and all other countries in the civilized
Etudes, our I Histoire d' Haiti, par B. Ardowin. Ves. X Paris at Princes 1852-59.
<c05>
world. I believe that no student from the United States has ever taken even a third prize at the Sorbonne reunions. I know the fact which. I state. I was in Paris at the time, and had the honor of an invitation to a banquet given to the laureates. Black men have graduated here; but, if monkeys can pass through college in this country, I am certain that it takes men to do so in France, (laughter,) and if black men prove themselves equal to the most finished European savants, Mr. Everett will need many facts and much logic to prove that we are by nature incapacitated for liberty.(Applause.) 
Such men as Everett and Wise, Buchanan and Cushing, have such a morbid desire for devouring the blacks, that they can swallow a ‘nigger,' as Bishop Butler's knave did a fool, much larger than himself; and if they can, like him, but get his head between their jaws, will carry the rest of him hanging out of their mouths, until by degrees they have digested him. Now, I belong to that class of fanatics who believes that every man has the same inalienable rights; that any distinctions founded upon color are unjust; and that every man should be judged by his merits; that the black man is not as good as the white man, unless he does as good; if he acts, as good, he is as good; if he conducts himself better, he is better. I believe that the outraged slave has not only the same rights as others, but a heavy claim upon you. If there is any human being whose cup of misery is full, it is his. He has nothing to console him. He has no bright future in the distance-no faint glimmerings of hope. Nothing greets him but suffering, and eternal toil without rest. To-night, after his daily labor, he lives in the bosom of his family; he dandles his young babe on his knee; his children play about him; and his grown-up sons and daughters, who have walked several miles to be together, divert each other as best they can from the terrible monotony which is before them. To-morrow!-Great God of Justice! what a change! The mother and babe both on the auction-block,-one to go to a neighboring State, and the other to the far South! The father and sons on the plantation, under the cruel driver's lash. The daughters-where aye they? aye, where are they?—?-in the power of the cold-blooded veteran ravisher! And to all this they are obliged to submit. There is no custom, no law, and no constitution to forbid it! There is no public sentiment to forbid it. If the slave says, ‘My hands, my body, my mind, myself, ’a million of Sharp's rifles are ready to make sieve of his body!
This is the glorious institution which this present democratical government is seeking to extend and perpetuate in this country, and which has already the controlling power of the government. The Executive, the Legislative, the Military, and the diplomatic powers, are under its immediate control. It says to the Executive, ‘Go,' and he goes; to the National Legislature, ‘Come,' and it comes; and to the Judiciary, ‘Do this,' and it does it. It has now turned the sword of government into an assassin's dagger; and to this the Executive and Judicial authorities are close and confidential associates.
The Republicans are checkmating this power; and, in this respect, I think they are doing a good work. The idea of ‘no more slave States' is good. The fewer the better.(Applause.) But they do not carry it far enough. I would have them say, ‘No more slavery!' The Republicans, however, have no idea of abolishing slavery. They go against slavery only so far as slavery goes against their interests; and if they keep on lowering their standard, as they have been for the last few months, they will soon say in New England, what they have said already in the Middle States, that the Republican party is not only the white man's party, but that ‘it aims to place white men and white labor against black men and black labor.' Such republicanism is no better than democracy. But, in Massachusetts, there is some life, and many true lovers of liberty in the party, who mean to do right, even if the heavens fall; who intend to make the soil of this old Commonwealth free. To all such men, I am ready to give a hearty God-speed. Those of us who believe slavery to be not only a crime against morals, but against the eternal principles of justice, cannot consistently excuse ourselves from using our whole exertions to bring about its immediate abolition. The contest is now going bravely on. We have only to be true to our principles, and the victory is ours. A host of noble men have now met in collision, with a set of dark intriguing and desperate characters, and the terrible struggle between a slave oligarchy and a free Republic will soon close, and slavery go down in the tumult, never to rise again.(Loud applause.) Then we will all hail the happy day when we can have a country which recognizes no man as master, and no brother as a slave.(Applause.)

PLYMOUTH CHURCH SUSTAINING THE AMERICAN BOARD.
Henry Ward Beecher has long had the credit (with those who are not abolitionists) of being an abolitionist. To those who really hold that ground, it has been very plain that he has never taken it. His occasional sharp hits against slavery, like his occasional sharp hits against orthodoxy, and for heterodoxy, show merely what the combination of his internal feelings, with his external surroundings, put it into his head to utter at that moment; but whoever expects to hold him the next day, or the next week, to the position indicated by those utterances, will probably be disappointed. He is sentimentally opposed to slavery like every man of humane feelings and sense of natural justice; and thus, when he speaks of it without bias from professional considerations, he is likely to speak against it; but, in the eyes of clergymen, the credit of the clerical body is more important than justice, more important than humanity;. and in the great debate which has just closed in the Plymouth church at Brooklyn, the question was whether confidence should be withdrawn, and cash withheld, from a body so Reverend, pious, and venerable as the American Board, merely because it was pro-slavery; whether, in short, the fruits of a Christian life, as well as the leaves of a high ‘profession.' should be demanded of that much-professing Association; and whether, in failure of such fruits, the Plymouth church should say plainly, of and to the Board, that it was weighed in the balances and found wanting, and that, therefore, the stewardship which it had misused should be taken from it, and given the another.
The question whether the money raised by the Plymouth church for Foreign Missions should be entrusted, as heretofore, to the American Board, or given to some Association free from complicity with slavery, has been debated in that church, with intense earnestness, for a month past. When the close of this discussion approached, the friends of the Board in that church found themselves so hard pressed by the reformatory party, under the leadership of Mr. Theodore Tilton, that they sent for Mr. Beecher, their pastor,(who was fulfilling some lecturing engagements in Boston,) to come to their help; and he went at once for that purpose, ‘breaking his engagement to preach at the Music Hall. Providentially, the gap thus made was filled, at the last moment, by a preacher equally eloquent and more Christian, Mr. Wendell Phillips; but many of the 28th Congregational Society were astonished to hear that it was to labor in defence of slavery that the eloquent Brooklyn preacher had broken his promise to them. 
I have, from the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, and other sources, an account of the final meeting (Wednesday evening, 25th inst.) for the discussion of this subject, which was attended by two thousand persons.
Mr. Tilton had the floor, to reply to Mr. Beecher's argument on Monday evening; but Mr. Beecher interposed his request. “that expressions of applause and disapprobation might be refrained from, as unsuitable to the character of ‘a church of Christ.'
<c06>
Mr. Tilton bestowed high praise upon Mr. Beecher, as he is accustomed to do, but said he did not join in the opinion which secured to be gaining ground, that a pastor could do no wrong. He called their attention to the fact that this Board was the representative of a combination of American churches, whose complicity with slavery was so direct and so extensive that their ministers and church-members are now holding 600,000 human beings in bondage. He reminded them that the members of the Indian mission churches had always been, allowed to hold slaves, and that their missionaries had always refused to direct church discipline against this sin, and yet that the Board had never even required the exclusion of slaveholders, still less dismissed the missionaries for so prostituting their office. He expressed his surprise that Mr. Beecher called the Board a ‘venerable' institution, after such conduct as this; and that he would suffer its age and its reputation for piety to counterbalances such direct violation of Christian duty. He wondered that Mr. Beecher should single out for praise that missionary who had declared it ‘impossible to exercise discipline for the buying or selling of slaves.' He wondered yet more at Mr. Beecher's advocacy of the admission of slaveholders to church communion. Why not make the door of the church so narrow that a slaveholder could not enter it carrying a slave with him? And, as to the claim that the ownership in question was for the good of the slave, why not ask the slave himself to testify? It was impossible for a man to be either unwillingly as slave holder, or innocently a slaveholder.
Mr. Beecher had repeatedly advocated the application of religion to politics in the pulpit! Why did he now uphold the missionaries and the Prudential Committee in refusing to make such an application in the Indian churches? Mr. Beecher's father and brother(standing in the minority in an Annual Meeting of the Board) had opposed the withdrawal of Dr. Blanchard's resolution condemning, slavery! Would Mr. Beecher now sustain the Board in voting down that resolution? Did he not know that the author of the ‘South-side View of Slavery’ was every year re-elected a member of the Prudential Committee? Mr. Beecher claimed that the Board spread the Gospel! What kind of Gospel was it? He claimed, too, that the Board was gradually improving! If the improvement is so very gradual as not to encourage us to expect the needed amount of change in our life-time, why should we wait for it? It was said, too, that the Board had no control over the Missionaries! Could they not cut off their supplies, and end their connection with them? But, instead of cutting off the Choctaw missionaries, and sending better ones, they had cut off the mission; and they still retained the slaveholding Cherokee mission.
Mr. Tilton ventured to apply the argumentum ad hominem to his pastor, once to his language, and once to his action, and in each case with such pungent appropriateness as to call forth hearty applauses from the church, in spite of the pastoral prohibition. In regard to Mr. Beecher's statement that ‘in the Providence of God' he was absent from the earlier debates upon this subject, Mr. Tilton said he had supposed this absence to be ‘under the extraordinary dispensation of $100 per night,' and that the ways of Providence were indeed mysterious. Finally, Mr. Tilton exhibited a Sharpe's rifle-one of twenty-five which had been subscribed for and sent to Kansas by this very church, under the fervent appeals of the pastor, and which had been used effectively against the border ruffians, this particular weapon having been three months in the hands of John Brown-and made an impressive appeal to Mr. Beecher, urging that, if the defence of freedom in Kansas needed the application of such means of resistance, he should at least send to the American Board, and to their Cherokee missionaries, some effective verbal protest, some energetic testimony against their continued complicity with the sin of slavery, and against the disgrace and corruption thence resulting to the Church.
If Mr. Beecher had kept within the bounds of truth in his reply to this speech, the impression of it could not have been effaced, its argument would have remained unanswered, and the vote of the church must have gone against the Board. If the report of this reply in the Eagle be correct, he uttered repeated and flagrant violations of the truth, namely: 
1. The only fault he found with Mr. Tilton's speech was, that ‘it had nothing to do with the subject under discussion.'(!!)
2. The American Board had kept pace with the times, ‘and now stands upon a Christian basis.'(!!)- [This is just what Dr. Pomroy said in England.]
3. When the Choctaw missionaries refused to teach an Anti-Slavery Gospel, the Board cut them off.'- [Here three deceptive ideas are condensed into one short sentence.]
4. Now the Cherokee missionaries had promised to fulfill the instructions of the Board.'-[Here two deceptive ideas are condensed into one sentence.]
5. For the last fifteen years, the American Board had been progressing-had been drawing its bands tighter and tighter against the expediencies of slave-holding.’ [The only progress the Board has made in regard to slaveholding has been in increasing the number of its hypocritical expedients to seem to be moving, while it stood still. It has never prohibited slaveholding either in its Choctaw or Cherokee churches]
The long debate ended by the vote of a very large majority of the church to sustain the American Board. All the accounts agree in ascribing this vote to the personal influence of the pastor. If Mr. Beecher had supported Mr. Tilton, the vote would have been unanimous against the Board. As it was, the <illegible> party gained everything but the vote. They diffused important intelligence upon the subject of which the church, through the fault of its pastor had till then remained ignorant. They made a strong <illegible> impression, bringing out the facts which Mr. Beecher had smothered in silence, and showing the  direct manner in which the Church, the ministry and the Board fortified the position of the mass of <illegible> and cruel slaveholders. This impression was so strong and so pervading, that nothing lose than the sophistries eloquence of the pastor, backed by the prestige of his station, and the magnetism of his personal influence, could have given the vote its <illegible> direction.
Mr. Beecher has had the opportunity, in this <illegible> work of immense importance to <illegible> nation of the Church and the over <illegible>. He has chosen not only to throw away the opportunity, but to turn his influence actively <illegible> opposite direction. It is well, at least that he have effectually dispelled the delusion of these <illegible> counted him an abolitionist.
Mr. Tilton and his friends have now their choice to make, between two modes of energetic <illegible> , protest and persistent or<illegible> against this unchristian attitude of the Plymouth church. Will they protest by withdrawal from the church, or by increased and concentrated effort within it? Surely, they will not now shrink from the further duty that lies before them!-C.K.W.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-slavery Society, will lecture as follows:-
Essex, Sunday, Feb. 5.
West Gloucester, Monday, Feb. 6.
Gloucester, Tuesday, Feb. 7.
Manchester, Wednesday, Feb. 8.
North Beverly, Thursday, Feb. 9.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will speak for the Twenty-Eighth-Congregational Society (Rev., Theodore Parker's) on Sunday forenoon next, Feb. 5, at Music Hall.
F.H.HEY WOOD will speak at
Worcester, Sunday evening, Feb. 5
Hubbardston, Sunday evening, Feb. 12.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETEY. FREEDOM'S MARTYR. 
DEAR MR.GARRISON— You will <illegible> me by inserting in the Liberator the following thrilling lines of WRITTER, written many years ago, (as a tribute to a demented friend of the Anti-slavery cause, President C.B.STORES,) and which <illegible> to me more applicable to Freedom's martyr, JOHN BROWN, than the lines upon him by WRITTIER, in the New York Independent! 
Thou hast fallen in thine armor,
Thou martyr of the Lord! 
With thy last breath crying. 'Onward!' 
And thy hand upon the sword. 
The haughty heart derideth, 
And the sinful lip reviles. 
But the blessing of the perishing
Around thy pillow smiles.
Oppression's hand may scatter 
Its nettles on thy tomb,
And even Christian bosoms
Deny thy memory room;
For lying lips shall torture 
Thy mercy into crime, 
And the slanderer shall flourish
As the bay-tree for a time.
But where the South wind lingers
On Carolina's pines,
Or falls the careless sunbeam
Down Georgia's golden mines;
Where now beneath his burthen 
The toiling slave is driven, 
Where now a tyrant's mockery
Is offered unto Heaven; 
Where Mammon hath its altars 
Wet o'er with human blood, 
And pride and lust debases 
The workmanship of God; 
There shall thy praise be spoken, 
Redeemed from falsehood's ban, 
When the fetters shall be broken, 
And the SIAVE shall be a MAN! 
In the evil days before us, 
And the trials yet to come; 
In the shadow of the prison, 
Or the cruel martyrdom; 
We will think of thee, O brother! 
And thy sainted name shall be 
In the blessing of the captive, 
And the anthem of the free. 
LINES, written by Mrs. LYDEIA MARIA CHILD, and sung at the Music Hall, on the twenty-sixth National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary, Jan. 26, 1860. 
THE HERO'S HEART.
‘When he went from the jail to the gallows, he stooped to kiss a colored child that stood near.' 
A winter sunshine, still and bright, 
The Blue Hills bathed with golden light, 
And earth was smiling to the sky, 
When calmly he went forth to die. 
Infernal passions festered there, 
Where peaceful Nature looked so fair; 
And fiercely, in the morning sun. 
Flashed glittering bayonet and gun. 
The old man met no friendly eye, 
When last he looked on earth and sky; 
But one small child, with timid air, 
Was gazing on his silver hair. 
As that dark brow to his up-turned, 
The tender heart within him yearned; 
And, fondly stooping o'er her face,
He kissed her, for her injured race. 
The little one, she knew not why 
That kind old man went forth to die; 
Nor why, mid all that pomp and stir, 
He stooped to give a kiss to her. 
But Jesus smiled that sight to see, 
And said, 'He did it unto me!' 
The golden harps then sweetly rung, 
And this the song the angels sung: 
'Who loves the poor, doth love the Lord! 
Earth cannot dim thy bright reward; 
We hover o'er yon gallows high, 
And wait to bear thee to the sky.' 

From the Anti-Slavery Standard. 
THE SLAVE-GIRLS'S PRAYER. 
Within the fairest of the Southland's bowers, 
Beneath thy blue, star-jewell ed canopy, 
Amid the clustering vines and fragrant flowers, 
Father, in agony I kneel to thee! 
Still through the leaves I see the moonlight gleaming, 
Still hear the far-off murmur of the sea; 
But, ah! no longer comes the old, sweet dreaming; 
In anguish deep and strong I kneel to Thee! 
The dreams of childhood, they were glad ones ever; 
I knew not then the misery of my lot; 
Too soon I learned; and in my soul, oh! never 
Can that dark hour of suffering be forgot. 
Once every flower and wave and star seemed given 
To fill my heart with joy; now all is o'er; 
The glory of Thy earth, and sea, and heaven, 
But mocks my woe—it gladdens me no more. 
I know that Thou art merciful and tender; 
Thou can'st not hear, unmoved, the prayer of woe: 
Oh, take me to Thee! let me now surrender 
This hated breath—my spirit longs to go. 
Ah, worse than death the doom of shame and sorrow, 
That now, oh, Father! waits thy suffering child! 
The horrid fate that waits me on the morrow, 
Whereat my heart grows sick, my brain turns wild. 
Only to die! it seems not much to pray for! 
Tis but a little boon, yet oh, how bleat! 
And the crushed soul, with naught on earth to stay for, 
Enters with joy into that perfect rest. 
The night speeds on! and yet Thou dost not hearken 
To the last prayer e'er to be breathed by me; 
Closer the clouds of anguish round me darken, 
For I am losing faith and hope in Thee. 
Oh, hear me, Father! let it not be shaken— 
My trust in Thee my only hope of peace; 
Oh, grant my prayer! for if by Thee forsaken, 
By mine own hand my miseries mast cease! 
From friends, from kindred, every loved one parted,
No heart to pity me, no hand to save, 
I seek the refuge which the broken-hearted 
Find only in the quiet of the grave. 
Salem, Mass., 1859.
C.L.F. 

From Anti-Slavery Standard. 
CHARLES SUMMER. 
Home, to thy post, brave Sumner!—years of pain, 
Of sorrowing exile, have but proved thee true! 
With silken fitters what hast thou to do?
<illegible> is the bludgeon's blow, the foeman's cane. 
Teach, still, thy better way! that all in vain
The death-stored armory, Right to subdue: 
That war's unholy orgies are untrue 
To man, to God: raise to the Christian plane. 
How raise? By striving, such as Christ's and thine!
<illegible> of Peace, enhanced by life and deed;
Proving their origin from source <illegible>
<illegible>, so there be need.
Where MANN hath gone—where ADAMS led the way—
Whence all-light <illegible> the day.
<illegible>, Nov. <illegible>
<c02>
THELIBERATOR. 
EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM THEODORE PARKER TO A FRIEND IN BOSTON. 
ROME, Dec. 24, 1859.
What a stormy time you are having in America! Your cradle was rocked in the Revolution, and now in your old age you see the storm of another Revolution beginning: <illegible> knows when and where it shall end. Yesterday, the telegraph brought us the expected intelligence that the slaveholders had hung Capt John Brown! Of course, I knew from the moment of his capture what his fate would be: the logic of slavery is stronger than the intellect or personal will of any man, and it bears all Southern politicians along with it. No martyr whose tragic story is writ in the Christian books ever bore himself more heroically than Capt. Brown; for he was not only a martyr,—any bully can be that,—but also a SAINT—which no bully can ever be. None ever fell in a more righteous cause:—it has a great future, too, which he has helped bring nearer and make more certain. I confess I am surprised to find love for the man, admiration for his conduct, and sympathy with his object, so wide-spread in the North, especially in New England, and more particularly in dear, good, old Boston! Think of the Old South on the same platform with Emerson and Phillips! Think of sermons like Wheelock's, Newhall's, Freeman Clarke's and Cheever's Thanksgiving sermon at New York—an Orthodox minister of such bulk putting John Brown before Moses! The New York Herald had an extract from sermon. It was such as none but a mean soul could preach on such an occasion; but we must remember that it taxes a mean man as much to be mean and little, as it does a noble one to be grand and generous. Every minister must bear sermons after his kind; ‘for of a thorn men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble-bush gather they grapes.' I rather think the Curtises did not fire a hundred cannon on Boston Common when they heard that John Brown was hung, as they did when the Fugitive Slave Bill passed. There has been a little change since 1850, and men not capable of repentance are yet liable to shame—and if they can not be converted, may yet be scared.
Well, things can never stand as they did three months ago. On the morning of the 19th of April, 1775, at day-break, Old England and New—Great Britain and the thirteen colonies—were one nation. At sunrise, they were two. The fire of the grenadiers made reconciliation impossible, and there must be war and separation. It is so now. Great events turn on small hinges, and let mankind march through. How different things happen from what we fancy! All good institutions are founded on some great truth of the mind or conscience; and, when such a truth is to be put over the world's highway, we think it must be borne forward on the shoulders of some mighty horse whom God has shod strong all round for that special purpose, and we wonder where the creature is, and when he will be road-ready; and look after his deep foot-prints, and listen for his step or his snorting. But it sometimes happens that the Divine Providence uses quite humble cattle to bear his most precious burthens, both fast and far. Some 3000 or 4000 years ago, a body of fugitives—slaves—poor, leprous, ill-clad, fled out of Egypt, under the guidance of a man who slew an Egyptian. He saw a man do a vile thing to one of his slaves, and lynched him on the spot—then ran for it.
Those fugitive slaves had a great truth. The world, I think, had not known before 'The Oneness of God';—at least, their leader had it, and for hundreds of years did this despised people keep the glorious treasure which Egypt did not know—which Greece and Rome never understood. Who would have thought the Ark of such salvation would have been trusted to such feeble hands!
Some 1800 or 1900 years ago, who would have looked to a Jewish Carpenter of Galilee, and a Jewish tent-maker of Tarsus in Cilicia, with few adherents—fishermen—obscure people—unlearned and ignorant men? Who would have looked to such persons for a truth of religion which should overturn all the temples of the old world, and drive the gods of Olympus from their time-honored thrones of reverence and power? The Rome of the Popes is, no doubt, as Polytheistic as the Rome of the Caesars—but the old gods are gone, and men worship the Fisherman and the Tent-maker.
It was the Augustinian Monk who broke the Roman Hierarchy to atoms. Tough in the brains, tough in the bones, mighty also by his love of the people and his trust in God, he did what it seemed only the great councils of the learned could accomplish—he routed the Popes, and wrested the German world from their rude and bloody gripe.
At a later day, when the new Continent which God had kept from the foundation of the world—a virgin hid away between the Atlantic and the Pacific seas—was to be joined to Humanity, in the hopes of founding such a Family of Men as the world had never seen, was there any one who would have thought that the Puritan, hated in his British home, and driven out thence with fire and sword, would be the Representative of Humanity, and claim and win that Bride, and wed her too, with nuptials now so auspicious? Yet so it turns out, and the greatest social and political achievement of the human race is wrought out by that Puritan, with his Bride—whose only dower was her broad lands. Really, it seems as if God chose the small things to confound the great. But when we look again, and study carefully the relation which these seemingly insignificant agents bear to the whole force of Humanity, then it appears they were the very agents most fit for the work they did. I think it will turn out so in the case of Capt. Brown. What the masterly eloquence of Seward could not accomplish, even by his manly appeal to the Higher Law, nor the eloquence of Phillips and Sumner, addressed to the conscience and common sense of the people, seems likely to be brought to pass by John Brown—no statesman, no orator, but an upright and downright man, who took his life in his hand, and said 'Slavery shall go down, even if it be put down with red swords!' I thanked God for John Brown years ago: he and I are no strangers, and still more now his sainthood is crowned with martyrdom. I am glad he came from that Mayflower company—that his grandfather was a captain in the Revolutionary war:—the true aristocratic blood of America runs in such veins. All the grand institutions of America, which give such original power to the people, came from that Puritan stock, who trusted in God, and kept their powder dry—who stood up straight when they prayed, and also when they fought. Yes, all the grand original ideas, which are now on their way to found new institutions, and will make the future better than the past or present—they come from same source.
Virginia may be the mother of Presidents, (she yet keeps the ashes of two great ones,—only their ashes not their souls,) but it is New England that is mother of great ideas. God is their Father—mother also of communities, rich with intelligent and democratic power.
John Brown came from a good lineage; his life proves it—and his death. It is not for you or me to select the instruments wherewith the providence of mankind has the world's work done by human hands: it is only for us to do our little duty, and take the good and ill which come of it.
When the monster which hinders the progress of Humanity is to be got rid of, no matter if the battle axe have rust on its hilt, and spots, here and there upon its blade—mementos of ancient work; if its edge have but the power to bite, the monster shall be cloves down, and mankind walk triumphantly on, tomorrow, to fresh work and triumphs new.
But I did not mean to write you such a letter as 
<c03>
this-it wrote itself, and I couldn't help it. I cannot sleep nights, for thinking of these things. I am ashamed to be sick and good for nothing in times like these, but can't help it, and must be judged by what I can do, not can't and don't.
It is curious to find the slaves volunteering to go to shoot men (in buckram) who are coming 'a thousand at a time to rescue Capt. Brown'! The African is as much superior to the Anglo-Saxon in cunning and arts of hypocrisy—except the <illegible>-as he is inferior in general power of mind. Didn't a negro in Savannah tell a Northern minister—'I no want to be free!—I only 'fraid to be slave of sin! <illegible> it, <illegible> fraid of de Debil, not of <illegible>!' What a guffaw he gave when with his countrymen alone! and how he mimicked the gestures of the Southside, white-choked priest, who bore 'his great commission in his work'!
But I end as I began—what a stormy time is before us! There are not many men of conscience like John Brown, but abundance of men of wrath-and the time for them—I know not when it is.
Farewell!
THEODORE PARKER.

JOHN BROWN. 
'Not any Spot six feet by two
Will hold a man like thee;
John Brown will tramp the shaking earth,
From the Blue Ridge to the sea,
Till Liberty shall come at last,
And ope each dungeon door,
And God's 'Great Charter' holds and moves
O'er all his humble poor.
'And then the humble poor will come 
In that far distant day. 
And from the felon's nameless grave
They'll brush the leaves away,
And gray old men will point the spot
Beneath the pine tree shade,
As children ask, with streaming eyes,
Where "Old John Brown" was laid.'
What made John Brown so different from ordinary men? What were the elements in his character which rendered him the prodigy of the past year? And how has it come to pass that people are so widely divided in opinion in respect to him?
It has never been common, I think, for the multitude to be united in opinion respecting any truly great man. We may suppose Individual men and women so far in advance of the race, that it will be impossible for them to be, in all respects, correctly estimated. And, besides, when one or two of the mental faculties happen to be enormously large, the nobler faculties are thus brought into notice, and afforded a chance for display. Thus, one baring average Benevolence, and very large Firmness, would be more likely to manifest his philanthropy under opposing circumstances, than another whose Benevolence was large, without a corresponding degree of Firmness. 
My acquaintance with John Brown commenced in 1847, when I had what I suppose to have been one of the very best opportunities for a knowledge of his real character, those traits (Combativeness and Firmness, or COURAGE) which made him the hero of Kansas and Harper's Ferry. Nor can I give it as my opinion that his character has been accurately portrayed in all that has yet appeared in the papers, respecting his past or more recent conduct. Certain <illegible> is, he cannot have been both the good and the bad man as he has been represented. What, then, <illegible>, that so much distinguished John Brown from all other men? I answer, it was FIRMNESS, COURAGE, and his power to endure pain. In this respect, he excelled all the men I ever knew: he did not seem to know what the sense of fear is or could be. Firmness in John Brown was like the quality of the flint, which resists the pressure of your fingers; or like the quality of the granite, which resists the pressure of the ocean waves. His distinguishing trait was FIRMNESS; next was CONSCIENTIOUSNESS; next was Combativeness, and then Benevolence. His Firmness combining with Combativeness made him courageous, and he seemed to me to possess more firmness than fifty men of an average capacity. He was certainly coarse and repulsive in his manners; nor do I suppose his benevolence was above that of common men. But, possessing Firmness, Resistance and Courage, as he did, whatever philanthropy he had was not suppressed, as it often is in others, by physical fear.
His conduct in one of my lectures on Pathetism, in Springfield, Mass., some twelve years since, has been referred to in the papers, lately. That occasion offered a grand opportunity for the exhibition of his real character, as, at that time, he had not engaged in the defence of Kansas, and he had had no personal encounters with Slavery. He had witnessed the surgical operation performed on a lady whom I had rendered insensible to pain, as she alleged, by Pathetism. This, with the other phenomena which he witnessed in my lectures, was beyond his comprehension; and so he arose one evening, and pronounced my lectures a humbug, and he offered to prove it, if I would only allow him to come upon my platform, and test the consciousness of one of my patients. To this proposal I consented, on two conditions, namely, that his tests should not endanger the health of my patient; and this to be determined by the physicians of the town; and secondly, that Brown himself should submit to the same processes which he should inflict upon the entranced lady. To this he readily agreed, although it was quite evident that when he at first proposed his test, he had no idea of going through with it himself. He had consulted a physician for a process which should, beyond all doubt, demonstrate the consciousness of pain, if any such consciousness existed in the lady who was entranced. And so the next night, Brown and his physicians were on hand, with a vial of concentrated ammonia, and a quantity (q. s.) of dolichos pruriens (cowhage). This 'cow itch,' as it is sometimes called, is the sharp hair of a plant, and when applied to the skin, it acts mechanically for a long time, tormenting the sufferer like so many thistles or needles being constantly thrust into the nerves. No one, I am sure, would willingly consent to suffer the application of cowhage to his body more than once. Brown bore it like a hero. But, then, he had the advantage of the entranced lady—the akin of his neck looking like sole leather; it was tanned by the sun, and looked as if it was impervious. Not so, however, when the ammonia was held to his nose; for then, by a sudden jerk of his head, it became manifest that he could not, by his own volition, screw up his nervous system to endure what I had rendered a timid lady able to bare, without any manifestation of pain. 
The infliction upon Brown was a terrible one, for he confessed three days afterwards, that he had not been able to sleep at all since the cowhage was rubbed into his neck. In submitting himself to that teat, the audience declared him 'foolhardy,' as it proved nothing against the genuineness of my experiments. It would not follow, that because he could endure an extraordinary amount of physical pain, therefore another person could do the same.
The degree of COURAGE manifested by John Brown made him the extraordinary man he was; and this, combining with his integrity of character, drew from Gov. Wise the testimony that he was 'honest, truthful, and sincere.' And yet, the death-warrant of this same 'honest, truthful, sincere,' and brave man, was signed by this same slaveholding, tyrannical Governor Wise. 
Posterity will do justice to the memory of this martyr to Democratic slavery. Men never pause to parley over the errors of those who are 'honest, truthful, and sincere,' and who manifest the rare qualities which combined in the character of John Brown. He was not <illegible>, he was not a <illegible>, (<illegible> on one subject,) nor was he moved by a feeling of <illegible>. Those who speak of him in this manner, do not know the man. Instead of being revengeful, he was humane, even to his own detriment, as may be shown
<c04>
from numerous incidents in his career. And, above all, he was a hero, whose manly bearing and courage has struck terror into the hearts of American <illegible> from which they can never recover. John Brown was never so really alive or so efficient in action as now, and hence it is that the Moloch of Democratic slavery trembles, and stands aghast from the fear of what the memory of that 'honest, truthful, sincere,' and 'brave old man,' will yet do for the liberation of the slave.
LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
Boston, Dec 9th. 1859.

THE MISSION OF JOHH BROWN.
Had the churches and the ministry in this country only thirty years ago begun and continued an earnest, united, peaceful protest, with the word of God, against the wickedness of slavery, John Brown's protest in action would at this day have been superfluous; such an interference would not have been needed. A right and faithful proclamation of that word of God which made John Brown a Christian Abolitionist would have broken up this whole system of wickedness in less time than it pleased God to take for the moulding and discipline of his character and life, as the first great martyr before of the Moloch of the sin. We thank God for the grace of God vouchsafed in him. He is the legitimate fruit of that piety with which the study of the word of God by prayer baptizes, informs, energises the soul. He is the masterpiece of that school of the old masters among whom he had his education and brought up his family, Bunyan, Baxter, John Fox, Doddridge, the Saint's Rest, the Book of Martyrs, and the Pilgrim's Progress. We thank God for the unaffected deep humility towards God, mingled with such firmness towards men, conspicuous in his nature. We thank God for all the precious evidences of his Christian experience and character. We thank God for the triumphant testimony he has been enabled to leave in gratitude for the infinite grace of God, to the honor of His word, to the efficacy of prayer, to the reality of faith, in the confidence of his own soul in God, in Jesus Christ, unshaken in the most trying hour and circumstances of existence. One such man, one such great heart, one such noble Christian, outweighs the baseness of a million hypocrites; and his single testimony against slavery shines like the sun, in spite of all the darkness and lying of all the pro-slavery churches in Christendom. In an age of shams, here is one reality; in an age of speculative theological and editorial skeletons hung round with broadcloth, here is one living soul; in an age of paste, here is one rudegem; in an age of dough-faces, here is one of God's flints; here, in a time of hollowness and cant, is a man of faith—a man to whom the idea of disinterested benevolence was a living expression—a man to whom the negro was a brother and a man—a man who, to the death, rejected religious communion with slaveholding ministers as defiling to his soul; but, on the way to the scaffold, stooped down and kissed a little negro child whom God had put in his path, that through that little one his last dying act might be the giving of a cup of cold water to that enslaved race for whom he died. Here is grandeur; here is God's own work and grace; here, in an age of sounding brass and tinkling cymbals, is one great soul like a living organ, through whose trumpet-tones God had blown an anthem that shakes the land like an earthquake. Can Senator Mason put down John Brown's ghost by a bill of inquiry? Can Senator Trumbull put down John Brown's ghost by standing up to be catechised? Will it put down John Brown's ghost to declare that slavery is no crime? You might as surely imagine that you had imprisoned his immortal spirit in the grave by putting an additional screw in his coffin. Presently you will hear of some new miracle of disinterested love to them that are in bonds as bound with them; and a new battering ram of God's divine word and providence will be driven against this wickedness, and Herod again will start from his uneasy slumbers: 'John I have beheaded, but who is this?' John, the beheaded, is but the forerunner of Christ the conqueror; and if need be in this conflict, he will raise up soldiers for his truth out of the stones in the streets. But whoever comes, on whomsoever the mantle falls, he cannot go beyond John Brown in his faithfulness, living or dying; no man can strike a more terrible blow at the heart of the Slave Power, nor bear a more emphatic lawful record in life, in death, as to the incompatibility of slavery and Christianity. Rather than seem to admit to the world that a man defending this wickedness could be a Christian minister, he would pass to the scaffold and the grave alone, rejecting the offer of the gospel from such a man. But God was with him, and John Brown felt that any man who, by defending slavery, maintains the moral assassination of the living as consistent with the gospel, is unworthy and unfit to convey its spiritual revelations even to the dying. We rejoice in the sublime and sacred scorn with which he refused the spiritual services of any apologist for such a crime. That dying protestation was a blow against slavery more effective than could have been struck by the living victor in a battle. Thanks be to God for the firmness and consistency of John Brown's testimony even to the close; for the awfully solemn witnessing, on the verge of eternity, against the wickedness of slavery, as so wicked that the man who defended it would not be suffered to worship the same God with a Christian about to die for his opposition to it. Let that work, and work it will, in the hearts and consciences of millions. Let that work, as by the grace of God it can be made to work, till our churches everywhere shall be constrained to excommunicate this wickedness as incompatible with faith in Christ and the hope of heaven, and slavery will speedily be abolished. And now, let men remember that because John Brown is hanged, the stock is not exhausted. There are plenty more of such creations through the power of God's word, God's discipline, God's spirit, when God's time has come—plenty more of such scourges. They that will keep slaves most be content to do it as men settle on the slopes of Etna and Vesuvius, with all the offsets God has appointed against the security of such property. Twenty thousand signatures for a Union-saving meeting cannot prevent the eruption of the volcano under them—it cannot prevent the resurrection of John Brown. They cannot silence God's word; they cannot prevent the fire of God's word, when it gets into the bones of such a man as John Brown, from breaking forth an in a conflagration. They cannot prevent God, whenever and in whatever war it pleases him, from raising up men to execute his plagues against their wickedness; and when God commissions such a man as John Brown, he will protect his memory and justify his cause.—CHEEVER.

THE RUNAWAY SLAVES.
The New York Herald is, at this present speaking, in a state of painful excitement upon the question of slavery, and negroes in general. The unbending firmness of the Republican party in Congress, and the indications of weakness in the Southern ranks, are inciting it to fresh exertion. When the Southern fire-eaten are backing down, extra exertions are necessary on the part of their Northern sympathizers. Hence it is that the Herald is conjuring up an immense number of ‘bloody and brutal' facts, in connection with Northern abolitionism, all designed to create a reaction of public feeling against Republicanism, and to help professional Union-savers. Among other efforts having this end in view, the herald sent a special correspondent to Canada for the purpose of raking up everything that could be said in reference to the fugitives from slavery in this section of the Queen's dominions. The result is, something more than a page of Herald small print, containing an immense mass of statements, some true, and others false; but all given with a strong bias in favor of the peculiar institution and its abettors. Three special objects are aimed at: first, to disgust American philanthropists with their efforts to keep the Underground Railway trains in motion; second to spread an impression among the slaves that they will be worse off amidst Canadian freedom than in Southern slavery; and, third, to excite bitter feelings in the States against Britons, on account of the sympathy which the runaways receive in Canada. The assertion, that the agents of the Underground Railway are paid for their services, that they devote part of the funds entrusted to them by philanthropists for their own use, and not to the fugitives, may be true to a certain extent. When the trains are kept running so regularly, it is impossible to depend upon volunteer stokers and conductors, and money-seekers may hare got in among the workers. Such men have obtruded themselves into the church and every laudable enterprise, but we do not find that the fact checks the labors of the pious and charitable. The assertions of the Herald are entirely unsupported by facts, but they may lead to inquiry into the Manner in which the affairs of the 
<c05>
Underground Railway are conducted, and may do good in a way the Herald never intended. 
That part of the report which refers to the fugitives in Canada embraces a series of highly colored statements, evidently magnified from the allegations of such friends of the colored race as Mr. Edwin Larwill and others, in Chatham and Windsor. That the fugitives suffer somewhat when they first arrive in Canada, that many of them bring the vices of slavery with them, is beyond question. But the facts, as we receive them, do not justify the sweeping averments of the Herald. That many of these, unfortunate fugitives establish themselves in farming and trading, and support themselves and their families in comfort, is unquestionable; that all can do so, if they possess the desire and the capacity to work, is undoubted. The condition of the colored race in Canada, as a whole,—we say it without fear of contradiction,—is favorable to their capacity to support themselves by their own unaided efforts, free from the tyranny of the white man. To say that many of them are convicted of petty larceny, and even of graver offences, is only what may be said of other uneducated classes. If there are more back convicts than white, in proportion to numbers, it is due to the vices of slavery, to the numbers coming in, who find it difficult to procure employment at once, and not to any inherent defeat in the race. That the colored man improves in Canada, and becomes an intelligent citizen, we have abundant evidence. That the people of Canada have to undergo some penalties, before the work of amelioration can be accomplished, is also true; but we can assure the Herald that they are willing, as a rule, to undertake the burden, and will never shrink from the duty of succoring refugees from the Moloch of Southern slavery. The time will come, no doubt, when that duty will be lightened by the abolition of the fugitive slave law of the United States. Then the runaway will be safe from his pursuer in his native country, and will prefer a milder climate a that of Canada. Even with the present law in force, many escaped slaves return to the States, after the hue and cry has subsided; and the numbers arriving here do not actually represent those who become permanent residents. 
Th Herald's commissioner, while representing the colored man to be in a miserable condition in Canada, does not conceal the fact that he possesses considerable political power through the franchise. The two statements are inconsistent; and we can hardly help thinking that poor Cuffee in the South, if he 'should be permitted to read the Herald's correspondence, will sigh for a land where he can enjoy not only freedom, but power; where the leaders in the community will not dare to cast contumely upon him, for fear of suffering from his vote. 
The correspondent has a good deal to say against the attempts which have been made by benevolent persons to assist the refugees in Canada; but everything is tinctured with the same spirit of prejudice, and many statements are made which are positively false.—Toronlo Globe.
NEGRO TROUBLES IN CANADA. The troubles which have existed to some extent in portions of Canada, in consequence of the number of fugitive blacks from the United States, whose constitutions are unsuited to the climate, and some of whom are, no doubt, viciously inclined, seem to be on the increase. The New York Evening Post of Thursday, says,—
'On Monday, an intense excitement was caused in Anderson, C. W., caused by an assault by negroes upon the family of Mrs. Greyean. Four negroes went to the house about 12 o'clock at night, and made an attack upon it. Mrs. G. and three men were at home at the time, and they defended themselves; but, as they were destitute of fire-arms, the negroes made an entrance, and knocked down and beat the inmates in a terrible manner. The lady was beaten in an inhuman manner, and subjected to most fiendish indignities. 
The next day, officers started in pursuit of the ruffians, and succeeded in arresting them; but, before they could be secured, they were rescued by an armed mob, and set at liberty. Thu aroused the white citizens, who formed themselves into bands to assist in the punishment of the negroes.
Recent accounts state that the citizens are determined upon arresting the murderous band who committed the outrages, and the negro population are disposed to protect them; and there is, consequently, great danger of a general disturbance. The whites and blacks, in that and the adjoining township, are about equally divided in numbers; and, while the latter are villainous, the former are determined to protect themselves from outrage.'
The Detroit Free Press of Tuesday says:
'At Chatham, forty miles from Detroit, a gang of negroes took possession of the school-houses on Monday morning, and refused to allow the white teachers to enter. The authorities were called upon, but dared not enter. The negroes were headed by one Shadd, a negro of desperate character. The negroes demanded not only that the schools should be thrown open to them, but that they should be allowed to participate in their management, which, on account of their numbers, is equivalent to giving them the control.
A conference took place between the negroes and the authorities, when the negroes were finally quieted by the assurance that their claims should be taken into consideration, and such arrangements made as could with propriety be brought about. A similar disturbance occurred at Sandwich, three miles below Detroit, on the same day.'
BOGUS NEGRO OUTRANGES.—A paragraph in yesterday's paper narrated some alleged gross outrages perpetrated by negroes in Canada West. The story was originated by the Detroit Free Press for sensation purposes. The Detroit Advertiser affirms that the only foundation for it was a fight between some low whites and negroes at a house of ill-fame kept by an Indian squaw. The Free Press has followed up this libel upon the colored population of Canada by another, charging them with taking forcible possession of school-houses and expelling the white teachers. Such a prostitution of the press to party purposes is disgraceful.—Boston Journal. 
INVESTIGATIONS AHEAD.—We understand that it is the intention of some of the Republicans, so soon as the House is organized, to move for a Committee to inquire whether there have been any recent violations of that clause of the Constitution which provides that 'the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several Stales;' and if so, what action, if any, of either department of the Federal Government, is necessary to punish past and prevent future violations of this sort; with power to send for persons and papers. We hope this will be done, and that there may be a thorough examination and exposure of the recent outrages which have been perpetrated upon peaceable and law-abiding citizens of the North, who happened to be dwelling in the Southern States.
We also learn that an inquiry may perhaps be instituted into the recent mail-robberies which have been committed by Government Officials under the pretence of suppressing incendiary publications; and that if the foots seem to demand it, an attempt may be made to punish the authors of these gross crimes, even though it be necessary to resort to impeachments to accomplish the object.
If these investigations, together with that in regard t to the Harper's Ferry raid, are prosecuted with vigor, much valuable information may be educed for the study of contemplative and conservative minds in all sections of the country.—N. Y. Tribune.
Twenty-eight slaves were manumitted by the Probate Court of Cincinnati one day last week. Fourteen of the number were the property of Wm. McGinnis, an aged gentleman, who for nearly forty years has resided in Bourbon Co., Ky., on the farm where all these slaves were raised. Two of the slaves are women, and four are men between the ages of twenty and thirty years, and besides these there are six female children and two boys. The remainder, formerly the property of Samuel Townsend of Madison Co., Ala. by whose will they were emancipated, were brought to the city by the executors of the will for the purpose of having the documents recorded.
MISSISSIPPI NEGROES ENJOYING CHRISTMAS FESTIVITIES.—The Natches Courier of the 27th, in noticing the Christmas festivities in that city, says: Yesterday was almost a saturnalia for the colored folks. The streets were lined with plantation-wagons and every description of farm house vehicle, each one having brought to town a load of happy and contented negroes, to spend a Christmas day and Christmas money. When their purchases and their sight-seeing were through, team after team left again, crowded as they came, the occupants boisterous with joy. It does seem as if the sight of yesterday would have cured the most skeptical Northerner of his Abolitionism. Certainly as happy a throng of contented darkies was never seen in the streets of a Northern city.' [A 'happy throng' of contented chattels and marketable commodities! The feel!]
The Legislature of Georgia hare passed a law prohibiting manumission of slaves by their masters, after death.
x6>
IT IS NOT A DYE. 
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
MRS. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative!
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally knows to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE<illegible>
given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety and its desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.' Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N.Y. <illegible>.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N.Y. Independent.
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel al doubts as to its efficacy.' Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair. published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.' Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like <illegible> and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U.S.Journal.
In these time, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, in being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilities the natural growth of hair.' Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston.
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey of losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.' Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we being to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.' Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its discovered; indeed the <illegible> circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instance where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N.Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.’ St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversion she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least on half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produce by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.' Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favour by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring., invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosting of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations which have been successfully plamed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine. 'Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses non of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest lines. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statement made in advertisement of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all other there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the <illegible> wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 365 BROOME STREET, N.Y.
Where address all the letters and inquiries 
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, <illegible> in ink. Be are <illegible>
Sea next issue of this paper for <illegible> informations or send to Depot for circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
