THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM N<illegible>O 6..
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
TERMS - Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID, ) to the General Agent.
Advertisement making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents —one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Socities are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBEARTOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
<c01>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 23. BOSTON. FRIDAY, JUNE 8, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1537.
THE LIBERATOR. 
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq.,
At the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, Wednesday, May 30th, 1860.
Photographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J.M.W.YERRINTON.
MR. CHAIRMAN—The resolution to which I will endeavor to say a few words, I suppose has been read, but I will read it again:—
Resolved That with the slave trade freshly revived among us, with the connivance of the government, and in defiance of the law, with the great seets and political parties repudiating the anti-slavery movement, we feel the need of all the more earnestness and of the most radical utterances, in our protests against slavery as a foul sin, and a system of abominations, to be immediately abolished, and against a Church and State, the synagogues of Satan and covenants with death, to be annulled and dissolved.'
We are here to-day Abolitionists—our great purpose, to seek the abolition of American Slavery. With the exception of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, which met on Tuesday, I know of no body, at least in New England, if anywhere in the whole Empire, that seeks the abolition of American slavery. We have neither a church nor a party that seeks the abolition of American slavery. The question is neither in religion nor in politics—any-where. Let me say a word upon that last point.
The question is not in politics, anywhere. There is a Republican party which undertakes to protect, to a certain extent, the rights of white men, in certain localities; but that party distinctly repudiates all connection with the question of the abolition of slavery , either gradually or immediately. It is not in their platform; it is not in the speeches of their leading men. More than that: you never find their leading men on the platform of any anti-slavery society. There is, therefore, no manifestation in the political world, of any intent or purpose to attack the system of slavery. Certainly there is none in the religious. We, therefore, and one or two additional societies, are the only bodies that undertake to deal with the question of American slavery. If you take the platform of the Chicago Convention, with the change of a few words in regard to the territorial question, they might just as well have nominated Douglas as anybody else, because there is nothing in his life nor in his speeches which runs counter to that Declaration of Priciples at Chicago. The only approach, therefore, to a political anti-slavery movement is one so closely identified with the old parties, and with the Democratic party especially, that there is no distinguishing element in it. Certainly, its head and all its leaders repudiate all connection with the anti-slavery movement, as such. 
I am the more anxious that this should be understood, because some persons suppose that there are different that phases of the anti-slavery movement; that there are certain churches doing something, certain politicians doing something. Now, of course, any man who undertakes to be a free man, to express his own sentiments, to go forth with a newspaper in his pocket, is, to a certain extent, attacking slavery—because slavery and freedom are so, not only antagonistic, but inconsistent, that the one cannot exist in the fully-developed presence of the other; but what I say is, that no body of men announces to the public any intention of attacking American slavery but ourselves. We are in the thirtieth year of our existence we have labored with all the means at our control; and, in the thirty years of our existence, the Slave Power has had, and continues to have, such omnipotent hold on the sources of American character and policy, that there is no man, nor any body of men bold enough to stand up in the face of the American States, and express his purpose to seek the abolition of slavery. It is a remarkable fact, and well worth noting. It is of of great significance. It justifies the policy which we urge upon the nation, of radical, aggressive, unflinching attack on all the great sources of character—literature, theology, politics the Union—if they have created a Union so bound to the car of slavery, that thirty years of agitation have not yet made one politician brave enough to put it on his banner that he intends the abolition of American slavery. Here is Mr. Lincoln, proclaimed to be, in the Courier, the man who, according to the best informed political authority, is the only man capable, of uniting the anti-slavery sentiment of the Northern States. He is the tide-mark that shows how high what may be called the Northern sentiment (for you cannot call it the anti-slavery sentiment) has risen within thirty years. Mark you! he says in this document, (speech of Mr. Lincoln,) in regard to such a point, for instance, as the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, that he has never studied the subject; that he has no distinctive ideas about it. That is the measure of his anti-slavery. Slavery on the very site of the Capitol, under the executive authority of the National Government—the simplest form of despotism the simplest element of the question whether the Union can make a slave—and he has no distinctive ideas about it—he never thought it worth while to consider it much; but so far as he has considered it, he should be, perhaps, in favor of gradual abolition when the slaveholders of the District asked for it! (.Derisive laughter.) Of course he would. I doubt if there is a man throughout the whole South who would not go as far as that. When South Carolina wants to free her slaves, he is ready to grant that she may. (Renewed laughter.) That is the amount of his anti-slavery in the very focus of the Union, where the problem is discharged of all ingredients, except the simple question whether the United States shall hold slaves. 
Then he goes into another question—that of the inter-State slave trade, which the South herself has, on frequent occasions, taken the opportunity to protest against. In regard to that, he is not at all in favor of stopping it; and in regard to the Fugitive Slave bill he has no objections to it, and he would have objections to introducing the question of repealing it, as an element of agitation. ('Hear, hear,) That is the amount of anti-slavery, if you choose to call it such, which, according to the Chicago thermometer, the Northern States are capable of bearing. The ice is so thin that Mr. Lincoln, standing six feet and four inches, cannot afford to carry any principles with him on to it! (Laughter.) 
<c02>
But take a more favorable element of the Republican movement, as at you might call it—Mr. Wilson or Mr. Summer, for instance—the very best specimens, perhaps, of the Republican mind. Do you ever see one of them here? Have they ever avowed their purpose to seek, as a distinctive end, the abolition of slavery in the Southern States? See how the man whom the Tribune defends, and who is considered just now the standard-bearer of the political sentiment—see how he describes such a meeting as this. Mr. Douglas had charged him with saying that he meant to go to the banks of the Ohio, and throw stones into Kentucky, and disturb their domestic institutions. Of course, that means that he meant to hold anti-slavery meetings in Ohio, and criticise the institutions of Kentucky; hold them up as sinful, and claim of the Ohio people that they should give them no encouragement, and when they saw a slave, free him. That is what was meant by the figure. Now, Mr. Lincoln says—'I don't understand that the framers of the Constitution left the people of the free States in the attitude of firing bombs and shells into the slave States';—and he adds, there is no charitable way of judging the man who made such an accusation against him, except by supposing that he is crazy; and thus, that when Stephen A. Douglas charged him, the standard-bearer of the political anti-slavery party—such as it is so-called—when he charged him with the intention of using his free tongue to make it less easy for Robert Wickliffe to hold his slaves, the enormity of the accusation was such that Mr. Douglas must hare been crazy. 
That is the state of the political world. That is the index which shows you how far the political world has travelled. At yonder door, you will see John Doy, of Kansas, and in his hands an account of his life there and in a Missouri jail. That book will tell you that a few earnest men, abolitionists, thinking that there was something higher than law, something more potent than a Missouri writ to commit a freeman to a Missouri jail, went across the border, and took him out—he never having been in Missouri, it was physically impossible that he should ever have offended Missouri law. That was one of the outbreaks, the natural outbreaks, of abolition feeling in the Northern States. That was one of the inevitable results of these anti-slavery principles planted in the hearts of the common people. Mr. Doy comes out of jail—comes East—comes to New England. Where does he find one atom of sympathy? In Republican meetings? From leading Republicans? From anything that can call itself Republican? No jot of it. They cannot afford to sympathize with him. He only finds it in abolition meetings. Take Mr. Hyatt. Mr. Hyatt goes to Washington to look despotism in the face, to assert the constitutional rights of the citizen invaded by a Senate Committee; and, knowing no other way to serve the nation, he refuses to obey the unconstitutional law, and walks into jail. What says the New York Tribune, the organ of political anti-slavery? 'A fool for your pains!'—'If he is not crazy, he ought to be.'
I am only showing you that, as Abolitionists, we can place no reliance on anything outside of this professedly anti-slavery movement. We have not yet emancipated Wm. H. Seward, much less the black slave. (Cheers.) We have not yet taken the gag off the lips of Northern ministers and Northern politicians; we are just so far from our work. What is therefore, undoubtedly our policy, what is the inevitable dictate of duty, under these circumstances? It is, not to allow our hopes to centre on the success of a certain political party or candidate. I have objection, personally, to the success of Mr. Lincoln or Mr. Seward; but I would rather that Stephen A Douglas should be President than either of them We cannot afford yet to let Mr. Lincoln succeed, because, if he should, the country will say, ‘The North has got the helm, let us see what the North is ready to do—wait!'—and we shall have four years of waiting, to see what Abe Lincoln won't do! (Laughter.) Those four years will be wasted. He will waste them in trying to make up his mind on the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia—in finding out whether, after all, there ought to be an internal slave trade. We cannot afford the success of such a man Put a Democrat into the Presidential chair, and Mr. Lincoln is an agitator, Mr. Seward is an agitator, every Republican is an agitator. Free from the responsibilities of office, they can afford to speak their sentiments, to a certain extent. They can afford to speak of Kansas; they can afford to speak of Mr.Hyatt. Why, Mr. Hyatt would be a martyr if this was the first day of December instead of May, because then the Presidential election would be over, and it could have neither good nor bad influence on the Republican nominee or the Republican canvass. The Tribune, instead of being brutal, would be only the faithful servant of the Northern thermometer.
My deduction from this is tantamount to what I am now going to say. We are accustomed to look at the slave as simply a victim under the heel of an individual white man. Our movement does not so regard him. That political party looks at the statute-book as the best result of the present state of America, as at such. I do not. I consider that statute-book the best result of the moral sentiment of the white race. There is another race in this country that have no voice in that statute-book. They are a race—they are a nation. I do not stand here to-day on the point that there is one slave to whom somebody has done an injustice, and we must go to the white man, and crave that he will grow to be a better man, and raise his victim. That statute-book is the house of Hapsburg and the law of Austria, and negro is Italy, standing under the hoof of Austria. What says Europe to Italy, standing so? Does it say Wait! Garibaldi? Does it say Wait! Victor Emanuel'? Does it say, 'Wait, Mazzini! wait, Count Cavour! until Francis Josephgets to be a decent man and a Christian; until the populace Vienna get merciful enough to recognize the rights of Venice'? No! Europe says to Italy, 'If you have iron, make it into swords, and tear down the house of Hapsburg! (Loud cheers.) You are a nation, and you have a right, as such, to assert Italian liberty against Austrian invasion!' When I look at the black man, I look at him as a nation. He is a race. He is the majority of the State of South Carolina; there are more blacks than whites there. They
<c03>
have a right to vote; they have a right to choose. their own government; they have a right to make slaves of every scoundrel, descended from six generations of scoundrels, who undertakes to own slaves in the Palmetto State. On every principle of justice and Republican law, that is their right. When I speak of the rights of the blacks I begin by recognizing their right—exactly as I do that of Italy—the moment they can get their feet and their hands free, to use their hands in strangling every white man South of Mason and Dixon's line. I know you look upon this as fanatical, but it is the corner-stone of everything like a vital anti-slavery movement, to look made at the black man, not as a single pitiable victim, but as a great race, engaged in conflict with the white race— not obliged to wait until some considerate robber new-models his statute-book, until some county court lawyer of Illinois gets time to consider the question whether slavery in the District of Columbia is a sin or not. The slave has the right, and our duty is to let the country know, as a matter of ethics, to introduce it as an element of American thought, that he has the right to free himself, the moment he gets the power. What freed Italy? What put Victor Emanuel on the throne of half Italy to-day, and sent Gariballi to Italy? The fact that Mazzini and Napoleon, before he mounted the throne, and every French newspaper, and every English, never for a moment gave up acknowledging the right of Italy, the moment she got the power, to put down Austrian violence by force. Away with the idea of insurrection! Victor Emanuel is not an insurgent; Garibaldi is not a rebel; Mazzini is not a conspirator. Venice and Rome were never so thoroughly annihilated under the foot of the German, that to rise up and claim the independence of classic Italy was a crime against anything deserving the name of law; and the race that has produced such men as have walked our streets—thirty thousand, capable of taking their rights in their hand, and seeking them at every peril, under the protection of the English flag, in Canada—the race that has sent us such men as have spoken to you this morning (applause)—has never been so degraded, its manhood has never been so trodden out by the white men of thirty States, that when it rises to claim its rights, it can be called insurrection. (Loud applause.) John Hancock was not a rebel. George the Third was a tyrant, and the man that rose against him was a freeman, standing on God's platform, and claiming nothing but his rights. The tyrants of the Carolinas, steeped in a blackness of darkness compared with which George the Third was an angel of light the men who rise against them are free men, and not rebels. (Applause.) There is a great deal in words. There is no State South of Mason and Dixon's line. There is nothing but hordes of pirates, in midnight conclave, putting their hands into the pockets and into the souls, of their fellow-men. (Applause.) 
There are a great many men very anxious—indeed, I have heard Mr. Caleb Cushing express the most profound anxiety—for fear such speeches as these injure the cause of the slave. (Laughter.) Democratic conventions all over the country listen to speeches from very earnest, enthusiastic men, bewailing the fact, that the efforts of Mr. Garrison and his followers have injured the cause of the ' poor slave.' Well, what have we ever done, that Mr. Lincoln is so much alarmed that he thinks that to enter an anti-slavery meeting is to ' throw bombs and shells into Kentucky '? That is the way he describes it; holds it off at arms' length. I have nothing to do with that is miserable agitation, says he, which makes Kentucky unhappy. What has that agitation claimed? Has it claimed for that slave in the Carolinas justice? That poor man, on the deck or in the hold of that Democratic steamer that left Charleston, and who was sent back to the hell of the Carolinas, how much did he ask of those Democrats? Justice? Did he say to them ’ Gentlemen, for six generations I and my fathers have cultivated the soil of Carolina, until it reflects the hues of Paradise. I have poured wealth into the lap of the white man; I have sent his sons to Europe and to the North for education; I have nestled him in luxury; I have put him on to the very highest level of the nineteenth century; I have founded for him the stateliest mansions; I have built for him the most comfortable cities; I have subdued for him the most fertile of States; I have filled his coffers to overflowing; I have made him the basis of the commerce of the world. Naked, pennyless, herded with the brute, all I ask is to creep out from under this avalanche of oppression, and own the two hands that God gave me! (Loud applause.) That was all he claimed. He did not say—'Democrats! men who hold to the theory of equal justice! I claim of that master that he shall give to me a pittance of the wealth I and my fathers have created. I claim of him that he shall not turn me out hated and pennyless, but shall give me clothing and food, a few months of education, and a little something to start with in the world.' No! all he asked was—' Drop me in mid ocean! Sever me from the Carolinas, naked as I am! Give me nothing but the muscles which your tyranny would have taken from me, if you could have done it, for you have taken away everything else! Give me nothing but these, and let me breathe! All I ask is what the veriest criminal asks—liberty to breathe!' That is all the anti-slavery enterprise has ever claimed, and that claim is so rightful, that Mr. Lincoln has not had time to stretch his mind wide enough to take it in, to rise to a level of morals and sublime virtue high enough to comprehend it! He is ready to be President, but does not yet know whether two and two make four. (Laughter.) He is ready to guide the affairs of thirty million of people, but he does not know whether a man owns his own daughter, and has not made up his mind whether it is right to sell babies by the pound, and upon an auction-block that is placed side by side with the Capitol of the United States! One of woman in that very District, seeing her two children about to be sold to New Orleans, took their lives with her own hands; and when she was asked the reason, said she would rather give them to God than let them go down the Mississippi. They put her in the United States jail, and the nation, shrinking from at its own guilt, found an excuse for pardoning her, on the ground that she was insane! The Sermon on the Mount is crazy, in this country. Nobody even does any thing right who is not insane. [A voice—
<c04>
 True.'] Nobody ever knows his rights except he is crazy. (Laughter.) Nobody ever knows whether a father owns his child until he is fit for a lunatic asylum. That is the ethics of this country; and Mr. Lincoln, who has been in that District, seen that very jail, walked over the very bridge on which that woman stood when the United States Marshal arrested her for the heroism of protecting her own babes, for the divine act of saving her children from the Christian Republic of the 19th century, for the godlike deed of saving her children from Abraham Lincoln (applause) —the man who stood on that very bridge has not yet made up his mind whether the system which crushed that woman into that necessity is fit for a Christian Republic or not! I say, that if we would rouse such a people to the proper consideration of their own duties, if we would make them fit for the crisis in which they stand, it is necessary that we should go down to the very foundation of the ethics of this question; that we should no longer confine ourselves to the mere claim which the anti-slavery movement has made of simple freedom,—bare liberty,—peacefully letting men go out, after centuries of oppression. We have tried it thirty years, and politics has got down to that level [the speech of Mr. Lincoln].
There is no political anti-slavery existing at this moment. There is no movement in the political arena and that calls itself anti-slavery. Of course, you know there is none in the church. You know very well, that, unfortunately, the ballot-box is a great deal ahead of the communion table in its knowledge of ethics; and as we find no anti-slavery at the ballot-box, we cannot expect to find any at the communion-able. There rests upon us, therefore, that other duty of arraigning the theology of the country. It is no new duty. It always exists. If you want to be Republicans, if you want to be under self-governing institutions, you must not imagine that such a movement as this, either religiously or politically, is a temporary expedient, is merely a thing of a day, is going are I to die out in a few years, is merely the necessity of a few moments. Mr. Garrison is not the monstrous growth of some inordinately fevered state of the body politic. Just as long as this nation endures, just as long as self-government is practised, on whatever question tests the public sentiment of the States, there must always be a John the Baptist going out into the wilderness, followed by the curses of the pulpits of Judea. (Applause.) And I will tell you why. I have been speaking our treason'; now I come to our infidelity.' (Laughter.) I can honestly say, without the least desire to startle you by a seeming paradox, or to say any thing extravagant, but on the most mature consideration, I can repeat what I hate already said three or four times, that with such a Union and such a theology, I wonder any decent man retains a shadow of respect for what are called Christian institutions. (Applause.) As an observer of my own times, I marvel at the patient and long-enduring prejudice in favor of Christianity which makes men cling to the belief that there is something in it, when in this nation of ours, it has been such a total failure in grappling with the sins of our own generation. I marvel at the faith that can believe, spite of demonstration against it. I marvel at the faith that is able to see the visible Church of God, when for thirty years it has been totally invisible. (Laughter and applause.) Look at it! Not one large sect in the land, not one respectable denomination, willing to confess that they have it in their hearts to ask for the abolition of slavery! Not one! Dr. South-side Adams, Dr. Gardner Spring, Dr. Stuart, of Andover, Dr. Lord, of New Hampshire, the New York Observer, they are not marvels; they are only little spots of rust. The marvel is, that the whole body has any health in it; that it site there contented to acknowledge to the world that they have, or pretend to have, the sword of the Spirit, and don't intend to use it; that they are banded an organization against sin, and don't dare to say a word against slavery! Why is this? It is no fault of the individual clergyman. You expend yourselves in individual criticism. What is Dr. Adams? A mere chip on the surface of a barren sea of Sodom! (Loud applause.) What matters he? Nothing! He is nothing but a solitary leaf, hanging, in the late autumn on the otherwise leafless and barkless branches of what ought to be a tree. (Applause.) Nothing else! But what is the tree—what is the church? I do not deny the intellectual ability of the pulpit; I do not deny the scholarly attainments of the clergy;—they have enough of both to occupy a much better position than they do before the world. But the pulpit can never be any thing but a servant, in a country like ours; the pulpit can never be any thing but a slave in a country like ours. The pulpit is nothing but the outer shed of the Lawrence factories; it is nothing but the outer shed of those colossal treasure-houses at Lowell. (Sensation.) The overseer inside the mills, at a salary of three thousand dollars a year, takes care of the hands of the operatives for six days; the subordinate overseer, in the town church, on Sunday, takes care of their morals for twelve hundred a year. They are both hired by the same wealth, owned by the same stockholders, and preach to the same whirring of the shuttle that is heard six days in the week, and echoed on Sunday. (Applause.) I bring no accusations against individual men. You cannot make bricks without straw. My friends, I am not saying that to startle you. What possible benefit could it be for me, in middle life, to come here to tickle your ears, and make you hate me? None whatever. Do not think me such a thrice-sodden fool! I am only trying to show you the land in which you live. I am only trying to uncover the muscles and bones of this body politic, and let you know it. That church, so situated, cannot lead public he sentiment. You might as well ask the slave of the Carolinas to dictate the policy of the State. One or two independent elergymenclergymen, like Dr Cheever, for example, cannot make fresh the waters of the Dead Sea of American Sectarianism. (Applause.) There is not enough of him. He is only the exception that proves the rule. What, therefore, is necessary? Why, this is necessary, that you should come here—you, American citizen—you, American church-member—you, Abolitionist,—that you should come here, or go somewhere else, equally free, and create a public sentiment that can deal with slavery. I do not find fault with Abraham Lincoln, or Henry Wilson, or Wm. H. Seward, that in the Senate of the United 
<c05>
States he says that, as a politician, <illegible>, he aments to this, that, or the other. I do not find fault with him for that, because in the manacles of the Constitution, he can do no more. What I find fault with him for is that, while he is using that one little weapon of the ballot, he does not go out into the highways and by You ways of the country and outside of that political organization, as a man, labor to create a public sentiment able to deal with this question. William H Seward once said to me, Your speech in regard to public opinion is all very correct, but I am in the Senate, and I can do nothing about it. You must create public opinion, and I will use it.' Well, it was a fair thing, as far as it went; but the question resolved itself into this: Is there a William H. Seward? Is there a man behind that coat, or merely a New York Senator? Is it a man, with a conscience? When he goes up to God, and the Almighty asks him, What did you do to help the bondman?' will he say,—' I did all the Empire State would let me. I did all that, considering the Democratic city of New York, it was available for me to do. Charles O'Conor and James Buchanan and Stephen A. Douglas were such consummate rascals, that, O Lord, I could not afford to be a man. (Laughter and loud applause.) If I had done so, my neighbors would have called me crazy, and I never should have been available.' So he put himself into the iron bedstead of a New York Senator, and when he had got there—when, with one hand, he had laid his sacrilegious grasp on that cross of Virginia, and said, 'John Brown was a felon—thank God they hung him!'—when he had stretched out the left, and tilled it to overflowing with that other atrocious lie, that in his soul he believed that the vilest of our thirty States was better than the best of European governments—with his two hands filled with lies, thank God! thank God! thank God! that there was life enough left in the North for Chicago to say to him, You are too dirty! (Applause.) You are not available. Your instinct was not sharp enough. You went too low. Henry Clay said in '39, that that was property which the law made property.' But the American people said—a wee bit too low, Harry!'—and they left him at Ashland. (Applause.) In 1860, Mr. Seward, fresh from Europe, made another bid for the Presidency. His instinct was not keen enough; he went too low. They said,— 'It won't do, Billy! Go home to Auburn, we want a cleaner man.' And they took Lincoln. Behind that nomination there is an infinitely more hopeful and sign. There is a growth of the American conscience which even the politician has to remember, and he must so play his cards that there shall not rest upon his memory any thing so utterly infamous, that the heart of the North cannot defend itself against this conscience, scattered here and there among the people, which demands, at least, a decent candidate.
MRS. FOSTER—Is Lincoln cleaner? 
MR. PHILLIPS—Yes, he is; because he has never said, in so many words, that John Brown was 'justly hung.' He never said, in so many words, that Arkansas, symbolized by a bowie-knife, and her sky lit up by burning slaves, was better than London, in the scale of civilization and Christianity. (Applause.) A man may be capable of a lie, but if he has not already uttered it, if he has not already gratified the devil by speaking it, he has not got so low as the statesman of Auburn. (Laughter and applause.) I thank God, therefore, that William H. Seward was rejected after making such a speech. It is a good sign. It is a sign that, far off there in the Northwest, there is a leaven of that spirit that looks upon the negro as a nation, with the right to take arms into its hands and summon its friends to its side, and that looks upon that gibbet of John Brown, not as the scaffold of a felon, but as the cross of a martyr. (Tremendous applause.)
A VOICE—Was he nominated because he was a better man than Mr. Seward?
MR. PHILLIPS—No, not because he was a better; for he never had said, he never had even condescended to consider whether there is an ' irrepressible conflict.' William H. Seward's name is irremediably associated with that great philosophic principle. Mr. Lincoln is known merely as the antagonist of Douglas. He is claimed, here, by his defenders, as not up to the level even of the Whigs of 1844. Webster may gather his dust together in his grave, and ask of the North, ' Why blame me, if pattern Anti-Slavery can select a man not worthy to unloose the latchet of my shoes as its standard-bearer in 1860?' (Applause.) For every blow that Abraham Lincoln ever struck against the system of slavery, the martyr of Marshfield may claim that he has struck a hundred (applause;) and yet we say, and say it justly, that Webster was a traitor to the Northern States, and when Massachusetts put his statue on the State-House green, she wrote herself down recreant. We say, and say truly, that he sacrificed the North, and that God will probably hold him, more than any other single man, accountable for the wasted twenty years of political anti-slavery. But who is this huckster in politics? who is this county court advocate? who is this who does not know whether he has got any opinions? Why, he is like the tutor at Cambridge, of whom the students said, that ' his mind was full of all manner of emptiness.' (Great merriment.) What is his recommendation? It is that nobody knows bad or good of him. His recommendation is, that out of the unknown things in his past life, journals may make for him what character they please His recommendation is, that his past is a blank; and the statesman of New York, who has done (for so it may be said, to the honor of William H. Seward) as much as any man in politics has done, to marshal the North on the political anti-slavery platform, is unavailable because of those efforts—nothing else.
What are we to do? We are to create a sentiment capable of bearing up a statesman like William H. Seward, with his speeches in his right and left hands. You do not believe—there is not a man here who believes—the proudest and firmest friend of Mr. Seward does not for a moment believe that he, in his heart, thought that Arkansas, the vilest of the States, repudiating its debts, burning negroes, mobbing white men, incapable of tolerating free speech, a jumble of pirates, a horde of pilferers, a place where, before an honest man visits it, he makes his will and gives up his life insurance (laughter, —no man believes, and you know he never believed, that such a State as that
<c06>
that was the equal of England, with <illegible> Shakespeare and Milton, with Christianity and civilisationcivilization, with Carlyle, with Romilly, with Mackintosh, with Wilberforce, with Howard, with Burke, with Florence Nightingale, in her bosom. (Load applause.) Never! never! You know he never thought it. You hung upon his skirts. Your indifference, heedless prejudice, trembling pro-slavery hatred of the anti-slavery movement, dragged him down, to lay on the altar of his Presidential aspirations what every man in that Senate chamber knew was a lie (Loud applause.) And almost every man in this country—every intelligent man—knows that William H. Seward no more believes that John Brown was justly hung, than he believes that the martyrs of English history were justly hung—that Sydney and Vane perished rightfully on the scaffold. If he lives to the honest age of seventy, when an American, having given up all hope of the Presidency, can afford for once in his life to speak the truth—if he lives to that age, and in some forgetful moment lets his heart flow out, as it did once at Plymouth Rock, you will hear those same wise lips of his group with Tell and with Wallace, with Vane and with Sydney, with Hampden and with Fayette, the more honored name of John Brown of Osawatomie. (Enthusiastic and prolonged cheering.) 
The labor of this meeting is to create a public sentiment which will embolden men like Seward to speak their thoughts. I know it is a seemingly almost disreputable object to be avowed — that we should be here to ungag the lips of great men; but it is nevertheless true. You know that our statesmen live by whispering at Washington what they would not for the world have known at home, and whispering at home what they would not for the world have known at Washington; and that they are politically dead the moment they are equally well known in both places. (Laughter.) Cornelius Agrippa, the old necromancer of two centuries ago, it is said, in his magic glass, would summon before you the image of friend or relative, and let you sea his occupation; or he would bring out some past or future hour of your own life, and let it stand revealed and palpable before you, and you would hear, echoing in the arches, the words which you had spoken, or were about to speak —so powerful was the magic. Suppose that at the very time that William H. Seward was uttering that cold-blooded, deliberate. well-considered, carefully-worded rebuke of John Brown, and Jefferson Davis and Mason and Wilson and summer were sitting aghast, one with sorrow and another with wonder at the Senator's credulity which supposed they could believe him sincere—suppose that, at that moment, some necromantic art could have made to-echo through the arches of the Senate-chamber the profuse oathc, the indignant oaths, the hearty, cordial, impetuous oaths with which, when he heard of the murder of Stevens, he denounced it as a man denounces it, as a Christian denounces it, as a free man denounces it— how the two would hare mingled'.—the divine profanity above, the well-worded deviltry below. (Loud applause.)
You will say this is very personal; you will say.) it is very harsh personality. I know it. Did you ever know men in earnest who did not attack things and men? Take Charles James Fox's speeches-why cannot you read them to-day? Because he grapples with a man; because he takes some rival statesman by the throat; because he says to the slave-traders of Bristol, murderers! because he deals with men right a on the spot. Take the orations of Burke—why do you read them to-day? Because they are more interesting to-day than they were fifty years ago. When he got up to speak, the House of Commons left the room. There is nothing but personality, nothing but criticism of idols, nothing but analyzing of parties and churches, that will do you any good. Call us fanatics, revile us for our personality, say that we attack reputations—what of that? We did not come into the world to keep ourselves clean. It is not our first and only duty to see that you, love us. Popularity is not the great end of our creation. We came into the world to give truth a little jog onward; we came into the world to help our neighbor to his rights; we came into the world to take one link of the fetter off the limb of the slave. In order to do it, it is necessary to tear asunder your idols; in order to do it, it is necessary to cut the line that binds you vassal to the pulpit, and let you know that when you look up, you do not see an independent intellect, but you see the reflection of wealth A hard thing to say; it makes a man odious to say it; but necessary to be said, necessary for you to learn, necessary for you to act upon. A negro cutting his master's throat is not a murderer—he is John Hancock in a new livery. (Loud applause.) Necessary for you to know, necessary for you to believe, necessary for you to say; and when you have said it twenty-five years, it will be stereotyped into character, character into statutes, it and statutes into an insurrection, as you call it—a revolution, as we say.
I know this is what you call revolutionary talking; I mean it such. Some men seem to think that that this Anti-Slavery cause, being certain to succeed- (nobody doubts that; God made the black man, and as he reigns he will see to it, in his own time, that the black man has his rights. If there is a a God, the Anti-Slavery movement will succeed.) Before I <illegible>pass from that, however, allow me to show you how our religious teachers always put this idea of success, when they do pray— the very best of them. They will ask God to remove sickness, to give us rain, to give as peace and prosperity, to give us health. If they have a friend going abroad, they will ask God to protect him, generally, frankly, without suggesting conditions; but the best of them, when they come to pray for freedom, will say, 'O Lord, wilt Thou break the yoke of the oppressor in Thine own good time! Suggesting that He had better not do it hastily (laughter): don't expect Him to do it at present: He may not be surprised, and we will just not be surprised, if there is not any fitness of things, just now. We want the rain to-day; we want the grain to-day; this friend waste safety an the Atlantic, and that wants relief from his fever—'grant it'! That man wants liberty—' give it—in Thines own good time. (Laughter.) Don't give it too soon; he may not be ready for it!
A VOICE—Brother Sloane don’t pray so.
Mr. PHILLIPS—(counting on his fingers)—Brother 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in olding other Statesin binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR PARTNERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Sloaneï¿½any more? [A voice, 'Dr. Cheever.'] Any more? [ï¿½Henry T. Cheever. ]Any more? ['Ward Becher.Beecher.'] Any more? I have not got through one hand yet. (Loud laughter and applause.) Forty thousand American pulpits, and applause.) Forty thousans American pulpits, and the warmest friends and most intelligent have to bethink themselves before they can count up ten! (Applause.) I submit that, according to Old Testament rule, they are not enough to save Sodom, for they wanted ten. (Laughter and cheers.)
Do not understand me as denying that there are glorious exceptions. Do not understand me as denying the worth of these. Our eloquent friend, Mr. Sloane, is so habitually upon this platform, that we almost forget to call him reverend. (Laughter.) He is not included. I have no right to include, either, his whole brotherhood of seven hundred clergymen of the old Covenanters,' who keep their faith and stretch out no hand to touch the United States Constitution. I know there are local and secondary seets who are thus faithful and loyal to the principles of justice. I do not find fault with them. When I speak of the American Church, it is that body represented by millions of Methodists, by millions of Presbyterians and Baptists and Congregationalists, all of them partners in one great conspiracy against the slave, all of them agreeing to keep the Bible out of the statute-book. To no one of their altars would a fugitive slave ever be ingnorant enough to flee. In Egypt, in Rome, in Europe, all down the Middle Ages, if a fugitive slave could find the shelter of a Pagan or Catholic altar, he was safe from the law. What slave, dug up from the mud of the Carolinas, without ideas sufficient to know where the North Star is, was ever so ignorant as to run to the altar of South-side Adams for protection, even when a thousand miles from home? He knows it by instinct. You may take a hound, and fondle him in your parlor; you may feed him with the white hand of beauty, and make him a pet for a dozen years; but turn him into the forest, and let him see a deer, and he will spring at his jugular vein, and drag him down. So the fugitive slave, with every idea dragged down to the dust, with no capacity of counting five, with no sense, except to breathe, when he gets to Boston, with instinctive sagacity knows that he must give Essex Street Church the widest berth, and come as near as possible to this platform. (Applause.)
I have forgotten what I was about to say, when I turned aside to speak of this matter of prayer; and as I have spoken longer than I thought, and as there are others who will occupy the time, you will excuse me from saying more.
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON,. JUNE 8, 1860.
THE INSURRECTION OF 1776!
The eighty-fifth anniversary of this great American can triumph will be celebrated by a grand MASS MEETING, in the handsome and commodious Grove in FRAMINGHAM, on Wednesday, July 4th. Turning with abhorrence from the mockery of commemorating the achievements of Freedom by servility to Slavery, let all who hate despotism in the garb of Democracy and Republicanism as well as of Monarchy, and would overthrow it by every weapon that may be legitimately wielded against it, assemble to consider the solemn and pregnant issues of the hourï¿½how we may best preserve the principles of the Revolution, and carry them forward to a speedy and enduring triumph.
Special trains will run upon the different railroads, as heretofore,. An able corps of eloquent speakers will be in attendance. [Particulars hereafter.]
FRANCIS JACKSON, Committee of Arrangements,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements,
E. H. HEYWOOD, Committee of Arrangements,
DR. H. O. STONE, Committee of Arrangements,
CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements,
GEO. W. STACY, Committee of Arrangements,
MR. SUMNERï¿½S SPEECH. 
After a painfully enforced silence of four years in his seat in the U. S. Senateï¿½a silence caused by the dastardly and murderous assault of one who has since been called to his 'final account'ï¿½the Hon charles Sumner delivered a speech in that body, on the 4th inst, occupying four hours, on The Barbarism of Slavery,' in which the brutal and revolting features of that terrible system were revealed in the most effective manner, and the superiority of free institutions over slave institutions exhibited by an overwhelming array of facts and figures, admitting of no refutation. Throughout, its spirit was lofty, dignified and bold, indicative of high moral intrepidity and a noble purpose. No attempts were made to interrupt him, though the smothered wrath of the Southern members must have been excessive. Here is all that followed at its close:ï¿½
Mr. Chesnut, of S. C., made a brief response to Mr. Sumnerï¿½s speech, speaking of it as an extraordinary one. After ranging over Europe, sreaking through the back doors of English aristocracy, and fawning at their feet, this slanderer of States and men has reappeared in the Senate.
He had hoped, after the punishment he had received for his insolence, that he would have learned propriety, but he had repeated his former vulgarity and mendacity. The Egyptians deified reptiles, but it remained for northern abolitionists to deify an embodiment of malice, mendacity and cowardice. He was not inclined to put further punishment on the recipient of a former chastisement, who had gone howling through the world, yelping out volumes of slander, and he would therefore endeavor to keep quiet.
Mr. Sumner said he had pointed out the barbarism of slavery, and the Senator's rejoinder should go at as an apperdix and fitting illustration of his argument. Adjourned.
To the low blackguardism of the Carolina Senator, (why was he not instantly called to order by the President?) nothing could be more felicitous than the retort of Mr. Sumner.
The correspondent of the New York Tribune says:
'Mr. Sumner's speech attracted a large audience to the Senate galleries, which continued well filled during the four hours of his scourging review of Salvery in all its relations, political, social, moral, and economical. There appeared to be a studied effort at indifference on the Democratic side, for only a dozen Senators were in their seats during the first hour or two. Afterward they gradually appeared, and leading Southern members from the House contributed to the general interest by their presence and attention.
As a whole, this speech was regarded as being more offensive by the South than the one which created such a sensation before, and there is reason to believe that, but for prudential considerations, it might have been attended with similar results. It was found quited difficult to restrain some decided exhibition of resentment in certain quarters. The only expression of indignation which found vent was in Mr. Chesnut's brief and angry reply, from which the general temper of the South may be inferred, as he is regarded among the most discreet and considerate in his tone and bearing.'
In order that our readers may be put in immediate possession of this masterly speech of Mr. Sumner, we publish it in an extra, which is equivalent to giving them an extra number of the Liberator as it would occupy four pages of our paper in the type ordinarily used by us. Its circulation will be immense, and it will be read by millions. That portion of it which relates to the U.S. Constitution is open to criticism hereafter.
PHOTOGRAPHIC LIKENESS OF HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
A very accurate and spirited photographic likeness of this indefatigable and uncompromising advocate of Humanity, Freedom and Progress, by C.M.SEAVER, a very promising young artist of this city, may be obtained of Bela March, 14 Bromfield Street, or of R. F. Walleut, Anti-Slavery Office, Price $1.
<c02>
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
THE NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION for 1860 assembled at the Melodeon, in Boston, on Wednesday, May 30th. At the hour of ten, at which time the Hall was entirely filled and crowded with people from all parts of the New England States, FRANCIS JACKSON, President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, called the Convention to order, and offered, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, the following list of officers for the due organization of the Convention:ï¿½
president,
JOHN T. SARGENT, of Boston.
Vice Presidents,
Peter Libbey, of Maine,
George F. Talbot,
Abraham Folson,
Benjamin Chase, Folsom, of New Hampshire,
Benjamin Chase,
Rev. N. R. Johnston, of Vermont,
Francis Jackson, of Boston,
Edmund Quincy, of Dedham,
Bourne Spooner, of Plymouth,
William Durfee, of New Bedford,
James M. Aldrich, of Fall River,
Nathaniel Robbins, of Harwich,
Thomas J. Hunt, of Abington,
James M. Aldrich, of Worcester,
Benjamin Snow, Jr., of Fitchburg,
A. A. Bent, of Gardner,
Robert Hassell, of Haverhill,
William Ashby, of Newburyport,
Chas. Lenox Remond, of Salem,
Daniel S. Whitney, Southboro',
James N. Buffum, of Lynn, 
Samuel Barrett, of Concord, 
M. G. Kimball, of Barre, 
William Jenkins, of Andover, 
Chas, C. Burleigh, of Connecticut,
Jas. B. Whitcomb, of Connecticut,
Rodney Moore, of Rhode Island. 
Elizabeth B. Chase,
Business Committee, 
William Lloyd Garrison, Abby Kelley Foster,
Wendell Phillips, N.R. Johnston, 
Maria W. Chapman, Andrew T. Foss, 
Lydia Maria Child, Aaron M. Powell,
Charles C. Burleigh, Henry C, Wright.
Secretaries,
Samuel May, Jr., Wendell P. Garrison. 
E. H. Heywood,
Finance Committee, 
James N. Buffum, Elbridge Sprague,
E. D. Draper, Sallie Holley,
R. H. Ober, Elizabeth M. Powell
The Convention accepted the above list, and unanimously elected the persons named. 
 
JOHN T. SARGENT took the Chair, and made some introductory remarks relative to the associations of the Hall in which the meeting was assembled, and referring especially to the death of THEODORE PARKER.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, read appropriate Scripture selections, and offered prayer.
W. L. GARRISON, from the Business Committee, reported and read the following resolutions:ï¿½
Whereas, no elements can be more antagonistical or more irreconcilable than those of Liberty and Slavery; and, therefore, no experiment more insane or more disastrous than that of attempting to amalgamate them in the same government, and within the same Union; and,
Whereas, in the formation and adoption of the Constitution of the United States, 'it cannot be denied, to quote the language of John Quincy Adams, the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slavesï¿½namely, an immunity for twenty years of preserving the African slave tradeï¿½the stipulation to surrender fugitive slavesï¿½and the exaction fatal to the principles of popular representation, of a representation for slaves, for articles of merchandize, under the name of persons'; and the entire military; and naval power of the nation was pledged to the suppression of every form of domestic insurrection; and,
Whereas, (again to quote Mr. Adams.) 'in the articles of Confederation, there was no guarantee for the property of the slaveholderï¿½no double representation of him in the Federal councilsï¿½no power of taxationï¿½no stipulation for the recovery of fugitive slaves; but when the powers of government came to be delegated to the Union, the South refused their subscription to the parchment till it should be saturated with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purify, no quarantine could extinguish:ï¿½the freemen of the North giving way, and the deadly venom of slavery being infused into the Constitution of freedom;ï¿½and thus reduced to the alternative of departing from the vital principle of their liberty, or forfeiting the Union itself, they averted their faces, and with trembling hand subscribed the bond; therefore,
Resolved, That (again to quote the same high authority)' the bargain between Freedom and Slavery contained in the Constitution of the United States, is MORALLY AND POLITICALLY VICIOUS, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our Revolution can be justified, cruel and oppressive by riveting the chains of slavery, by pledging the faith of freemen to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master and grossly unequal and impolitic by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be rescued and returned to their owners and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation. The consequence has been, that this slave representation has governed the Union; Benjamin, portioned above his brethren, has ravined as a wolf; in the morning he has devoured the prey, and in the evening has divided the spoil.'
Resolved, That, in consenting to the adoption of such a Constitution, the people of the North have made 'A COVENANT WITH DEATH, AND WITH HELL ARE THEY AT AGREEMENT 'ï¿½insanely declaring that 'when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves.'Therefore, 
Resolved, That the cry should go forth from the heart and the lips of every one who professes to revere God, to hold the principles of justice and the claims of suffering humanity as of paramount importance, to regard chattel slavery as '' the sum of all villanies,' and liberty as the inalienable birthright of every human being, 'THIS COVENANT WITH DEATH MUST BE ANNULLED, AND THIS AGREEMENT WITH HELL MUST NOT STAND, no matter what convulsions may follow, or what interests may be temporarily affected by it;ï¿½for if this be not done, then to this nation God proclaims, 'Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon; therefore THIS INIQUITY shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant And he shall break it at the breaking of the potter's vessel that it is broken in pieces: he shall not spare.'
Resolved, That while the present unhallowed Union exists, the people of the North cannot fail to be demoralized by it, as well as to involve themselves in the judgments impending over itï¿½cannot maintain any ground of moral consistency in their opposition to slavery-cannot prevent the extension of the accursed system at the dictation of the Southï¿½but must continue to add sin to sin, to deepen their guilt, to play the part of dissemblers and hypocrites, and to hurry the nation down to irretrievable ruin.
The Convention was first addressed, briefly, but with his usual faithful and earnest spirit, by CHARLES LENOX REMOND, of Salem. 
H. FORD DOUGLASS, of Chicago, was the second 
<c03>

speaker, and delivered a very eloquent and effective address. This was Mr. D.'s first visit to New England, and his first anti-slavery speech here, and the impression made was of a highly favorable character.
REV. J. R. W. SLOANE, of New York city, Pastor of a Reformed Presbyterian (Covenanter) Church in that city, was next called to the stand. After a few words of kind and respectful allusion to the marked ability and eloquence of the two preceding speakersï¿½ both colored menï¿½Mr. SLOANE delivered an anti-slavery speech of the most impressive and uncompromising character.
The Convention, on motion, voted, That the following be assigned as the hours of meeting of this Convention during its session, viz.: 10, 212 3/4 and 77 1/2.
In the absence of Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, who had been expected as the next speaker, but who found it impossible to get through the crowd, the platform was taken by WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., who spoke for an hour in review of the present position of the Republican party, and in criticism of its leading men, and especially of its candidate for the Presidency. He spoke also of the general false character of the American churches.
Full reports of all these speeches may be expected.
Mr. GARRISON referred to the coincidence of the presence of JOHN BROWN at the Anti-Slavery Convention a year ago, and the presence of his widowï¿½ truly a noble womanï¿½on our platform to-day. The fact of Mrs. Brown's presence, thus made known to the Convention, induced a general spontaneous expression of the deep sympathy felt for her and her children.
Adjourned to the afternoon.
AFTERNOON .ï¿½The Convention was called to order by the President at 3 o'clock.
Mr. GEORGE W. CLARK, of Rochester, New York, sang with much expression an appropriate song of progress.
Mrs. F. B. MORRIS, who represented herself as a slave for twenty-three years, requested opportunity to speak, which was granted. She said she had been, not a slave on a Southern plantation, but a slave to an intemperate step-mother and husband. She related some cases of prejudice against color which had come under her notice.
She was followed by HENRY C. WRIGHT, who asked a question to this effect:ï¿½If he had a child under his care whom he had educated in evil ways, and then the child practised upon him the lessons he had taught him, had he a right to complain? if he in such case deserved the sympathy of the people? If he had taught the child it was right to rob, to steal, to pick pockets, had he a right to complain if the child robbed him? He thought not. Applying the illustration to the system of slavery, he said, the slaves were pupils of the slaveholders, who had taught them that there were no rights of property or person, and when the slaves should grow to be men, as they assuredly would, and should practice upon the slaveholder the lessons he had taught them, would the oppressor have any right to complain, or would he be entitled to the sympathy of the Northern people? After further remarks on the same idea, he read the following resolutions as expressive of his own sentiments:ï¿½
Resolved, That individual slaveholders, as such, have no rights, but are to be regarded and treated as the most inexcusable enemies of mankind.
Resolved. That slaveholding States have no rights, but are to be treated by the people and States of the North as self-incorporated bands of American corsairs, whose power it is the right and duty of all the friends of justice and freedom to seek to annihilate.
Resolved, That slaves, as such, owe no obedience, service or duties to their enslavers; and a religion or government that enjoins on them such duties or obligations, deserves only the scorn and contempt of mankind.
Resolved, That in Helper's Impending Crisis, so generally endorsed by Republicans, we find the true and only scheme for the abolition of slavery, i.e., No co-operation with slaveholders in politicsï¿½no fellowship with them in religionï¿½no affiliation with them in societyï¿½no patronage of slaveholding merchantsï¿½no guestship in slave waiting hotelsï¿½no fees to slaveholding lawyersï¿½no employment to slaveholding physiciansï¿½no audience to slaveholding personsï¿½ no recognition of slaveholding men, except as ruffians, outlaws and criminals.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, in reply, said that the majority of the people at the North never thought of the slave as a man, and, in his opinion, when Mr. Calhoun made the remark that a man had a right to the wealth he had dug from the soil against the universe, he never thought of it as applying to the slave. He said that the mass of the Republicans were ready to condemn Daniel Webster for aiding in the enactment of the Fugitive Slave Bill, yet they virtually reenacted it every time they took a seat in Congress. The Republican office-seeker was compelled to wear two faces, one looking in the direction his heart dictated, and the other in the way the Constitution bade him. In regard to the attitude of a large portion of the Northern people, he thought Mr. Wright had given them too much credit, when he spoke of their universal endorsement of Helper's 'Impending Crisis.' To his mind they were far from endorsing it. But he himself would recommend its circulation, although he could not endorse fully all its contents, and showed the obvious difference between indorsing a book's sentiments, and recommending its circulation. Finally, he wished to make some alteration in the phraseology of Mr. Wright's resolutions, as he considered the present wording would tend to defeat the cause he intended to promote, and he supposed Mr. Wright meant that the slaveholder had no right to be such, but, by common minds, they might be construed to mean that they had no rights, as men.
Rev. JOHN PIERPONT next addressed the Convention. He did not like the milk-and-water character of Mr. Wright's resolutions! To say merely that a slaveholder had no right to his slaves, was, in his opinion, exceedingly tame for a Garrisonian Abolitionist. He considered the slaveholder, as such, had no rights at all, not even to breathe a breath of God's free atmosphere. He was for encouraging the slaves to resist their masters, with violence if need be, and to rise against him, in order to obtain their liberty; and he considered it the duty of the people of the North to put weapons into the hands of the oppressed to aid them in the accomplishment of their object. The speaker hoped and believed no slave would ever be again returned to slavery from the soil of Massachusetts, and before he would lift his hand or his voice for the return of a fugitive slave, he would see the Union dissolved, though he knew it would be by a civil war, in which he and his children would fall by the sword. In conclusion, he said, LET US BE FREE; let us not be brought into bondage by any laws which man can make, or by any constitution that our fathers could make. But let us petition our State Government until it gives us a shield to protect us from the harpy claws of the Slave Power.
Mr. RANDOLPH, who claimed to be a descendant of Pocahontas, took the stand, and spoke at some length on the subject of slavery, and expressed his willingness to labor with those who have for their fundamental object the extirpation of the curse of American slavery, although he believed there were measures as effectual as those adopted by this Society, and among these the ballot-box, in which he was a believer. He urged every one to sympathize with the slave, and told them it was their duty to bring about a thorough, radical change, and extirpate this infernal system. In the course of his remarks, he was interrupted by Mr. Fowler, who wished to state some facts disparaging to the speaker's character. Mr. Fowler was called to order. Much discussion, relative to points of order, followed, and both Messrs. Fowler and Randolph made brief statements; and after few general re-
<c04>
marks from Mr. Wickes, of Wisconsin, the Convention adjourned to the evening.
EVENING. ï¿½ The Convention re-assembled at 71/2 o'clock, the PRESIDENT in the Chair.
Mr. CLARK, of Rochester, again Sang an anti-slavery song.
The speakers at the evening session were H. FORD DOUGLASS, of Chicago, Rev. E. C Town, of Braintree, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, of Boston, and E. H. HEYWOOD, of Bosron, whose impressive speeches, listened to with the closet attention and often applauded, will be hereafter reported at length.
Adjourned to Thursday at 10.
THURSDAY.
The Convention reassembled at the Melodeon, according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
The following letter from CHARLES HOWARD MALCOM, Pastor of the Baptist Church in Newport, R. I., was read to the Convention:ï¿½
NEWPORT, R. I., May 21,1860.
 SAMUEL MAY , JR., ESQ.
DEAR SIR ï¿½Your note inviting me, on behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, to be present at the next meeting of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, was duly received.
In reply, I beg to say that, if my arrangements will permit, it will afford me pleasure to comply with your invitation. As I change my place of residence to another part of the city about the last part of this month, I am somewhat doubtful if I shall be able to leave home at that time. However, whether I am present or absent, be assured that my whole heart is with you in the cause of the slave.
If my voice, uttering its testimony against the guilt of oppression, upon your platform, can be of any service, it shall be heard there, if in my power. He walks a way strewn with thorns who, either South or North, fronts the great sin of our national life, and bears against it the entire weight of his opposition; but, it is a way which piety and patriotism both mark out, and which duty bids us follow. May God help all such, and give victory to the right and true! 
With great respect, yours, very truly, 
CHARLES HOWARD MALCOM.
On Mr. Garrison's motion, Voted, That, in consideration of the number of speakers present, each one be requested not to extend his remarks beyond thirty minutes.
Voted, That the hour of 111/2 be assigned for the consideration of the financial condition of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and of contributions to its treasury.
ANDREW T. FOSS was called upon, and said that the thirty minutes rule would not incommode him, as he wished to speak only a short time. He wanted to criticise a little Mr. Wright's resolutions, which said that the slave was not to blame for practising the lessons of violence and enslavement taught him by his master. He (Mr. FOSS) considered the slave culpable who should undertake to slave others, in as much as he did not believe that the slave could think slavery right in itself. There was not a slave so ignorant or degraded but knew that slavery was a crime, be it practised by black or white. God had not made the human soul so mean as to be capable of believing that slavery was right. He did not consider there could be any actual infidelity to the everlasting truth ordained by God. That is always recognized and acknowledged, although people may fail to live to it.
Mr. WRIGHT rose to defend his position, and said it was the universal sentiment of the nation that the black man has no right to do to the white as the white man. does to the black, in regard to the rights of property and person. It was in view of this infernal doctrine that he framed the resolutions. The question was, whether the people of the North would go South to prevent the slave from cutting his master's throat, should he rise to do so. The Republican party is pledged to do this as a party; to pledged to protect the master against the slave, but not the slave against his master.
J. H. FOWLER, of Cambridge, proposed to exhibit the objects and results of the Garrisonian party and of the Republican party. The Republican party, on the testimony of its leaders, has no ulterior ends but the non-extension of slavery; and even in the Chicago platform, there is no declaration of a purpose to admit no more slave States. The Republican party is no more anti-slavery than the Democratic party of Ohio in 1845, and of other States in 1848. The non-extension principle would admit the growth of slavery where it is to a vast extent, a hundred times its present amount, or more. The object of the Abolitionists can only be accomplished by forceï¿½the force of civil organisation, or the force of arms, i. e., insurrection. The former should be chosen.
 Rev. N. R. JOHNSTON, of Topsham, Vt., next took the stand. He said he would be brief, and if, last evening, when listening to eloquent speeches, while the fire was burning in his own bosom, he had had an opportunity, he would have given vent to the thoughts rising in his soul for utterance. Upon the Garrisonian platform he felt at home. He had heard several ministers of the gospel say that, though they stood upon the Garrisonian platform, they should go next November, and vote for Lincoln and Hamlin. This he deemed inconsistent. He referred to what was said the evening previous about the doctrines of damnation and salvation; and he must say he still believed in a hell for the oppressor and his apologist. But he did not come here for the purpose of discussing any theological doctrine, but only about slavery, simply stating that he took Jesus Christ for his guide. He argued the wickedness of sustaining a slaveholding government. He closed with offering the following resolution:ï¿½ 
Resolved, That the high moral position occupied by the non-voting Abolitionists who adopt the motto, No Union with Slaveholders in either Church or State,'' is the only position the Christian can rightly and safely occupy, and, at the same time, tends most powerfully to the destruction of slavery; whilst all other theories and positions are not only sinful, but most corrupting in their tendency, and subversive of the very foundation of morality, and therefore to be repudiated by all lovers of God and man.
Mr. CLARKE said, as the subject of theology was before the meeting, he would sing a song, The Dream,' which he did greatly to the gratification of the assembly.
The hour assigned for taking donations to the Society having arrived, the Finance Committee proceeded to receive such contributions, and Mr. PHILLIPS took the platform, and spoke in behalf of a generous contribution to the Society's treasury. Our movement, said he, is the only one that has for its object THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. We have upon our shelves thousands of publications, the recent incidents of the reign of mob-law at the South, the letter of Victor Hugo, John Brown's example, Mrs. Child's 'Right Way the Safe Way, Oï¿½Connellï¿½s Testimonies, &c, to be carried to the people. Who shall carry them? Most of the anti-slavery people vote, and go to some church every Sabbath, which utterly fails in its duty to the slave, and find some kind of ethics which justify them in so doing. He wished them to at least earn the right to be considered honest in their ethics, by putting their shoulders to the wheel to help along the old pioneer Society. We come here to listen to men whose lives are given to the cause, but who, living in the very focus of action and constantly applied to for donations of money, have but little to give to any one cause. It is from those who live outside the pressure that aid is expected. He had no respect for abolitionists who came to the Convention merely for an hour's amusement, and not to let their blood bound to keep step to the music' of God's providence and purpose. He related an anecdote of a convert to the anti-slavery faith, who said, with much self-congratulation in his newly-gained freedom, that when he was a church-member, it had cost him fifty dollars a year, but this cause had cost him only five
<co5>
Mr. GARRISON introduced to the audience two young lads, fugitive slaves from the State of Kentucky, who had made good their escape and wished to get employment. They, were smart-looking lads of 17 and 15 years of age.
 DEXTER S. KING, of Boston, referred to his intimacy in early days with Peter Salem, the colored man who shot Major Pitcairn at Bunker Hill; also to his interest in the school of Prudence Crandall for colored girls, in Canterbury, Conn. He said his blood was warm before that school was mobbed, but after the mob his blood boiled! He went on to give some interesting facts about the former history of the Methodist Episcopal Church on the subject of slavery, and stated its present position. He thought there had been a great advance on the part of that body. Their standing rules have always forbidden the buying and selling of human beings as slaves. Four years ago, they sought to change the rule to 'buy or sell.'' Yesterday, at Buffalo, nearly two-thirds of the General Conference voted to alter the rule so as to make the ' buying, or selling, or holding of slaves a sin, and a ground for discipline. Editors of Methodist organs, who have been desirous of letting the subject of slavery alone, have been removed by the Conference, and others have been appointed in their place. And although, for want of a two-thirds vote in the Conference, the desired change had not been made in the rules, the moral effect of the voteï¿½being, as it was, nearly two to oneï¿½remained. For himself, he was a voter in the Republican party, and held to those ulterior designs, touching the abolition of slavery, which the party itself denied.
AARON M. POWELL, of New York, wished to consider the Methodist Episcopal Church in the light in which the slave must view it, and in the light in which the gentleman who last spoke presented it. What would have been thought had the General Conference fallen short of a two-thirds vote in condemning one of the greater evils of society, like prostitution? In its present position, the Methodist Episcopal Church is composed of those who are the body-guard of slavery, and the last speaker confessed himself one of that guard. The only stay to the tide which is setting toward slavery in Church and party is to be found on this platform.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER spoke of his change of views, and of the new political party of which he is a supporter. He objected to the attack on that party which had been made here in the resolutions of the Business Committee, and accordingly should move that those resolutions relative to the Constitution be indefinitely postponed. He wished fair play for the new party, which be claimed would one day be the movement of the country.
Mr. GARRISON in reply to Mr. Foster, begged the attention of the audience to a second reading of the resolutions. He replied to the assertion of Mr. Foster that the resolutions were an attack upon the new party. They were, he said, merely the embodiment of the sentiment of the Society for twenty years He maintained that, in fact, and in the confession and practice of the American people, the Constitution was what the resolutions pronounced it.
Mr. FOSTER complained of misrepresentation which he had suffered at the hands of the Anti-Slavery Society for the last four years. He went on to defend his course in moving for the indefinite postponement of the resolutions.
The question was put on Mr. Foster's motion, and it was rejected.
Adjourned to the afternoon.
AFTERNOONï¿½The Convention was called to order by the President at 3 o'clock. 
S. S. FOSTER claimed the floor to discuss the resolutions before the Convention. 
Rev. S. J. MAY, of Syracuse, said that notice had been given yesterday that at this hour resolutions on the death of Theodore Parker would be offered.
EDMUND QUINCY moved that the resolutions now before the Convention be temporarily laid on the table. Carried.
MR. PHILLIPSï¿½Our friend, Theodore Parker, was a great light, but we have lost, within the last month, another earnest, devoted friend not only of this Society, but of the Anti-Slavery cause, in regard to whom I have a resolution from the Business Committee to precede and accompany those relating to cur beloved friend, Mr. Parker:ï¿½
Resolved, That in the death of our beloved friend! and fellow-laborer, John W. Browne, the anti-slavery cause has lost a most uncompromising and devoted friendï¿½one who gave to it the aid of strong original powers and the most liberal culture; the example of a life of rare simplicity, and of the most scrupulous and delicate conscientiousnessï¿½a spirit of self-sacrifice, and a rigid adherence to absolute right at every costï¿½a peculiar sweetness and openness of conduct which won the attention and regard of those who most hated his opinions, and a hand only too generous in lavishing aid on every applicant; in him, the cause of woman, of the poor, the intemperate, the imprisoned, and of the slave, lost a ripe intellect, a brave, loving and religious spirit, a vigilant and untiring friend one who spared neither time, money nor effortï¿½and in the path of duty asked no counsel of expediency, met cheerfully every sacrifice, paused at no peril, and feared not the face of man.
Resolved, That the President of this Convention forward a copy of this resolution to the widow of Mr. Browne, with an assurance of our most respectful and profound sympathy with her in her great loss. 
Mr. PHILLIPS then presented and read the following resolutions:ï¿½
Resolved, That in the death of our beloved friend and fellow-laborer, Theodore Parker, liberty, justice and truth lose one of their ablest and foremost championsï¿½one whose tireless industry, whose learning, 
the broadest; most thorough and profound New England knows, whose masterly intellect, melted into a brave and fervent heart, earned for him the widest and most abiding influence; in the service of truth and right, lavish of means, prodigal of labor, fearless in utterance; the most Christain minister at God's altar in all our Commonwealth, one of the few whose, fidelity saves the name of the ministry from being justly a reproach and bye-word with religious and thinking men; a kind, true heart, full of womanly tenderness,ï¿½the object of the most unscrupulous even of bigot and priestly hate, yet on whose garments bitter and watchful malice found no stain,ï¿½laying on the altar the fruits of the most unresting toil, yet ever ready as the idlest to man any post of daily and humble duty at any moment:ï¿½in him we lose that strong sense, deep feeling and love of right for whose eloquent voice millions waited in every hour of darkness and peril, whose last word came, fitly, across the water a salutation and a blessing to the kindred martyrs of Harper's Ferry:ï¿½the store-house of the lore of every language and age, the armory of a score of weapons sacred to right, the leader whose voice was the bond of a mighty host, the friend ever sincere, loyal and vigilant, a man whose fidelity was attested equally by the trust of those who loved him, and the hate of everything selfish, heartless and base in the land; in time to come the slave will miss keenly that voice always heard in his behalf, and which a nation was learning to heedï¿½and whoever any where lifts as hand for any victim of wrong and sin, will be lonelier and weaker for the death we mourn to-day.
Resolved, That a copy of the above resolution be sent to Mrs. Parker, with fit expression of our most sincere and respectful sympathy in this hour of her bitter grief and sad bereavement.
These resolutions were spoken to by Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, WENDELL PHILLIPS, W. L. GARRISON, JAS. FREEMAN CLARKE, and the President.
A full report of these deeply-interesting commemorative addresses may be found in subsequent col-
<co6>
umns. The Convention voted to request the Masses chusetts Anti-Slavery Society to publish them in is a separate pamphlet.
The resolutions relative to Mr. PARKER and Mr. BROWNE were then unanimously adopted.
The resolutions before the Society, as reported by the Business Committee, then were taken up and Mr. Foster spoke in opposition to them. He deemed the practical effect of those resolutions to be to place the supporters of the constitution under a moral has and so far as his new party was concerned, to clanderthe plunder its supporters. He referred to the change in his opinions relative to the constitution. He would not take the testimony of J.Q. Adams, who was infoterizeinfluenced, he said, by some present motive, to characterize the Constitution as he did. He (Mr. F.).did not believe the Constitutions was a compact; it is only a bill of instructions given by the people to the Government. Our fathers meant to establish a Democracy, and to carry out the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence. They were not perjured men. 
Mr. Fosterï¿½s half hour here expired, and he took his seat.
Mr. BURLEIGH took the floor in reply. If the fathers promised to established justice, they did not establish it. They never did establish a Democracy; they made a mixed government of democracy and aristocracy. Mr. Burleigh examined for half an hour the various points made by Mr. Foster in a very able and logical speech.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., moved that the question be now taken on the resolutions. No new point, he said, had been advanced against them by Mr. Foster. The audience had heard repeated discussions of the subject, and had thought and read much on the subject for many years. Mr. Foster had no reason to regard our reaffirmation of our own principles and convictions as an attack upon his new party.
The Convention sustained the call for the vote, which, being taken, was overwhelmingly in favor of the resolutions, only a few voices being raised in the negative.
The Convention then adjourned sine die
JOHN T.SARGENT,President.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.,
E.H. HEYWOOD,
WENDELL P.GARRISON, - Secretaries.
DEATH OF JOHN W. BROWNE, ESQ. AND REV. THEODORE PARKER 
Commemorative Meeting at the Melodeon,
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W.YERRISTON.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, ,.May 31,
At this session of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, the series of resolutions presented by Mr. PHILLIPS, relating to the recent decease of JOHN W. BROWNE, Esq. And Rev. THEODORE PARKER, [see preceding column,] came up for consideration by special assignment.
THE PRESIDENT- I can only say, for myself, that perhaps, I have no right to a single moment of the precious time, so wisely assigned to other speakers; but this let me say, as the presiding officer of this Convention, that under no auspices, perhaps could this fitting tribute be more suitably and profitably offered, than under those of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention; and, were the tribute to be commensurate with the worth of our dear friend, it might better be said, under the auspices of the United States Anti-Slavery Convention, or the wide worldï¿½s Anti-Slavery Convention. For who more than he has been the fearless champion of human rights? This, as was said yesterday, of all places in this city of his professional labors, is the fitting place for our tribute; for you remember it was here that he first planted the standard of freedom of speech and the freedom of the pulpit, which he so manfully and nobly sustained to the hour of his death. I am sure there are many here present who well remember the stormy day, in the month of February, 1845, when he met there his few and fondly-attached followers, and here inaugurated that freedom which he so bravely carried out.
But, as I said when I began, I have no right-though my heart is full enough, Heaven knows to encroach upon the time which has been assigned to other and abler speakers. You are to hear, this afternoon, from our friend, Wendell Phillips, [applause.] who is here, and I presume, bears in his hand resolutions appropriate to the occasion.

SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL J. MAY.
Rev,S.J.MAY, of. Of Syracuse, N.Y.,came forward and said:
MR. PRESIDENT-I shall not detain you or the Convention long with what I have to say. you are all expecting, and expecting justly, from the lips of him who has just read to you the resolutions, a speech which will be more worthy of them and of the occasion than any thing that I can offer. But I deem it a privilege as well as a duty first to press upon you if, indeed, they need to be pressed those resolutions, expressive of the sorrow which every one who had aught to do with this or any other of the attempted reforms in our country must feel, when they think of the departure of those who have been so true, so faithful, so fearless. I look back, Mr. President, with a sad heart upon the past, when I remember not only these two faithful ones, but others who have fallen, ere yet the great work to which we put our hands, a few years ago, seems to be half accomplished. When I first heard our brother Garrison state and advocate the great principles on which the redemption of the enslaved in our country was to be attempted, they seemed to me so self-evidently true, they were so impressive, that I had not a doubt of their almost immediate acceptance when they should be made known. So simple was I in that day of Anti-Slavery infancy! In 1840, a dear friend, my step-mother, died. She had ever, however, I am sorry to say, been opposed to my espousal of the Anti Slavery cause; for though excellent in other respects, she was constitutionally conservative. I refer to her She was constitutionally conservative. I refer to her now, that I may mention a fact which I had forgotten for some time. Among her papers was one dated about ten years before the time when I found it on which was recorded this simple prediction of mine: Our son, S.J. May, says that, in ten years from this time, the Anti-Slavery cause must be triumphant. That was in 1840. How little did I foresee the trials to which this self-evident truth was to be subjected, ere it would be accepted by the people! Never shall I forget the joy of my heart when our friends, PHILLIPS AND QUINCY, came forth, with all their academic honors upon them, and all their professional propects before them, and laid themselves, and all they were and had upon the altar of devotion to the slave. Loud applause.] I t seemed to me the harbinger of almost immediate triumph to our cause. But we toiled on, year after year, and still the mighty Bastile stood, apparently as firm as ever. Then came the men who are alluded to in these resolutions. And more especially THEODORE PARKER, of whom all that is here set forth may be said, and more, if, language could be found to express it. A truer, purer, simpler, more devout, devoted, fearless, loving man, have I never known.[Applause.] And yet, what have his labors, and all the labors of brother Browne, and of all who have come into this cause, effected? The nation is indeed aroused; the nation can never slumber again over this mighty wrong; ;-that is true. The day of triumph must come, for there is a God, and there is a spark of Divinity in every human heart, else man would not be man.[ Applause.] And yet, who is confident enough to prophesy when the hour is to be? But let us not be discouraged. In grateful memory of these devoted friends, in grateful memory of the services rendered us by that man, especially, whose memory is to live, and whose fame is to spread wider and wider, and whose loving and burning words are to be listened to by an ever-enlarging audience throughout every part of those lands which
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
speak our language-aye, and of all other lands in which there is anything like free thought-in grateful remembrance of his services, and as the best testimony we can give him of our gratitude and love, let us now, with renewed devotion, consecrate ourselves all the more to this great service, in the solemn resolution that, crippled as we are by his removal from our midst, yet, trusting in that God whom he so nobly vindicated from the aspersions that a false theology has thrown upon him, and to the power of that truth which possesses, in itself, an influence which the stoutest, the most malignant, cannot forever withstand-let us, I say, resolve that, crippled as we are, we will nevertheless go on with increased determination, fighting this monster-wrong to its death.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq.,
Mr. Phillips, who was received with loud applause, addressed the audience as follows:-
MR. CHAIRMAN- You will not, of course, expect me, no one would be expected, to analyze a near friend in the very hour he dies. That would be a cold heart, fit only for a critic who, in the very hour that he lost one who had made a large share of his life, could hold him off, and take all his separate qualities to pieces, and paint them in words. We are too near, we love too much, to perform such an office to each other. Now, at least, all we can do is to call up some few prominent traits that have been forced upon our observation as we walked side by side with those who have worked and lived with us.
Very few of you knew that most efficient friend named in the first resolution I have read; yet, though hidden, he was no slight or trivial servant to the great cause. The purest of all human hearts,-but not, as is sometimes the case, with that rare and childlike simplicity, a merely negative character; for he graduated at Harvard in the same class, and was linked as a roommate and nearest and most intimate friend, with one whose intellect is the admiration of millions-our Senator, Mr. Sumner(applause; and he was thought by many, indeed by most, of those who stood at the goal of collegiate reputation, the most original and ablest intellect which that class gave to the world. In the bloom of youth, in the freshness of a rare success in his profession, he placed himself on this platform in the mob years of the anti-slavery enterprise, when to speak an anti-slavery word was starvation, when to hold up an anti-slavery banner was political suicide. Yet, the most promising lawyer in the Country of Essex, dowered with the love of the Whig party of that county, he came to this platform with that unconscious fidelity to truth which is incapable of asking what is expedient. I remember well what checked his political advancement, and it suggests one of the great comforts in this life of a reformer. After all the seeming sacrifices (for they are only seeming) and the hard struggles which are said to mark our lives, we are the happiest of the human race, for God gives us this, the greatest of all rewards: As we move onward, society shapes itself according to our ideas; we see about us the growing proof, the ever fresh and green evidence that we were right ten years before. [Applause.] Conservation creeps on, discontented, distrustful, timid, thinking that when you have swept away the cobwebs, the roof is coming down, sighing for the good old times, anxious to hide in its grave from the ruin and wickedness it sees all about; but Reform walks onward, its buoyant forehead lit with the twilight of the coming day, and saying, 'All hail! My brother! I saw you in my dreams! Thank God that he gave me life long enough to see you set jocund foot on the misty mountain tops of the morrow. [Enthusiastic applause.] Now, this brave, dear brother, when he stood the pet of Essex, was asked, as the condition of another step of political advancement at the very threshold of his life, hardly graduated from college-'Will you take the Senatorship, and when there, will you pledge yourself to vote for Daniel Webster?''Never!''Then be no longer officer of ours.' To-day, in sadness , with veiled face, every heart in Massachusetts acknowledges that the step which that young man rebuked by refusing to pledge himself in advance to its support, was a fatal mistake in the great statesman of New England. The instinctive sense of right which alone, and at the cost of being thought a fanatic and a madman, threw up life at the very threshold, at the bidding of duty, Massachusetts puts her seal upon it to-day, and says. 'Would to God that we had been as frank, and done as much, and turned away the bitter years which closed the life of our great, our favorite statesman!'
Leaving politics, Mr. Browne, with his characteristic simplicity of character and unconsciousness of talent, deemed himself unfit for the tasks which others were ready to press upon him. He said to me once, I remember, when I urged him to come to this platform, and let us hear again the voice which had delighted us so often, 'I ought not to be there; there is nothing in me worthy to stand there; I am shamed away from such a post. 'Yet the best judge in New England called him 'the most pregnant talker he ever met. 'And never was a demand, of whatever character, made upon him, to which he did not respond with an alacrity and efficiency which showed how mistaken was his own judgment, and how much wiser he would have been to have yielded to our entreaties, and have led where he only consented to follow.
You who remember him so calm, self-poised, and still in manner, speaking in measured words, one by one, saw only half his nature. By constitution, his blood was lava, and his soul thundered and lightened at the sight of wrong, specially any meanly base act. Indeed, 'thunder and lightning' was the pet name he bore among his classmates. But, side by side with this volcano, stood, sleepless and watchful, the most delicate and scrupulous conscientiousness,-too delicate perhaps for daily life. When plunged, therefore in our fierce agitation, he doubted whether he was justified, in the hot moments and floods of feeling which such contention let loose on his spirit. It seemed to him his duty, the best part and purest, to keep the waters of his life calm and still beneath the stars that looked into their depths. Such conviction, however, never made him either an idler or a neutral. His flag was nailed to the mast-no man ever mistook his position. Beneath that flag was so high-souled and transparent a life that none could hate or doubt the bearer. His professional skill, the very best our Bar possessed, was freely given to every poor man. Never rich, his hand was ever open. No where did he fear the face of man; and, as much as our nature can, he surely kept a conscience void of offence towards his fellows, and a soul pure in the sight of God. Patient of labor, in that little heeded and hidden toll so indispensable to every reform he was ever ready. Many of us stood here dowered with the result of his toil, many of us brought to you his ripe thoughts, which own lip and his own life would have given so much better; and when he fell, I, for one, felt lonelier and weaker in my place in this world and its battle. There are very few men so true to friendship, so loyal, so untiring, that you feel, in closing your eyes, 'I leave one behind me who will see that over my grave no malicious lie goes unrebuked, and that justice is done to my intentions.; I always felt that if providence should take me first, there was a voice and a hand which twenty years of tried and stanch friendship would place as a shelter over my memory. Would to God I could do him to-day, half the justice that his sword would have leapt from its scabbard to do for me! [Applause.]
Another friend is gone. Not gone! No, with us, only standing on one step higher than he did. To such spirits, there is no death. In the old times, when men fought with spears, the warrior hurled his weapon into the thickest of the opposite host, and struggled bravely on, until he stood over it and reclaimed it. In the bloom of his youth, Theodore Parker flung his 
<c02>
heart forward at the feet of the Eternal; he has only; straggled onward, and reached it to-day. (Profound sensation.) Only one step higher!
'Wail ye may fall well for Scotland,
 Let none dare to mourn for him.'
How shall we group his qualities? The first that occurs to me is the tireless industry of that unresting brain, which never seemed to need leisure. When some engagement brought me home in the small hours of the morning, many and many a time have I looked out, (my own window commands, those of his study,) and seen that unquenched light burning that unflagging student ever at work. Half curious, half ashamed, I lay down, saying with the Athenian, 
'The trophies of Miltiades will not let me sleep.'He seemed to rebuke me even by the light that flashed from the window of his study. I have met him on the cars deep in some strange tongue, or hiving up knowledge to protect the weak and hated of his own city. Neither on the journey nor at home did his spirit need to rest. 
Why is he dead? Because he took up the burden of three men. A faithful pulpit is enough for one man. He filled it until the fulness of his ideas overflowed into other channels. It was not enough. His diocese extended to the prairies. On every night of the week, those brave lips smothered bigotry, conquered prejudice, and melted true hearts, into his own on the banks of the Mississippi. This was enough for two men. But he said, 'I will bring to this altar of Reform a costlier offering yet; and he gathered the sheaf of all literature into his bosom, and came with another man's work, almost all the thoughts of all ages and all tongues, as the background of his influence in behalf of the slave. He said, 'Let no superficial scholarship presume to arraign Reform as arrogant and empty fanaticism. I will overtop your candidates with language and law, and show you, in all tongues, by arguments hoar with antiquity, the rightfulness and inevitable necessity of justice and liberty.'(Hearty applause.) Enough work for three to do; and he sunk under the burden!
Lord Bacon says, 'Studies teach not their own use; that comes from a wisdom without them and above them. The fault of New England scholarship is that it knows not its own use; that, as Bacon says, 'it settles in its fixed ways, and does not seek reformation. The praise of this scholar is, that, like the great master of English philosophy, he was content to light his torch at every man's candle. He was not ashamed to learn. When he started in the pulpit, he came a Unitarian, with the blessings of Cambridge. Men say he is a Unitarian no longer; but the manna, when it was kept two days, bred maggots, and the little worms that run about on the surface of corruption call themselves the children and representatives of Channing. They are only the worms of the manna, and the pulpit of Federal street found its child at the Music Hall. [Loud applause.] God's lineage is not of blood. Brewster of Plymouth, if he stood here to-day, would not be in the Orthodox Church, counting on his anxious fingers the five points of Calvin. No; he would be shouldering a Sharpe's rifle in Kansas; fighting against the libels of the Independent and Observer; preaching treason in Virginia, and hung on an American gibbet;—for the child of Puritanism is not mere Calvinism; it is the loyalty to Justice which tramples under foot the wicked laws of own epoch. So Unitarianism (as far as it has any worth) is not standing in the same pulpit, or muttering the same shibboleth; it is, like Channing, looking into the face of a national sin, and, with lips. touched like Isaiah's, finding it impossible not to launch at it the thunderbolt of God's rebuke. [Applause.] 
Old Lyman Beecher said, 'If you want to find the successor of St. Paul, seek him where you find the same objections made to a preacher that were made to St. Paul. 'Who won the hatred of the merchant princes of Boston? Who did State street call a madman? The fanatic of Federal street in 1837. Who, with unerring instinct, did that same herd of merchant princes hate, with instinctive certainty that, in order that their craft should be safe, they ought to hate him? The Apostle of Music Hall. That is enough. 
When some Americans, die-when most Americans, die-their friends, tire the public with excuses. They confess this spot, they explain that stain, they plead circumstances as the half justification of that mistake, and they beg of us to remember that nothing but good is to be spoken of the dead. We need no such mantle for that green grave under the sky of Florence. No excuses no explanations-—no spot. Priestly malice has scanned every inch of his garment;—it was seamless; it could find no stain. History, as in the case of every other of her beloved children, gathers into her bosom the arrows which malice had shot at him, and says to posterity, 'Behold the title-deeds to your gratitude!'[Applause.] We ask no moment to excuse, there is nothing to explain. What the snarling journal thought bold, what the selfish politician feared as his ruin—it was God's seal set upon his apostleship. The little libel glanced across him like the rocket when it goes over the vault; it is passed, and the royal sun shines out as beneficent as ever. [Applause.]
When I returned from New York on the twelfth day of this month, I was to have been honored by standing in his desk, but illness prevented my fulfilling the appointment. It was eleven o'clock in the morning. As he sank away the same week, under the fair sky of Italy, he said to the most loving of wives and of nurses, 'Let me be buried where I fall'; and tenderly, thoughtfully, she selected four o'clock of that same Sunday to mingle his dust with the kindred dust of brave, classic Italy.
Four o'clock! The same sun that looked upon the half-dozen mourners that be permitted to follow him to the grave, that same moment of brightness lighted up the arches, of his own Temple, as one whom he loved stepped into his own desk, and with remarkable coincidence, for the only time during his absence, opened one of his own sermons, to supply my place; and as his friend read the Beatitudes over his grave on the banks of the Arno, his dearer friend here read from his own hand-writing the text, 'Trust God.'It is said that, in his last hours, in the wandering of that masterly brain, he murmured 'There are two Theodore Parkers; one rests here, dying, but the other lives, and is at work at home.'How true! at that very moment, he was speaking to his usual thousands; at that very instant, his own words were sinking down into the hearts of those that loved him bestbeat, and bidding them, in this, the loneliest hour of their bereavement, 'Trust God.
He always came to this platform. He is an old occupant of it. He never made an apology for coming to it. I remember many years ago, going home from the very hall which formerly occupied this place. He had sat where you sit, in the seats, looking up to us. It had been a stormy, hard gathering—a close fight; the press calumniating us; every journal in Boston ridiculing the idea which we were endeavoring to spread. As I passed down the stain homeward, he put his arm within mine, and said, 'You shall never need to ask me again to share that platform.'(Applause.) It was the instinct of his nature, true as the bravest heart. The spot for him was where the battle was hottest. He had come, at half the clergy come a critic. He felt it was not his place; that it was to grapple with the tiger, and throttle him. And the pledge that he made he kept; for, whether here or in New York, as his reputation grew, when that lordly mammoth of the press, the Tribune overgrown in its independence and strength, would not condescend to record a word that Mr. Garrison or I could utter, but bent low before the most thorough scholarship of New England, and was glad to win its way to the confidence of the West by being his mouth-piece with that weapon of influence in his right hand, he always placed himself at our 
<c03>
side, and in the midst of us, in the capital State of the Empire. (Cheers.) 
You may not think this great praise-we do. Other men have brought us brave hearts, other men have brought us keen-sighted and vigilant intellects, but he brought us, as no one else could, the loftiest stature of New England culture. (Applause.) He brought us a disciplined intellect, whose statement was evidence, and whose affirmation the most gifted student took long time before he ventured to doubt or to contradict. When we had nothing but our characters, nothing but our reputation for accuracy, for our weapons, the man who could give to the cause of the slave that weapon was indeed one of its ablest and foremost champions. 
Lord Bacon said in his will, 'I leave my name and memory to foreign lands, and to my own country-men, after some time be passed. 'No more fitting words could be chosen, if the modesty of the friend who has just gone before us would have permitted him to adopt them for himself. To-day, even within twenty-four hours, I have seen symptoms of that repentance which Johnson describes: 
'When nations, slowly wise and meanly just, 
To buried merit raise the tardy bust.'
The men who held their garments aside, and desired to have no contact with Music Hall, are beginning to show symptoms that they will be glad, when the world doubts whether they have any. life left, to say, 'Did not Parker spring from our bosom? 'Yes, he takes his place-his serene place—among those few to whom Americans point as proof that the national heart is still healthy and alive. Most of our statesmen, most of our politicians, go down into their graves, and we cover them up with apologies; we walk with reverent and filial love backward, and throw the mantle over their defects, and say, 'Remember the temptation and the time! 'Now and then one—now and then one—goes up silently, and yet not unannounced, like the stars at their coming, and takes it place, while all eyes follow it, and say, 'Thank God! It is the promise and the herald!
It is the nation alive at its heart. God has not left us without a witness, for his children have been among is, and one half have known them by love, and one half have known them by hate—equal attestations to the divine life that has passed through our streets.'
I wish I could say anything worthy; but he should have done for us, with the words that never failed to it be fitting, with that heart which was always ready, with that eloquence which you never waited for and were disappointed-he should have done for us what we vainly, try to do for him. Farewell, brave, strong friend and helper! 
'Sleep in peace with kindred ashes 
Of the noble and the true; 
Hands that never failed their country,
Hearts that baseness never knew!'
[Prolonged applause.] 
REMARKS OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Mr. GARRISON said he felt impelled to utter a few unpremeditated words in support of the resolutions offered by Mr. Phillips, respecting the removal of his beloved and endeared friend, THEODORE PARKER; and yet, when all hearts were full, almost to bursting, in view of this great bereavement, the most eloquent words, seemed poor and common-place. Silence was more expressive than speech.
His estimate of Mr. Parker was an exalted one. He regarded him as one of the most remarkable men the world had ever seen—a prodigy as to his scholarly attainments, and his power to acquire knowledge in all its varied forms, which he dispensed with unbounded munificence for the enlightenment and elevation of hit race. He felt very sad at Mr. P's departure, which he regarded as premature, the result of overtasking his bodily powers, though for the noblest ends. He thought his friend, Mr. Phillips, needed to be admonished, rather than stimulated to more protracted labors, by that light which he so often saw in Mr. Parker's study, at the sacrifice of needed rest. It was not an example to be imitated, for it was using up life too rapidly, in violation of physiological law. How often—even before he saw any sign of failing health on the part of Mr. Parker— had he warned him, with all earnestness, that, by such unremitted studies and labors, he was surely 'treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath'! But Mr. P. was wont playfully, yet confidently, to refer to the longevity of his ancestors as full security in his own case. His Mr. G. 's) reply was, 'I do not doubt that your great-grandfather, and grandfather, and father, were amply endowed with brains; but they never used them as you are tasking yours; and you must be more careful, or the penalty will come. 'Nevertheless, if Mr. P. had fallen thus prematurely, it was a rich consolation to know that it was the result of earnest devotion to the cause of truth, freedom, and humanity, and a very noble sacrifice indeed. 
Mr. G. referred to the mental independence and moral courage which characterised Mr. Parker, in respect to all his convictions and acts. He was not, technically, 'a Garrisonian Abolitionist,'though often upon that platform, but voted with the Republican party, though faithfully rebuking it for its timidity and growing spirit of compromise. He was no man's man, and no man's follower, but acted for himself, bravely, conscientiously, and according to his best judgment.
But, what of his theology? Mr. G. did not know that he could state the whole of Mr. P.'s creed, but he remembered a part of it:—There is one God and Father over all, absolute and immutable, whose love is infinite, and therefore inexhaustible, and whose tender mercies are over all the works of his hand; and whether in the body, or out of the body, the farthest wanderer from the fold might yet have hope. He believed in the continual progress and final redemption of the human race; that every child of God, however erring, would ultimately be brought back. 'You may quarrel with that theology, 'said Mr. Garrison, if you please; I shall not. I like it; I have great faith in it; I accept it. But this I say, in respect to mere abstract theological opinions—the longer I live, the less do I care about them, (applause)—the less do friend I make them a test of character. It is nothing to me that any man calls himself a Methodist, or Baptist, or Unitarian, or Universalist. These sectarian shibboleths are easily taken upon the lip, especially when the "offence of the Cross" has ceased. Whoever ( will, with his theology, grind out the best grist for our common humanity, is the best theologian for me.'(Applause.) 
Many years ago, Thomas Jefferson uttered a sentiment which shocked our eminently Christian country as being thoroughly infidel:—'I do not care, 'said he, 'whether my neighbor believes in one God or in twenty gods, if he does not pick my pocket. 'Thus going to the root of absolute justice and morality, and obviously meaning this: If a man pick, my pocket, it is in vain he tells me, in palliation of his crime, 'I am a believer in one living and true God. 'That may be, but you are a pickpocket, nevertheless. Or he may say, 'I have not only one God, but twenty gods; therefore, I am not guilty. 'Nay, but you are a thief! And so we always throw ourselves back upon character-upon the fact whether a man is honest, just, long-suffering, merciful; and not whether he believes in a denominational creed, or is a strict observer of rites and ceremonies. This was the religion of Theodore Parker—always exerting his marvellous powers to promote the common good, to bless those who needed a blessing, to seek and to save the lost, to bear testimony in favor of the right, in the face of an ungodly age, and against 'a frowning world.'
Mr. Garrison said they were there to honor his memory. How could they best show their estimation of him? By trying to be like him in nobility of 
soul, in moral heroism, in fidelity to the truth, in disinterested regard for the welfare of others. 
Mr. Parker, though strong in his convictions, was 
<c04>
no dogmatist, and assumed no robes of infallibility. No man was more docile in regard to being taught, even by the lowliest. Mr. Phillips, had done him no more than justice when he said, that he was willing and eager to obtain instruction from any quarter. Hence, he was always inquiring of those with whom he came in contact, so that he might learn, if possible, something from them that might aid him in the great work in which he was engaged.
When the question of Woman's Rights first came up for discussion, like multitudes of others, Mr. Parker was inclined to treat it facetiously, and supposed it could be put aside with a smile. Still, it was his disposition to hear and to learn; and as soon as he began to investigate, and to see the grandeur and world-wide importance of the Woman's Rights movement, he gave to it his hearty support before the country and the world. (Applause.)
How he will be missed by those noble bat unfortunate exiles who come to Boston from the old world, from time to time, driven out by the edicts of European despotism! What a home was Theodore Parker's for them! How they have loved to gather around him in that home, and what a sympathizing friend, and trusty adviser, and generous assistant, in their times of sore distress, they have found in him! There are many such in Boston, and in various parts of our country, who have fled from foreign oppression, who will hear of his death with great sorrow of heart, and drop grateful tears to his memory.
Mr. President, our beloved friend and coadjutor has seen 'the last of earth.’ We never shall behold his face again in the flesh. We shall never again hear the music of his voice, nor be inspired by his bodily presence. But is he dead? Are his great powers and faculties paralyzed? Is he now in inglorious rest? Or is he not, rather, more than ever before, alive, and beneficently at work? Is it a dream, a fiction of the brain, to believe that he really lives, and occupies a nobler and wider sphere, and that he will find a nobler and grander work to perform than he has been able to do here? I believe in immortal life, —not as a matter of logic or of metaphysics, for it does not come within the scope of these,— but I feel it in every fiber and nerve of my system, in every drop of my blood, in the very instincts, necessities and desires of my nature.
'The soul, secure in her existence, smiles
At the drawn dagger, and defies its point.'
This thought, in view of any mortal bereavement, however great, fills the soul with complete satisfaction, and inspires it with a new life. 
'God calls our loved ones, but we lose not wholly
What He hath given;
They live on earth, in thought and deed, as truly
As in His heaven.'
Our departed friend has left with us, and with mankind, his great thoughts and noble deeds, and they are imperishable. They have touched and quickened millions of minds already, and shall enlighten and inspire millions yet unborn; and so, going down through the ages, they shall be a power to redeem mankind. 
As for his reputation, so bitterly assailed and maliciously traduced while he lived, time will render it more and more illustrious. As for the stigmas cast upon him by narrow-minded bigots, and canting hypocrites, and craven time-servers, and cold-blooded conservatives, these are to give place to the plaudits of a discerning and an appreciating posterity. Thus it is that they who are willing to bear the cross are permitted, in God's good time, to wear the crown!
'For truth doth conquer at the last;
So round and round we run;
And ever the right comes uppermost, 
And ever is justice done!'
SPEECH OF REV J. FREEMAN CLARKE.
Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE was the next speaker. He said:— 
When I was asked if I also would say something here, I felt as our friend Wendell Phillips felt, and as our friend Mr. Garrison also felt, that this was not a time in which we could speak words which should analyze or describe the character of the man whose to loss was filling our hearts with a sense of inexpressible grief; but, having heard them speak, some thoughts have come to me which I would like to utter.
We all have a feeling that Theodore Parker was the ripe and precious fruit of our New England soil, of our New England stock, of our New England mind, of our New England institutions. A better specimen of a full-grown, manly and womanly New England mind, heart and hand, has never ripened on these old gray rocks of Yankee land. [Applause.] How was he great? There are three directions in which a man may be great, and he was great in all three. There is the direction of the intellect. There are great thinkers; there are men who make themselves into a thinking machine; there are men who make themselves into a studying machine—who fill themselves full of all thoughts and all knowledges, and stop there. THEODORE PARKER had all the power of study that any of the hardest and ripest German students, who live for nothing but study, have had; but he had a great deal more. When he came back from his first journey to Europe, talking with me of the men whom he had seen in Germany, he said he went to see old Baur at Tubingen, and asked him how many hours he studied. He replied, 'Only eighteen hours'; but Baur was a student, and nothing but a student. Parker had studied his ten, twelve, and, for ought I know, his eighteen hours a day; but yet, all that was merely the beginning of what he was going to do with himself—merely the outside preparation for his after work. I remember meeting him on the cars on that fatal winter which laid the foundation of the disease which took him away. He had a carpet-bag with him, filled with German, Greek, and Latin books-—those old books, in vellum, of the seventeenth century -— volumes which it is a pain merely to look at, so hard reading do they seem to be. On Monday morning, he filled his carpet-bag, and west to the place where he was to lecture Monday night; all day long he studied his books, and at night delivered his lecture. Then on Tuesday he would go to the next place, studying his books all day, and lecturing at night. So he would go on through the week, until Friday, when he would be back again to Boston, with his carpet-bag exhausted, with every one of those books gutted of its contents, with the whole substance of them in his brain, so that he knew all about every one of them, and could give a perfect analysis of them all, from beginning to end. On Saturday morning he would sit down to write his sermon for the next day; on Saturday afternoon go and visit the sick and bereaved of his society; on Sunday morning preach his sermon, and in the afternoon drive out to Watertown and preach there; and on Sunday evening he would lie on the sofa, and talk to his friends. That was his way of working. I got a letter, only yesterday, from William H. Chaining, an old friend of his, who, speaking in the most tender and affectionate terms of his departure, said that he had, by over-working the intellectual part of his faculties, by too great fidelity in study, killed out, to some extent, another masterly faculty, which he had observed, but of which those who did not know him might be ignorant—namely, his gorgeous imagination. Mr. Channing said that he was a man who and to had, with all this logical power, with all those reflective, faculties, with all those immense powers of grasp and reception,-,—the powers by which he held on to and retained what he had learned, and the powers by which he brought them into one great system, in order to set them before men-with all this, he had the imagination of a poet, but did not let it work, he was so busy studying all the time.
Now, there were other students along with him when he was a boy, and I have known a great many 
<c05>
students, but their way of studying was very different from his. When Parker studied, it was not merely with the concentration of certain faculties, for the sake of working out a certain problem, and there an end of it; or merely to gather together certain things and put them into his brain, and there an end of it. No; he had a great idea before him all the time, and his study was always instinct with the life of that idea, and every word he uttered was a living word, and all the thoughts that came from him, came from him as fresh, glowing thoughts—full of love to God and love to man.
Not to dwell on that, I say he was great, very great, intellectually, because he was not a narrow intellectual worker, but because he worked with the great reasoning faculty, which goes up to God the Eternal, at the same time that he worked with all those other intellectual powers which gathered together what God has sown broadcast over the earth, and by which he matured them for ripe and present use. When I saw him, on his return from Europe the last time, he told me of a long conversation which he had with a scholar at Oxford, I think, or Cambridge, who had lived for nothing but to study Aristotle; that was his business in the world—to know all about Aristotle; and Parker said that he discussed with him, through a whole summer day, Aristotle. When they had exhausted that subject, Parker asked him if he knew anything about Plato. He said, 'I have read Plato once'; and then Parker began upon Plato, and went through with every one of the Dialogues, and taught him all he did not know about Plato. That is but a little part of Parker's knowledge, of which not one in ten thousand ever heard; and it is a specimen of the quantity and kind of knowledge which he had peeked away ready for use.
Now, with regard to the second thing which goes to make a man great. What was Parker's way of action? It was a grand way of action. His activity was as large, determined, persistent, complete and thorough, as his intellectual working was. What he did was on a plan reaching through years—on a plan arranged when he was a boy; the whole of his life mapped out before him, with all he meant to do each year previously arranged, and the reason for it fixed in his own mind; and then he went to his work and did it—lived to accomplish it. But what sort of work was it? Greatness in work considers the quality of the work as well as the amount and the method of accomplishing it. What was the quality of his work? It was simply this: it was to lift man toward God. That was the work which Parker gave himself to do in the world. That was the work for which he gathered together all this knowledge, that the work for which he so trained his intellect to be acute, persistent and comprehensive. It was to raise man to God. With his eye on God, he turned to man to lift him up; and wherever he found a man who needed to be raised, or a class, a race, or a nation, that needed to be lifted up, there he felt his work to be. On that point I say no more, because it is the least necessary to speak of his work, since that is patent and known to all. 
But there is one other element of greatness in man. Besides the head and the hand, there is the heart. What was the greatness of heart in Theodore Parker? His habit was in speaking of the Almighty, not to call Him the Almighty. He spoke of the 'Absolute Father,'in his philosophy and in his theology; but when he came to speak of Him from the pulpit, as a Christian man speaking to Christian men, as a brother talking to brethren and sisters of what they needed, it was 'Father'and 'Mother'—'the Great Father and Mother of us all.'The tender, feminine heart of Theodore Parker was not satisfied with the name of 'Father,'unless he united with it that of 'Mother.'So tender was he, so affectionate was he, that no one was ever near to Parker as a friend, as an intimate companion, without wondering how it was that men 'could ever think of him as hard, stern, severe, cold and domineering, because, in all ail the private relations of life, he was as docile as a child to the touch of love, and it was only necessary, if you had any fault to find with anything that he had said or done, to go to him and tell him just what your complaint was, or what your difficulty was, and just as likely as not he would at once admit, if there was the least reason in the complaint, that he was wrong. He was as ready to admit himself in the wrong as to maintain his stand for the everlasting right. Let me tell you a little anecdote in this connection. I recollect that, a year or two ago, I saw Parker at an evening party, where he was talking with a lady, and I want up to them and said, 'May I hear what you are saying, as I happen to know you both so well?
He said 'Yes. I was telling this lady a little incident connected with my school-teaching, when I taught in all a school in Watertown. I did not often punish the boys, but I kept a ruler, and I had not determined not to punish them; but, on the other hand, if it was necessary, I meant to punish. One day there was a boy,—a good boy he was, usually,— who had done something wrong, as boys do, and I said to him, "Don't do that again,"—and he did it again; and I said, "Don't do that again, or I shall; punish you,"—and he did it again; and I said, "Stop after school. "The boy stopped after school, and I called him to me. He came up with his face a little pale and anxious, as though he was expecting punishment. I said to him, "Why did you. do that., Fred?"He said, "I don't know, sir;"and as I looked at him, I saw the sweet face of his sister in his features, and it seemed to me that if I struck him, it would be like striking a girl, and I could not do it. So I said to him, "Will you do that again, if I let you off his time? "He said, "I will try not to, sir, "and he ran down the stairs. As I heard him running down, I said to myself, "Did I do wrong in not punishing him, or did I do wrong in saying that I would punish him? Well, "said I, "however that may be, this I know, I never can punish a boy after this, for if I do, I shall say to myself, the reason is, perhaps, that he has not got a pretty sister and, says Parker, 'I never punished a boy after that; and, When I was on the School Committee, in the town of Roxbury, (which then reached all the way out to Dedham.) I got them to adopt a rule, that no child should ever be punished without the teacher's making a memorandum of the punishment, and of the "ostensible reason. "Ostensible reason? "said they, "why don't you say the real reason? "Because, "said I, "we can know what the ostensible reason is, but we cannot be sure what is the real reason. Perhaps the reason may be that the man was out late the of night before, courting, and feels cross; or, perhaps, I (I said to myself, not to them) the real reason may be, that the boy has not got a pretty sister."'(Laughter.) 
When Theodore Parker was about going away, and I went to see him for the last time, he followed me to the door of his study, and, putting his hands on my
my shoulders, he kissed my cheek, and said, James, if you and I never meet again in this world, we have the happiness of knowing that there never has been between us one word, or one feeling, or one action, of unkindness.' In the Old World, you will see men who carry in their button-hole a red ribbon— the sign that they belong to the Legion of Honor. As long as I live, I shall carry (not apparent to others, but known to myself) the mark of that tender, fraternal kiss on my cheek. It is to me the sign of belonging to the Legion of Honor. (Applause.)
I do not know how to describe—with what figure, borrowed from nature or art or history to describe— how Parker seems to me, in all this varied and accumulated greatness of mind, of heart and of hand, better than by telling you the incidents of one day of my life. When I was passing out of Italy once, by the St. Gothard route, we were in Italy in the morning, on the Italian side of the mountains, surrounded by Italian voices, and by the music of Italian nightingales, and within sight of the opening vineyards. Then we began the ascent of the mountain,
<c06>
and as we ascended, we passed through the valley of pines, until at last, on that fifteenth day of May, we came to the now. Then we took the little sleds, and went on upon the snow, higher and higher, until we were surrounded with great fields of snow dazzling, white in the sun; and on one side we saw the fall of a terrible avalanche, with its roar of thunder. So we passed on, until we reached the summit of the mountain, and then, descending on the other side, we came at last to where again the snow ceased and there, taking the diligence, we went on our way down the side of the mountain, through gorges and ravines, and glaciers even, the country around growing more and more green, changing from spring to summer, until at last, when we came down toward the Lake of Lucerne, we passed through orchards full of apple blossoms, and finally crossed the beautiful lake to the town of Lucerne, there to receive a whole bundle of letters from home-from father, mother, brother, sister, and child-to end the day. When I think of that day's journey, beginning in Italy and ending in Germany, beginning under an Italian sun, at midday, surrounded by snow-fields and glaciers, and at its close amid the apple- blossoms of Germany, it seems to me that that varied and wonderful day is a sort of type of the life of our friend THEODORE PARKER;— its youth Italian-all fresh and gushing with ten thousand springs of early, boyish life and hope and animation, and with all the varied study and activity of the child and the youth; its early morning passed in the stern work of climbing up the mountain side; its midday, with God's everlasting sun over his head, and the great, broad fields all around, over which his eye looked; and all through its afternoon hours, passing on into an ever-increasing affluence of spring and summer, and ending at last in the sweet bosom of affection, gratitude and love. (Applause.) 
How shall we miss him! The days are to come when we shall know how we miss him. When that great hall stands closed and silent on the Lord's day, —empty and silent, because there is no one here who has the commanding ability which can bring together those great multitudes. Sunday after Sunday, month after month, and year after year, to be taught and fed,—when great crises of the nation come, and pass unexamined, and not understood, because that great masterly power of analysis is taken from us,—when great national crimes are repeated again and again, and not rebuked to the listening ear of the nation, because there is no great power of intellect and knowledge adequate to that work-—then we shall remember and feel and mourn the loss of THEODORE PARKER. 
The President, Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT, said a few words in reference to Mr. Parker's ministrations among the poor of the city, and the deep interest he felt in every effort for the relief of the 'Perishing Classes, 'after which the question was put on the resolutions, and they were unanimously adopted. 
ANNIVERSARY WEEK.
The proceedings of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention occupy so large a portion of our present number as to preclude all comments upon it, further than to say, that its opening session was thronged beyond all precedent, and every succeeding one evincing a lively and growing interest in the Anti-Slavery struggle. We publish entire the speeches made with reference to the death of Theodore Parker-a death which has caused a profound sensation of grief throughout the North, and elicited many warm tributes to his character-in some instances, even from Orthodox pulpits. On Thursday evening, the Melodeon was excessively crowded to hear Rev. George B. Cheever, F. B. Sanborn. Samuel E. Sewall, Esq. and Wendell Phillips, Esq. in burning condemnation of the iniquitous imprisonment of Thaddeuss Hyatt at Washington. It was a powerful demonstration. The Women's Rights meetings at the Melodeon, on Friday afternoon and evening, were largely attended, and produced a most favorable impression.
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches., Tan, Freckles, Salownees, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be— soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage.) JAS. S.& MARSHALL, 
Practical Chemist,
No.32 City Buildings, New York.
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by Parker Pillsbury.
In April-Worcester South Division A. S. Society, $5 00
In April-At South Danvers, 14 10
Sale of Tracts, 3 16
Collections by Marius R. Robinson, Ohio, 7 50 
Stephen Goss and wife, South Natick, donation,. 3 00
Elliot W. Brown, Executor—a bequest of Squire
Stone, of West Newark. Tioga Co., N. Y., 8 37 
Collections by Wm. H. Fish. Cortland Co., N. Y., 9 68

FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
REFORMERS'CONVENTION.
The Friends of Human Progress will meet in De Witt. Clinton county, Iowa, June 15th, and hold over Sunday. 
The object of the meeting will be, to form a better acquaintance among the friends of general reform— to inspire each other with greater devotion to the cause of human liberty, and to devise the best method by which all questions appertaining to Religion and Humanity may be freely discussed, and the claims of sound morality practically enforced.
In behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, 
C. B.C.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lectures in Quincy, in the Town Hall, on Sunday next, June 10, afternoon and evening, at 2 and 6 o'clock.
CAPE COD.-WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at the Union Hall, Harwich, on Sunday, June 10, during the day, and at the Centre in the evening. He will spend ten days in other places on the Cape.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in the lower Town Hall, in Andover, Sunday, June 10, and in Milford, Mass., Sunday, June 17.
TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES.
Places are wanted for two lads from the great Southern prison -house of slavery, one 15 and the other 17 years of age. They have been house servants, but are willing and ready to go on trial to do any kind of work they are able to do. Apply to R, F.. f. WALL-CUT, 221 Washington Street, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston.
THE NEW YORK ILLUSTRATED NEWS,
THE BEST ILLUSTRATED NEWSPAPER IN THE UNION.
A splendid number, containing a Portrait of
THEODORE PARKER,
CHESTER RACES IN ENGLAND,
TEN BROEK, ESQ,. THE AM. TURF,
THE JOCKLEY ROOMS NEAR THE CHESTER RACES
JAPANESE VISITING THE PATENT OFFICE,
PRESIDENT BUCHANAN AND MISS LANE VIEWING THE PRESENTS IN THE WHITE HOUSE,
NEW ENGLAND ARCTIC EXPEDITION, ICE-BOATS, &c.,
with many other interesting Pictures of the latest incidents of the week. Can be had at all the News Agents throughout the country. Now is the time to send your subscriptions; $3 a year.
J. WARNER CAMPBELL & CO,
63 Ann Street, New York.
June 8.-1w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THADDEUS HYATT,
Captive in the Cause of Freedom
BY, JUDITH.
Is it a land of Liberty?
Is it a land of generous thought,
Where the will of manhood is not <illegable>free
And the voice of the people is sold and bought? 
How shall we he miscalled the free,
When the voice of the people is sold and bought?
Aye; the voice of the people is bought and sold;
Bartered away by political guile;
Purchased with office, and power, and gold; 
Won by the Demagogue's oily smile;
And the Truth grows cold, and Falsehood bold,
Beneath the Demagogue's oily smile.
Else why do they keep in a loathsome jail
A man accused of no wrong or crime?
Why do they keep him a prisoner pale,
Watching and waiting for God's good time:-
A prisoner pale-, who doth not quail,
But watcheth and waiteth for God’s good time!
What hath be done, that a nation's might
Should trample him out like a worm of vice?
He hath only stood for a popular right,
And offered himself in sacrifice:
He hath made this fight for a popular right,
And given himself in sacrifice!
And is there no court, whose justice and ruth 
Can break these bonds of a tyrant sway?
Must Thaddeus Hyatt surrender the truth,
Or waste in prison his life away?
He must yield, in sooth, a well-known truth,
Or waste in prison his life away!
Where is your Constitution now?
Where are your boasted equal laws,
When 'culprit' is stamped upon manhood's brow,
Without a crime, and without a cause- 
When the citizen's brow is made to bow,
Without a crime, and without a cause?
Ah! far more bitter the Demagogue's rule,
Than the sway of a crowned and sceptred thing!
'Tis worse to bend to the knave and fool,
Than to kneel in the path of a noble King:
The fierce misrule of the knave and fool
Is worse than the reign of a noble King!
Ye haughty Senators, cunning and gray,
Who spread so slily your cruel snare,
There’s a Senate will meet upon Judgment-day;
And God, and your captive, will both be there!
What will ye say, upon Judgment day,
When God, and your captive, confront you there? 
Washington, (D. C.) May 30, 1860.
For the Liberator.
MY SABBATH.
I wandered, one bright May morning.
Where I knew that the violets grew,
And where, throught the pine's dark foliage,
The sky looks strangely blue.
It was a Sabbath morning:
Will any count it sin,
In a forest rather than a church,
The day of rest to begin?
To read one's self the sermon
That is written on flower-gemm'd sod;
And to list to the bright-winged warblers
Who forever worship God?
I heard the church-bells tolling
The hour for morning prayer,
And I thought how many would wander
Through scenes so wondrous fair;
And their hearts be not lifted heaven ward,
So dull their sense and dim,
Till the preacher says, ‘Let us worship God
In the use of a certain hymn.
Honest, perhaps, and from the heart,
The worship such would give;
But, methinks, 'twould teach one how to die,
Rather than fit to live.
Oh! it is not solemn faces,
Nor spoken words of prayer,
That fit us for life's duties,
Earth's joys and griefs to bear.
Thus I mused as I sat there, listening
To the song of birds and bees,
And the music of the soft South wind,
As it murmured through the trees.
And homeward at length returning,
Through fields of springing corn,
I knew that not in vain I'd spent
That glorious Sabbath morn.
For I'd read from the book of Nature
A lesson of love for all;
How our kind Heavenly Father
Careth for great and small.
And, heedless of their frowning,
Who met me on my way,
I wondered if they felt like me,
How holy was the day.
Sherborn, May 27. E. D. MORSE.
For the Liberator.
THEODORE PARKER.
Mid Italia's sweetest flowers,
And her soft, cerulean sky,
Freedom's noble son has fallen,
Breathed his last expiring sigh.
Nature weeps her favorite fallen;
He was one that loved her well;
But he heart's unspoken sorrow
Language has not words to tell.
Man will miss him, and will vainly
Seek another friend as brave;
Woman, too, will mourn the teacher
That her noblest lessons gave.
With the Wrong he battled ever,
For the Right he loved to plead;
And his life was a rich blessing
Unto thousands in their need.
All the world will pay him honor,
And will write his loving name
High amid the many, chiseled
In the temple of its fame.
Of her PARKER, fair New England
Shall be proud forever-more;
And his fame back shall be echoed
From the farthest land and shore.
He is ours, although his body
Sleeps in quiet far away:
Hovering round us is his spirit,
While we labor day by day.
May our lives be ever patterned
After his who’s gone before,
And the world be better for us,
When our missions shall be o'er!
Manchester May, 1860. SYLVESTER. 
THE RIGHT MUST WIN.
O, blest is he to whom is given
The instinct that can tell
That God is on the field when He
Is most invisible!
And blest is he who can divine
Where real right doth lie,
And dares to take the side that seems
Wrong to man's blindfold eye!
<c02>
SELECTIONS. 
From the New York Principia.
LETTER OF GERRIT SMITH. 
[The first he has written since his sickness. His health of body and brain restored. Treatment of him by the New York Democratic Vigilant Association.]
PETERBORO', May 1st, 1860.
WILLIAM GOODELL, Editor of Principia:
MY DEAR FRIEND,—This it my first letter since I left the Lunatic Asylom. During all these months I have been
‘-as the hung-up lute, that ne'er hath spoken Since the sad day its master chord  was broken.
Why do I write my first letter to you? First, because through you I can best answer the deeply earnest inquiries respecting my health—its loss and recovery—made more frequently by persons of the class who read your paper, than by persons of other classes. Second, because I prefer that my first communication in this my resurrection state, when more than ever I prize the true religion, should be with those who give the best evidences of possessing it. I do not forget that many of them, even your good self included, think him to be a very poor judge of what constitutes the true religion, who is so ignorant of the importance of questions on depravity, future punishment, and the atonement, as to put them all entirely outside of the essence of that religion. I do not forget that in the eye of such he is blind to the true religion, who dares to doubt the Divine inspiration of parts of the Bible; refuses to accept the claims of absolute authority, which are set up for it; insists that, instead otof the final trial of the right of human nature by that authority, human nature is itself the final authority by which to try the Bible; and who says, in terms so plain as to shock the prevailing religious sense, that even this book, immeasurably best of all books though it be, is good or bad, right or wrong, so far and only so far as it agrees or disagrees with human nature. You might perhaps consent that love—love in the heart to God and man—illustrated by such love in the life, makes up the whole of the essence of the true religion. But you would add what I cannot—that soundness on the points referred to is essential to this love.
But not to mind now what is thought of my own religion—it is in my very high regard for the religion of yourself and those whom I have been classing with you, that I find a strong reason for choosing yourself as the proper person to whom to address this letter. Jesus would have even himself judged by his works. He requires us to judge each other by our works. Your works approve your religion; and therefore do I approve it—and none the less promptly and cordially, because I have to dissent from some of your religious theories and speculations. There are many men, very religious in their way, whose works nevertheless do not com mend their religion. I think this is true of the New York State Temperance Society men, who are found on one day gravely resolving that it is a high crime to license dram-shops, and on the next eagerly voting for dram-shop magistrates and legislators. I think that this would be true of those who should vote for men guilty of acknowledging murder to be law; and that it is true of those who do vote for men guilty of acknowledging the worse crime of slavery to be law. Were Jesus again on the earth, he would, instead of praising magistrates and legislators for replunging the fugitive slave into the horrid pit of slavery, and instead of praising the voters, who voted them into office, be far more likely to say to them all: ‘ Ye do the deeds of your father Moreover, it would be all the same whether they should or should not put in the plea of Constitutional or other necessity. This one question in his Court is, not what is Constitutional, but what is right.
But to return to the object of my letter, and inform your readers of my health. I am not as blameworthy as many think me, for the prostration of my brain. They censure me for not having relaxed my usual incessant labor. They say that, under my bodily diseases, I should have given up my extensive correspondence, writing for the press, public speaking, and the care of a large landed estate. It is by the way, something to my credit, that I so far favored my feeble health as not once in all the year 1859 to go from home to a public meeting. I readily admit that I am not blameless for having been the subject of these diseases. In respect to them, Jesus could not say of me Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents. I confess myself guilty of having sinfully violated the laws of one of the best constitutions ever given to man. I have overworked myself.
Forgetting that human powers have limits, I for got to think that I could not do all that I wished to do. But in a world where there is so much to do that few are found willing to do, it is not always easy to resist the temptation to overdo.
For a dozen years before the last, I had at times suffered from dyspepsia—though by no means as severely as had many persons of my acquaintance. My suffering was mainly in the quick and strong sympathy of my head with my dyspeptic stomach.
Vertigo and other most uncomfortable sensations—now as if my head were made of lead, and now as if it were made of cork—were among the products of this sympathy. Never did I suffer so much in this wise as when I went to Congress. I did not venture to take my seat the first week; and when, a few days after taking it, I rose to make my first speech, I was painfully uncertain whether I should have head enough to make head-way. My friend, Dr. Jones, of Onondaga, was in the same Congress. I well remember that to my remark, that I was so afraid of falling in the streets as not to dare to walk them without carrying my name and other information in my hat, his quick and witty reply was:
Such things in your hat are of themselves enough to make you fall.'
I always was alarmed enough and prudent enough to reduce the labors of my brain in the times of, these admonitory sensations. I did so when in Congress; and to this cause among others was it owing, that I was so much more of a talking than thinking member. But the dyspepsia, which began in the Fall of 1858 and continued a year, was attended by none of these sensations, and therefore by none of the admonitions involved in them. Palpitation of heart, of which I had hitherto experienced nothing, was its incessant companion and chief signal. My head felt well and my brain worked easy., Dr. Gray, the Superintendent of the Asylum, believes that even in the first half of the year 1859,I had come into that stage or character of insanity called exaltation of the mind. I never read,  studied nor wrote with more pleasure. To speak plainly. I had never so much confidence in my powers, and was never so egotistical. I boasted that I could do more than at the age of forty. This being the condition of my brain, it is not at all strange that, although, as my nurse believes, I slept but three hours a night, during most of that year, (less than an average of one hour a night during the last three weeks before I was removed to the Asylum) it should not occur to me that so serious an injury as the loss of my reason would be the penalty for continuing the customary use of my brain. What, though even in warm summer nights, I frequently could not fall asleep until my cold feet had been rubbed and bottles of hot water applied to them, nevertheless I was in too intoxicated and happy a state to for bode evil to myself. Why the dyspepsia of 1858 and 1859 affected my heart and produced no uncomfortable sensations in my head, I am not capable of explaining. Physicians can perhaps explain it, when they learn that, for nine months before it began, I had more or less of dropsy; that for two or three months before the dropsy, I had typhoid fever, and most distressful neuralgia in the head, I and that, intermediately, I suffered greatly from derangement of the kidneys.
A false alarm, one morning, whilst it did but disquiet the other members of my family, quite over came me. The news, a few weeks after, of the death of my old and dear friend, John Brown, and his two sons, was a great shock to me. It contributed not a little to hasten my condition to in crisis. Only three weeks after, I went down under a troop of hallucinations. My family were reduced to poverty. They were cast off by their friends and the world. Those, who had put their property into my hands, had lost it. I was bound in honor and justice to go to Virginia, and stand by and suffer with my unfortunate friend. Indeed, it was only from believing that I was on my way to Virginia, that I went so willingly to Utica. The idea, however, say my family, and my own memory says it also, which most haunted and distressed me, was that my friends and relatives in the South believed that I had plotted their murder. No one now doubts that I got it from the terrible charges brought against me in the Manitoba of the New York Democratic Vigilant Association., For it turns out, though of course I have no distinct recollection of it, that I continued 
<c03>.
until within a very few days of my going to the Asylum, to look over the newspapers. 
As soon as Dr. Gray learned my case, he decided that sleeplessness was the proximate cause of my insanity; and, therefore, that the one thing which I needed was sleep. He succeeded in getting me so 
much of it, that in a fortnight my wildness was gone, though in the first half of this fortnight I sank so low as not to know one of the persons around me, not even my friend and college-mate, E. A. Wetmore; so low indeed as to be apparently within a few hours of death. In another fortnight I required no attendant, and was removed into Dr. Gray's family. Three weeks more, and he brought me to the home which had always been, and which was now far more than ever, my earthly heaven. 
I am prepared to say that, on the whole, I do not instead regret my insanity. The following are among my reasons for this conclusion:— 
1st. Dr. Gray assures me that but for the shocks which hastened my downfall, or but for others which might have occurred to that end, I should gradually have gone down under the pressure of my bodily diseases and mental labors into a hopeless type of insanity, and to speedy death.
2d. Dr. Gray was accustomed to comfort and cheer me with the prediction, that my sickness would result in a greatly improved condition of both body and brain. This prediction there is growing reason to hope will be verified. Certain at least is it, that I am restored to a far higher degree of bodily health than I had enjoyed since I was attacked with typhoid fever. It seems that I had to sink to the very bottom before I could get an impetus upward. For the, last six or eight weeks I have not suffered from dyspepsia; and from the time I went to the Asylum, I have had no palpitation of heart. It is true that my nerves are not yet entirely composed, and that I should fear the consequences of venturing into scenes of strong excitement. I have not dared, since my return from the Asylum, to spend a night from home. It is true too, that there are even yet lingerings of my hallucinations. For instance, I have not wholly ceased to feel surprised when persons show me marked kindness or respect—so deep, during the worst stage of my insanity, was my sense of my utter unworthiness of such manifestations. What is unhappiest in my case is, that I have to avoid looking back upon the year 1859, not only because a part of it is full of darkness to my eye and of anguish to my heart, but because of the painful uncertainty and confusion which overhang other and larger parts of it. Nevertheless, I regard myself as restored to health. 
3d. Should dyspepsia return upon me severely, and especially should wakefulness ensue, I and my family will be concerned for my brain, and a prompt, judicious, and most probably successful treatment for its protection will be adopted. 
4th. I know now, to a far greater extent than I ever knew before, how to appreciate a well-conducted Lunatic Asylum, like that in Utica. Doctors Cleveland, Turtellot and Wright are worthy of their association with Dr. Gray. The institution appears to me to be controlled by wisdom and love. 
How sad are the effects of the popular prejudices and superstitions against Lunatic Asylums! Doubtless a large share of the scholars, statesmen, and men of vast commercial operations, whose deaths at their homes the newspapers ascribe to ‘ brain fever, would be cured, if their families could brave the reproach of having them in a Lunatic Asylum. Had my family been superstitious enough to regard it as more sinful to have a diseased brain than a diseased arm, or foolish enough to partake of the common notion that it is disgraceful to be the inmate of a Lunatic Asylum, I, too, should have been left to die at home, and I, too, should have been published as having died of ‘brain fever.
5th. I now sympathize with the insane as I never did before—and especially with those whose hallucinations, like my own., are of a deeply painful character. Although the last half of my life has been a history of sicknesses and surgical operations, (eight of the latter,) yet was the sum total of my sufferings in them very small compared with that I suffered in a fortnight of my insanity. Do you wonder that the imaginary can so surpass the real? Let me assure you that none of all the realities of life were ever so intensely real to me as were the imaginations of my distempered brain; and that the deepest earnestness I had ever felt before was but affectation and hypocrisy compared with that mighty earnestness which had now taken possession of my whole soul!
Since my return to my reason, I have seen that some newspaper editors and other persons made fun of my insanity. My only reply is, that they would not have done so had they known what I was suffering; and that should any one of them become insane I shall be found to have learned by things I have suffered not to ridicule him. 
6th. But for my insanity I should, quite probably, have been put upon my trial for treason and murder, or even assassinated. I do not say this because, when, on coming to myself, I found that the New York Herald had, during my insanity, been intent on compassing my death. No hart ever panted after the water-brooks more than did that newspaper after my blood. This was manifest when its columns were used to make the exasperated South believe that the Harper's Ferry affair was concocted under my roof; that John Brown was in Peterboro' last spring for several weeks, a guest of Gerrit Smith's house; and whilst here, a number of the most prominent and leading Republicans visited him, and were for days in consultation with him. But it was not this which made me feel that the wicked had put my life in great danger. I could not ascribe so much influence to that bad sheet. It was when I had read the manifesto, already referred to, put forth by thirty-one men in the city of New York, selected to do the deed, because their vast wealth, high social position, commanding influence, and indisputable title to be believed, would give to that Satanic deed the widest, fullest, surest effect— it was then that I felt my insanity to have been the most merciful providence in my whole life.
But, before further remarks on the manifesto, let me return for a moment to say, that John Brown was at my house but once in the year 1859, and then only for a day and a half. He was on his way from Kansas to his home. It was his custom to call on me in his journeys from the one to the other. At the time of his last visit, he was sick with the fever and ague, and so deaf as to make conversation with him quite difficult. He was accompanied by a young man who nursed him, and whom I had never before seen nor heard of. On referring to my diary, I find that during their stay in my house, no persons visited it except my wife's sister and her young children. Republicans may have concocted plans with John Brown. But they did it not under my roof, nor anywhere else with my knowledge. Republicans may have given him monies, and even arms. But I never knew from what persons, except my neighbors and myself, he received monies: and astonished was I at learning, after the collision at Harper's Ferry, that the arms of the Kansas Committee were in Virginia. I had not for years heard anything of those arms.
To the manifesto again. Here follows the first of its three newspaper columns. The present occasion calls for the republication of no more of it.
[Here Mr. Smith quotes at some length from the manifesto alluded to.]
The manifesto then proceeds to give, not with entire correctness, parts of one of my letters, and the whole of another. Standing by themselves, there is nothing in these letters to arouse suspicions against me. But, if interpreted in the light of the foregoing extract from the manifesto, as they necessarily must be, if my name is there justly used, how can my virtual and responsible participation in the Harper’s ferry outbreak be doubted? Moreover, if this extract speaks but truth, how could it be expected that the courts would characterize that outbreak with less than treason and murder? Why, then, was I not, at the time of the issuing of the manifesto, proceeded against, by the courts, or by assassins? The one only answer is—because I was insane. And why is it that I am not now proceeded against? The one only answer is—because the whole public, the South as well as the North, have come to learn, that among all the meanest, nakedest, and most atrocious lies, this manifesto has the pre-eminence. 
Look at its meanness. The only names it dares connect with this bloody and horrible association, of whose existence no one, so far as I am aware, has yet heard, are those of three dead men. Kagi was actually dead. Brown was to die in a few days. I was sick and insane; and, as my years were more than three-score, it was not believed that I could live many weeks, or that if I should, my reason would be restored. But the manifesto evidently failed to take into account the recuperative power of a thorough temperance man—of one who had conscientiously and religiously abstained for thirty years from intoxicating liquors, and even 
<c04>
from tea and coffee; and to whom tobacco was no less hateful than rum. Such a man is privileged to say, in the hour of his calamity, 'Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, the Lord shall be a light unto me. Look at further evidence of this unparalleled meanness. The great and pressing object of the manifesto was to defeat the Republican party, at the election to take place in ten or twelve days. Hence it represented me to be a member of that party, although knowing full well that I be longed to no party, and that I was entirely content to forego, for conscience sake, both in the State and in the Church, all the offices, honors and, advantages which attend on party membership. Again, although knowing me to be a man of peace instead of war, of moral suasion instead of blood, nevertheless, as John Brown was known to be my beloved friend, to have obtained loans and gifts of money from me whenever applied for, to have bought his farm from me, and to have been the father and friend of one of the little communities on lands I had given to my colored brethren, so did the manifesto judge mine to be the expedient name for connecting with this plundering and killing association, and for serving as the link to couple the Republican party with John Brown and his doings at Harper's Ferry.
Then see, at least so far as it speaks of my connection with this association, how naked as well as mean a lie is this manifesto. When they who prepared it are arraigned for connecting my name with their fancy-built association, they in effect confess that they had not a shred nor a semblance of fact to justify their villany. Nay, more, conclusive testimony shall appear, at the proper time and in the proper place, to prove all these thirty one merchant princes admitted, when the manifesto was published, that, in respect to myself, it was a calamity, and that they all declared, (perhaps to soothe their guilty consciences, perhaps to quiet my friends, or perhaps both,) that they would see to it that no harm should come to Gerrit Smith. It is true that they had set the dogs on me, but then they would interpose to save me from being torn to death. It is true that they did not wish to kill me, but then how could they resist te the temptation to use my name for the greatly needed and highly meritorious purpose of killing Giddings, and Seward, and other prominent Republicans!
Finally, look at the atrocity of this manifesto lie. The frenzy of party politics has often driven men to violate the principles of a sound morality. But when before was it ever known to involve a company of thirty-one men of high standing, in the enormous crime of falling upon their fellow-citizen, and, in the face of their own clear convictions of his innocence, fastening charges upon him which they knew could not fail to serve mightily to blast his reputation, to expose him to the harassing and endangering action of the courts, to outlaw him and invite those whom these lying charges had filled with rage to assassinate him? 
Perhaps there is one thing that is stranger, and even guiltier, than this even guiltier, than this enormous crime. It is that they who committed it are yet to show the first sign of repentance for it. But we must not fail to recollect that repentance Isis generally hastened by the fear of punishment, and that my thirty-one calumniators probably feel that they are not only too rich, but too of numerous a hand to be in great danger of punishment. I trust, however, that even in their case also, the Scripture shall be verified, which declares, though hand joined in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished.
I have referred to my numerous diseases. I do not forget that my frequent and great sufferings, involving even the loss of my reason, will be construed into poor encouragement to follow my example of strict temperance. But instead of my strict temperance being the cause of my diseases, to it do I owe it that I survive my diseases, and that I am now permitted to take this fresh start in life, and to look younger than many who are older.
But I am ashamed of having written so much about myself; and I cannot but fear that my having done so will create the impression that my great affliction has contributed to the growth of my egotism, rather than my modesty. So I close my letter abruptly not, however, without first saying that I have written it privately, and without the knowledge of any one, so great was my fear that my family might think, it too much of an undertaking for one who had come up so recently from the entire prostration of body and brain.
Your friend, GERRIT SMITH.
From the Maine Temperance Journal.
THADDEUS HYATT.
We wish to call the attention of our readers and the public, to the case of this gentleman. It will be recollected that he was thrust into prison in Washington, by the United States Senate, on a charge of contempt for declining to answer certain questions, propounded by a committee of that body. And this act is aggravated by the fact of being confined in a prison that is not fit for a hog-pen, to the imminent hazard of his health, if not of his life. At this moment he is prostrated with fever, in consequence of his exposure, the result of which may be the loss of his life. And this man is an American citizen who stands charged with no crime known to our laws!
It is, to us, a matter of the most profound astonishment that the people of these United States are not wrought up to the highest pitch of indignation, by this most despicable exercise of irresponsible and despotic power. And we are not less astonished that any Republican Senator could be found who could find it either in his head or his heart to cast a vote in favor of such a deed; and all such ought to be made to feel the honest indignation of their constituents.
That the incarceration of Mr. Hyatt is an act of irresponsible and despotic power, every person whose mind is not warped by prejudice or interest cannot fail to see. And every man capable of understanding plain and simple English, and who will read the Constitution of the United States, must see that this act is a flagrant and wicked violation of that clause which provides that no man ' shall be compelled to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, LIBERTY, or property, without
DUE PROCESS OF LAW.—Art. 5, Amendments.
On what due process of law was Mr. Hyatt shut up in that vile and filthy den in Washington, unfit to be inhabited by swine? None whatever; for, in the first place, he was brought before a body which possesses no judicial power whatever. It is a mere legislative, a law-making power; not a law-executing body. This last is the sole province of the judiciary. In the next place, he is thus incarcerated for an act not recognized by any law on our statute books as a crime. It was an act of un mitigated and shameless despotism, which should make the cheek of every senator who voted for it burn with shame, and fire the breast of every American citizen with indignation. And especially should this be the case, when it is remembered, that being thrust into a vile dungeon without the forms of law, he must lie there until he rots, unless this same Senate is pleased, by the exercise of the same arbitrary and lawless power, to release him.
It seems to us, that every unsophisticated common sense man must see, that if such practices are to be admitted in our government, it may become one of the worst engines of despotism the world ever saw. No person who is man enough to attract the notice of the Senate and excite its hostility, or it may consider dangerous to its schemes, is safe from its iron and despotic grasp, unless he has power to resist its assaults on his liberty. If it wishes to crush any man in the nation or put him out of the way, it will only have to trump up some excuse to bring him before some of its committees, and then demand what he cannot concede without disgracing himself, and then, if he refuses to barter away his honor, just thrust him into a dungeon, and he is done for, so long as these men bold their power.
The truth is, this act involves all the principles on which the Inquisition was justified, and that distinguished the odious and detestable administration of Lord Chief Justice Jeffries and has made his name infamous in the world's history, and caused him to be so detested and abhorred by the people of his day. And this act ought to provoke the same indignation all over this land, as was excited by the doings of that notorious character. And that it is not so, shows such a degree of insensibility to the encroachments of tyranny as our fathers would have been ashamed of. Mr. Brady, photographer, is now engaged in reproducing upon paper the features of Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt, of the Washington jail, and also the room in which he temporarily resides. The latter picture, prepared under Mr. Hyatt's supervision, bears the inscription, ’Room in which Thaddeus Hyatt is incarcerated, in the American Bastile,’ &c.,&c.
<c05>
PROUTY & MEARS'S 
CELEBRATED 
HOT-AIR FURNACES. 
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented. 
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the  Clipper Improved,  Mount Vernon, and Gold Medal. 
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the Beauty, of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market.
— ALSO — 
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S  Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c. 
-AT-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL, 
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS,
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street, 
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,) 
BOSTON. 
June 1— eoptf 
CARPETING
‘All the Year Round.’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c. Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities) Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Fellings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept 16 tf 
New Edition of a Great Work. 
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD 
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.' 
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, ‘I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity. 
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., 
PUBLISHERS, 
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
May 11. 2mos
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years’ experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ‘Water Cure’ Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels. 
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor. 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, 
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mchl6tf BOSTON, MASS.
Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON.
JUST PUBLISHED: a pamphlet of 36 pages, by HENRY C. WRIGHT, entitled, 'NO RIGHTS NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Right and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North. 
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill. Price 10 cents. 
A. H. HOWLAND & CO., 
AGENTS FOR THE SALE OF 
WHEELER & WILSON'S
Sewing Machines,
—ALSO—
WADE'S PATENT RUNNING ATTACHMENT, 
No. 2 WALNUT STREET, 
(First Door from Main,)
opposite Mechanics Hall, 
WORCESTER, MASS.
Every variety of Stitching done to order. 
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing. 
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington St., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Boston, May 1, 1860.
CHARLES HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 299 Washington street, and at the Nepunset Post-Office
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN's
WORLD’S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-‘My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Restorer,’ No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the have appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.’
Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1835.
President J. I., EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR PALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Restorer’; & c., and gives it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were, quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.’
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, 
Editor Ladies’ Repository,’ Cincinnati, Ohio.
I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor; Christian Advocate,’ Buffalo, N Y.
'‘Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color', &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
Mrs. S. A. Allen'sAllens Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.’
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ‘Christian Era,’ Boston, Mass.
Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.’
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed.’ Guide to Holiness,’ Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.
Rev. S. B. MORELY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro’, Mass.
‘I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsmum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'’
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
‘My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'‘Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martins burgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s, she writes to the American Baptist,'-'—I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.’
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street, Brooklyn.
I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen’s literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,'  Cincinnati, Ohio.
‘It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert adversisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
‘Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance. 
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N.Y
I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I 1 did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
We think very highly of your preparations, have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.,
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe 
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced,. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Aliens signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to the directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim in offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALERS Oct
OCT 14. lyeop 

