THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
221 WASHINGTON STREET ROOM NO, 6. ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGNET.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, ED_ MUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are the Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXII. NO. 21. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 23, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1639.
Selections.
EXTRACTS FROM THE SPEECH OF HON. BENJAMIN F. WADE,
Delivered in the Senate of the United States, Friday,
May 2.
This speech was one of the most trenchant and earnest that has yet been made on the confiscation bill and was pronounced with the fire and vigor so characteristic of the indomitable Senator Wade.
The following extracts will be read with interest:
WHO VIOLATES THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION?
Talk to me sir about violating the Constitution! I do not like to hear it. I have heard too much of it! Every man who was here a year or two ago Knows that this same idea was inculcated then by those who are now open traitors. They south to tie and fetter our limbs by the cry of a violated Constitution, that its enemies might stab it to death. There is not a man now in what are called the Confederate States. Levying arms, coercing men into this accursed rebellion to overthrow this glorious Constitution of ours, but harped upon the same string that Senators have harped upon in this debate. The arm of the Constitution was too short to defend itself from aggression. These were the doctrines that they announced; and then they went off and formed an organization, and implored foreign nations. Yea and agreed to become the vassals of foreign despots if they would only aid and assist them in overturning this Constitution of ours. First, they claimed that we had no constitutional power to defend the Constitution—a very cheap way, if they could succeed in it. to get along with their rebellion. We must lie right down in our tracks, because, if we undertook to form an army to go forth to conquer the rebellion, we were acting without constitutional authority. Was not that what they harped upon? Did they not say of the Administration what Senators on the other side of the Chamber are saying every morning now? Did not the former colleague of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Powell) accuse the Administration of tyranny and despotism? It is the old tune that was harped upon by every traitor who is now an open enemy to the Constitution of the United States. They undertook to show that the Constitution was, somehow, felo de se: that it did not contain any power, or it restricted us from using any power for its preservation. Sir, these arguments will not do.
WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE SLAVES?
Why. Sir, the South consider slaves just as other property. I do not concede it; I never did concede it. All I conceded was, that in times of peace, when they let our institutions alone. I would let them alone in the States; that I would not touch a hair; of their head. Abhorrent as slavery is to man and God, I had agreed that in their States they might have it. provided they would keep it there, and let us alone: but when they repudiated the Constitution of the United States, when they waged violent war against it, when they made use of those very slaves as the fulcrum by which to overturn the Constitution of the country, I lost all my veneration—no, not veneration, for I never had any veneration for slavery; I repudiate the idea; but it absolved me from all my sense of duty in that regard, and allowed me to give full scope to my sense of justice in dealing with slaves and their masters. They have repudiated me; they have repudiated you; they have used these very slaves to murder your brethren and mine and to rob us of our property. Being now withdrawn from all obligation in their behalf, 1 say to every traitor who holds a slave, "So far as my hand can reach, that slave is free, and a much better man than you. You ought to thank God if you escape the gallows; your slave is remitted to his rights."
SLAVERY AND PROGRESS.
I have said that in the progress of nations, after a certain advance in civilization and the arts, slavery becomes impossible. Deeply rooted as this institution of slavery was, every invention of a useful character for a thousand years has tended to make it impossible. Once it might work the galley slave with profit. War-like nations formerly put slaves aboard of their armed ships to row them to the enemy, and made them labor in that way. Could that system be continued now? Slavery might then be useful in war when nobody knew any better, and when the nation having the most slaves to man its galleys was the strongest and most powerful. How is it when you put the galley slave against the steam engine? Was it any Abolitionist that rose up and argued down the institution? Can you work a naked savage or a negro against a steam engine? If you cannot, your system is at an end. Every labor-saving machine is an abolitionist. Every puff of the engine upon a railroad is an abolition sermon, more potent and effective than was ever preached by mouth of abolitionist. Can you work a slave, carrying his handle on his back, against the tremendous power and energy of your railroad? Can you put the one against the other? How is it with the reaper we have introduced into our fields to harvest our grain, the tremendous power of our mowing-machines, power-looms, and spinning-jennies? I might count over from now till to-morrow the instrumentalities that have renderedsyour system absolutely impossible: and yet against the laws of God and nature, you are hanging on with pertinacity to a system that has passed away, and can never be renewed.
SLAVES USED TO MURDER WHITE FREEMEN.
Sir, if you are not able to make head against us in the field, it is not because you are not equally brave and enterprising; it is not even for the lack of numbers; but it is because slavery has impoverished you, emasculated you and now without our appealing to the force you feel would be most potent to put you down, you are still on the declining side. I do not invoke it; but when I see black regiments put forward to shoot down my sons who are in the war and your relatives, when I see these black chattels thrust forth in front of the chivalrous owners to shoot down, murder and destroy our men who have gone to the fields only in defence of our institutions, I am strongly tempted to make the appeal, and say to your bondsmen: "Stand forth invested with the rights wherewith God Almighty has clothed you: come to our side: help to fight the battles of freedom, and you shall be free." It would only be a righteous retribution to those who have held them against common right. Suppose we should do it; what would become of you, my friends? Where would you be? Talk to us of prosecuting the war in a vindictive spirit! You may thank your God that we have been as forbearing as we have.
THE WAR NOT PROSECUTED TO ABOLISH SLAVERY.
This war, you say, should not be prosecuted for the purpose of abolishing slavery. I grant it. After we got in it-perhaps it is not very honorable to make the admission, but it is-we did pass a resolution here that we would not prosecute this war with the idea of abolishing slavery. I believe I voted for that resolution. I did not care with what
<c02>
view you prosecuted the war: I knew slavery was gone, whatever your views might be. I warned gentlemen of it in that famous committee of thirteen. I was a member of that committee, which contained almost every high officer of the so-called Southern Confederacy, with Mr. Davis at their head. Month after month we discussed this principle. 1 told those gentlemen, "I rely infinitely more upon you to abolish slavery than upon all the Garrisons and Fosters and Phillipses on earth. They are theorists; they are right in theory, but they never will harm a hair of your head: but you attempt this Secession, and the first blast of civil war is the death-warrant of your institution." It was so.
BUT THE REBELS FOR ETERNAL SLAVERY.
Sir, if there was anything wrong in our position, the whole tenor of this argument would be changed; but there is not. What have we done? What have those of us who stand here for the Constitution and the laws done that should provoke these scoundrels to this position of rebellion? They have made it incumbent upon us to defend ourselves or die. For what purpose? For no other or better purpose than to establish a Government founded upon eternal slavery. Sir, we have indices by which we know what the traitors sought.
It was despotism against freedom. Mr. Stephens, who is the very brain of the Southern rebellion, in his inaugural address, undertook to set forth the principles on which this Southern Confederacy was to be founded: and he went on, philosophically, to state that the purpose of it was to make slavery the basis of their institutions, which would be eternal. He believed it was the will of God and the Order of Providence that some men were born to rule, and some to be their slaves and servants. He took great credit to themselves that they of the South had made this grand discovery, which had escaped all men up to that period. This, sir, is the principle on which this war is prosecuted. If you want to know the organization of that Government, and the principle on which it is founded, read that exposition of it as laid down by their chief expositor, and see for what purpose they sought to erect, upon the ruins of our glorious institutions, this Southern Confederacy. They fight for eternal slavery, and I fight for eternal freedom. That is the difference. Knowing my cause to be just, knowing that I stand where the fathers stood when they framed the Government, I will stand here with a strong hand, and, with every instrumentality that God Almighty has given me, I will labor to put down this accursed rebellion and defend free institutions, not only for ourselves, but for all mankind.

THE ANTI-SLAVEEY ANNIVERSARY.
It is not quite so clear as it used to be, it is said, which was the anti-slavery anniversary this year. It formerly meant the anniversary of the Garrison abolitionists, as they were called: the pestilent fellows who insisted that anti-slavery action should be taken by the government and the churches; that the enormous sin of oppression should be instantly destroyed; a society originated for the purpose of agitating the subject of abolishing slavery, in contradistinction from those societies which either entirely forbade the discussion of the subject, or touched it so lightly as to amount to nothing. Last year, the meeting of the Society was omitted, that, as the public mind was undergoing a transformation in the right direction, no imaginary obstacle should be placed in the way of its progress. Having for many years led public opinion, they now dropped behind to watch and see that it went aright, ready to step to the front again if necessary—a noble act of self-abnegation. This year public sentiment was sufficiently advanced to warrant a gathering to rejoice over the glorious change which twelve short months of war had effected. The altered appearance of things was striking. Dr. Cheever's large church was filled on Tuesday morning to listen to the speeches of Mr. Brown, formerly a slave; Rev. Mr. Hatfield, Wendell Phillips and Wm. Lloyd Garrison. On Tuesday evening, a good audience was gathered to listen to Dr. Cheever who spoke for an hour and a half, followed by Miss Anna Dickinson; and on Wednesday evening Cooper Institute was crowded to hear Theodore Tilton and Wendell Phillips before the New York City Anti-Slavery Society, and Songs from the Hutchinsons.
In by-gone days, the Herald could raise a mob, and send its serpents to hiss. People staid at home from fear of a riot. or attended with uneasy apprehensions of great danger. Policemen not long since stayed away to allow the meeting to be disturbed, and more recently were present in large numbers to protect the assembly; but this year all was changed. The meetings were not hooted beforehand; were not considered a place of danger, or dangerous to society. The people came out in large numbers, and no police were needed, for not a solitary hiss was heard. The most severe denunciations of slavery and slaveholders is the most popular form of speech among the very people who, two years ago, would not have allowed a word to be said against either. Two new classes of attendants were seen at the meetings; those who were abolitionists at heart, but did not dare to say so, lest some masterful spirit should smite them; and those who but recently were slavery's fast defenders, and cursed the abolitionists as the most insane disturbers of the public peace. From all, the applause was enthusiastic. It is a new era for Mr. Phillips to find himself applauded so vociferously for the very sayings for which he recently expected to be stoned and insulted. Even Mr. Lincoln and his generals could be criticised without any ugly demonstrations, and the name of Fremont was welcomed by a storm of applause. Mr. Phillips said Mr. Lincoln occupied the chair, but Mr. Fremont governed; and there can be no question that Fremont's proclamation struck the harmonic chord in the popular heart. The people do not see the necessity for keeping slavery to the advantage of the rebels, both while they fight and after it. It can only be seen by those who hate negroes, or have done a large southern trade, or hold some position, ministerial or political, which makes it necessary to keep an influential supporter. Mr. Brown showed that there was little danger of the blacks injuring white labor by competition, if they were as worthless as represented. Mr. Phillips gave a most convincing account of the progress of events in the British West Indies, after slavery was abolished.
At the business meeting in the afternoon of Tuesday, among other topics the manner of increasing the circulation of the Anti-Slavery Standard was discussed. Oliver Johnson and Theodore Tilton thought that ten thousand dollars put into the hands of a shrewd business man, appointed to use it in the various ways by which the Independent has made itself a subscription list so large would secure the Standard from.15,000 to 25,000 subscribers. Mr. Powell, S. May, Jr. and Garrison thought otherwise; that nothing could-give the paper a large circulation while it retained its radical principles. Mr. Garrison did not believe that if all the angels who sang peace and good will to men at the birth of Jesus,
<c03>
with Gabriel at their head, should come to edit the Standard, it would gain five hundred new subscribers. A gentleman sitting by us suggested, "unless it had the devil for a business agent." This is emphatically; true of all radical papers. To make these as popular as others, you must not only have the business agent, but change the principles. The Tribune cannot compete with the Herald in this city, not for want of a business agent or money, but for lack of lying and immoral principles. Since this war, many here who formerly had the Tribune, have abandoned it for the Herald, simply because it took too high ground for them on Fremont's proclamation and slavery, and its strictures on McClellan. To secure the patronage of Democrats, you must publish a Democratic paper; to gain conservatives, you must be conservative. Thus the Independent was not and is not a radicalist, but a conservative: and as it was the best paper of the kind it secured, that class of readers throughout the country. But it must be remembered that for fifteen years the Independent was not a paying concern, and thousands of dollars were expended to obtain for its correspondents the finest writers in the country. Besides, it is the organ of the Congregational denomination. It has been a moderate paper, and was taken by moderate men. Had it taken as high ground and censured as severely all who winked at human slavery, as did the Standard, its list would have dwindled as fast as it grew under the conservatism which ruled it. The American Baptist, Standard, and Liberator can never have such a circulation as some others, until they take popular ground, or the popular mind comes up to them. Admirers of Drs. Kendrick, Hackett and Richard Faller's views would never take the Baptist. All the money and business ability of the world could not make our principles acceptable, until our opponent's principles are changed, be the editorial and general reading ever so superior. As Mr. Garrison said, they are bound to be small while they are radicalists. Should the war close and leave slavery a blasted institution, radical papers would increase their lists, unless, as would doubtless be the case, the conservatives would keep up with the march of the public mind.
The other anniversaries show a decided alteration in their tone. The war has relieved the Bible, Missionary and Tract Societies of their bone of contention, and we hear of no objections now to anti-slavery talk and action. There are few dear slave-holding brethren but have gone into the unpardonable sin of secession, and hence no resolutions need be shaped to suit their tastes. Shooting negroes was no wrong of which these pious bodies could take notice until white blood mingled with it. At the old American Tract Society, the strongest anti-slavery speeches were made, and no reply was elicited from brethren or other old defenders of the South. H. W. Beecher said at the Boston Tract Society, the old Society was going so fast, the Boston Society would have to play conservative, and hold it back. Oh! if we could only see these Societies acting from moral principle; we should have a jubilee; but we have little confidence in death-bed repentances.—N. Y. American Baptist.

EMANCIPATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
WHO MADE THE FOIST PROPOSITION.
"We see that correspondents of the New York Tribune are; trying to settle the question as to when and by whom the first movement toward emancipation in the District of Columbia was made in Congress. On the 28th of April, "MANY READERS" claimed that "the first proposition ever made in Congress upon the subject" was by John P. Hale, in the Senate, June 23, 1848; and the first in the House, by Preston King, Sept. 24, 1850. But, in Monday's Tribune, "JUSTICE" replies, that "more than ten years prior to the resolution of Mr. Hale, the question was brought before the House by William Slade, of Vermont. On the 18th of December, 1837, Mr. Slade presented to the House petitions upon the subject, and on the 20th he moved to refer the memorials to a Select Committee, with instructions to report a bill for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia. "This motion," JUSTICE believes, was "the first ever made upon the subject."
You must try again, gentlemen, and begin a good deal farther back." An ably written pamphlet, on the power of Congress over the District, published by the American Anti-Slavery Society, in 1838, states that "the following record stands on the journals of the House of Representatives for 1804, p. 225: 'On motion made and seconded that the House do come to the following resolution: Resolved, That from and after the 4th day of July, 1805, all blacks and people of color that shall be born within the District of Columbia, or whose mothers shall be the property of any person residing within said District, shall be free, the males at the age of -, and the females at the ago of—. The main question being taken, that the House do agree to said motion as originally proposed, it was negatived by a majority of 46.’" So far as we have at present any means' of knowing, this was the first movement toward the end which has at last been happily attained, after a disgraceful delay of fifty-eight years. We regret that the record-, does not enable us to give "honor to whom honor is due," by naming the author of this motion.
But even this is not the only one anterior to those mentioned in the Tribune. In March, 1816, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution, introduced, we believe, by John Randolph, of Virginia, to appoint a committee to report whether any and what measures are necessary for putting a stop to the "inhuman and illegal traffic in slaves, carried on in and through the District;"-which though not a measure emancipation, it is true, may nevertheless be regarded as a sort of movement towards that measure. 
January 14, 1822, Mr. Rhea, of Tennessee, presented a memorial of citizens of that State, praying "that provision may be made, whereby all slaves hereafter born in the District of Columbia, shall be free at a certain period of their lives."—Journal of the House of Representatives, for 1821-22, p. 142.
December 12, 1827, Mr. Barney, of Maryland, presented a memorial for the abolition of slavery in the District, and moved that it be printed. Such a memorial, signed by 1,100 citizens of the District, was presented to Congress, March 24,1827. Chief Justice Cranch, Judge Van Ness, and others of the most influential citizens were among the signers. It has been asserted on the floor of Congress, and never denied, that more than half the property of the District was owned by the signers of this petition.
March 30, 1828, Mr. A. H. Shepard, of North Carolina, presented a memorial of citizens of that State, "praying Congress to take measures for the entire abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia."
December 16, 1828, Mr. Barnard presented, in the Senate, the memorial of the American Convention for promoting the abolition of slavery, held in
<c04>
Baltimore, praying that slavery may be abolished in the District.—Journal U. S. Senate, 1828-29, p. 24.
In 1829, Charles Miner, of Pennsylvania, presented numerously signed petitions for abolition in the District, and made an able speech in favor of the measure. On the 9th of January, 1829, the House of Representatives, by 114 to 66, passed a resolution: "That the Committee on the District of Columbia be instructed to inquire into the expediency of providing by law for the gradual abolition of slavery within the District, in such manner that the interests of no individual shall be injured thereby."
March 5, 1830, Mr. Washington presented a memorial of inhabitants of Frederick, Md., praying that provision be made for the gradual abolition of slavery in the District.—Journal of the House of Representatives, 1829-30,p. 358.
Thus it will be seen that the subject was repeatedly brought before Congress, all along from seven to thirty-three years earlier than Mr. Slade's motion in the House, and that almost nine years earlier, the House went so far as to instruct the Committee on the District to inquire into the expediency of abolishing slavery therein.
Yet another "proposition on the subject" was made in the House, nearly two years earlier than that of Preston King, mentioned by "MANY READERS," in the Tribune. On the 10th of January, 1849, Abraham Lincoln, of Illinois, a gentleman, whose name is somewhat familiar to newspaper readers in these days, intimated a wish for the reconsideration of a vote by the House, looking to the abolition of the slave trade in the District, that he might introduce, as an amendment, a bill—which he had prepared—for the abolition of slavery there.—Northampton Free Press.

WHAT A LOYAL TENNESSEEAN THINKS.
The following letter, (says the Salem Register,) addressed by Capt. William Driver, of Nashville, to one of his brothers in this city, we are permitted to publish. It is interesting as presenting the views of one who has passed through the fiery furnace of rebellion seven times heated, and whose memorable baptism of the flag he so loves as "Old Glory" has been universally accepted. It will please his old townsmen to learn that there is a prospect that he may soon revisit his native city after an absence of more than a quarter of a century, and that they will have the pleasure of taking the true and tried patriot by the hand again:—
NASHVILLE, May 1, 1862. 
BROTHER GEORGE: Never was a greater mistake made by man than to hope by mild means to "kill treason," particularly a treason like the present one, the offspring of luxury, indolence, and insanity. The hot sun of the South is not the generator of noble, glorious, God-like charities. The lion, the tiger, the anaconda, the constrictor, and the asp, are peculiar creations of the torrid zone, where man is a creature of fiery passions or hateful indolence. Heaven-born charity is of the temperate zone, where man is free; e’en though "in the sweat of his brow he doth eat bread," no table of his is loaded with tear-stained food. Glorious! glorious liberty! I love thee! oh, how I love thee!
Excuse me, brother, this is no place for me. scorn this heritage; it is no place for me. I am a New Englander; the blood of the Puritan is in my veins, and no change of place or circumstances can root it out. The spirit of our fathers seems to hover around me. I cannot be a traitor if I would. I cannot say Amen to oppression e'en though it would fill my purse with gold. I love to stand poor and almost alone, as I have here, amid the storm of mad men; it gives wings and muscles to the soul, and fits it for its home with God. Brother, we shall meet there at last, and then hear the songs of ransomed millions, made doubly free by the desolating storm which now howls around our hearthstones. The hand of God is in it, and His right hand directs it. Ethiopia, the oppressed, will soon "lift up her hands to God." My dim eyes, piercing through the mist of coming time, catch a gleam of light along the dark horizon of our country. My cars catch the distant swelling notes which once, of old, filled heaven with their thrilling sound:" Sound the loud timbrel o'er Egypt's dark sea—Jehovah has triumphed, his people are free."
It is more than useless to think this war will end until the cause thereof is removed. That cause is too plain to need comment here;' 'tis slavery, "the muzzling of the mouth of the ox, which treadeth out the corn." The cry of the hireling whose wages have been kept back has reached the throne of Got, and the hour of retribution is come. The gold of the North, which is accessory to wrong, is sunk in the Red Sea of war. The South will be desolate indeed. Not even the Union men on whose lintels and door-posts is found the blood of past afflictions for conscience's sake, will escape the common ruin; all have sinned, and a common ruin will fall on all. Here is no "Goshen land;" the few who abode here and defied the fiery traitor blast, will die of poverty and neglect, whilst skulking cowards who ran away will fill every place of bread. Be it so. I say Amen, if a people are thereby made free.
Your brother, WILLIAM DRIVER.

EAST TENNESSEE.
If there can be found on earth a people more deserving the heartfelt sympathies of every true patriot than East Tennesseeans, we do not know it. Their patience, their fortitude, their deep devotion to the Union, attachment to the people, Constitution, and laws, under the most trying difficulties and severe persecutions, rival the Waldenses or the martyrs of early Christianity. The picture of the sufferings and afflictions of St. Paul, inflicted for opinion's sake, as drawn by himself, form an almost exact portraiture of the condition of this unfortune people. They are torn from their families, and forced into a military service against their friends and countrymen which in their souls they abhor, and from which they shrink with instinctive horror. Nor in this resistless compulsion are heeded the cries of unprotected infancy, the lamentations of tender wives, nor the pressing necessities of poverty. Their groans are answered with scorn, and their sorrows treated with contempt. Their complaints are passports to imprisonment, and their resistance a pathway to the gallows. Humility and obscurity, equally with honor and distinction, are made the fatal marks of a Southern despotism. Their corn-cribs and smoke-houses are made tributary to the commissary of the army whose sworn duty is their subjugation. Their fields are desolated, their fences made fuel for camp-fires, and their houses razed to the ground.
If they seek personal safety, not by resistance but by flight, they are hunted down by cavalry, caught and carried through towns and villages, like prisoners at the chariot of some Roman conqueror, and made a spectacle and a show, for the double purpose of wounding and humiliating their friends and gratifying the insatiate vengeance and savage cruelty of
<c05>
their enemies. You naturally pause to inquire of what heinous offence they have been guilty? The answer is easy. The lips are scarcely parted with the utterance of the interrogatory before the response is heard: They loved the country in which they were born; they embraced the Constitution which their fathers taught them to revere, and they obeyed the laws which so long had given them protection; they were unwilling to follow after strange gods; but the teachings of their early infancy became the precious lessons of their ripened manhood. This is the "head and front of their offending;" nothing more.
For this picture, we have not drawn upon the imagination; it is not dyed in the hues of fancy; but the frame-work and finishing-touches of confessed facts, vauntingly promulgated in the Knoxville Register, the organ of the Secession party of East Tennessee. If any one doubts, let him read. If there is so much upon the stage, what must be behind the scenes? If the Knoxville Register unblushingly publishes these facts to the world, what sad tales of woe. wretchedness and misery would the experience of the victims tell!
But, thank God, the day of their deliverance is at hand. The thunder of the artillery of the Union is heard approaching, and already its echoes and reverberations resound through their mountain fastnesses, informing them that succor is at hand. And ere long that old familiar flag, from which they have been too long separated, will rise like a rainbow of hope over the highest tops of their romantic mountains.—Nashville Union, May 1st.

SAVAGE WARFARE.
H. J. Raymond, editor of the N. Y. Times, writing from Yorktown under date of the 8th inst., says: "I cannot close this without mentioning one incident which will brand forever in history the character of the foe with whom we have to deal. Gen. Butterfield was General of the trenches on Sunday, and in charge of Yorktown after its evacuation. The troops found scattered about—not at random, but carefully placed so as to be the most destructive,—great numbers of torpedoes, charged with explosives, and so arranged with wires that on being handled or stepped on, they would explode. A large tree, around which horsemen would naturally gather for shelter, was completely surrounded by them. They were placed in narrow portions of the road—at or near wells, and wherever individuals were most likely to go. They were found in carpet-bags, in flour barrels, in corn and coffee sacks. in officer's trunks, &c., &c. One was placed just where the telegraph wire, which had been cut, entered the ground,—and exploded as the new telegraph operator went to take possession, killing him instantly. Seven or eight of our men have lost their lives already from this cause. The entrance to the magazines has been so arranged as to make it almost certain that an explosion will follow any attempt to open them;—they have, therefore, been placed under guard, and have not yet been disturbed. I saw to-day a statement made by a man named Grover, from Western New York, who has been in the rebel army from the beginning of the war, but who was lately taken prisoner, or who surrendered voluntarily, I do not remember which, He says (under oath,) that the construction and planting of these torpedoes has been the special work of Brig. Gen. Rains, who goes among the rebel soldiers by the soubriquet of " Sister Rains," on account of his devotion to the doctrines of Free Love and Spiritualism. He asserts that Rains had given a great deal of time and labor to the preparation of these troop does,—that he superintended the " planting " of them himself, and that he had seen him going about in connection with a man named Gray, with a wagon load of them to be placed in particular spots. Grover says that he knows where very many of them have been placed, and to-morrow Gen. Andrew Porter, the Provost-Marshal, intends to send a squad of rebel prisoners under Graver's guidance to dig out all these infernal machines at their own proper risk and peril. No one can complain of a retaliation such as this, which merely compels the rebels to take the chances of the assassinations they had planned for our troops."

HOSPITAL EXPERIENCES.
The Wounded at Paducah, Ky.—Great Variety of Wounds—Horrors of the Battle-Field.
The following extract (says the Detroit Free Press) is from a private letter from an army surgeon at Paducah:—
PADUCAH, Ky., April 17.
Do not upbraid me for the very hard work I have done, for how is it possible for a man of my temperament to do other than work, when you enter a room where a hundred or two of our brave boys lie in pain, in agony, and in mutilation; and hear them cry out, in the most piteous and beseeching tones, " Dear Doctor, for heaven's sake, do help me next." Others will say, "I know you do all you can, but if I die, oh, my poor wife and my little children! What will become of them? Do, for God's sake, fix me next." Then, again, to look into the anxious, beseeching eye—put your hand upon the feeble pulse, or on the fevered cheek, or on the cold and already clammy brow, I ask you, where is the man who has a single particle of love for his race or his country and countrymen, who will not be nerved up to work, tired and weary as be may be?
The variety of wounds we have are almost as numerous as the wounded themselves. First look at the head. A cannon ball or portion of shell has carried away all the skin and scalp from a whole side of the head and face; a Minie ball has entered the back part of the head, coming out through the nose or the cheek bone, carrying away all the bony and fleshy substance of the face, and leaving the most horrid mutilation you can imagine. Another is shot through the temples, one or both eyes torn out and lying on the cheek; another with the lower jaw all shot away, and the poor, dry and fevered tongue swelled as large as a man's arm. Again turn down the coarse but bloody woolen blanket from the poor man's breast; a bullet has gone through the chest; the bloody serum and the bubbles of air press or ooze out of each wound at every labored breath; his lips are blue, his skin is cold, sweat oozes out at every pore; he, too, with the utmost difficulty, breathes out, " Do help we." But all we can say or do is to assure the poor sufferer that his only relief is in a dose of morphine, and his only rest the grave. Another has a shoulder or an arm pierced or carried away. If the shoulder is carried away, wash and dress, cover up, assuage the pain, and wait the fatal moment; if the arm be only badly shattered, the knife and/the saw soon do their work; the poor fellow is maimed for life, whether it be short or long. He is laid away as best he can be, to run his chance. Another is shot through the back, and an entire paralysis of the whole lower part of the body has ensued. He breathes a few hours or days at most. Another is shot through the hips, leaving the bones
<c06>
perfectly bare. He, too, soon goes to his long home, his final and last resting place. Then again, the variety of wound and mutilation which are met with in the legs, and number and variety of operations which are needed and performed, would take volumes, and not letters, to describe. It is out of my power to give a graphic view of what has come under my notice and care.
The estimate I gave you the other day, of the number of our killed and wounded, 5,000 killed and 15,000 wounded, is really below the fact. I have vet been in no battle, but have seen a great deal of its horrors. Padueah is at the junction of the Tennessee with the Ohio Rivers. It is the first point of any kind of size that is reached from the field of battle and is the first point where a general hospital is located. All the boats first stop hero, and all the worst cases are taken off, hence the great number and variety of our operations.
I cut off forty-one limbs in one single night. At first I felt really nervous; at last I really liked it. So the feelings of poor human nature can become blunted.

JEFF. DAVIS'S COACHMAN.
FREDERICKBURG, May 7, 1862.
By far the most interesting arrival we have had in this department for several days was that of Wm. Jackson, the negro coachman of the Hon. Jeff. Davis, who came within our lines a few evenings since. The news that so important a personage had reached us spread with great rapidity through the camps, and was the theme of conversation until a late hour. The fact cannot be questioned that the most important information we receive of the enemy's movements reaches us through the contrabands. The wisdom of the policy so long advocated by the Tribune has been more than established by the commanding General of this department. Almost every movement of the enemy is instantly known to him through these invaluable aids. Instead of being driven back from our lines until they touch the rebel bayonets, and compelled to endure hardships ten-fold greater than the labors of the corn or rice-fields, they are taken by the hand as brothers, their simple story heard and trusted, and not unfrequently made the basis of important military movements. In this instance of Jackson, his arrival created as much excitement as that of a rebel Brigadier-General. Generals, Colonels and Majors flocked around him in great numbers, and had not the commanding General himself sent for him, would have absorbed the better portion of the night in listening to his narrative. Indeed, so valuable did General McDowell consider his information, that he immediately telegraphed it to the War Department.
The old plea, that a mulatto may have a soul and be intelligent on account of the white blood in his veins, while a pure negro is nothing but an overgrown monkey minus the caudal appendage, will not hold true in this instance. Jackson is as black as a Congo negro, and much more intelligent than a good many white folks. Your correspondent doubts very much whether any of the members of the rebel Congress, or even the rebel Generals, were more thoroughly informed of the movements of their own army than this negro. After passing through the ordeal of a severe cross-examination from Major-Generals, Brigadier-Generals, &c., and three or four correspondents, not a flaw could be detected in his story, and all parties pronounced it a truthful narration, and the narrator a remarkably intelligent person—not a thing. His memory is remarkable, especially in retaining drawing-room and table gossip, and before he left us for Washington, we were almost as well informed of the social life and habits of Jeff. Davis as if we had been inmates of his family.
Jefferson Davis, according to Jackson, will hardly live to see the chief corner-stone (slavery) of his Confederacy "laid upon the Rock of- Ages." Already, "coming events cast their shadows before." Says' Jackson, "His countenance is pale and haggard, he sleeps but little, and eats nothing—is very irritable, and continually complaining of his Generals. He plans advances, but they execute masterly retreats. He would have Washington, Philadelphia and New York, but they are content with the great cities of the cotton States."
And Mrs. Davis, too, from the refined and elegant lady who would have adorned the White House with grace surpassing that of Mrs. Madison, has become the termagant and the scold, and the terror of all who are so unfortunate as to be under her rod. Says Jackson, "Mr. Davis treated me well, but Mrs. Davis is the d—I."
One cannot converse with Jackson an hour without being convinced that the rebel Confederacy has collapsed—dissension is paramount in court and camp. The machinery of this model government is all ajar. Confederate notes seem, all at once, to have lost their lubricating property. They are consumed by the friction, instead of soothing it.
But it is said, all contrabands are not as intelligent. Well, what if they are not? Thank God, the experiment whether the negro is more valuable to the country in building fortifications for our enemies than in constructing railroads for out friends is being daily tested in the Department of the Rappahannock. Gen. McDowell is determined, that as the rebels have forced the negroes to play a part in this war, they shall, if they so choose, play it on our side. And how they are deciding, no one can long be at a loss to determine, who will visit the valley of the Rappahannock. Your correspondent has spent two weeks here, and has yet to find the first rebel negro. They are all with us, from the little piecaninny just beginning to lisp "massa," to the tottering old field-hand, who would have nothing to gain but the hospital by emancipation.
What if we may be compelled to support a few of these unfortunate human beings for a short time, it will not cost as much as the continuance of this war one week. If rebels are to be punished, there is no punishment so severe as the emancipation of their slaves. Say* one of the wealthiest planters in this valley to me, (a violent secessionist, and the owner of two hundred negroes,) "You may take my horses and my mules, and empty my corn-crib, but, for God's sake, send me back my negroes—we shall all starve without them." I could not" understand his logic, and on my way from his mansion, asked the few remaining field-hands if they could live, and work without corn and horses and mules? "Golly, massa, we de earn and horses and mules, and got to live any how," was the reply. It is natural for the negro to steal, say many: so it is for the white man when he receives nothing from one year's end to the other but a few cast-off rags to cover his back, five ounces of pork, and a quart of corn per day.
To be frank, -when I hear that negroes steal under such circumstances, I thank God that all manliness has not yet been crushed out of them, and that they have vitality enough left to steal. Yesterday, while crossing the pontoon bridge from Falmouth to Fredericksburg, one of the poor white trash stopped me, and asked if I thought he could recover his slave,
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE EXITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the Slave holding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of ' slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually is war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAXES THE PLACS or THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J. Q. ADAMS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
who run away the day before by going to Gen. McDowell. I told him that was something Gen. McDowell had nothing to do with- that he would probably find it very difficult to recover his slave, unless he could assure him that his labor would be paid for, his freedom guaranteed, and his manliness recognized. This reply was followed by a volley of oaths and curses from the miserable slave-owner which I have not the taste to repeat-Tribune.

A NEW CONSTITUTION FOR THE MODEL REPUBLIC
The experience of recent events, and the dangers with which they have been fraught to the existence of the republic, compel every true friend of his country to the conviction, that the Constitution which establishes political regulations for the collective life of the nation as well as for the separate States, must, spite of its great excellences, be defective. In order, therefore, to secure on all sides, by an active generalization (formulirung), the various rights and duties whose protection and performance are the sole lasting bond of union, the National Convention of Conservate patriots submits to the people of the United States, for their acceptance, the following outlines of a New Constitution:-
I. CLASSIFICATION
The United States shall be divided, 1, into sovereign States and the sovereign Confederacy; 2, into South and north.
II. RIGHTS OF THE SOVEREIGN STATES AND OF THE CONFEDERACY
The State may manage their internal affairs to suit themselves, provided that by these are understood barbarous statutes, beastly manners, and cannibal actions. With these the government of the Constitution is permitted, and State sovereignty transcends national in matters of barbarism. But should single States decree regulations for the defence of freedom and humanity, these shall be subject of the approval of the national government.
III. RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE SOUTH
The South shall have all rights that are convenient, and all duties that are agreeable, to her, provided she cherishes and perpetuates slavery.
The inhabitants of the South shall have especially the right to employ at pleasure to destroy two legged property, as well as to annihilate whatever is dangerous to the same. They may, therefore, not only sell their own children, but also flog their slaves to death, and burn them alive, and tar and hang abolitionists.
Those who own the most slaves shall be the lords of the slaveless, and called to the dominion of the land.
Should they believe their dominion threatened, they may rebel, steal the arms of the country, plunder its public chests, and begin war. If they conquer, they shall return as "brothers" to their previous position, and try their luck again at the fitting time.
The more they steal, play vandals, and murder, the greater claim they shall earn to forgiveness and the greater claim they shall earn to forgiveness and respect, and the better security for their privileges, among which shall be especially the following:
The shall shoot down every one who makes use of free speech and a free press in behalf of liberty, and allow none to abide in the South who do not suit them.
They shall enjoy the postal service gratis, and have the first claim to the best positions in the army, navy, and administration.
They shall so construct the tariff as to secure the interests of their own productions at the expense of the North.
They shall cut off the heads of Northern captives, make of their skulls drinking-cups wherewith to toast the weal of the republic, and watch-chains of their bones to be worn on patriotic holidays.
They shall beat down Northern pillars of the people in Congress with bludgeons, and receive for the same especial consideration.
They shall discharge no debts and keep no promises. 
They may practise high treason a broad as at home. If they get aid from foreigners, they shall receive a reward for their patriotic policy: if none, then they shall receive indemnification.
IV. RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE NORTH.
The inhabitants of the North shall have, above all, the right and the duty to be agreeable and serviceable to the South. If the Southerner has no rug, his Northern fellow-citizen shall stretch himself on the ground, and beg him not to feel constrained.
Attacks on slavery shall be regarded and punished as treason.
Fugitive slaves shall be hunted with hearty delight.
Abolitionists who employ free speech and a free press shall be mobbed, while Southerners shall everywhere write and speak as they please.
If the South begins war on the North, the latter shall pay the costs thereof. In consideration of which, Northern soldiers shall be permitted to load their weapons as soon as they feel the Southern bullets in their bodies.
If the North catch Southern pirates and traitors, it shall treat them as guests, and send them back on their promising to entertain the greatest respect for her stupidity.
If the North catch Southern pirates and traitors, it shall treat them as guests, and send them back on their promising to entertain the greatest respect for her stupidity.
Should the South steal destroy her money, arms, ships, and forts, she shall repair everything out of the pockets of her children, and her children's children.
Should the South not accomplish enough in her treason, the North shall put treason at the head of her troops, and lead her sons to slaughter by appointment.
The more slaps the North receives from the South on the left cheek, the more readily shall she present the right cheek also.
She shall buy or conquer for the South new territories, whenever the latter has not dominion enough for the expansion of slavery.
Should a rebellion in the South be suppressed, the North shall rebel for her.
If slavery cannot ruin the North, she shall ruin herself for slavery.
V. RIGHTS & DUTIES OF THE SOVEREIGN PEOPLE.
The sovereign people exists for this-to elect representatives and officers who may govern and command at pleasure. It shall pay for what they squander, bleed when they open its veins, and sacrifice itself when they betray it. For it is sweet to pay for one's country, sweeter to die and perish for the same.
VI. DUTIES OF OFFICE-HOLDERS.
Office-holders, the President at their head, have the duty of guarding the rights of the Commonalty and of securing the interests of the Republic, in default of which they shall be cashiered or imprisoned. Therefore, above all, they shall cause to be incarcerated without trial whoever displeases them; subvert the free press by confiscation and closing of the mails; steal and defraud as they may be able; treat traitors as "brothers"; humble the republic abroad, and endanger its security by transactions with despots.
They shall act as lords of the people that chose them for servants, and need trouble themselves about no one else, if they only have on their side the priests, the slaveholders, and the despots.
They shall be entitled to re-election, if they are as possible, and to a national reward, if they are as wicked as possible. Should they succeed in utterly ruining the State, they shall be reckoned among the "Fathers of the Republic."-Translated for the Liberator from the (German) “Pionier.”

THE "DEMOCRATIC" PRONUNCLAMENTO AT WASHINGTON.
This is a labored eulogy of the democratic party, and an attack upon the present administration. In a time by the insurrection, which was concocted in the "democratic" cabinet of Mr. Buchanan, it might be expected that fourteen democratic members of Congress, addressing the people of the United States, would indicate their opinions of this gigantic treason, and would declare what specific measures they advise for its suppression. We look in vain for anything of the kind in this address.
They are sticklers for the Constitution; over and over they declaim upon that topic. They are profuse in their charges against the administration. They are exhaustive in eulogy upon the principles and policy of the democratic party. But of this rebellion which their party brethren have set on foot, aimed at the very life of the Government and the constitution, they have no sharper word of exclamation than "this unhappy civil war." Of course, they are not forgetful of that old image of terror to
<c02>
political sucklings, ABOLITION. Their programme of "restoration" is brief. After urging the restoration of the democratic party to power as the infallible road to the restoration of the Union, they lay down their specific thus:-
These men speak the dialect of that same "latter day democracy," under whose auspices forts, ships of-war, navy yards, mints and custom-houses were placed at the disposal of conspirators and rebels. They propose to appease the rage of Jeff. Davis and his accomplices by offering up, under the odious name of "Abolitionism," whatever there is in the diffusion among themselves of the institution of slavery. They would yield to every arrogant demand of armed and bloody insurgents, prostrate themselves in the dust, and cry, "Great is slavery; may its sway be universal, and its reign perpetual!" Those who refuse the like humiliation they would brand as Abolitionists, execrable and accursed. This, according to the fourteen, is the democratic mode of restoring the Union. The country has had some experience of that kind of democracy.
As we have remarked, these apostles of peace on rebel terms are full of denunciations of the administration. They say not a syllable of the democratic treason which ruled in the Executive Councils in the days of Buchanan-not a word of the dispersion of arms, and army and navy, to make easy to the rebels the seizure of the public property, the capitol, and the archives. All this is ignored, and the scrupulous restorationists strain their optics to discern, in the struggles of the executive to defeat those schemes, some technical deviation from the letter of the law. The turpitude of the rebellion moves not their abhorrence; the plots and perjuries of the conspirators are peccadilloes unworthy of notice. All their invective is reserved for others-for the President, and those who not bow the knee to Baal!
They dwell upon the enormous taxes, the levying of which is rendered inevitable, if the rebellion is to be suppressed, and demand the restoration of the democratic party to power as the remedy for that. No intimation is given that party would not follow the policy of Buchanan's administration, and make peace with the rebels in the same way that he preserved it, by giving them absolute and supreme control of every department of the government.
On the contrary, a careful reading of this Democratic Address leaves the inevitable conviction, that these self-styled "democrats," and those who sustain them, are those " allies in the Free States" on whose assistance, pledged and assured, they relied in the beginning of their wicked revolt. There is every reason to believe that this democratic movement is in understood co-operation with Davis and his Confederate government in this time of their extremity.-St. Louis Democrat.

GENERAL HUNTER'S ORDER.
On the 7th of November last-more than six months ago-Com. Dupont thoroughly routed the rebel forces defending the entrance to Beaufort haring off all of them he did not kill, and capturing their forts. A strong volunteer force under Sherman thereupon took possession of the adjacent sea islands, and has since held them without dispute, working its way gradually to Fort Pulaski, within sight of Savannah, Ga., on the one side, and within a few miles of Charleston. S.C., on the other. The Military Department confided to Gen. Sherman comprises the maritime States of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, and their sea-coast and islands may be said to be now in our possession. If there be any point of that coast now held by the rebels, it is because it is deemed not worth holding by the Unionists.
Gen. Sherman, so soon as he firmly established himself on shore, issued a Proclamation. Though a bad one, it was rather better than the average of years in South Carolina, supposed himself a favorite there, and laid himself out on an effort to conciliate her white aristocracy, whom he saw fit to style the "natural guardians" of the negroes. He tried hard to persuade them to return to the protection of the National flag, and thus secure their slave property from peril. Nothing could have been more "conservative" than this proclamation-and nothing more futile. He could not induce a South Carolinian even to take, much less to read it. "There are none such as you call loyal men among us, "was the rebuff his flag of truce received from those on whom his emissary tried to foist copy. One white man, it was said, was found on Beaufort when our troops reached that place-there because he was too drunk to get away. We believe he ahs since sobered and cut stick. Up to this hour, though a few Northern mechanics and laborers who had been impressed into the rebel service have deserted to us, we believe no single white South Carolinian or Georgian has sought the protection of our flag. And not one foot of the main land of either of those States is now under the national jurisdiction.
Gen. Hunter was recently sent down to replace Gen. Sherman. Gen. H. is an old soldier, an officer of the Federal army, who known very little of politics. He was badly wounded at Bull Run, and has been in active service in Missouri and Kansas ever since his wound healed sufficiently to allow of such service. He believes in putting down the rebellion, with small regard to rebel feelings or those of their sympathizing friends in the loyal States. With him the paramount question is-How to do it.
The whites of his Military District, so far as he can judge of them, are incorrigible rebels. Those who are not heartily so are too timid to say a word for the old cause. No journal, no speech, no movement, no utterance of any kind, has been heard of among them for more than a year past, which is not intensely, diabolically "Secesh." Rebel victories, rebel invincibility are the theme of every press and every tongue. You cannot speak a word of the Union so that it will reach them, and if you could, they would stop their ears against it.
The blacks, on the other hand, are instinctively Unionists. As they wait at table or listen at keyholes, they hear the master race cursing Abe Lincoln as an Abolitionist, and charge the North with making war on the South in order to upset slavery. Ignorant and misinformed as these poor negroes are they know that the "Lincolnites," the "invaders," the "Northern scum, " are hated and cursed by their life-long oppressors, and jump to the conclusion that what their owners so dread must involve good to them. As one of them told our troops on landing, "Massa told'em the Yankees would send them all to Cuba and sell ‘em,’ but they didn't believe Cuba "could be any worse than they were used to, and they concluded to risk it." So, when our scores of the poor creatures, who had refused to accompany their fleeing masters, came down to the water's edge with their little all tied up in a handkerchief, and begged to be taken aboard: they did not ask whither they would be taken, believing any change must be an improvement.
The three States composing Gen. Hunter's department are peopled as follows:
Slaves Free Persons.
South Carolina 402,514 301,271
Georgia 462,232 595,097
Florida 61,753 78,686 
Total 926,496 975,054
Excess of Free over Slave 48,558
Excluding the Free Blacks, the numbers of Whites and of Slaves is probably just about equal.
Gen. Hunter has a small army-we are not at liberty to say how small-wherewith to confront these two millions of practically hostile people, for the slaves do the bidding of the whites, who are intensely and in effect universally rebel. He is too weak is unhealthy for Northern troops. It is not possible just now to spare him more regiments, and he is sick of doing nothing. All the negroes on the islands are willing to work to work and many of them to fight for the Union cause, provided that cause means freedom for themselves. Otherwise, why should they be? He has long enough bidden the white to his feast, and they have stubbornly refused to come; so he goes out into the highways and ditches, and asks the poor and despised to take their places. Say it is a bold step if you will, but can you intelligently pronounce it a rash one? Who among us all can even pretend to understand the circumstances of Gen. Hunter's department, or the probable effect of this Order upon it, so well as that General himself?
Our neighbors, who have so vehemently insisted that the Generals in the field should be allowed to deal the with negroes and negro questions as they should see fit, do not seem to relish this dose; yet it is one of their own prescription. Ought they not to intermit their ludicrously wry faces, and gulp it down?-New York Tribune.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 23, 1862.

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION
The NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION for 1862 will be held in the city of Boston, on WENDESDAY and THURSDAY, May 28th and 29th, in the MELODEON, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., of Wednesday.
Let the anti-slavery men and women of New England, then, gather once more in their Annual Convention. Once more let them indicate to the long-slumbering but now awakening land, to a guilty but haply a repenting people, the only Way of Peace, of Safety, and of National Honor. Once more let the words of Justice, and Freedom for all, be echoed from the hills and valleys of New England, until they join the swelling voices of the Centre and the Great West; and the trembling, hoping slave shall hear the glad tidings, proclaiming his deliverance, his redemption, and his acknowledged manhood.
All friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, in every part of the country, are invited to attend.
Among the expected speakers are WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURT, ANDREW T. FOSS, WM. WELLS BROWN, SUSAN B. ANTHONY. of New York, ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, AARON M.POWELL, of New York, WILLIAM H. FISH, E.H. HEYWOOD. &c.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec'y.

PRSEIDENT LINCOLN'S VETO OF GEN. HUNTER'S EMANCIPATION ORDER.
A few days since, the popular enthusiasm was kindled into a wide-spread flame, in consequence of the order of General Hunter, declaring the entire abolition of slavery within the three States of Georgia, South Carolina and Florida, comprising his Military Department of the South. This was equivalent to the liberation of one fourth of the entire slave population of the country. Of course, with joy every where felt and expressed by the friends of impartial liberty, and the uncompromising enemies of Secession, there was some anxiety felt as to what would be the course of the president in relation to this Order. It was, however, generally supposed that General Hunter had not acted without having had at least a carte blanche in his hand, to be used against slavery according to the exigencies of his position. They were not allowed by the President to remain long in doubt upon this point. With undignified haste,-without waiting to hear officially from General Hunter, as he was in courtesy and fairness bound to do, as to whether such courtesy an Order had been really issued, and, if so, on what grounds,-the President, on Monday last, issued a proclamation, putting his veto on the Order aforesaid, even while admitting that he had not at the time "any authentic information that the document was genuine"! Was any thing ever more weak or more pitiable than this? What right had he thus to prejudge General Hunter, or with what propriety could he commit the government in so grave a matter with such precipitancy? His plea is, the Emancipation Order was "producing some excitement and misunderstanding." Yes, glorious excitement in the bosoms of angels, and of "the spirits of just men made perfect," in a higher sphere: thrilling excitement in every upright, manly, liberty-loving breast in the land; furious excitement in the regions of the damned, and among the traitors of the South and their Northern abettors! As to any "misunderstanding" about it, nothing could be plainer than the language or meaning of the Order:-"Slavery and martial law in a free country are altogether incompatible"! Neither the rebels nor their slaves will have any difficulty in understanding a declaration so true and sensible as this. General Hunter, being competent to declare martial law, is also competent to decide what that law requires in his Department; and finding the States comprised therein in hot rebellion against the government, with no evidence of a particle of loyalty existing in them, and an immense slave population made use of in every possible manner to defeat the federal arms, and give victory to the rebels, he very sensibly, and with the highest justification conceivable, proclaims that" the persons in these three States, Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, hereto fore held as slaves, are therefore declared forever free." Noble words, uttered never more timely!
All honor to General Hunter, and cheer upon cheer until the welkin rings; and shame and confusion of face to the President for his halting, shuffling, backward policy! By his veto, he has disgusted and alienated the truest friends of freedom universally, and gratified the malignity of the enemies of his administration who are at heart traitors, and represented by such papers as Bennett's Herald, the New York Express, the Journal of Commerce, the Boston Courier and Post, and other journals of the same satanic stripe. By his veto, he has helped to prolong the present bloody strife, to sacrifice needlessly thousands of Northern lives, to augment indefinitely the present frightful national debt, to dispirit the army, and to encourage the rebels in arms, whose hopes of success as their most efficient laborers in the work of rebellion. By his veto, he has made the danger still more imminent that the European powers will hasten to interfere for the independence of the Southern Confederacy, seeing no end to a struggle carried on in so besotted and impotent a manner by our government. 
President Lincoln should not only have endorsed, as justified by the exigencies of the case, the Order of General Hunter, but, long ere this, he should have declared every slave in rebeldom free. In such an act, the country will enthusiastically applaud him. The people will stand by him, while the growling and seditious sprits who threaten all manner of evil will be crushed at a blow. Four millions of people are FORCED TO AID REBELLION AT THE SOUTH, and to struggle to prevent the success of the Federal government, solely because they are SLAVES! Every one of them is loyal in heart, or would be if he could be assured that he may recover, under "the stars and stripes," his long withheld liberty. Who but Northern traitors, (for Southern ones do not,) impudently wearing the mask of loyalty, doubt or deny the right of the President, at a crisis like this, as commander in-chief of the army and navy, to declare universal emancipation? The greater includes the less. The invasion of a salve country carries with it the right to liberate every slave upon its soil. If General Hunter may rightfully take a hostile army with him, and declare himself military dictator over Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, thus denying the actual existence of those States as such, why may he not proceed to turn nine hundred thousand slaves coerced to act as rebels, into nine hundred thousand freeman, ready to lay down their lives in support of the governments The pages of history may be searched in vain for a parallel to the infatuation which prevails at Washington on this subject.
The President is still disposed to treat the dragon of slavery as though it was only a wayward colt. In vain has he seen every overture of kindness and good will rejected with scorn and contempt, and with added insults and fresh atrocities, by the revolted States; he refers with marked complacency to his absurd message to Congress in March last, proposing to propitiate the rebels by buying their slave property, and he renews the overture, with honeyed accents-soothingly assuring them that" the change it contemplates would come gently as the dews of heaven, not reading nor wrecking any thing"- and he enticingly asks" canst thou draw out Jeviathan with a book! Will be make many supplications unto thee"
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
OUR FAMILY OF STATES-Oration delivered before the Phi Beta Kappa Society in Amherst College, by Nehemiah Adams, D.D. Boston: James Munroe &Co. 1861.
This Oration was delivered as long ago as August, 1858, and printed more than a year since. The publishers (at whose request it was given to the public) are certainly tardy in sending us a copy of its; but having done so, we have simply to say of it, that it is a very common-place glorification of the country, its author being as blind as a bat to any evil affecting the safety or honor of the republic, and utterly ignoring the whole questions of slavery, though the system was at that time beginning to show symptoms of that terrific volcanic explosion which has since taken place. "We should be hopeful and cheerful," says the "gay and festive" parson; and none the less so because there are four millions of slaves in the land, who have "no rights that white men are bound to recognize and respect!" "Instead of borrowing trouble, "he adds, "let us borrow largely of the future for joy and gladness, even at the risk of appearing a little fanatical." So said the false prophets of old: "Let us cry, Peace, peace, "when there was no peace. "Let us fiddle while Rome is burning," said Nero-and he fiddled, "even at the risk of appearing a little fanatical." But think of the author of "A South-Side View no inquisitions," he continues, "nor laws against freedom of speech; we suffer men to speak as they please, if so be that they stop this side of blasphemy"-&c., &c, Yet slaves are annually burnt alive at the South, and upon its soil no man speaks against slavery, except at the peril of his life! Any form of blasphemy, except that against slavery, may be safely indulged in, but that "hath no forgiveness." Still burning incense to the national vanity, the defender of the Fugitive Slave Law the eulogist of slaver complacently says-"This land seems to be made for the human mind to exult in the fullest religious and civil liberty, unimpeded by proscriptions of birth, or any private or social position." Does it indeed! Then how impious it is to enslave any of the inhabitants thereof! Not less than a hundred thousand new victims are annually doomed to atrocious "proscriptions of birth." and to be an abhorred and outcast race; and for these Dr. Adams has no regard whatever. He utters his boastful platitudes precisely as though he had no belief in the common human nature of the slave population, and therefore saw no inconsistency between precept and practice. He is particularly delighted with the slave-breeding, slave-driving, and now rebellious States of the South, and airs his rhetoric in this manner:-
"The State which was like a rampart of cotton bales to the British cannon, with old Hickory's arm over her, is Louisiana. The brave advocate and example of toleration on a large scale, the daughter of Lord Baltimore, is crowned with the name of Maryland; Florida, with flowing garb, and a certain Seminole air of beauty, and the Carolinas, -all these belong to our household."
They neither" belong to our household" now, nor have they done so, except as a matter of form, at any time. We commend to Dr. Adams, for his special meditation, the 28th chapter of Isaiah, from the 14th to the 22d verse inclusive; and also the 6th chapter of 2d Corinthians, from the 14th to the 18th verse inclusive; and then to indulge in no further boasting about this "free land" until every yoke is broken, every bondman set free.
THE MASTER. By Mrs. Mary A. Denison. Boston:
Walker, Wise & Co. 1862.
As a frequent contributor to the press, Mrs. Denison is widely known for her literary ability. The present work is a very creditable performance, ingenious in the plot, and well sustained in interest form the first to the last chapter. The characters are almost exclusively musical, and defined with marked individuality; so that those of that profession will, in special, be attracted to " The Mater, "while others outside of it will be scarcely less adsorbed in the perusal. 
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY,-devoted to Literature and National Policy,-for raciness, independence, variety and tact, is without a peer among the monthlies. Its treatment of the slavery question is bold and trenchant, giving the system no quarter, and making its extinction essential to national unity and peace.
CONTENTS OF NO. IV. FOR APRIL. 
The War in Missouri. Beaufort, Past, Present and Future. The Ante-Norse Discoverers of America. I. The Mythical Era; I. The Chinese Discoverers mouth. The Fatal Marriage of Bill the Soundser. Columbia to Britannia. General Lyon. Macaroni and Canvas. Howe's cave. Potential Moods. The True Interest of Nations. Among the Pines. Southern Aids to the North. The Molly O' Molly Papers. Sketches of Edinbugh Literati. The Huguenot Families in America. Literary Notice. Editor's Table. 
The Publisher asks attention to “The War between Freedom and Slavery in Missouri,” the first chapter of which is given in this number of the Continental. The Materials for this history are furnished by, and the work is prepared under the direction of, one of the most eminent statement of the West, himself a prominent action in the events recorded. It will form one of the most valuable series of papers ever published in an American Magazine.
CONTENTS OF NO. V. FOR MAY.
What shall we do with it? A Philosophical Bankrupt. The Molly O'Molly Papers. All Together. A True Story. Macaroni and Canvas. Fairies. John Bright The Ante-Norse Discoverers of America. State Rights. Roanoke Island. A Story of Mexican Life. Changed. Hamlet a Fat Man. The Knights of the Golden Circle. Columbia's Safety. Ursa Major. Fugitives at the West. The Education to be. Guerdon. Literary Notices. Editor's Table.
J. R. Gil more, 110 Tremont Street, and Crosby & Nichols, 117 Washington Street, Boston.
A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, Boston, hare for sale Number One of " The Ballads of the War," by A. J. H. Duganne, noticed in a late issue. Messrs. A. W. & Co. are Special Agents for the sale of Harper & Brothers' publications, besides keeping constantly on hand all current popular literature, illustrated newspapers, foreign and domestic, periodicals, &c, &c.
DEED OF EMANCIPATION. The following is an official copy of the free papers issued to the blacks by Gen. Hunter, under the terms of his proclamation. The deed of emancipation reads as follows:—
"It having been proven, to the entire satisfaction of the General commanding the Department of the South, that the bearer, named-, heretofore held in involuntary servitude, has been directly employed to aid and assist those in rebellion against the United States of America:
Now, be it known to all, that, agreeably to the laws, I declare the said person free, and forever absolved from all claims to his services. Both he and his wife, and children, have full right to go North, East, or West, as they may decide.
Given under my band, at the Headquarters of the Department of the South, this nineteenth day of April, 1862.   D. HUNTER,
Major-General Commanding."
Parson BROWNLOW, the notorious slang-Whanger, is to give to-night at Music Hall, (admission ticket 50 cents,) an account of his sufferings in Tennessee at the hands of the Secessionists. The following is a specimen of his style, taste and spirit:—
"If, fifty years ago, we had taken one hundred Southern fire-eaters and one hundred Abolitionist, and hanged them up, and buried them in a common ditch, and sent their souls to hell, we should hare had none of this war."
A rejoinder to the letters of Messrs. Chamber lain and Allen, by William Carlos Martyn, is unavoidably deferred till next week. We trust the controversy will here terminate.
<c05>
NORTHERN TREASON.
The laughter of then Courier, of the late, has the aspect of coming from "the other side of the mouth". Its mirth has a certain deadly-lively air, reminding you of him who "grinned horribly a ghastly smile.' It seems confused as well as exasperated by the recent series of defeats of its Southern brethren, and strikes out indiscriminately on all sides, as the harpooned whale does "in his flurry." It proposes impeachment of the President, if he shall venture any further interference with the slave property of the rebels. It proposes mutiny to the army, if it shall receive orders looking like hostility to the peculiar institution. It turns up its nose in scorn at those who would associate with a negro, except in his proper capacity as a servant; and it rolls up its eyes in devoutly indignant petition that whoever shall commit this enormity may meet with speedy disaster and defeat.
Since this state of mind brings out from its unfortunate subject those truths which his cooler reason would conceal, the Courier's ravings just now are worth noting. Reading in the Tribune a notice of the enrolment of loyal blacks under General Hunter, and of their equipment with uniforms and muskets, it immediately "sees red," like Chourineur, and splutters out-"Loyal blacks, forsooth!" And after the partial relief gained by these ejaculations, it proceeds to comfort itself as follows:-
"We see that the House refused to entertain an order for inquiring into these doings of General Hunter, introduced by Mr. Wickliffe, and no doubt they would refuse to listen to one to inquire by what authority the War Department furnishes the muskets and red trousers. The only patience which a reasonable man can have with such doings, must come from the reflection that they hasten the inevitable crisis, when such things must come to an end. Upon any turn of fortune, the muskets, of course, would go into the hands of the masters of the negroes."
What unheard of audacity! A General who wants more men actually proceeds to enlist them! The War Department takes upon itself to furnish muskets and uniforms to loyal troops, without asking leave to do it! And when a spirited sympathizer with the rebels proposes a committee of inquiry, to discover "by what authority" these persons discharge their regular official function, the House thinks that matter so plain that it refuses to inquire! What are we coming to? 
The Courier, after having its little flurry, finds a contingent comfort in this state of things. These black recruits, it thinks, cannot be very good soldiers; they may, therefore, soon be beaten by the rebels; and then (happy day!) these muskets will, go "into the hands of the masters of the negroes." Is not this a rich development, from one who is constantly accusing the abolitionists as traitors?
The Courier returns to the same subject in another article, and, this time, tries the effect of a pious dialect. Its editor has had occasional spasm of tongue-piety ever since his speech to the Boston Tract Society in favor of the policy of his friend South-side Adams; and he gravely makes trial of it on this occasion. In his judgment, it required a very had heart, as well as a very bad head, to design or execute the project of arming the slaves at Port Royal. "Nothing could be more mischievous, or more indefensible, on any moral or Christian grounds. He proceeds to intimate that no one who has an ounce of wit can suppose that white men will fight by the side of negroes, "except as the latter in their proper capacity fight with and for their masters." And, after insisting that there is "a great moral difference" in the two cases just referred to, he winds up in the following strain of moral elevation:-
"It is enough to disgust an honest man with every thing which pretends to be a government, if this tawdry and malicious foolery is allowed. The indignant remonstrance of every Christian person in the land will go up to Heaven against this abominable proceeding-and we have faith that the prayer will be heard."
Faith, no doubt, can work wonders. And the prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Poor blacks! They will have a hard time when the Courier's prayer is answered. It is a curious coincidence that Jeff. Davis has gone to praying, in the South, just about the time his pro-slavery friend was uttering his soul's sincere desire, as above, in the North.-C.K.W.

TRACT DISTRIBUTION.
DEAR MR GARRISON,-You will be glad to hear that your old friend, PRUDENCE CRANDALL PHILLEO is still active in Anti-Slavery work. I lately sent her a box of tracts, books and papers for distribution, and have just received a first report of the use made of them, of which the following is an extract:-
MENDOTA, La Salle Co., Ill., May 10, 1862.
"The box and its contents arrived safely on Thursday the 7th, and since that time I have been busily engaged in distribution. You said, 'send them broadcast, and give them to soldiers.' This I am endeavoring to do. I got liberty to set the box into the front room of a shoemaker's shop, (as we live <illegible> miles from town,) and I think you would laugh to see me perform the duty of giving. I go into the streets and ask the women I meet (and also some of the men) if they live in the county; if they say yes, I am sure to give them some; as that will scatter them far apart. The owner of the shop is Mr. James Pilkington, an Englishman who has helped off many a slave to Canada, and the present occupant, Mr. W.H. Ashton, was engaged in the Chartist agitation in England in 1848, and was delegate to the Chartist Convention, and was one of the sixty who volunteered from Illinois, and joined John Brown, Jr., in Kansas. They both have hearts as great as Big Thunder. Mr. Pilkington left yesterday for another part of Illinois, and took a lot to distribute on the cars, and at his pace of destination. Capt. John Phillips, Co. A., 57th Reg. Ill., came in yesterday, and I gave him a lot to take to the soldiers. He said reading matter was scarce with them. Inclosed, I send you a note which I received to-day."
This note was as follows:-
MENDOTA, May 8, 1862. MRS. PHILLEO,- I am very much obliged to you for having placed in my way this little book, "The Right way the Safe Way," as it has disproved what I have been forced to take for granted as true, regarding British emancipation in the West India Islands having been a failure. In all my reading, I have never happened on anything that so plainly contradicts the assertions of the enemies of emancipation as this little work, and I have taken the greatest pleasure in reading it. Yours, truly, CHAS. M. HIGGINGS.
No doubt many of the Western papers keep repeating, like our Post and Courier, and the New York Observer and Journal of Commerce, the stale falsehood of "the utter failure of West Indian Emancipation." People who take these papers, and who do not see the books and articles that have demonstrated the thorough success and the immense advantages of West Indian Emancipation, will of course be deceived. For these persons, nothing can be better than Mrs. Child's excellent little work, above referred to; since it not only gives, in moderate space, the important facts respecting the working of freedom in the British West Indies, but refers those who have time for further investigation to the fuller original documents.
The note of Mrs. Philleo's correspondent shows the effect of "The Right Way the Safe Way' upon a candid mind. Many more of them ought to be circulated here; and those who are disposed to aid in this work can be supplied at the Anti-Slavery Office; and funds to print more, left at the same place, will greatly help this very important department of anti-slavery labor.-C.K.W.
UNION MEETING. We are requested to say, that there will be an Union Meeting in the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday, 27th inst., at 3 o'clock, P.M., at which Gov. Andrew is expected to preside. Addresses will be made by Rev. R.H. Neale, D.D., Rev. J.M. Manning, Rev. E.O. Haven, D.D., Rev. A. B. Fuller, from Fortress Monroe, and Rev. W.C. Patterson, from Hilton Head. Singing by the choir of the Twelfth Baptist Church. There will also be present a number of contrabands recently from the South.
Admission, 15 cts.; two tickets, 25 cts.; to be had at the bookstores and at the door.
The meeting promises to be of great interest, and no doubt will attract a large audience.
<c06>
PROF. CLARENCE BUTLER.
DEAR SIR,-I am an extreme enemy of hypocrisy, and when any man is sailing under false colors, will go as far so the farthest in efforts to strip from him his disguise, and reveal his true character. I was pained, a few weeks since, to see in the Liberator a paragraph impugning the integrity of Prof. Clarence Butler; for, during his brief stay in this city, I was much interested in his public labors, for they indicated talents of a high order, such as should be devoted to the furtherance of the cause of reform. His public lectures were very popular, and there are best few men who wield so powerful mental artillery. Your paragraph was not very specific-not enough to satisfy me; for if I am to condemn a man, I choose to have evidence, plain and irrefragible. Such, the paragraph does not furnish. If Prof. Butler is to be condemned, should not the evidence be given the public, rather than the conclusions of any individual, based on what may perhaps have been false, or unduly and highly colored! So it seems to me.
"Junius," of Springfield, in the last number, thrown a spear, but, unfortunately, it is made of his own conclusions, rather than the facts. "I believe," I question," "I doubt", are poor evidences to give the public on such a question. Why did not "Junior give us the facts in the case? Then we might judge of the gentleman in question with fairness. Further why did he write anonymously? Why did he not <illegible> to his communication his own sign-manual? Character is too grave a subject to be blackened anonymous certainly should not have hesitated to give the public the benefit of the responsibility which attaches to a known, tangible signature.
I have written this communication because I Know that Professor Butler was lied about in this city. I use this term without any qualification. he was represented as having run away from England, having murdered his wife, and to have married again in this country, leaving this wife after a while. This story was false. It originated with a loco-foco, pro-slavery Democrat, who was mad because Professor Butler, in his opening lecture, so truthfully handled the slavery question, and dissected in a masterly manner the conduct of those who affiliated with it, and paved the way for the rebellion. This has made me <illegible> that a plot may have been concocted. And the <illegible> to England by "Junius" appears to be <illegible> ear-mark. If any gentleman has fact compromising the integrity of Professor Butler in any particular, I for one should be glad to see them given the public. Give us the facts, and we will make our own conclusions. W. FOSTER, Jr.
Providence, May 5, 1862.
REMARKS. This defence of Prof. Butler is creditable to the kindness of heart of the writer of it, but it only proves that Mr. Foster, like many others, was greatly interested in Prof. B. as a lecturer, and desires more light in reference to his unworthiness. We stated, that we had seen a copy of letter written for publication in the Banner of Light, by Prof B., in which he acknowledged that he had acted very basely, and expressed great loathing of himself; and said that he should withdraw from the lecturing field, and strive to make atonement for the past. We trust he will do so; but, certainly, his own confession of wrong-doing should be satisfactory to Mr. Foster. The letter referred to was suppressed by the editor of the Banner of Light-whether from fear of bringing Spiritualism into disrepute, or for what reason we do not know. Mr. Foster should consider that Prof. B. so far as ability is concerned, is abundantly <illegible> to defend himself; and if he could have cleared his self of the charges brought against him, he would unquestionably, have been heard from long ere this We will only add, that the suspicion that the letter "Junius" came from Providence is wholly groundless.[ED. LIB.

A PRO-SLAVERY TRAP.
WASHINGTON, D.C., May 8th, 1862.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON:
I believe you are friend of the slave, and there fore I take the liberty of asking you to expose a<illegible> which has been set to enslave a few citizens of your State.
When the three months men went home to New England from Washington, a few slaves improved the opportunity to leave their friends and relatives, and all they held dear, to obtain that dearest boon, freedom "Honest old Abe's" enterprising officials caught hundreds of panting fugitives, and sent them back to their rebel masters. Notwithstanding the vigilance of our Republican slave-hunters, a few did get away. Not long since, Northern sentiment fairly drove congress to make a move towards freedom, and slavery was abolished in the District. Now that slavery is abolished in the District, many fugitives would be glad to get back here among their relatives. They are encouraged to come back by their former owners, and when they get as far as Baltimore, they are met by our United States Marshal, and taken and sold in Maryland, for the benefit of their owners.
A slave woman, with her three children, escaped last spring with a Connecticut Regiment. She is now anxious to get back to her husband, since her children cannot be sold away from her. The owner of this woman said to me, (with the vindictive hate which marks the expression of the slaveholder whenever speaking of a fugitive,) "I have heard from my slave woman and her children; she is in Connecticut, and wants to come back; but I shall see that she gets no further back than Baltimore, for there I intend to have her arrested and sold.” This trap is being laid for the unfortunate, and the bait is, freedom without <illegible> Expose it!
Let me here add, that the blacks are the most home loving people in the world. Give them freedom and justice, and they have no disposition to trouble the North. Yours, truly, 
D.D. CONE.

A RADICAL CONVERSION.
SHELBYVILLE, Ill., May 9th, 1862.
SAMUEL MAY, JR.:
DEAR SIR,-I live in Egypt. Of course, anti-slaver sentiments have not received much growth is yet; but now the soil seems in first-rate order to sow seed. Therefore, I am moved to ask of you a number of the best and most practical anti-slavery tracts for gratuitous distribution.
At twenty-one, I voted for James Buchanan, because all my relations were "Democrats." Next I voted for Abraham Lincoln, because I had heard Garrison and Phillips, and because I read the Liberator. Then I made earnest speeches to the public, and declared, "I am not an Abolitionist, only anti-slavery;" but now I will proclaim it from the house-tops, "I am an uncompromising Abolitionist."
Yours, for the right.
J.L. DOUTHIT.
FREEDOM OF THE CAPITAL.
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society, held May 8th, 1862, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That we hail the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, as the first ripe sheaf of our harvest; joyfully and gratefully accepting it as <illegible> recompense for our thirty years of anti-slavery is <illegible>; and that we wait with increased faith and confident hope for the perfect consummation of the glorious enterprise to which the American Abolitionists have dedicated their lives.
SARAH PUGH, President.
GULIELMA M. JONES, Secretaries.
 MARY GREW, Secretaries.
A SPEECH FOR THE TIMES-The Speech of Wendell Phillips, on our last page, delivered at the Cooper Institute, N.Y. Read, and ponder it well.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LITTER FROM MRS. CUTLER
PONTIAC, Livingston Co., III., May, 1862. 
DEAR LIBERATOR;
For a long time, it had seemed to me that in this part of the land, the fields were white for the harvest, and I had impatiently awaited necessary preliminaries to begin the work. The war now upon us has aroused the west from its dreamy tranquillity, and the cry of many an anxious heart has long been, "How can we bring to a successful termination a strife that is robbing us of our choicest young men, and making many a home desolate?"
The faithful efforts of the Chicago Tribune, more than any other paper, has given shape to the unexpressed feelings of all who had before distrusted slavery as a good. still, the old fear of the negro, grounded on the nurse's assurance that it Johnny went out after dark, be would be seized and carried off by the black man, or some other whim quite as unreasonable, keeps  many from demanding emancipation, direct and unconditional. They do not see what can be done with the negro; be will swarm up like the locust, and our land will be devoured. Such are the idle whims that still afflict people who ought to be sensible. Still, they are glad, even eager, to hear, and, late as the season is, it is not difficult to obtain crowded audiences. 
Friday afternoon, I went to Lexington, M'Lane Co., a flourishing little town on the Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Railroad. I had made no previous arrangements for this place, as I expected to have been occupied here; but other arrangements conflicting, I went on to Lexington, procured the use of church, gave notice in the schools, and turned to find, as I supposed, a generous-hearted friend. I called at the house of one Dr. F., and learned that he was not the individual I had supposed, though bearing the same name. I apologized, to his wife, explaining the object of my visit. She was formerly from Ohio, but had a sister, as I learned, connected by marriage with the "domestic institution." This was enough, so fatal is the virus of this disease, and her whole soul was corrupted by it. She said the colored people were a degraded, miserable race, unfit for anything but slavery, and they ought to remain where they were, I replied, that my acquaintance with colored people was limited, but so far as I had known them, they manifested the same capacity for improvement as the white race; that they were docile, easily educated by good example, and capable of acquiring the elements of science,. whenever permitted the opportunity of schools. In Oberlin, I said, I had seen colored people as truly educated and accomplished as any of their fairer fellow students. At this, all the bitterness of her nature was stirred and she poured out the vials of her wrath upon Oberlin in quite tragic style. Said she, "Ohio ought to blush with shame at having such a degrading institution" I asked her if she had any personal acquaintance there. No, she had not, and she was glad she was not so disgraced. I assured her I knew Oberlin well, and it was the pride and glory of the State, and had done more for the true advancement of the world than any other institution of learning in the land With a profound wave of the hand she said, "We will dismiss the subject." But she could nor refrain from abusing the negro, and I reminded her that the love of Christ was over all, even the lowliest. She replied that the negroes were all a poor, degraded race, and ought to be kept down and despised. I rose to leave, remarking as I left, by way of parting benediction, "If you despise even the lowliest of these, god will despise you." I turned my steps to the house of a real friend of the cause, and there learned that the doctor and his wife had been so strongly suspected of Southern sympathies, that his neighbors had cheer the stars and stripes as they were given to the breeze. They had not got over the humiliation. 
A good house full of earnest listeners gathered for the evening, and though I gave them strong doctrines, they were able to receive them. I found that those who, a year ago, were only moderate Republicans, were now as radical as the Liberator itself. They begged me to stay another evening or two, but I had appointments for Saturday and last evening, and had to return here.
A few years ago, we could only get a little handful of listeners upon this question, and all the earnest anti-slavery people were looked upon with utter contempt. Once, a fugitive had been arrested here, and delivered up to his captives with shameless eagerness. He was even loaded with chains in the court-room, and for want of suitable jail for such a felon as one who desired liberty, he was fastened by a great staple to the floor, and there carefully guarded through the night. Now, I found the new court-house thronged with eager listeners, to whom I talked of our great national sins and God's inevitable judgments.
Sabbath evening, I spoke to a crowded audience on the Christian policy of Emancipation. Ten years ago. I should in all probability have been mobbed, had I spoken as boldly as I did last night, but now they are able to bear it. I tried to show them that the negro had never attempted the lives of his benefactors, but had shown the same gratitude for favors that more privileged races show. The conduct of the freedmen of the District of Columbia is furnishing a text for the friends of emancipation that should be freely used. This beginning gives me great courage to go forward.
Yours, truly, 
H. M. TRACY CUTLER.

LETTER FROM A. T. FOSS. 
ASHTABULA, (Ohio,) April 28, 1862. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON: The second great event of this century has just occurred. The first was the emancipation of eight hundred thousand slaves in the British west India Islands, in 1834; the second, the abolition of slavery in the National Capital at Washington. 
If some great battle had been fought, and the rebels subdued, and the union reconstructed on the old basis, and peace proclaimed, with renewed assurances of protection to the slaveholders in the enjoyment of their peculiar institution, no one can doubt that the clergy and the church would have been particularly demonstrative, in their gratitude and joy, at such an event. Some day would be set apart, and their temples filled with sounding praise. They will not be likely to notice, to any great extent, this triumph of freedom and eternal justice. The thing is not to their taste.
If noticed at all, it must be by the Abolitionists; and I really hope some suitable notice will be taken of this blessed triumph of our work in a public manner. I would not wish to stop one moment from the great work which still remains to be done, to rejoice over that already accomplished; but it seems to me that a suitable recognition of this event would be an excellent way of doing the great work yet to be accomplished.
Last evening. I spoke in the Congregational church in this beautiful village to a very large and apparently a deeply interested audience. I dwelt upon the magnitude of the war as it regards the powers in motion and the interest at issue-of the war as the result of the religious culture and political huckstering of the last seventy-five years-of the conduct of the war as weak and imbecile-of the result of the war as certain to unfetter the slave. I noticed no dissatisfaction with my most radical utterances; on the contrary, those seemed the best relished. and the same is true of all the places I have visited during my present term.
Our ever-faithful friends, the Kings, formerly of Cherry Valley, are residents in this village, and their influence is strongly felt, and will be likely to work great good for humanity here.
The cloud of war hangs dark and heavy over the land, but the bow of hope is upon its bosom. 
Yours, in a blessed hope, 
A.T.FOSS. 
<c02>
QUARTERLY MEETING OF THE MIDDLESEX COUNTY A.S. SOCIETY.
The Middlesex county Anti-Slavery society held a quarterly meeting at Feltonville, on Saturday evening and Sunday, May 17th and 18th. The meetings on Sunday morning and afternoon were held in the new and beautiful "Lawrence Church," In connection with the Society occupying the same, and were seasons of true refreshing to many, and we hope to all, present, The evening meetings were held in the vestry of the same church. SAMUEL BARRETT, of concord, the President of the County Society presided and other members and friends were present GEORGE W. STACY, the minister of the Feltonville Society, PARRER PILLSBURY, of concord, N.H., SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and A. H. Wood, of Pepperell, each made addresses. earnest and fervent, appealing to the people to consider well the crisis of the nation, to look fully at its causes and its only remedy, and to gird themselves for the great work yet remaining to be done. The most entire attention was given to the appeals and arguments of the several speakers, and we have never been in a meeting where a more general and hearty agreement in the highest truths of the Anti-Slavery reform was apparent.
The following resolutions were offered and fully discussed;-
Resolved, That the momentous demands of the present hour when a death conflict is waging between  Slavery and Freedom, involving the existence of one nation, and the cause of Republican institutions every where, must impress on all genuine Abolitionists the importance of a faithful, persistent adherence to all former testimonies against the terrible slave system, and the danger of any cessation or adjustment of the hostilities between North and South , until the very last vestige of it is forever exterminated from our soil
And whereas, the laws of war have, beyond all question, placed the immediate and entire abolition of slavery within the jurisdiction of the President, of congress, and of the generals in command of the army in their irrespective districts; therefore, 
Resolved, That failing to do at once what the law of god and justice have always commanded, and the laws of men now so plainly authorize, and the condition of the country now so imperiously demands, we are forfeiting all right to the sympathy of other nations, forbidding all hope which the consciousness of a righteous cause would inspire, and are justly dooming ourselves, as a notion, to that inevitable overthrow from which no nation, great or small, has ever escaped, that based its institutions on injustice, cruelty and crime.
Resolved, That to arrest the present hostilities, by any compromise or arrangement which should give to slavery a longer life in the nation, now that it is the acknowledged cause of our calamities, would be at once so blind a policy, as well as reckless disregard of all the laws of Justice and Righteousness, as to make our ultimate overthrow as a nation as inevitable as it would be deserved, whatever temporary peace we might purchase at such fearful cost.
At the close, a vote was taken on these resolutions, and they were adopted unanimously, not a single hand or voice being raised in opposition. And it should be said that the majority of the persons present and voting were not professed Abolitionists or members of any Anti-slavery society. The vote may be considered an index of the prevailing opinion in the community where the meeting was held-a populous, industrious and intelligent community as can be found in any part of New England.
A number of subscribers were obtained to the Anti-Slavery standard, and a liberal spirit manifested in behalf of the cause.
SAMUEL BARRETT, President. 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Secretary pro tem.
FRIEND GARRISON, -The quarterly meeting of the Middlesex co. A.S. Society, held last Sunday at Lawrence church, Marlboro' .was truly a refreshing season. Although, I doubt not, you will have an account of our gathering from another pen, I cannot refrain from bearing my testimony, and expressing the profit and satisfaction experienced by the friends of God's suffering children.
Our ever faithful and veteran brother, Parker Pillsbury, did most effective service. Never I think, has he spoken with more solemnity and power; and never did the people see and feel more vividly the peril of this trial hour to our cause. as the voice of one of the old prophets, he magnified the eternal law of God's justice, which can never be circumvented by man. Enough if I say, our lesson may not be practised, but cannot soon be forgotten. I pray be friend Pillsbury may have strength to go up and down the land, calling for justice man, in the name of the living God, ere the hopeful hour is past, that it may not be said-" The summer is ended, the harvest is past, and we are not saved". 
Brother May was with us and gave the people words of faithful exhortation and encouragement. The choir offered sweet and acceptable strains of appropriate music; the people of Feltonville were hospitable to strangers, and found themselves thrice blessed in what they received by a season of "refreshing from the presence of the Lord."
In fine, It was a good and successful meeting; giving knew strength to the liberal, and we hope progressive society, who have erected a new and beautiful house, in which we assembled. We all felt it was "good to be there", and that instead of laying aside our weapons of "truth and righteousness," now is the time emphatically more so than ever to urge the primary work of the Anti-slavery cause. we must not, for a moment, be flattered or bewildered into the idea, that either by the whirlwind or the tempest, or by anything but "the still, small voice," is our work to be fully done. No truce must be made now with the guilty conscience of priest or politician; not even the appearance of compromise with those who rest on their arms. waiting for a millennium of liberty. The logic of events may aid us-the remainder of man's wrath may be restrained- but our work can never cease while man is hated for the color of his skin.
G. W. S.

REJOICING OVER THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
On Friday evening of last week, a large and enthusiastic meeting of our colored citizens was held in the 12th Baptist church, Southac street, to rejoice over emancipation in the district of Columbia 
The meeting was temporarily organized by the appointment of rev. Mr. Grimes as President. The Committee on Permanent Organization reported the name of John S. Rock, Esq., as President, some twenty five vice Presidents, and four secretaries. A Business committee was appointed, who reported the following resolutions:-
Whereas the congress of the United States has passed an act abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia thus acknowledging the truth embodied in the Declaration of Independence, which declares that all men are created free and equal; therefore, 
Resolved, that we, the colored citizens of Boston and vicinity would take this opportunity of offering our sincere thanks to Almighty God for this manifestation of his Divine pleasure, in causing the rulers of the nation to do justice to a portion of his oppressed and outraged people.
Resolved, That we tender to congress and the President our heartfelt thanks for this act which frees the National capital from the curse and sin of slavery.
Resolved, That Messrs, Wilson, Sumner, Wade and Hale of the Senate, and others who cooperated with them, and Messrs. Lovejoy. Stevens and potter of the House of Representatives, have our heartfelt thanks for their untiring labors in behalf of this act. 
Resolved, That we extent to our emancipated brethren our most cordial sympathy in their new situation, and we pledge ourselves to aid them in developing
<c03>
those moral, social and intellectual qualities which will command for them the respect of all unprejudiced men.
The resolutions were supported by John S. Rock, Wm. Wells Brown, Leonard A. Grimes. John Oliver and others, and were adopted by a unanimous standing vote, amidst great cheering.

THE LATE EMANCIPATION ACT.
There was a public meeting held by the people of color at the A.M. E. Church in the city of Terre Haute. Indiana, on Wednesday evening, May 7th 1862, for the purpose of returning a tribute of thanks to Almighty God for the late act of emancipation in the district of Columbia. Rev. T. Strother was called to the chair, and wm. J. Greenly was appointed secretary. The chairman called the house to order, and opened the exercises by reading a portion of the 11th chapter of the prophecy of the prophet Daniel, and singing and prayer. The object of the meeting was then stated by the chairman, after which a committee of three was appointed by the Chairman to draw up a set of resolutions, expressive of the sentiments of the audience. The Chairman appointed Wm. Johnson, Wm. J. Greenly and Alfred Cole, as said committee, who subsequently reported the following preamble and resolutions;-
whereas the congress of the United states, at its present session, has passed an act, which has also been signed by the president of the United States, on the 16th of April, 1862, freeing the District of Columbia from the curse of human slavery, and thereby emancipating and setting free all of our brethren in said District of Columbia; therefore, 
Resolved, That we, the colored people of Terre Haute, do most heartily return our sincere thanks to God, in behalf of our brethren thus freed in said district of Columbia, for the inestimable boon of liberty thus given them.
Resolved, That we also feel grateful to the members of congress for their untiring zeal in battling for the downfall of slavery and the triumph of freedom; that we invoke the blessings of the Almighty upon them and their labors, hoping that their days may be many and useful in the cause of humanity. that their numbers may increase rapidly, and that the time may not be far distant when the result of their labors may be seen in the final extinction of slavery throughout these United states.
Resolved. That we view, in the person and character of His Excellency, Abraham Lincoln, the President of the United states, in all his actions since his inauguration, and through the war which is going on in our country, up to the present time, a man acting with discretion, and aiming to do what is just and right to all men, and having the fear of god before him; therefore, we pray God to bless him in his office, as the chief magistrate of this nation, with a long and useful life, and with all that pertains to make men happy in this world, and with a happy immortality beyond that grave.
Resolved, That we, having been born on American soil, ("the land of the free, and the home of the brave,") feel, as a natural consequence, that this is our home, and therefore we feel an attachment to this country, and will be loyal to its Government: though we have been deprived of many rights and privileges which are ours by nature, yet we feel disposed to persevere in the cultivation of every branch of literature which is calculated to make us useful and intelligent.
T. STROTHER. President.
W.J. GREENLY, Secretary.
EMANCIPATION JUBILEE.
CELEBRATION BY THE COLORED PEOPLE OF NEW YORK.
The colored people of New York and the surrounding towns united in celebrating, on Monday, May12th, the abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia. We avail ourselves of the Tribune's report of what was said and done:-
"The exercises of the day began by a well-attended prayer-meeting in Shiloh Presbyterian church. at 5 o'clock in the morning. Throughout the day, every arriving conveyance from the adjacent towns poured in contributions of colored people coming to join in the celebration.
At 3 o' clock the National flag was raised on the Shiloh Presbyterian church in prince street, in presence of several thousands of the citizens generally. Eloquent speeches were made on the occasion by the Rev. H. H. Garnet, the Rev, John Dungy. Of Sing Sing, the Rev. Mr. Berry, recently from Tennessee, and others. As the flag was thrown to the breeze, thirteen newly arrived contrabands from Virgina were taken under its protection. 
In the evening , about 3,500 ladies and gentleman assembled, or rather crowded into the great hall of the cooper institute; Mr. John Peterson occupied the chair, and was supported by seventy-six Vice Presidents and twelve Secretaries. The people were from Brooklyn, Williamsburg, Harlem, Astoria, Jamaica, Flushing. Sing Sing, Tarrytown, Hudson, Catskill, Albany, Troy, Newark, Paterson, Jersey City, and other places.
On the platform were observed the Rev. Dr Cheever, the Rev. Alfred Cookman the Rev. Davis, Dexter Fairbank, E.D. Culver, the Rev. S.S. Jocelyn, the Rev. H.H. Garnet, the Rev. John T. Raymond, the Rev. H. W. Wilson. James McCune smith, M.D., George T. Downing, John J Zuille, the Hon. C.C. Leigh, the Rev. C.B. Ray, Patrick H. Reason, Peter S. Porter, Ransom F. wake the Rev. John Dungy, of Sing Sing, the Rev. Theodore D. Miller and Stephen Myers, of Albany and the Rev. E.J. Adams, of Newark.
The exercises were opened by the Rev. JOHN. T. RAYMOND in an appropriate and earnest prayer.
Mr. PETERSON. the Chairman, spoke at some length, setting forth the object of the meeting.
Mr. JOHN J. ZUILLE offered a preamble and resolution, expressing gratitude for the act of emancipation in the district of Columbia, and recognizing it as the first dawning of liberty; the redemption of the capital of the united states; the advance of public opinion, and the downfall of the slave power. They also deprecated any appropriation of the public money for the purpose of colonization, believing that the country could not at the present time spare it, and that in itself it was gratuitous and uncalled for. 
The Rev. HENRY HIGHLAND GARNET was received with great applause. After referring to the object of the meeting, he paid a lofty tribute to the worth and the honesty of the President of the United States. He said they had reason to grateful for the power of petition, as it had reason to be grateful for the power of petition as it had succeeded both with god and with the government. It was good cause for rejoicing that slavery was no longer national but sectional, and that freedom had become national by the congressional Act, Purging the District of Columbia of slavery. They had also cause for rejoicing for the passage of Mr., Lovejoy's bill, prohibiting slavery in all the territories of the United States. (Tremendous cheering.) The speaker then referred to the new beauty which the stars and stripes now assumed before all the nation of the earth; the folly of entertaining the slightest thought of colonizing the emancipated slaves. He said that new duties would present themselves for the colored people from that time henceforward, and they must be ready to answer the call of their country to stand up for the promotion of its interests, and the establishment of human liberty. In concluding he paid a high tribute to the great champions of freedom who had long since gone to their rest; also to the Rev. Dr. Cheever and the Harper's Ferry, John brown He proposed three cheers for the Union the President, the Congress, and John Brown, "while his soul is marching on," respectively. The cheers were given in each case with a hearty vehemence seldom surpassed at any of our largest public meeting. The effect of these cheers and the waving of the snow white handkerchiefs was electric upon those who occupied seats upon the platform.
GEORGE T. DOWNING  briefly reviewed the dark days of the past, and the hopes of the colored people through an age of prejudice and oppression. Those days were now vanished, and they could rely upon justice and law. When the history of the present war shall be written. It will record of the colored men of every loyal state in the union that, when the national existence was threatened, they sprang to their feet and volunteered their services to their country. That their offer was spurned was the fault of the government. He warned the government that, should they fail to abolish slavery throughout the length and breadth of the land, the nation would hold them responsible for any future misfortune which might befall the southern States.
WM.J.WILSON characterized the men who came to these shores in the Mayflower as men of principle and purpose; and those who landed in Virginia as men whose principle was acquisition and power. 
DR. JAMES McCUNE SMITH delivered an able and eloquent speech upon the fallen plans and purposes of the slaveholders, and the rising hopes of the people who love good government. One prop after another
<c04>
had been knocked away from the support of slavery, and in the general crash, the strength of the Church. a power which it had always quoted and had long held, had yielded to the great popular sentiment, which demanded an unbroken Union, a strong government, and the abolition of slavery.
The Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, being loudly called for rose and delivered a brief address, congratulating the colored people on the grand success which had attended their demonstration in honor of that noble act of congress which had introduced 3,000 immortal beings into a new system- which had made them the children of Freedom. He was glad to unite with them in their rejoicing, and trusted to the government for further steps in the march of liberty. 
After the adjournment of the Cooper institute meeting a large number of the young people transferred themselves to the Metropolitan Assembly Rooms, where mirth and dancing abounded till the morning. 
Another portion of the audience retired to the Ladies’ Bazaar in Bond street, for the benefit of the Colored Home.
Altogether, the day was made worthy of the great event which it was intended to commemorate."

PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
Whereas, there appears in the public prints what purports to be a proclamation of Major General Hunter, in the words and figures following, to wit;-
"HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, HILTON HEAD, S.C., May 9, 1862
General Orders No. 11. The three states of Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, comprising the military department of the south, having deliberately declared themselves no longer under the protection of the United States of America, and having taken up arms against the said United States, it becomes a military necessity to declare them under martial law. This was accordingly done on the 25th day of April, 1862. Slavery and martial law in a free country are altogether incompatible. The persons in these three states, Georgia, Florida and South Carolina heretofore held as slaves, are therefore declared forever free.
[official] DAVID HUNTER,
Major general Commanding.
Ed. W. SIMTH Acting Assistant Adjutant General."
And whereas the same is producing some excitement and misunderstanding,. therefore, I , Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, proclaim and declare that the Government of the United States had no knowledge or belief of an intention on the part of General Hunter to issue such a proclamation, nor has it yet any authentic information that the document is genuine; and further, that neither General Hunter nor any other commander or person has been authorized by the Government of the United states to make proclamation declaring the slaves of any state free, and that the supposed proclamation bow in question, whether genuine of false, is altogether make known that whether it be competent for me as commander in chief of the army and Navy to declare the slaves of any state or states free, and whether at any time of in any case it shall have become a necessity indispensable to the maintenance of the Government to exercise such supposed power, are questions which, under my responsibility, I reserve to myself and which I cannot feel justified in leaving to the decisions of commanders in the field. These are totally different questions from those of police regulations in armies and camps.
On the 6th day of March last, by a special message, I recommended to Congress the adoption of a joint resolution to be substantially as follows:—
"Resolved, That the United States ought to co-operate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State, in its discretion, compensation for the inconveniences, public and private, produced by such change of system."
The resolution, in the language above quoted, was adopted by large majorities in both branches of Congress, and now stands an authentic, definite and solemn proposal of the nation to the States and people must immediately interested in the subject matter. To the people of these States I now earnestly appeal, I do not argue—I beseech you to make the argument or yourselves. You cannot, if you would, be blind to the signs of the times. I beg of you a calm and enlarged consideration of them, ranging, if it may be, far above personal and partisan politics. This proposal makes common cause for a common object, casting no reproaches upon any. It acts not the Pharisee. The change it contemplates would come gently as the dews of heaven, not rending or wrecking anything. Will you not embrace it?. So much good has not been done by one effort in all past time as, in the providence of God, it is your high privilege to do. May the vast future not have to lament that you have neglected it. 
In witness whereof, I have set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 19th day of May, in the year of our Lord 1862, and of the independence of the United States the eighty-sixth.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 
By the President:
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

DESTRUCTION OF PENSACOLA BY THE REBELS.
THE MONTGOMERY RAILROAD TORN UP.
BEFORE CORINTH, May 18. The Mobile Advertiser and Register contains the following special despatches:
PENSACOLA, May 10. At 12 o'clock last night, the Pensacola Navy Yard and forts were set on fire, and destroyed. When the enemy discovered what was going on, Fort Pickens opened a furious bombardment, and kept it up during the conflagration, but without doing any damage to any one. At Pensacola, all the public property except the Custom-House (incapable of being burned) was moved, but all the movable Confederate property has been saved.
The railroad track leading out of the city toward Montgomery was torn up this morning. Federal vessels with a flag of truce came up to the city to-day, demanding its surrender. Mayor Bolibe refused to comply with the demand, and said all the military forces had left, and he had no power to oppose them. The Federal officers replied, that they would occupy the city to-morrow, but that the inhabitants need not be alarmed.

REPULSE OF THE FEDERAL GUNBOATS. 
WASHINGTON May 17.
The following dispatch has just been received at the War Department, 11 o'clock, P. M.:
Williamsburg, May 11. 
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
The gunboats. Galena, Monitor, Aroostook, Nangatuck and Port Royal were repulsed from Fort Daring, seven miles below Richmond, yesterday. A portion of them have returned to Jamestown Island, near this place, in James River.
Lieut. Morris, commanding the Port Royal, sent overland to me this morning for intelligence regarding the condition of the forces below the island, and also to assist in burying the dead, which he brought down with him. Seventeen have been interred on the banks of the river, and there are a number of wounded on board, including Lieut. Morris. The 100-pounder of the gun of the Naugatuck exploded at the first fire.
(Signed,) DAVID CAMPBELL,
Colonel 5th Cavalry.
By authority of Gen. G. H. McClellan.
PHILADELPHIA, May 19. The Bulletin's Fortress Monroe letter contains the following :—
"The repulse of the gunboats is generally regarded as a very serious affair. Seventeen are reported killed on the Naugatuck by the explosion of a gun, and the boat rendered useless and withdrawn. The Galena was riddled with shots, and the loss of life on board of her is suppose to be heavy. The Monitor was struck repeatedly, but is said to be uninjured.
Affairs are quiet at Norfolk. Several attempts have been made to assassinate Union soldiers. Col. Brown of the 20th Indiana regiment, stationed at Portsmouth, went out yesterday morning, and his horse soon after returned wounded, riderless."

REBEL STEAMERS AND SCHOONERS DESTROYED.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, White House, May 17, 10, W, P. M. 
A combined naval and army expedition, under Capt. Murray of the navy, with troops and artillery, under Major Willard and Capt. Ayres of the army, went twenty-five miles up the Pamunk to-day, and forced the rebels to destroy two steamers and twenty schooners. The expedition was admirably managed. We have advanced considerably to-day. Roads improving.
(Signed,) GEO. B. McCLELLAN,
Major General.

THE COLORED POPULATION OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The following is the bill for the education of colored children in the District of Columbia, which passed the Senate on the 9th inst., was reported in the House by Hon. E. H. Rollins, from the Committee on the District of Colombia, and passed that branch on the 15th. It has probably, ere this, been signed by the President:—
A Bill providing for the education of colored children in the city of Washington, District of Columbia.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That from and after the passage of this act, it shall be the duty of the municipal authorities of the cities of Washington and Georgetown, in the District of Columbia, to set apart ten per centum of the amount received from taxes levied on the real and personal
<c05>
property in said cities owned by persons of color; which sum received for taxes, as aforesaid, shall be appropriated for the purpose of initiating a system of primary schools for the education of colored children residing in said cities.
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the boards of trustees of public schools in said cities shall have sole control of the fund arising from the tax aforesaid, as well as from contributions by persons disposed to aid in the education of the colored race, or from any other source, which shall be kept as a fund distinct from the general school fund; and it is made their duty to provide suitable rooms and teachers for such a number of schools as, in their opinion, will best accommodate the colored children in the various portions of said cities.
SEC.3. And be it further enacted, That the board of trustees aforesaid shall possess all the powers, exercise the same functions, and have the same supervision over the schools provided for in this act as are now exercised by them over the public schools now existing in said cities by virtue of the laws and ordinances of the corporation thereof.
SEC.4. And be it further enacted, That all persons of color in the District of Columbia, or in the corporate limits of the cities of Washington and-Georgetown, shall be subject and amenable to the same laws and ordinances to which free white persons are, or may be subject or amenable; that they shall be tried for any offences against the laws in the same manner as free white persons are, or may be tried for the same offences; and that upon being legally convicted of any crime or offence against any law or ordinance, such persons of color shall be liable to the same penalty or punishment, and no other, as would be imposed or inflicted upon free white persons for the same crime or offence; and all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
Passed the Senate, May 9, 1862.
Passed the House, May 15, 1862, without amendment.

THE NEGROES OF PORT ROYAL.
To the Editor of the New York Tribune.
SIR: While fresh assaults are made by some presses, from day to day, on the negro, and on every effort made to relieve his necessities, produced by the acts of the white people, let me give an extract from a letter received by me to day, from Port Royal, from a young scholar and soldier of Massachusetts, who as seen life in schools and life in camps, and who is a Superintendent in the Sea Islands. He says of the negroes: "They are not lazy, but anxious to work, The Northern people want facts. Let them wait till the harvest, and we will furnish them with indisputable facts, notwithstanding everything but a kind Providence seems to be against them-no tools, no teams, no food, no clothes-nothing but their hands. I have commenced school, and have two sessions daily. I have ten Primers and one Card, for 125 people. For books I have substituted a blackboard, though with out any board and without any paint, for the walls of my school room being green. I have marked letters on them with crayons. The first sentence I put up to be learned was, 'God gives liberty to all.' In my experience as a teacher, I have seen nothing like the zeal of these poor hungry souls. They are greedy for knowledge, and when they come to me for primers, it is pitiful to see their sorrow that I have none for them. We find that the greatest punishment we can inflict is to send them out of school, telling them we will not teach them unless they mind. Two days ago, a man knelt down beside me, and scarcely moved for two hours, so intent was he on learning to read. I thought I thought I would see how long he could bear it, but he tired me out. He reads a piece until he knows every word. They learn quite as easily as our white children. I found one, yesterday, that could read anything in the primer, and could write a little, also." 
Such people can take good care of themselves, if common justice is done toward them. K.
May 7, 1862.
THE RUNNING AWAY OF THE REBEL STEAMER PLANTER. The Port Royal correspondent of the commercial Advertiser gives the following account of the escape of the negro man Small with the tug steamer Planter, from Charleston, S. C., with her cargo and the families of the crew:-
"The steamer Planter which was run away from the rebels by her pilot, Robert Small, is a new tug boat employed about Charleston harbor, which was seized by the Confederate government and converted into a gunboat, mounting a rifled gun forward and a siege gun aft. She has been in the habit of running out to sea to reconnoitre, and was therefore no unusual appearance near the forts guarding the entrance. Small, the helmsman and pilot, conceived the idea of running away, and plotted with several friends, slaves like him, to take them off.
On the evening of May 11, her officers left the ship, then at the wharf in Charleston, and went to their homes. Small then took the firemen and assistant engineers, all of whom were slaves in his confidence, had the fires banked up, and everything made ready to start by daylight.
At quarter to four on Saturday morning, the lines which fastened the vessel to the dock were cast off, and the ship quietly glided into the stream. Here the harbor guard hailed the vessel, but Small promptly gave the countersign, and was allowed to pass.
The vessel now called at a dock a distance below, where the families of the crew came on board.
When off Fort Sumter, the sentry on the ramparts hailed the boat, and small sounded the countersign with the whistle, three shrill sounds and one hissing sound. The vessel being known to the officers of the day, no objection was raised, the sentry only singing out: 'Blow the d-d Yankees to hell, or bring one of them in.' 'Aye, Aye,' was the answer, and every possible effort was made to get below.
Hardly was the vessel out of range when Small ran up a white flag, and went to the United States fleet, where the surrendered the vessel. She had on board seven heavy guns for Fort Ripley, a fort now building in Charleston harbor, which were to be taken thither the next morning.
Small, with the crew and their families-sixteen persons-were sent to the flag ship at Port Royal, and an officer placed on board the Planter, who took her also to Commodore Du Pont's vessel. Small is a middle-aged negro, and his features betray nothing of the firmness of character he displayed. He is said to be one of the most skillful pilots of Charleston, and to have a thorough knowledge of all the ports and inlets on the coast of South Carolina."
ENFORCEMENT OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW IN THE DISTRICT. Quite an excitement was created in the city yesterday, by the arrest and return to slavery of a woman and her three little children, who were demanded by her master, under the odious Fugitive Slave Law. The claimant was Dr. Duvall of Maryland.
Slave owners and slave stealers are now quite numerous in the city, and prowl around the contraband depots like so many ravenous hyenas. As the Fugitive Slave Law has now been enforced in this District, there will be a large number of writs placed in the hand of Marshal Lamon, who has no discretionary power, but is obliged to execute the law. The claimant may be in rebellion against the Government, still the law gives him his slave.
There are two means by which this nefarious business can be arrested, and they are, either to repeal the law, or suspend its operation during the continuance of the rebellion. We urge the immediate consideration of this matter upon Congress, and hope they will act so promptly that no more scenes like those enacted yesterday will be witnessed in the capital of the nation.-Washington Republican.
"The Circuit Court to-day appointed three Commissioners for the adjudication of cases arising under the Fugitive Slave Law. Several arrests were made today. There seems to be concurrent jurisdiction claimed by the military authorities, regarding the fugitives under their protection. Therefore it cannot be said the law has free course.
This afternoon, about fifty of the citizens of the adjoining counties in Maryland proceeded to the White House, accompanied by Messrs. Crisfield, Calvert, Webster and Leary, Representatives in Congress from that State, who had a conversation with the President regarding the interests of their constituents, as involved in the Fugitive Slave Law. They say the President promised a response on some other occasion."-Washington correspondent.
The slave-owners on our border here have been in great tribulation, owing to the fact that most of their slaves are escaping into the District since the passage of the emancipation act. They had in vain endeavored to enforce the fugitive slave law, until the President firmly decided that it should be carried out for the benefit of loyal owners. This is now being done quite rapidly, and many of the contrabands who have been wandering around our streets in a half-starved condition are being returned to their masters in Maryland.-Washington correspondent.
How shocking and humiliating are facts like these! A curse still rests upon the Capital!
THE REBELS AT WEST POINT, VA,-More Atrocities. Mr. De Witt Simonton, a private in one of the New Jersey regiments at the battle of West Point, writes to the Paterson Register that the advance of the rebels was four regiments of negroes, who killed most of our men. We lost in killed, wounded and missing three hundred. It was an awful sight as we advanced next day to see our dead that we were unable to get the day before. Every one had been bayonetted after being shot. One had his head nearly cut on, and all of them had their pockets cut out.
Beauregard's soldiers at the Pittsburg battle actually cut the throats of sick Federal soldiers as they by in their tents.
<c06>
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.-The tenth yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at. Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on FIFTH DAY, (Thursday,) the fifth of Sixth month, (June,) 1862.
This annual assemblage is held for religious communion, for mutual interchange of thought and opinion, for the perpetuation of old friendships and the formation of new; in brief, for a festival of two or three days of social, intellectual, and spiritual fellowship and profit. The members of this Religious Society do not hold their membership by virtue of any ecclesiastical vows or bonds, or of any real or supposed unity of the logical belief. Their common faith, if it were written, would be simply and only the essential principle of love to God-a love to be exhibited not through devotion to creeds and forms, but in lives of purity and beneficence, in the recognition and defence of the equal rights of mankind, in efforts to break the chains of the oppressed, and in a firm resistance to every form of iniquity and wrong.
Such being the spirit and aims of the Progressive Friends, the Slaveholders' Rebellion, its causes and consequences, and the means by which alone it can be effectually put down, will naturally engage no small share of the attention of the Yearly Meeting; and it cannot be doubted that, with an earnestness and solemnity worthy of the crisis, it will seek to persuade the people and the government to avert the calamities of civil war, and open up the only path to permanent peace and prosperity, by "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."
To all persons who cherish the spirit and principles above set forth we extend a cordial invitation to meet and co-operate with the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON and-THEODORE TILTON have engaged to be present, with other speakers.
Oliver Johnson, Isaac Mendenhall,
Joseph A. Dugdale, Sarah Marsh Barnard, 
Elizabeth Jackson, Lydia Irish,
Sumner Stebbins, Jennie K. Smith,
William Barnard, Ellen Angier,
Hannah Cox, Aaron Mendenhall,
Dinah Mendenhall, Sallie Howell,
Josiah Wilson, Samuel B. Underhill,
Ruth Dugdale, Philena Heald,
Annie M. Stambeach, Ellie H. Mendenhall,
Mary P. Wilson, Eusebius Barnard.
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The fourteenth Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will be held in Friends Meeting-House, nea, the village of Waterloo, in the county of Seneca, N. Y., on Friday, the 30th day of May instant, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing through Saturday and Sunday.
To this meeting all, without distinction of creed, sect or name, are invited to <illegible>, especially all earnest friends and well wishers to the human race, all who aspire for enfranchisement and elevation of life, the attainment of clearer light, higher freedom, and greater excellence.
Gifted speakers from abroad will be present, who will enrich and refresh with their words of admonition and cheer.
Communications to the meeting should be addressed to I. LISK, Waterloo, N. Y.
By order of COMMITTEE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
Waterloo, N. Y., May 1, 1862.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON will speak in PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) on Sunday, May 25, afternoon and evening, upon topics connected with the War, and its influence on Slavery.
WM, WELLS BROWN will speak at Hopedale, Sunday, June 1st, on the Progress of Freedom.
At Milford, in the evening. Subject—"What shall be done with the Slaves, if they are liberated?"
WORCESTER COUNTY NORTH.—The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County North Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held on Sunday, June 1st. [The place of the meeting to be announced next week.]
Members of the Society are particularly requested to attend, and all true friends of freedom and of their county are invited.
PARKER PILLBURY, AARON M POWELL, and other speakers will attend the meeting.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President.
REMOVAL-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.—MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M.D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P.M. 3m March 28.
DIED—In Farmington, (Michigan,) April 21, ETHAN LAPHAM, aged 80 years.
A pioneer in the West, a man of decided energy and high integrity, he was long an active member of the Society of Friends, (Hicksite.) in the last ten years, while .retaining the better features of Quakerism, he had grown to a more catholic charity, a clearer and more impartial searching for truth, and an earnest interest in the reforms of the day. He was a true friend of freedom. The spirit-life was to him a reality. Not long before his departure, he said to a friend, "I am too feeble to talk much now, but by-and-by we shall have great satisfaction together."
His last years were, as he said, his happiest, and his last days, even amidst bodily suffering, sweetly cheerful and serene. At the funeral, a brother, (Eli Lapham of battle Creek, a veteran reformer,) spoke with great feeling and power, and others added their testimony. G. B. S.

THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM.
DOUBLE NUMBER.
Three different men—WM.. Lloyd  GARRISON, of Massachusetts, GARRETT DAVIS, of Kentucky, ALEXANDER H.STEPHENS, of Georgia—are represented in the Pulpit and Rostrum, Nos. 26 and 27, (double number, two in one, price 20 cents,) as follows :—
The Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War: A Lecture by William Lloyd Garrison, delivered at the Cooper Institute, New York, January 14, 1862.
The War not for Confiscation or Emancipation: A Speech by Hon. Garrett Davis, delivered in the U. S. Senate, January 23, 1862.
African Slavery, the Comer-Slone of the Southern Confederacy: A Speech by Hon. Alexander H Stephens, Vice President of the Confederacy, in which the speaker holds that "African slavery, as it exists among us, is the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization;" and " our new Government [the Southern Confederacy] is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth."
Referring to these speeches, Dr Orestes A. BROWNSON, in his Quarterly Review for April, says:
"These three speeches are well placed in juxtaposition. Mr. Garrison is no favorite of ours, but he is an honest, outspoken man. He was almost the first among us to open the war for the liberation of the slave, and ever since 1829, ha has labored incessantly and unflinchingly in the Abolition cause, through no little obloquy and reproach. Hs deserves respect, if for nothing else, for the firmness with which he has stood by his principles, and the masterly courage and ability with which be has defended them. We are no Abolitionist of his type, but we honor the man who can wed himself for life or death to a great and just cause, plead for the defenceless when there are none to help, and speak out for the dumb when all are silent. Say what you will, William Lloyd Garrison, the Newburyport printer, will live in history as one of the moral heroes of American history, when we, and men far greater than we, shall be forgotten."
E. D. BARKER, PUBLISHER,
135 Grand St., New York.

A GOOD CHANCE
TO LEASE A SMALL FARM FOR ONE, OR A TERM OF YEARS.
A MIDDLE aged or young man, with a small family, with no other capital than a pair of willing hands, frugal and industrious habits, intelligent mind, a good moral character, somewhat acquainted with agricultural pursuits, will find a rare chance to lease—on the most favorable terms—a small farm, with all the stock and tools, and household furniture, situated in Pepperell, 3-4 mile from the district school, nearly three miles from the post-office, stores, churches, and a flourishing academy, under the management of an accomplished preceptor, four miles from the railway station, and two hours ride, by rail, from the city of Boston,—by making immediate application to the subscriber, on the premises. For particulars, inquire-of WM. SPARRELL, Architect, No. 9 State Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, where ambrotype views of the buildings may be seen.
No person need apply, who cannot furnish  satisfactory references as to all the above qualifications, or who uses intoxicating drinks, moderately or immoderately, or is passionately fond of dogs, since the lessor is desirous of making his homo, with, the lessee, and could not tolerate such nuisances. A. H.WOOD.
Oak Hall, Pepperell, Mass., May 12.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The.Liberator.
For.the.Liberator.
The.following.lines,.with.the.accompanying.note,.as.the.date.shows,.were.writtensome.time.ago,.and.during.the.life.of.the.good.and.noble.man.they.attempt,.in.part,.to.illustrate..They.are.now.offered,.for.the.first.time,.for.publication.to.the.Liberator,.a.journal.which.the.deceased.highly.valued.for.its.untiring.devotion.to.the.cause.of.the.slave,.and.the.oppressed.every.where.
HENRY.D..THOREAU.died.at.his.home.in.Concord,.Mass.,.May.6th,.1862,.in.the.45th.year.of.his.age.
New.Bedford,.May.11,.1862.
WALDEN.
Here,.once.a.poet.most.serenely.lived,
A.poet.and.philosopher,.forsooth,.
For.in.him.both.have.joined,.and.greatly.thrived,
And.found.content.before.the.God.of.Truth.
A.plain.set.man,.a.man.of.culture.rare,
Who.left.an.honor.on.old.Harvard's.walls;
An.honest.man,.in.search.of.Nature's.fate,
The.spot.more.rich.where'er.his.shadow.falls.
Near.by.the.shore.his.cabin.reared.its.head,.
With.his.own.hands.he.built.the.simple.dome,
And.here,.alone,.to.thought.and.study.wed,
He.found.a.genial,.though.a.humble.home.
From.the.scant.produce.of.a.neighboring.field,
Tilled.by.his.hands,.he.got.his.honest.bread;
But.Nature,.for.him,.greater.crops.did.yield,
In.rich.abundance.daily.for.him.spread.
The.woods,.the.fields,.the.lake,.and.all.around,
Both.man,.and.beast,.and.bird,.and.insect.small,
In.his.keen.mind.a.shrewd.expression.found-
For.truth.and.beauty.he.discerned.in.all.
A.jurist.learned.in.Nature's.court.supreme,
A.wise.physician,.priest,.and.teacher.too,
For.whom.each.sphere.reveals.a.ready.theme,
And.wisdom.is.exhaled,.both.old.and.new.
While.others.unto.foreign.lands.have.gone,
And.in.old.footsteps.travelled.far.and.wide,
This.man.at.home.a.richer.prize.hath.won,
From.fresher.fields,.unknown.to.wealth.and.pride.
His.own.good.limbs.have.borne.him.well.about,
Whose.constant.use.hath.made.him.stanch.and.strong,
As.many.a.luckless.wight.hath.proven.out;
And.Concord.soil.in.him.hath.found.a.tongue.
Heneeforth.her.hills,.her.gently.flowing.stream;
Her.woods.and.fields,.shall.classic.ground.become,
And.e'en.the.village.street.with.interest.beam,
Where.one.so.nobly.true.hath.found.a.home.
To.Walden.pond.th'.ingenuous.youth.shall.hie,
And.mark.the.spot.where.stood.the.hermitage;
But.ye.who.seek,.'mid.glittering.scenes.to.vie,
Let.other.haunts.your.vanity.engage.
Go.on,.brave.man!.in.thy.own.chosen.way-
How.many.ills.of.life.thou.dost.escape!
Thy.brave.example.others.shall.essay,
And.from.thy.lessons.happier.lives.may.shape-Shall.learn.from.thee.to.find.a.ready.store
Of.choicest.treasures.spread.before.their.eyes;
For.Nature.ever.keeps.an.open.door,
And.bids.a.welcome.to.the.good.and.wise.
New.Bedford,.Jan..17,.1860..D.R.
Henry.D..Thoreau,.of.Concord,.Mass.,.author.of."A.Week.on.the.Concord.and.Merrimac.Rivers,"."Walden,.or.Life.in.the.Woods,".works.whose.titles.give.but.little.intimation.of.the.fresh.and.vigorous.though.and.rare.learning.contained.within.them;.besides.of.various.papers,.Scientific.and.literary-and,.withal,.a.good.abolitionist..Walden.pond.lies.about.one.mile.south.of.Concord.

HENRY.DAVID.THOREAU
Hush.the.loud.chant,.ye.birds,.at.even.and.morn,
And.something.plaintive.let.the.robin.sing;
Gone.is.our.Woodsman,.leaving.us.forlorn,
Touching.with.grief.the.glad.aspect.of.Spring.
Your.whispering.alleys.he.for.other.groves
Forsakes,.and.wanders.now.by.fairer.streams,-Yet.not.forgetful.of.his.earlier.loves,-
Ah,.no!.for.so.Affection.fondly.dreams.
THOREAU!.'twere.shame.to.weep.above.thy.grave,.
Or.doubtingly.thy.soul's.far.fight.pursue;
Peace.and.Delight.must.there.await.the.brave,
And.Love.attend.the.loving,.wise.and.true.
Thy.well-kept.vows.our.broken.aims.shall.mend,
Oft.as.we.think.on.thee,.great-hearted.Friend!
Concord,.May.6,.1862.F.B.S.

SPEECH.OF.WENDELL.PHILLIPS,.ESQ.,
AT.THE
Anniversary.of.the.New.York.City.Anti-Slavery.Society, held.in.the.Cooper.Institute,.May.7th,.1862.
REPORTED.BY.J.M.W.YERRINTON.
LADIES.AND.GENTLEMEN,-I.take.it.that.the.mission.of.the.Abolitionists,.this.summer,.is.to.endeavor.to.guide.the.nation's.steps.in.the.untried.path.of.the.use.of.its.war.powers.We.have.had.a.Constitution.for.seventy.years..We.have.passed.through.most.of.the.phases.of.a.life.of.peace.We.have.exhausted.discussion,.almost,.in.regard.to.the.powers.of.the.Executive.and.of.Congress,.in.times.of.peace..We.have.never.had.a.moment.when,.in.any.broad.sense,.the.war.power.of.Congress.was.called.into.existence,.with.any.direction.toward.home.affairs.Its.foreign.powers.were.exercised.in.the.war.of.1812,.and.in.the.Mexican.war;.but.we.have.now.a.new.phase.of.the.question-civil.war-one.half.of.the.nation.against.the.other.half;.and.it.has.taken.us,.as.a.people,.about.twelve.months.to.come.to.the.conclusion.that.this.is.a.war..(Laughter.).Mr..Seward.did.not.wake.up.to.the.conviction.that.we.are.at.war.for.some.three.or.four.or.six.months..His.statement.to.the.European.governments,.that.this.difficulty.would.subside.individual,.in.the.territories.or.the.States,.would.be.altered.by.the.war,.whatever.the.result.might.be,.was.based.on.the.supposition.that.this.is.not.a.war,.but.merely.a.political.difference,.such.as.we.had.when.Jefferson.was.elected,.in.1801-such.as.we.had.in.Hartford.Convention.times,.1812.or.'14-such.as.we.had.in.Missouri.Compromise.times,.1819 such.as.we.had.when.Texas.sent.Adams.and.some.score.of.coadjutors.into.one.wing.of.the.Capitol,.to.proclaim.to.the.North.that.the.time.had.come.which.justified,.and,.in.their.opinion,.called.for,.a.division.of.the.Union-such.as.we.had.in.1850,.when.the.compromise.measures.were.finally.passed..In.the.cabin.of.one.of.the.national.ships.sent.down.to.Norfolk.to.destroy.the.Navy.Yard,.there.was.a.foreign bred.officer,.who,.when.he.heart.they.had.a.year's.munitions.of.war,.six.months'.food,.and.two.thousand.cannon.planted,.and.strong.bulwarks,.offered.to.take.command.of.two.companies,.and.keep.that.Navy.Yard.at.least.three.months;.to.save.six.millions.of.dollars,.and.all.the.cannon.the.South.has,.that.will.not.burst.at.the.first.discharge..(Laughter.).The.West.Point.bred.officer.to.whom.he.was.speaking-the.son-in-law.of.a.distinguished.American-took.him.down.into.the.cabin,.and.said,.in.French-"You.don't.understand.this.matter;.you.are.a.stranger..This.is.no.war,.it.is.only.a.political.difference..We.shall.settle.it.in.a.month.or.two..It.will.gratifythe.South.to.be.allowed.to.see.this.destruction-a.point.of.honor.yielded.to.her.We.had.better.surrender.this.yard;.burn.and.acuttle.what.we.need;.we.shall.the.sooner.settle.it."."Oh,".said.the.foreign.officer,."I.thought.you.were.fighting;.it.was.a.mistake;.very.well.".That.was.the.mistake.under.which.the.whole.nation.rested.for.six.or.eight.months.
Well,.we.ran.away.from.Manassas..We.gathered.another.army,.and.we.fought.some.bloody.and.gallant.fights,.such.as.the.world.cannot,.of.late.years,.show.many.likeThis.continent.was.almost.virgin.soil hardly.a.dozen.spots.marked.by.the.hoof.of.the.demon.of.war..At.last,.we.have.anchored.it.alongside.of.Europe.and.South.America..Hundreds.of.its.valleys.and.mountains.are.marked.with.the.progress.of.battle.or.its.actual.conflict;.and,.battle-stained,.blood-soaked,.we.are.to.go.down.to.posterity.like.all.other.nations,.emerging.from.battle.The.Anti-Slavery.enterprise.was.launched.on.the.idea.that.we.were.a.civilized.people-that,.as.in.the.mother.country,.argument
<c02>
could.decide.the.questionthat.nineteen.millions.of.American.could.lift.the.slave.into.liberty.as.easily.as.England.did,.without.a.drop.of.blood..In.that.day,.orators.spoke.of.peace,.and.poets.sung.of.it.Sumner.was.first.launched.from.a.lawyer.into.a.statesman.by.preaching.peace.on.the.fourth.day.of.July.to.astounded.Boston.Longfellow's.exquisite.verse.was.given.to.the.Springfield.Armory,.wishing.that.its.swords.might.be.beaten.into.ploughshares.You.remember.it.We.trusted.in.pulpits,.school.houses.and.books;.we.believed.that.the.millennium.of.brains.had.come,.not.bullets..We.were.right,.so.far.as.the.north.of.the.Potomac.was.concerned;.but.we.forgot.that.this.live.North,.this.nineteenth.century,.with.its.types.and.its.ideas,.was.linked,.like.the.man.in.the.classic.legend,.to.the.dead.carcass.of.the.sixteenth.century-with.the.barbarism,.the.half-development.of.the.other.side.of.the.Potomac..The.Jesuit.said.in.Paris,.two.handred.years.ago,."The.only.light.fit.to.instruct.the.erring.is.the.auto-de-fe.of.a.man.burnt.for.his.heresy.in.opinion.".We.laughed.at.it,.as.a.picture.of.the.Sorbonne-dead.and.buried.for.two.centuries..But.a.Northerner.needed.to.travel.only.five.hundered.miles,.any.time.within.the.last.thiry.years,.to.see.his.brother.burned,.for.heresy.of.opinion,.under.the.stars.and.stripes..The.same.barbarism,.the.same.picture;.and.it.is.because.we.are.tied.to.that.barbarism,.that.we.are.obliged.to.abide.to-day.the.arbitrament.of.battle-brute.force..Brains.can.argue.with.brains,.but.brains.cannot.argue.with.brutes..When.the.bulls.of.the.prairies.rebel.against.man,.he.shoots.them..So,.when.the.brutes.of.the.cane-brakes,.or.of.the.tobacco.lands,.or.of.the.cotton.islands,.rebel.against.the.menof.the.North,.they.cannot.meet.them.with.pulpit.nor.school-house;.they.can.only.meet.them.with.armies;.and.that.is.where.the.nation.has.been.pushed.by.the.necessity.of.the.struggle.
I.say,.this.new.life.needs.that.men.should.guide.the.nation's.idea.carefully.in.the.new.time.and.new.crisis..The.President.is.a.very.slow.man;.an.honest.man,.but.a.slow-moving.machine..(Laughter.).On.the.4th.day.of.March,.1861,.he.gave.us.his.inaugural,.based.on.the.idea.of.universal.conciliation;.based.on.the.idea,.as.Conway.of.Cincinnati.said,.that."he.would.like.to.have.the.Lord.Almighty.on.his.side,.but.he.must.have.the.State.of.Kentucky.".(Laughter.and.applause.).Then.we.waited.ayear-a.whole.twelve-month-till.the.7th.of.March,.1862-and.he.took.one.step,.That.was,."I.can.do.without.the.State.of.Kentucky..I.advise.you.to.emancipate,.becasuse.I.can.do.without.you.".That.is.the.Border.State.Message.Now,.I.express.my.sincere.conviction,.with.no.disrespect.to.the.President,when.I.say.that.I.believe.he.will.wait.until.next.March,.if.left.to.himself,.before.he.takes.another.step..He.steps.by.years!.(Great.merriment.).You.see.there.is.a.reason.for.it.The.President's.policy.is,.that.the.Border.States.must.hold.out.their.hands.to.him..He.has.held.out.his.hand.to.them,.and.said,."Gentleman,.there.is.the.money;.will.you.take.it?.They.have.got.to.meet.in.January,.and.debatewhether.they.will.take.it..That.debate.will.last.two.months-till.March.He.will.judge.then.whether.they.will.accept.or.not.If.he.thinks.they.will.not,.perhaps.he.will.have.a.new.step.to.take;.but.you.see.he.must.wait.a.year.before.he.takes.another.step..The.Border.States.have.not.had.the.magnanimity.to.summon.special.sessions.of.their.Legislatures.to.consider.that.Message.Perhaps.that.was.not.possible.They.must.ripen.a.public.opinion.for.it.But,.at.any.rate,.I.believe.President.Lincoln,.at.this.moment,.means.to.wait.until.next.March.before.advancing.another.step.That.is.very.slow.progress.I.think,.if.we.can.nudge.him.ahead.a.little,.it.will.be.of.great.advantage,.(Merriment.).I.think,.in.the.meantime,.we.should.ripen.public.sentiment,.so.that,.if.we.cannot.move.the.central.body,.we.can.make.a.flank.movement,.if.you.please;.we.can.move.our.pickets.ahead,.if.we.cannot.move.our.main.body.
You.see,.here.is.Johnson,.military.Governor.in.Tennessee;.and.a.gentlemen.who.honored.us.with.his.presence.yesterday.morning,.Gen..Sexton,.I.am.told,.is.to.go.to.South.Carolina,.as.military.Governor.of.that.State..How.does.he.go?.He.goes.as.the.representative.of.the.military.power.of.the.President.of.the.United.States..It.is.the.first.time.in.our.history.that.it.has.ever.been.exercised.This.sending.a.military.Governor.into.a.sister.State,.what.does.it.mean?-what.power.has.he?-how.shall.he.use.it?.You.and.I.are.to.exercise.our.fair.share.of.influence.in.deciding.what.the.power.is,.and.how.he.shall.use.it..Let.me.suggest.one.or.two.considerations.to.you.How.does.Gen.Saxton.go.there?.If.the.State.of.South.Carolina.exists,.he.has.no.right.there.If.there.be.a.corporation.known.by.the.name.of.the.State.of.South.Carolina.to-day.in.existence,.Brig-Gen.Saxton.has.no.right,.in.the.capacity.in.which.the.President.sands.him,.to.stand.on.her.soil.Why.does.he.go?.He.goes.on.the.theory.of.the.Government,.that.there.is.no.corporation.known.to.the.law.called.and.styled.the.State.of.So.Carolina;.that.there.is.no.corporation.there.competent.to.do.an.act,.competent.to.pass.a.law,.competent.to.record.a.judgment,.competent.to.initiate.an.election.You.know,.in.the.Dorr.case,.Mr.Webster.argued.that.the.people.of.Rhode.Island.could.notmeet.and.vote,.could.not.even.vote.the.State.into.existence,.unless.some.recognized.legislative.body.existed.in.the.State.to.initiate.and.inaugurate.the.movement.That.is.the.theory.of.American.institutions.Now,.if.there.exists.in.the.Stateof.South.Carolina.a.boby.capable.of.a.political.act,.Gen.Saxton.has.no.right.to.go.there.He.goes.on.the.theory.that.the.United.States.Government.owns.the.land,.and.that.the.United.States.Government.holds.the.people.as.its.subjects;.that.there.is.nothing.else.there.but.land.and.people,.and.therefore.we.send.a.Governor,.in.the.shape.of.a.Brigadier-General.Well,.if.he.goes.there.a.Brigadier.General,.Military.Governor.of.a.Territory.of.the.United.States,.what.does.he.carry?.He.carries.the.Republican.platform.of.Chicago-that.the.Territories.of.the.United.States.ignore.slavery.He.carries.the.pledge.of.the.fifteen.hundred.thousand.voters.who.sent.Abraham.Lincoln.to.Washington,.that.a.Republican.Brigadier.General.has.not.spectacles.keen.enough.to.see.a.slave.on.the.territory.of.South.Carolina.(Applause.).He.has.no.glass.that.can.tell.him.the.difference.between.white.and.black.He.sees.only.a.man,.created.in.the.image.of.God,.competent.to.vote.in.the.Territories.of.the.United.States,.and.subject.to.texation.and.the.laws.of.the.Federal.Government..I.think.we.are.entitled.to.demand.of.the.Republican.party,.now.in.possession.of.the.Government,.whose.cornerstone.was.that.they.would.annihilate.the.Dred.Scott.decision,.who.leapt.into.thesaddle.from.the.horse-block.of.Taney's.bad.law-we.are.entitled.to.demand.of.that.party,.that.when,.by.military.power,.it.takes.possession.of.Tennessee.and.South.Carolina,.it.takes.possession.of.Tennessee.andSouth.Carolina,.it.shall.carry.there.the.only.plank.in.its.platform.which.had.any.value,.that.in.the.Territories.of.the.United.States,.the.Federal.Government.can.neither.make.a.king.nor.a.slave.(Applause.).I.criticise.Andrew.Johnson,.therefore,.because,.when.he.goes.to.Tennessee,.he.recognizes.slavery.I.hope.that.Brigadier-General.Saxton,.if.he.goes.to.South.Carolina,.will.know.nothing.but.citizens,.black.and.white..(Applause.).If.he.does,.it.is.our.duty.to.arraign.the.Government;.it.is.our.duty.to.criticise.the.Administration.which.makes.this.fatal.mistake.in.the.theory.of.its.powers..Either.the.States.exist,.or.they.do.not.exist..If.they.exist,.we.have.one.work.to.do;.if.they.do.not.exist,.we.have.another.We.are.proceeding.on.the.principle.that.they.do.not.exist..The.Commander-in-Chief.takes.military.possession.of.the.lands,.in.the.name.of.the.Government,.andputs.State.law.under.his.feet-it.has.no.existence..Whenever.the.State.of.South.Carolina.is.to.exist,.he.must.call.it.into.being.I.would.like.to.see.the.United.States.Government,.under.Republican.auspices,.call.a.slave.State.into.being!
Now,.ladies.and.gentlemen,.this.seems.to.be.the.channel.(our.friend{THEODORE.TILTON].has.adverted.to.it).in.which.the.Government.chooses.to.move-that.in.case.the.President.take.possession.of.the.territory,.he.shall,.as.the.military.chief,.exercise.the.war.power.of.the.Government.Grant.it!.No.matter.whether.it.is.exercised.by.Congress.or.the
<c03>
President,.but.whichever.does.exercise.it,.we.mush.demand.that.it.be.exercised.consistently;.and.the.path.is.perfectly.clear..We.do.not.need.a.Confiscation.billIf.the.President.will.only.use.the.power.that.he.has,.in.its.full.breadth,.thereis.no.need.of.adverting.to.the.distinction.which.our.friend.made.in.his.speechinregard.to.the.condition.of.the.blacks.The.United.States.Government.cannot.make.aslave.nor.a.king,.and.everything.south.of.the.Potomac.belongs.to.the.Government,.not.to.the.States.(Applause.).We.have.conquered.it,.and.it.is.ours.(Renewed.applause.).Ours.by.the.blood.of.Pittsburg.and.Roanoke;.ours.by.the.conquest.of.Yorktown.and.New.Orleans;.ours.by.a.thousand.million.of.taxes;.ours.by.the.names.of.Ellsworth.and.Lyon,.and.Winthrop.and.Baker.(Great.applause.).I.do.not.think.we.have.any.claim.to.govern.this.country.on.the.ground.that.we.have.more.cannon,.more.men,.and.more.money.than.the.South..That.is.a.bald,.brutal.superiority.The.claim.of.the.North.to.govern.must.be.founded.on.the.ground.that.our.civilization.isbetter,.purer,.nobler,.higher,.than.that.of.the.South..Our.civilization.is.ideas,.rights,.education,.labor.This.is.my.doctrine:.I.hold.that.the.South.isto.be.annihilated.I.do.not.mean.the.geographical.South.That.is.not.the.sense.in.which.wehave.used.the.word.of.late.The.map.will.still.show.the.inlets.of.Roanoke.and.Ship.Island.But.when.we.have.used.the.word."South,".of.late,.we.have.used.it.to.mean.the.intellectual,.social,.aristocratic.South-the.thing.that.represented.itself.by.slavery.and.the.bowie-knife,.by.bullying.and.lynch.law,.by.ignorance.and.idleness,.by.the.claim.of.oneman.to.own.his.brother,.by.statutes.making.it.penal.for.the.State.of.Massachusetts.to.bring.an.action.in.the.courts,.by.statutes,.existing.on.the.books.of.Georgia.today,.offering.five.thousand.dollard.for.the.head.of.William.Lloyd.Garrison.That.South.is.to.be.annihilated.(Loud.applause.).The.totality.of.my.common.sense-or.whatever.you.may.call.it-is.this,.all.summed.up.in.one.word:.This.country.will.never.know.peace.nor.unionuntil.the.South.(using.the.word.in.the.sense.I.have.described).is.annihilated,.and.the.North.is.spread.over.it.I.do.not.care.where.men.go.for.the.power.They.mayfind.it.in.the.parchment-do.I.think,.with.Patrick.Henry,.with.John.Quincy.Adams,.with.Gen.Cass,.we.have.got.ample.constitutional.powers;.but.if.we.had.not,.it.would.not.trouble.me.in.the.least.(Laughter.and.applause.).I.do.not.think.a.nation's.life.is.locked.up.in.a.parchment.I.think.this.is.the.momentous.struggle.of.a.great.nation.for.existence.and.perpetuity.We.have.been.planted.as.one;.the.normal.idea.of.the.nation.is.that.it.is.to.be.one.and.indivisible..The.mouth.of.the.Mississippi.belongs.as.much.to.Illinois.as.to.Louisiana.A.Massachusetts.farmer,.who.sold.out.his.hundred.acres,.took.his.five.thousand.or.fifty.thousand.dollars,.went.out.and.bought.prairie.land,.cast.in.his.lot.with.illinois,.gave.his.children.to.that.civilization,.and.his.twenty.years.of.labor.to.that.soil,.on.what.faith.did.he.do.it?-on.what.conditions.did.he.do.it?.That.Illinois,.locked.up.among.the.lakes.and.the.mountains,.was.to.be.his.home,.and.the.field.of.his.labor,.and.the.boundary.ofhis.trade?.No;.he.read.the.history.of.this.people,.since.1801,.and.saw.them.pourout.their.wealth.by.millions.at.the.feet.of.the.French.Emperor,.to.buy.access.tothe.ocean,.and.believed.that.we.owned.it.When.Massachusetts.and.New.Hampshiresent.out.their.farmers.by.thousands.to.Illinois.and.Iowa,.they.went.with.the.expectation,.under.the.pledge,.that.they.should.have.a.highway.to.the.ocean.on.the.surface.of.the.Mississipi..The.fulfilment.of.that.pledge.New.England.owes.to.her.sons.to-day,.and.Illinois.may.well.rise.up.and.say,."When.you.sold.me.this.land.from.theLand.Office.at.Washington,.you.sold.it.with.the.mouth.of.the.Mississippi.as.a.part.of.the.bargain;.and.Louisiana.has.no.right,.for.any.cause.that.she.can.show,.to.take.it.from.me..If.she.can.show.that.we.have.violated.the.Declaration.of.Independence,.if.she.can.show.that.we.have.failed.to.secure.her.the.ends.of.government,.liberty.and.happiness,.she.has.a.right.to.secede.Without.it,.the.mouth.of.the.Mississippi.belongs.to.Illinois."
I.use.that.illustration.to.show.that.we.are.one,.as.a.nation.That.being.taken.for.granted.at.the.outset,.which.civilization.is.to.govern?.The.best.For.thirty.years,.the.North.flung.down.the.gauntlet.of.the.printing-press,.and.said,."I.will.prove.that.mine.is.the.best."The.South.accepted.the.Constitution.of.the.United.States,.securing.a.free.press,.and.took.the.risk.She.said,."There.is.my.slavery.I.believe.it.will.abide.discussion.I.am.willing.to.put.it.into.the.cauldron."And.Massachusetts.put.in.her.land.and.property,.and.we.madea."hodge-podge,".as.the.English.landlord.says,.a.general.mess,.a.bowl.of.punch,.(laughter,).of.all.the.institutions.of.the.nation,.and.we.said,."There.is.the.free.press.on.the.top,.and.the.one.that.cannot.bear.it.goes.to.the.bottom.".(Applause.).Fortwo.generations,.the.experiment.went.on;.and.when.Lincoln.went.to.Washington,.South.Carolina.saw.the.handwriting.on.the.wall.the.handwriting.as.of.old-that.the.free.press.had.conquered,.and.that.slavery.was.sinking,.like.a.dead.body,.to.the.bottom;.and.she.said,.practically,."I.know.I.made.the.bargain,.but.I.cannot.abide.it.I.know.I.agreed.to.put.myself.into.the.general.partnership,.and.now.comes.the.demand.for.my.submission.to.the.great.laws.of.human.progress-I.cannot.submit.".So.she.loaded.her.guns,.and.turned.them,.shotted.to.the.lips,.against.the.Federal.government,.saying,."There.is.a.fortification.behind.the.printingpress-it.is.the.Minie.rifle."."All.well,".said.the.North;."now.we.will.try.that.(Applause.).I.offered.you.the.nineteenth.century,.with.books;.you.chose.to.go.back.to.the.fifteenth,.with.armies:.try.it!".She.flung.down.the.gauntlet;.the.North.raised.it,.and.has.flung.it.back.into.the.Gulf.(Applause.).Beaten.in.both.ways,.conquered.on.both.issues,.our.civilization.triumphant.in.brains,.and.still.more.emphatically.triumphant.in.bullets,.(applause,).the.question.now.comes.up-which.shall.rule.this.one.and.indivisible.country?.The.South.said,."I.load.my.cannon,.in.order.that.I.may.annihilate.Massachusetts."."I.accept.it,".said.the.BayState,.and.her.cannon.being.the.largest.and.the.strongest,.she.annihilates.the.South.instead.(Renewed.applause.).That.is.the.argument.We.should.have.gone.to.thewall.had.she.beaten.One.nation!-she.goes.to.the.wall.when.we.beat.That.is.common.sense;.that.is.fair,.sound.policy.
Now,.what.do.I.mean.when.I.say,.she.goes.to.the.wall?.I.mean.this:.To-day,.some.of.you.have.read.in.the.Tribune.the.letter.I.referred.to.yesterday,.from.a.merchant.of.Missouri.to.a.mercantile.correspondent.in.Boston..A.merchant;.not.an.abolition.lecturer,.not.a.fanatic,.but.a.man.coolly.sitting.down.to.his.desk,.and.taking.out.a.thousand.dollars.to.send.to.his.friend,.as.part.payment.of.a.debt,.and.adding.these.ideas,.more.valuable.than.the.money..His.precedents.were,.that.he.voted.the.Bell-Everett.ticket..He.is.not.to.be.suspected.of.fanaticism.(Great.merriment.).As.his.great.candidate.never.has.a.hot.drop.of.blood.in.his.body,.this.man.probably.never.had.one.in.his..More.than.that,.you.know.it.is.said.that,.in.letterwriting,a.man.has.forty.sides,.and.he.shows.one.side.to.each.correspondent.This.man.is.writing.to.a.Bell.Everett.voter,.and.he.showed,.therefore,.his.icy.side.in.that.direction.What.does.he.say?.The.letter.is.written.from.the.line.of.the.Hannibal.and.St.Joseph.railroad.He.says:
MISSOURI,.March.4,.1862.
GEORGE.C.RICHARDSON,.Esq.:.Dear.Sir-I.send.you.$1000.I.regret.it.is.not.more..I.will.send.you.more.in.a.short.time.Our.Union.army.is.progressing.finely,.and.to.outsiders.it.appears.that.the.rebellion.is.crushed.out.in.Missouri,.but.it.is.far.from.it.Two.of.my.good.Union.friends.were.shot.dead.in.the.country-one.about.six,.and.the.other.twelve.miles.from.here-for.being.outspoken.Union.men;.and.three.more.were.shot.dead,.and.three.badly.wounded,.two.days.ago,.on.our.Hannibal.and.St..Joseph.railroad.Private.assassination.will,.I.fear,.be.the.order.of.the.day..About.three.weeks.ago,.a.secessionist.came.into.my.store,.and.attempted.to.assassinate.one.of.my.clerks.in.the.middle.of.the.afternoon,.and.then.got.on.his.horse.and.rode.off;.and.we.have.never.yet.been.able.to.arrest.him..The.poor.fellow,.the.clerk,.has.been.lying.at.my.house,perfectly.prostrate.His.name.is.Wm.R.Loop,.a.very.correct,.intelligent,.loyal.man..His.brother.is.cashier.of.the
<c04>
Wyoming.Bank,.Pennsylvania..His.only.crime.was.outspoken.Union.sentiments.
I.mention.these.things.to.show.you.how.completely.slavery.and.secession.have.barbarized.and.destroyed.society.in.the.slave.States;.and.my.opinion,.after.twenty-five.years.of.personal.observaion.and.close.contact.with.it,.is,.that.now.is.thetime.to.put.the.great.disturbing.element.in.such.a.position.that.we.are.satisfaid.it.is.in.a.way.of.extinction,.and.that.beyond.all.possible.doubt.If.we.go.backto.the.old.status.in.regard.to.slavery,.and.revive.the.enforcement.of.the.Fugitive.Slave.Law,.up.rise.old.slave-traders,.slave-breeders,.and.slave-bullies,.at.every.election.precinet.in.every.slave.State,.and.slave-bullies.in.Congress.and.everywhere..You.can.never.compromise.with.slavery.It.will.rule.and.destroy.you,.or.you.must.destroy.it.(Applause.)
I.know.your.conservative,.charitable.and.generous.sentiments.toward.your.slave-breeding.countrymen;.but.they.are.terribly.in.earnest.in.their.endeavors.to.divide.and.destroy.this.great.Republic,.or.make.us.one.great.slave-trading,.slave-breeding,.slave-catching,.and.slave-extending.people;.and.this.cannot.be.entertained.by.the.descendants.of.the.Puritans,.nor.by.any.great.and.just.people.NOW.IS.THE.TIME.TO.LAY.THE.FOUNDATION.FOR.THE.UNITY.OF.THE.GREAT.REPUBLIC.
I.am.informed.by.my.ultra.secession.acquainbtances.that.the.Southern.Commissioners.in.France.and.England.have.been.peddling.or.hawking.around.to.those.governments.the.proposition.to.gradually.abolish.slavery,.if.they.will.acknowledge.their.independence.and.assist.them..All.slaves.now.alive,.to.be.slaves.for.life,.and.all.born.after.the.treaty,.to.be.freed.after.twentyone.years.of.age;.and.free.trade.for.fifty.years.with.the.south.
Let.us.force.them.to.that.proposition.with.us,.or.of.they.still.rebel,.declare.universal.emancipation.Your.Senator.Sumner.is.fully.ten.years.ahead.of.his.countrymen,.but.he,.on.this.question,.is.all.right.(Loud.applause.).Iam.afraid.I.have.bored.you.with.what.you.may.call.on.Abolition.letter,.but.I.have.had.a.dear.honourable.friend.shot.dead.in.the.presence.of.his.wife.and.three.children,.for.no.other.crime.than.that.he.was.a.straight.outspoken.Union.man,.and.my.clerk.has.been.near.death's.door,.and.we.go.armed.with.pistols,.and.with.a.good.disposition.to.use.them,.and.I.have.seen.a.handsome.competency.vanish.quickly.before.this.secession.crime..We.dare.not.go.out.into.the.country.yet,.but.hope.to.soon.
Mr.Jefferson.Davis.has.two.hundred.thousand.men.in.arms.to-day.I.do.not.believe.he.ever.had.over.three.hundred.thousand.Great.is.brag,.and.they.have.bragged.three.hundred.thousand.into.six,.and.wooden.guns.into.iron.ones.He.has.got.two.hundred.thousand.in.arms.to-day,.and.there.is.a.strong.probability.that.he.will.fight.desperately.somewhere,before.he.allows.that.army.to.disband.Before.this.body.retreats.into.Mexico-before,.like.his.great.father.in.the.Gospel,.he.goes."violently.down.a.steep.place.into.the.sea,".(loud.laughter.and.applause)-he.will.fight.a.great.battle.somewhere.Let.me.grant.you.that,.after.the.summer.is.over,.after.the.yellow.fever.and.typhus.are.quieted,.we.crush.that.army.out,.scatter.it,.demoralize.it,.conquer.it-where.is.it.to.go?.What.will.become.of.its.materials?.What.brought.it.together?.Hatred.of.us.Will.being.beaten.make.them.love.us?.Is.that.the.way.to.make.men.love.you?.Can.you.whip.a.man.into.loving.you?.You.whip.him.into.a.bitterer.hate.Where.will.that.army.go?.Into.a.state.of.society.more.cruel.than.war.whose.characteristics.are.private.assassination,.burning,.stabbing,.shooting,.poisioning.The.consequence.is,.we.have.got.not.only.an.army.to.conquer,.that,.being.beaten,.will.not.own.it,.but.we.have.got.a.state.of.mind.to.annihilate..You.know.Napoleon.said,.the.difficulty.with.the.German.armies.was.they.didn't.know.when.they.were.beaten.We.have.got.a.worse.trouble.than.that.The.South.will.not.believe.itself.beaten,.but.the.materials.that.make.up.its.army.will.not.retire.back.to.peaceful.pursuits.Where.are.they.going.to.retire?.They.don't.know.how.to.do.anything.You.might.think.they.would.go.back.to.trade.They.don't.know.how.to.trade;.they.never.did.anything.You.might.think.they.would.go.back.to.their.professions.They.never.had.any.You.might.think.they.would.go.back.to.the.mechanic.arts.They.don't.know.how.to.open.a.jackknife.(Great.merriment.).There.is.nothing.for.them.to.go.to,.unless.we.send.them.half.a.million.of.emancipated.blacks,.to.teach.them.you.to.plant.cotton.There.is.nothing.for.them.to.go.to.Why,.to.the.North,.war.is.a.terrible.evil..It.takes.the.lawyer,.the.merchant,.the.mechanic,.from.his.industrious,.improving,.inspiring.occuption,.and.lets.him.down.into.the.demoralization.of.a.camp;.but.to.the.South,.war.is.a.gain..The.young.man,.melted.in.sensuality.whose.face.was.never.lighted.up.by.a.purpose.since.his.mother.looked.into.his.cradle-the.mere.wreck.of.what.should.have.been.a.man.with.neither.ideas,.nor.inspirations,.nor.aspirations,.was.lifted.by.the.war.to.a.higher.level..Did.you.ever.look.into.the.beautiful.faces.of.those.Roman.young.men,.whose.ideas.were.bounded.by.coffee.and.the.opera.-till.Garibaldi's.bugle.waked.them.to.life-beautiful,.because.human.still?.Well,.that.was.the.South..Over.those.wrecks.of.manhood,.breathed.the.bugle note.of.woman.and.politics,.calling.upon.them.to.rally.and.fight.for.an.idea Southern.indepdence.It.lifted.them,.for.the.moment,.into.something.that.looked.like.civilzation;.It.lifted.them, for the moment, into something that looked like civilization; it lifted something that was real life; and war.to.them.is.a.gain.They.go.out.of.it,.and.they.sink.down.a.hundred.degrees.inthe.scale.of.civilization..They.go.back.to.bar.rooms.to.corner.groceries,.to.plantation.sensuality,.to.chopping.straw,.and.calling.it.politics.(Laughter.)
Now,.that.south,.angry,.embittered,.having.arms.in.its.hands,.what.is.it.going.to.do?.Shoot,.burn,.poison,.vent.its.rage.on.every.side.The.Letter.I.have.read.show.a.but.the.first.drops.of.the.shower-the.first.pattering.drops.of.the.flood.of.barbarism.that.is.to.sweep.over.those.Southern.States,.unless.our.armies.hold.them..When.England.conquered.the.Highlands,.she.held.them,.and.held.them.until.she.could.educate.them,.and.it.took.a.generation..That.is.just.what.we.have.got.to.do.with.the.south;.annihilate.the.old.South,.and.put.a.new.one.there.South.men.say,.begin.it.by.exporting.the.blacks.If.you.do,.you.export.the.very.fulcrum.of.the.lever;.you.export.the.very.best.material.to.begin.with..My.friend.(Mr. TILTON).said.something.about.the.Alleghanies.moving.toward.the.ocean.as.the.symbol.of.colonization..Let.me.change.it.The.nation.that.should.shovel.down.the.Alleghanies,.and.then.build.them.up.again,.would.be.a.wise.nation.compared.with.the.one.that.should.export.four.million.blacks,.and.then.import.four.million.of.Chinese.to.take.their.places.To.dig.a.hole,.and.thern.fill.it.up.again,.to.build.a.wall.for.the.purpose.of.beating.out.your.brains.against.it,.would.be.Shakesperianwisdom.compared.with.such.an.undertaking..I.want.the.blacks.as.the.very.basis.ofthe.effort.to.regenerate.the.South.They.know.every.inlet,.the.pathway.of.everywood,.the.whole.country.is.a.map.at.night.to.their.instinct.When.burnside.unfurledthe.stars.and.stripes.in.sight.of.Roanoke,.he.saw.a.little.canoe.paddling.off.tohim,.which.held.a.single.black.man;.and.in.that.contraband.hand,.victory.was.brought.to.the.United.States.of.America,.led.by.Burnside.He.came.to.the.Rhode.Island.General,.and.said:."This.is.deep.water,.and.that.is.shoal;.this.is.swamp,.thatis.firm.land,.and.that.is.wood;.there.are.four.thousand.men.here,.and.one.thousand.there;.a.cannon.here,.a.redoubt.there.".The.whole.country.was.mapped.out,.as.an.engineer.could.not.have.done.it.in.a.month,.in.the.memory.of.theat.man.And.Burnside.was.loyal.to.humanity,.and.believed.him.(Applause.).Disloyal.to.the.Northern.pulpit,.disloyal.to.the.prejudice.of.race,.he.was.loyal.to.the.instincts.of.our.common.nature,.knew.that.man.would.tell.him.the.truth,.and.obeyed.him..The.soldiers.forded.where.the.negro.bade.them,.the.vessels.anchored.in.the.deep.waters.he.pointed.out,.and.that.victory.was.planned,.if.there.was.any.strategy.about.it,.in.the.brain.of.that.contraband.(applause);.and.to.day.he.stands.at.the.right.hand.of.burnside,.clad.in.uniform,.long.before.Hunted.armed.a.negro,.with.the.pledge.of.the.General.that,.as.long.as.he.lives.and.has.anything.to.eat,.the.man.that.gave.him.Roanoke.shall.have.half.a.loaf..(Enthusiastic.applause.).Do.you.suppose,.that.if.I.could.multiply.that.instance.by.four.million,.the.American.people.can.afford.to.give.up.such.assistance?.Of.course.not.We.want.to.take.military.possession.of.the.territory;.we.want.to.work.out.the.great.problem.of.unfolding.a.nation's.life..We.want.the.four.million.of.blacks.a.people.instinctively.on.our.side,.ready.and.skilled.to.work;.the.only.element.the.South.has.that.belongs.
<c05>
to.the.nineteenth.century.You.never.can.mistake.them.It.used.to.be.said,.in.old.anti-slavery.times,.that.if.a.fugitive.negro.saw.a.Quaker.coat,.his.heart.beat.easy-he.knew.he.was.safe..I.think.the.stars.and.stripes.can.float.lazily.down.and.kiss.the.standard,.all.over.the.South,.when.a.black.face.is.in.sight.I.want.it.there,.therefore.
I.am.not.speaking.for.the.negro;.I.am.not.asking.for.his.rights;.I.am.asking.forthe.use.of.him..I.want.him.for.the.future.We.have.to.make.over.the.State.of.South.Carolina,.and.we.have.not.a.white.man.in.it.Did.you.observe.the.significant.telegram.of.Mcclellan.from.Yorktown.and.it.was.only.the.repetititon.of.a.dozen.telegrams.that.preceded.it."To.the.Secretary.of.War:.Sir,.we.have.taken.Yorktown;.only.one.single.white.man.in.it.".He.does.not.think.it.necessary.to.say.there.were.some.thousands.of.negroes.Of.course.there.were.They.stayed.where.liberty.was.coming,.and.ideas,.and.civilization,.and.men.who.worked.with.their.hands.and.their.brains,.as.they.did.They.recognized.in.the.Yankee.a.brother.mechanic.(Laughterand.applause.).They.said:."Here.are.men.who.don't.know.how.to.do.anything.but.eat,.and.they.are.going.The.people.who.are.coming.are.men.who.know.how.to.manufacture,.to.create,.and.we,.the.creators.of.the.South,.stand.to.welcome.the.creatorsof.the.North.".(Applause.).But.that.one.poor.solitary.white.man,.who.always.remains.(laughter)-just.like
"The.lost.rose.of.summer.
Left.blooming.alone"
[great.merriment]-
he.is.only.suggestive.of.that.other.kindred.and.friendly.race.which.never.flies.
Well,.I.believe.in.Saxton..I.think.that.when.he.gets.on.the.soil.of.South.Carolina,.with.Hunter.for.his.right.hand,.we.shall.hear.good.news;.but.I.do.not.believe.(and.here,.perhaps,.you.will.not.agree.with.me).in.our.Generals..I.do.not.believe.we.shall.do.much.until.we.get.rid.of.several.of.them.Not.but.that.they.are.very.good.Generals,.for.aught.I.know..I.obey.the.Herald,.and.the.Express,.and.theObserver,.who.say.that.peaceable.men.are.not.to.criticise.military.manoeuvres..Ido.not.know.anything.about.fortifications,.and.Gen.Scott.says.that.McClellan.does.understand.them,.and.I.wish.we.had.found.out.that.that.is.what.he.does.understand.(Laughter.).But.that.is.what.the.old.General.says.I.have.no.doubt.he.does.understand.them.I.am.happy.that.he.does;.but.that.is.not.the.question.The.questionis,.whether.he.has.yet.travelled.up,.in.the.course.of.his.education,.to.the.conviction.that.this.is.not.a.political.squabble,.but.a.war.In.political.squabbles,we.do.not.hurt.anybody;.we.turn.them.out.of.office.In.war,.we.kill.them,.There.isthe.difference.Now,.whether.Jefferson.Davis.is.in.office.or.not.does.not.matter,if.another.man,.like.him,.is.to.hold.it..Put.the.South.back.just.where.she.was.before.the.rebellion,.as.Mr.Joel.Parker.recommends,.in.the.North.American.Review,who.shall.we.have.in.Congress?.We.shall.not.have.Toombs.and.Davis,.but."a.rose.by.any.other.name.will.smell.as.sweet.".(Laughter.).We.shall.have.just.such.men.Like.causes.will.produce.like.effects.The.same.spirit.will.send.the.same.men.I.want.different.men.I.want.a.North.wind.I.want.the.waves.setting.North;.therefore,.I.want.a.North.wind.I.do.not.want.that.class.of.men,.but.a.different.class.We.have.tried.that.class.of.men.by.logic.and.by.battle,.and.they.have.failed.in.both.I.claim.the.right.of.having.the.Northern.idea.represented.all.over.the.Union.TheSouth,.for.sixty.years,.beat.us.at.the.ballot.box.She.had.all.the.Presidents.allthe.ambassadors,.two.thirds.of.the.Judges,.and.all.the.fat.offices.Grant.it!.Shebeat.us,.and.there.was.an.end.of.it.If.we.could.not.bear.her,.the.majority.rule,and.we.submitted.to.our.fate..Now,.the.tables.are.turned;.the.government.is.on.our.side;.and.Iam.perfectly.willing.to.say.now.what.the.government.will.say.in.three.years,.or.fifteen.that.there.ought.never.to.be.a.government.in.South.Carolina.until.it.is.the.result.of.free.institutions,.and.the.expression.of.them.(Applause.).Never.until.that.time.can.there.be.a.Union;.never.until.that.time.can.there.be.one.nation.I.want.to.impress.that.idea.upon.your.minds,.because.I.would.like.to.carry.you.back.to.revoultionary.times.Webster.said.our.fathers.went.to.war.for.a.preamble..They.did.not.wait.for.the.government.to.be.annihilated,.for.great.rights.to.be.jeoparded..Now,.we.have.not.yet.risen.to.their.level.The.North.isvery.much.excited.by.the.news.of.thje.barbarities.at.Manassas.that.is.not.priniciple.The.Senate.is.discussing.whether.they.will.confiscate,.as.a.method.of.punishment;.you.hear.nothing.of.the.negro-nothing.of.righteousness-nothing.of.right.and.wrong-nothing.of.the.security.for.the.future.that.we.are.to.take.Men.say."If.it.is.a.military.necessity,.in.order.to.conquer.Carolina,.take.her.blacks.".I.say,.if.it.is.a.civil.necessity,.in.order.to.keep.her.quiet.for.thirty.years,.take.her.blacks.".(Applause.).The.men.who.have.been.making.money.for.thirty.years,.and.lost.it.within.a.year-do.they.want.to.go.on.for.another.thirty.years,.build.up.another.fortune,.and.then.have,.as.Mr.Tiltion.says,.another.earthquakes?.No;.we.will.destroy.that.system,.in.order.to.build.our.fortunes.in.future.upon.the.granite.of.absolute.security.That.is.the.motive.In.order.that.it.may.be.done,.see.to.it.that.you.urge.the.government.forward.I.wish.to.take.back.what.I.said.of.Secretary.Welles.some.timeago,.that.he.was.not.wise.and.alert.on.the.matter.of.the.Monitor.I.did.him.injustice,.and.I.am.glad.to.say,.that.I.think.the.Secretary.of.the.Navy.deserves.to.stand.next.to.the.secretary.of.War.(Applause.)I.believe.he.has.never.done.an.act.that.acknowledged.slavery.since.he.has.been.in.office,.and.every.voice.that.has.been.heared.from.the.Navy.Department.has.been.one.that.indicated.a.thorough.fathoming.of.the.nature.of.our.institutions..More.than.that;.it.is.certainly.due.to.the.navy.to.say,.that.wherever.it.has.shown.itself.in.any.battle,.it.has.done.its.duty;.and.in.almost.every.great.battle,.we.have.owed.one-hald.of.our.success.to.the.navy..Now,.I.cannot.go.behind.these.facts.to.criticise.individuals;.I.do.not.know.where.the.merits.rests.All.I.say.is,.that.the.navy.has.got.its.heart,.its.prow,.turned.in.the.right.direction,.and.I.am.willing.to.believe,.that.while.connecticut.gives.us.a.secretary,.we.have.got.our.Monitor,.with.a.stell.prow,.and.that.she.will.beat.back.the.Merrimac,.if.she.does.not.sinkher,.wherever.they.meet..I.mean.to.say,.that.I.think.the.navy.will.supply.itselfwith.sufficient.material,.and.be.led.by.energetic.orders.from.head-quarters,.and.will.do.its.duty..I.wished.to.say.so.much,.because,.once.or.twice,I.have.done.injustice.to.Mr.Secretary.Welles.
But.it.is.not.in.the.Cabinet,.it.is.in.public.opinion.that.we.are.to.find.the.strength.of.our.cause.this.summer..We.may.have.a.lull.this.June.In.the.winter.months,.in.Kentucky.and.Virginia,.we.lost.2,300.soldiers.a.month.from.disease-more.than.two.regiments.Out.of.600,000.men,.in.a.time.of.absolute.peace,.we.may.say-no.battles.being.fought-in.the.cool.middle.belt.of.the.country,.in.winter,.we.have.buried.2,300.men.a.month..How.many.shall.we.bury.when,.advancing.southward,.in.summer.time,.those.600,000.men.meet.nothing.bu.the.climate?.Six.thousand-eight.thousand-ten.thousand.We.are.approaching.that.summer;.and.it.is.this.that.sends.bitterness.to.Western.and.Northern.homes..Taxes,.descending.on.Northern.business.and.trade,.will.move.self-interest.to.cure.this.evil.as.rapidly.as.possible.Political.intriguers.will.endeavor.to.settle.it.anyhow;.will.be.willing.that.Johnson,.in.Tennessee,.shall.get.peace,.no.matter.how;.that.the.President.shall.exercise.his.military.power..We.cannot.avert.it;.we.ought.not.to.avert.it.But.we.ought.to.claim,.in.behalf.of.thenegro,.and.in.behalf.of.the.nation,.as.a.great.matter.of.future.security,.that.the.President.shall.exercise.his.power,.as.a.Rebpublican-as.an.Abolitionist,.if.you.plese-on.the.prinicples.of.the.platform.that.lifted.him.into.office.I.fear.it.will.notbe.done,.until.we.get.rid.of.the.leading.influences.in.the.army.I.have.nothing.to.say.of.Halleck,.as.a.soldier;.nothing.to.say.McClellan;.and.little.to.say.of.Grant.All.I.know.is,.that.they.do.not.believe-neither.does.Anderson,.of.your.city,.fresh.from.Sumter-that.the.root.of.this.difficulty.is.lavery;.and.not.believing.it,.they.do.not.mean.touch.it.I.believe.that.when.Oliver.Cromwell.was.asked,."Would.you.shoot.the.king,.if.you.
<c06>
saw.him!.".and.old.Noll.replied,."Yes,.quicker.than.anybody.else,.".he.touched.the.nucleus.of.the.difficulty.in.the.English.Commonwealth.Now,.if.you.were.to.askMcClellan,."Would.you.shoot.slavery?".he.would.say,.".No;.I.am.for.settling.thisquarrel.on.the.old.basis.".On.the.contrary,.if.you.asked.Frank.Sigel,.or.Hunter,.or.Saxton,.or.Fremont.(Applause),.the.answer.would.be,."Yes,.quicker.than.anything.else,.and.thank.God.for.the.chance.".(Loud.applause.).When.our.army.comes.under.the.command.of.such.Generals,.we.shall.have.just.such.successes.as.the.Parlimentary.army.had.in.England.when.it.got.under.Cromwell.and.Ireton-men.who.understood.the.depth.of.the.chasm.that.threatened.to.engulph.the.nation.and.were.willing.to.bridge.it.
We.are.passing.to.day.through.the.first.phase.of.the.struggle.Let.us.not.blame.McClellan.too.much.The.crisis.came.upon.him.before.he.was.educated.He.is.a.soldier,.and.does.not.know.anything.more.Halleck.sai-was.it.not.he?"I.know.how.to.flight.and.that.is.all.I.know.".Well,.let.him.fightThe.great.difficulty.with.our.Generals.is,.that.they.do.not.have.brains.as.well.as.swords.Now,.every.army.is.of.immense.potency,.when.the.State.of.abolished;.and,.as.our.friend.(Mr. TILTON).showed.you,.it.is.a.military.government.that.exists.to.day.It.takes.its.flavour.from.the.purposes.of.the.Major.Generals;.and.I.shall.believe.in.Union.when.I.see.Major.Generals.at.the.head.of.the.army.willing.to.shoot,.not.Jefferson.Davis.a.chip.but.slavery,.the.reality.he.floats.on.(Applause.).Slavery.can.create.hundreds.of.Jefferson.Davises.She.could.bribe.a.thousand.Jefferson.Davises.outfrom.the.purlieus.of.this.very.city,.in.twelve.months.(Laughter.).Do.you.supposethat.an.institution.that.represents.a.thousand.million.of.dollars,.bulwarked.by.the.sympathy.of.six.million.of.people,.shaded.by.the.sanctions.of.Church.and.State,.as.they.call.themselves,.in.half.the.nation,.cannot.get.sconndrels.to.lead.it,.and.able.sconndrels.too?.Of.course.it.can.It.is.not.the.men.we.should.resist.it.is.the.state.of.society.that.produces.them.He.would.be.a.fool.who,.having.a.fever,.scraped.his.tongue.and.took.no.medicine.Killing.Davis.is.only.scraping.thetongue;.killing.slavery.is.taking.a.wet.sheet.pack,.destroying.the.very.systemthat.caused.the.disease..But.when.we.have.done.it,.there.remains.behind.the.stillgreater.and.more.momentous.problem,.whether.we.have.got.the.strength,.the.balance,.the.virtue,.the.civilization,.to.absorb.six.million.of.ignorant,.embittered,.bedeviled.Southerners,.and.transmute.them.into.honest,.decent,.educated,.well-behaved,.Christian.mechanics,.worthy.to.be.the.brothers.of.New.Enland.Yankees.(Applause.).That.is.the.real.problem.To.that.this.generation.should.address.itselfYou.know.that.men.take.their.floating.capital,.and.fund.it.in.a.permanent.investment.Now,.the.floating.wealth.of.those.nineteen.million.of.people,.the.floating.result,.big.or.little,.of.Tract.Societies,.is.to.be.funded.like.sensible.heat,.is.to.be.transformed.into.invisible,.latent.heat;.it.is.to.pass.away.into.the.Southern.capacity.of.being.educated.The.water.is.to.sink.to.its.level.Harvard.College,.whose.men.can.think,.is.to.go.down.half.way,.and.meet.South.Carolina,.sayingher.A,B,C.That.is.what.you.are.to.do.And,.in.order.to.do.it.quickly,.in.order.tosave.as.much.of.the.original.impulse.and.impetus.of.the.national.life.as.possible,.you.are.to.hurry.up.President.Lincoln,.and.not.let.him.wait.until.next.March.before.he.takes.his.next.step.forward.You.are.to.educate.the.nation.to.demand.ofSaxton.in.South.Carolina,.and.Johnson.in.Tennessee,.that.they.adhere.to.the.Republican.platform.of.Chicago.You.are.to.say.to.President.Lincoln "Go.and.listen.to.Stanton.he.talks.quicker.than.you.do.".(Laughter.and.applause.).You.are.to.put.the.virgorous.will.of.the.Secretary.of.War.into.the.machinery.of.the.President,.and.make.an.energetic.man.of.him.Oh,.that.we.could.roll.these.two.worthy.gentleman.into.one!.If.we.could.but.unite.the.vigorous.will.of.the.one,.and.the.honest.purpose.of.the.other,.and.make.them.into.one.live.President,.and.other,.and.make.them.into.one.live.President,.and.then.overshadow.him.with.thedivine.inspiration.of.the.spirit.of.Fremont,.(applause,).we.should.have.a.government.that.would.float.this.Ship.of.State.into.calm.waters.in.half.a.dozen.years;that.would.show.to.Europe.the.strength.of.democratic.institutions,.and.the.common.sense,.stronger.than.education,.of.nineteen.million.of.people;.who.would.saytoEarl.Russell-a.better.answer.than.Seward.made."We.understand.our.own.institutions,.and.do.notask.your.instruction.as.to.what.they.mean";.would.say.to.<illegible>.”Thirty.four.States.undertake.to.own.from.the.Lakes.down.to.the.Gulf;.and.when.they.cannot.fill.their.harbors.with.frigates,.they.will.fill.them.with.stones,.and.no.business.of.yours.(Loud.applause.).These.domestic.institutions.of.ours.we.mean.to.seattle.by.the.vigor.of.our.own.right.hand."England.respects.one.thing,.and.one.thing.only.SUCCESS;.and.we.have.had.so.much.of.it.of.late.that.we.shall.have.more.respectful.treatment.from.the.quarter.(Applause.).I.have.not.a.doubt.of.it." We.have.gained.one.thing.at.Yorktown.and.Pittsburg,.and.that.is,.the.certainly.that.we.are.to.settle.this.quarrel.at.our.leisure..Neither.the.French.Emperor.northe.English.Foreign.Minister.will.put.his.finger.into.it,.for.tobacco.or.anything.else.(Laughter.and.applause.).All.we.want.is,.to.lead.the.minds.of.the.peopleinto.the.new.channel.of.national.rights..War.is.despotism;.but!.believe.(with.only.now.and.then.an.hour.of.doubt).this.of.New.England.schools,.and.New.York.pulpits,.and.Western.labor.that.they.will.be.able.to.survive.desportism,.exercised.byAbraham.Lincoln..We.shall.let.him.suspend.habeas.corpus;.we.shall.let.him.at.us.to.any.extent;.we.shall.give.the.choice.of.his.Major.Generals,.until.he.is.satisfied;.and.yet.these.educated.people,.these.sons.of.Puritans.and.Dutchmen,.who.are.planted.hence.to.the.Mississippi,.will.prove.that.their.civilization.is.potentenough.to.save.liberty,.to.redeem.it;.and.the.men.who.stand.in.out.places,.seventy.years.hence,.as.we.stand.in.the.places.of.our.fathers.who.built.the.Constitution,.I.turst,.yes,.I.believe,.will.see.one.Empire,.from.the.Atlantic.to.the.Pacific,.from.the.Lakes.to.the.Gulf,.and.the.South.Carolina.and.Massachusetts.hand.in.hand.two.sister.States,.alike.in.ideas.and.civilization;.and.then,.for.the.first.time,.a.New.England.or.a.New.York.born.man.may.take.the.Declaration.of.Independence.on.his.lips,.and.proclaim.it.as.he.goes.along.the.sea.shore.to.Texas,.andnot.fear.of.being.lynched.in.any.State.of.the.Union..(Applause.).But.until.that.can.done.and.it.will.never.be.done.until.you.make.over.<illegible>.Carolina.I.laugh.at.the.idea.of.a.Union..Wherever.a.Northern.man.cannot.go,.sheltered.by.the.<illegible>.of.the.nation,.that.is.no.part.of.our.country.That.<illegible>.couldprotect.a.naturalized.citizen.in.the.waters.of.Austria;.that.banner.can.protect.an.American.on.the.other.side.of.the.globe;.there.is.not.a.Chrisitian.are.a.heathen.government.on.the.face.of.the.globe,.under.which.a.citizen.of.New.York.would.not.be.safe.beneath.the.stars.and.stripes;.and.if.one,.only.one,.be.injured.under.Mussulman.rule,.Seward.can.strectch.his.long.arm.to.relieve.and.avenge..All.this.is.true,.<illegible>.in.the.fifteen.slave.States.("Hear,"."hear”.).And.in.neither.of.them,.for.the.last.thirty.years,.was.that.flag.anything.but.an.empty.piece.of.bunting.<illegible>.the.protection.of.a.Northern.man..You.called.that.a.nation;.I.did.not.The.soil.that.was.too.hot.for.a.free.man.to.tread.did.not.deserve.from.my.lips.the.name.of.my.country..(Applause.).Today.the.question.is.not,.whether.the.negro.shall.be.free,.specifically.not,.certainly,.whether.New.York.and.Massachusetts.shall.dicatate.to.sister.States;.but.it.is,.whether.the.free.lips.of.New.york.and.Massachusetts.shall.be.protected.by.the.laws.of.the.nation,.wherever.the.<illegible>.and.stripes.float;.whether.this.great.free,.model.States.the.hope.of.the.nations.and.their.polar.star,.this.experiment.of.self.government,.this.normal.school.<illegible>.God.for.the.education.of.the.masses,.shall.survive.free,.just,.entire,.in.full.force,.a.strength.and.a.blessing,.at.home.and.abroad,.buoyant.wiht.life,.and.rejoicing,.like.a.strong.man,.to.run.its.beneficentrace.In.order.to.that,.demand.of.President.Lincoln.that,.when.the.South.has.put.a.sword.into.his.<illegible>.hands,.to.cut.the.neck.of.that.system.which.has.<illegible>.made.her.alien.among.her.sisters,.he.shall.do.it,.in.the.name.of.Justice.and.of.God.(Applause.)
