THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, general agent.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for ten dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions, Yearly and half yearly advertisement inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for the liberator.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. garrison, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all the Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 50 BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1864. WHOLE NO.1766.
<c01>
Selections.
OUR LAST DAY IN DIXIE.
"Edmund Kirke" contributes to the December Atlantic a concluding chapter of his Richmond journey.
At the outer door stood Jack and the ambulance! Their presence assured us a safe exit from Dixie, and my feelings found express on somewhat as follows:
"How are you Jack? You're the best looking darky I ever saw."
"Is berry well, Massa, berry well. Hope you's well," replied Jack, grinning until he made himself uglier than Nature intended. "I's glad you thinks I'se good-lookin."
"Good looking! You're better looking than any man, black or white, I ever met."
"You've odd nations of beauty," said the Judge, smiling. "That accounts for your being an Abolitionist."
"No, it don't." And I added, in a tone too low for Jack to hear, "It only implies that, until I see that darky. I doubted our getting out of Dixie."
The Judge gave a low whistle.
"So you smelt a rat?"
"Yes, a very big one. Tell us, why were you so long behind time?"
"I'll tell you when the war is over. Now I'll take you to Libby and he hospitals, if you'd like to go."
We said we would, and, ordering Jack to follow with the ambulance, the Judge led us down the principal thoroughfare. A few shops were open, a few negro women were passing in and out among them, and a few wounded soldiers were limping along the sidewalks; but scarcely an able-bodied man was to be seen anywhere. A poor soldier, who had lost both legs and a hand, was seated at a street-corner, asking alms of the colored women as they passed. Pointing to him, the Judge said:
"There is one of our arguments against reunion. If you will walk two squares, I'll show you a thousand."
"All asking alms of black women? That is another indication of what you are coming to."
He made no reply." After a while, scanning our faces as if he would detect our hidden thoughts, he said, in an abrupt, pointed way,
"Grant was to have attacked us yesterday. Why didn't he do it?"
"How should we know?"
"You came from Foster's only the day before. That's where the attack was to have been made."
"Why wasn't, it made?"
"I don't know. Some think it was because you came in, and were expected out that way."
"Oh! That accounts for your being so late! You think we are spies, sent in to survey, and report on the route?"
"No, I do not. I think you are honest men, and I've said so."
And I have no doubt it was because he "said so" that we got out of Richmond.
By this time we had reached a dingy brick building, from one corner of which protruded a small sign, bearing, in black letters on a white ground, the words.
LIBBY AND SON,
SHIP-CHANDLERS AND GROCERS.
It was three stories high, and, I was told, eighty feet in which, and a hundred and ten in depth. In front, the first story was on a level with the street, allowing space for a tier of dungeons under the side-walk: but in the rear the land sloped away till the basement-floor rose above-ground. Its unpainted walls were worked to a rusty brown, and its sunken doors and low windows, filled here and there with a dusky pane, were cob-webbed and weather-stained, giving the whole building a most uninviting and desolate appearance. A flaxen-haired boy, in ragged "butternuts" and a Union cap, and an old man, in gray regimentals, with a bent body and a limping gait, were pacing to and fro before it, with muskets on their shoulders; but no other soldiers were in sight.
"If Ben. Butler knew that Richmond was defended by only such men, how long would it be before he took it?" I said, turning to the Judge.
"Several years. When these men give out, our women will fall in. Let Butler try it."
Opening a door at the right, he fed us into a large, high-studded apartment, with a bare floor, and greasy brown walls hung round with battle-scenes and cheap lithographs of the rebel leaders. Several officers in "Secession gray" were lounging about this room, and one of them, a short, slightly-built, youthful-looking man, rose as we entered, and, in a half pompous, half obsequious way, said to Judge Ould-
"Ah! Colonel Ould, I am very glad to see you."
The Judge returned the greeting with a stateliness that was in striking contrast with his usual frank and cordial manner, and then introduced the officer to us as "Major Turner, Keeper of the Libby." I had heard of him, and it was with some reluctance that I took his proffered hand. However, I did take it, and at the same time inquired-
"Are you related to Dr. Turner, of Fayetteville?"
"No, Sir. I am of the old Virginia family." (I never met a negro-whipper nor a negro-trader who did not belong to that family.) " Are you a North Carolina?"
"No. Sir"-
Before I could add another word, the Judge said:
"No, Major; these gentlemen hail from Georgia. They are strangers here, and I'd thank you to show them over the prison."
"Certainly, Colonel, most certainly. I'll do it with great pleasure."
And the little man bustled about, put on his cap, gave a few orders to his subordinates and then led as through another outside door into the prison. He was a few rods in advance with Colonel Jaquess when Judge Ould said to me:
Your prisoners have belied Turner. You see he's not the hyena they’ve represented.”
“I’m not sure of that,” I replied. “These cringing, mild-mannered men the worst sort of tryants when they have the power."
"But you don't think him a tryant?"
"I do. He's coward and a bully, or I can't read English. It is written all over his face."
The Judge laughed boisterously, and called out to Turner.
"I say, Major, our friend here is painting your portrait."
"I hope he is making a handsome man of me," said Turner, in a sycophantic way.
"No, he isn't. He's drawing you to the life-as if he'd known you for half a century."
We had entered a room about forty feet wide and a hundred feet deep, with bare brick walls, a rough plank floor, and narrow, dingy windows, to whose such only a few broken panes were clinging. A row
<c02>
of tin wash-basins, and a wooken trough, which served as a bathing-tub, were at one end of it, and half-a-dozen cheap stools and hard-bottomed chairs were littered about the floor, but it had no other furniture. And this room, with five others of similar size and appointments, and two basements floored with earth and filled with debris, compose the famous Libby Prison, in which, for months together, thousands of the best and bravest men that ever went to battle have been allowed to rot and to starve.
At the date of our visit, not more than a hundred prisoners were in the Libby, its contents having recently been emptied into a worse sink in Georgia; but almost constantly since the war began, twelve and sometimes thirteen hundred of our officers have been hived within those half-dozen desolate rooms and filthy cellars, with a space of only ten feet by two allotted to each for all the purposes of living!
Overrun with vermin, perishing with cold, breathing a stifled, tainted atmosphere, no space allowed them for rest by day, and lying down at night "wormed and dovetailed together like fish in a basket,"-their daily rations only two ounces of stale beef, and a small lump of hard corn bread, and their lives the forfeit, if they caught but one streak of God's blue sky through those filthy windows-they have endured there all the horrors of a middle passage. My soul sickened as I looked on the scene of their wretchedness. If the liberty we are fighting for were not worth ever, so terrible a price-if it were not cheaply purchased even with the blood and agony of the many brave and true souls who have gone into that foul den only to die, or to come out the shadows of men-living ghosts, condemned to walk the night and to fade away before the breaking of the great day that is coming-who would not cry out for peace, for peace on any terms?
And while these thoughts were in my mind, the cringing, foul-mouthed, brutal, contemptible ruffian who had caused all this misery stood within two paces of me! I could have reached out my hand, and, with half an effort, have crushed him, and-I did not do it! Some invisible Power held my arm, for murder was in my heart.
"This is where that Yankee devil Straight, that raised hell so among you down in Georgia, got out," said Turner, pausing before a jut in the wall of the room. "A flue was here, you see, but we've bricked it up. They took up the hearth, let themselves down into the basement, and then dug through the wall, and eighty feet under ground into the yard of a deserted building over the way. If you'd like to see the place, step down with me."
"We would, Major. We'd be right glad ter," I replied, adopting, at a hint from the Judge, the Georgia dialect.
We descended a rough plank stairway, and entered the basement. It was a damp, mouldy, dismal place, and even then-in hot July weather-as cold as an ice-house. What must it have been in midwinter!
The keeper led us along the wall to where Straight and his party had broken out, and then said:
"It's three feet thick, but they went through it, and all the way under the street, with only a few caseknives and a dust-pan."
"Wal, they war smart. But, keeper, whar, wus yer eyes all o' thet time? Down our way of a man couldn't see twenty Yankees a wuckin' so fur six weeks, by daylight, in a clare place like this yere, we'd reckon he warn't fit ter 'tend a pen o' niggers."
The Judge whispered, "You're overdoing it. Hold in." Turner winced like a struck hound, but smothering his wrath, smilingly replied:
"The place wasn't clear then. It was filled with straw and rubbish. The Yankees covered the opening with it, and hid away among it when any one was coming. I caught two of them down here one day, but they pulled the wool over my eyes, and I let them off with a few days in a dungeon. But that fellow Straight would outwit the devil. He was the most unruly customer I've had in the twenty months I've been here. I put him in keep, time and again, but I never could cool him down."
"Whar is the keeps?" I asked. "Ye's got lots o' them, haint ye?"
"No-only six. Step this way, and I'll show you."
"Talk better English," said the Judge, as we fell a few paces behind Turner on our way to the front of the building; "there are some schoolmasters in Georgia."
"Wal, thar' ha'nt-not in the part I come from."
The dungeons were low, close, dismal apartments, about twelve feet square, boarded off from the remainder of the cellar, and lighted only by a narrow grating under the sidewalk. Their floors were incrusted with filth, and their walls stained and damp with the rain, which in wet weather had dripped down from the street."
"And how many does ye commonly lodge yere, when yer hotel's full?" I asked.
"I have had twenty in each, but fifteen is about as many as they comfortably hold."
"I reckon! And then the comfort moughtn't be much ter brag on."
The keeper soon invited us to walk into the adjoining basement. I was a few steps in advance of him, taking a straight course to the entrance, when a sentinel, pacing to and fro in the middle of the apartment, leveled his musket so as to bar my way, saying as he did so:
"Ye carn't pass yere, Sir. Ye must gwo round by the wail."
This drew my attention to the spot, and I noticed that a space, about fifteen feet square, in the centre of the room, and directly in front of the sentinel, had been recently dug up with a spade. While in all other places the ground was trodden to the hardness and color of granite, this spot seemed to be soft, and had the reddish-yellow hue of the "sacred soil." Another sentry was pacing to and fro on its other side, so that the place was completely surrounded! Why were they guarding it so closely? The reason flashed upon me, and I said to Turner:
"I say, bow many barr'ls has ye in thar?"
"Enough to blow this shanty to-," he answered, curtly.
"I reckon! Put 'em thar when thet feller Dahl-green wus a-gwine ter rescue'em-the Yankees?"
"I reckon."
He said no more; but that was enough to reveal the black seething hell the rebellion has brewed. Can there be any peace with miscreants who thus deliberately plan the murder, at one swoop, of hundreds of unarmed and innocent men?
In this room seated on the ground, or leaning idly against the walls, were about a dozen poor fellows who, the Judge told me, were hostages, held for a similar number under sentence of death by our Government. Their dejected, homesick look and weary, listless manner disclosed some of the horrors of imprisonment.
"Let us go," I said to the Colonel: "I have had enough of this."
"No,-you must see the up stairs," said Turner. It a'n't so gloomy up there."
It was not so gloomy, for some little sunlight did
<c03>
come in through the dingy windows; but the few prisoners in the upper rooms wore the same sad, disconsolate look as those in the lower story.
"It is not hard fare or close quarters that kills men," said Judge Ould to me. "It is homesickness; and the strongest and the bravest succumb t it first."
In the sill of an attic-window, I found a Minnie ball. Prying it out with my knife, and holding it up to Turner, I said,-
"So ye keeps this room for a shooting gallery, does ye?"
"Yes," he replied, laughing. "The boys practice once in a while on the Yankees. You see, the rules forbid their coming within three feet of the windows. Sometimes they do, and then the boys take a pop at them."
"And sometimes hit'em? Hit many on'em?"
"Yes, a heap."
We passed a long hour in the Libby, and then visited Castle Thunder and the hospitals for our wounded. I should be glad to describe what I saw in those "Institutions," but the limits of my paper forbid it.
It was five o'clock when we bade the Judge a friendly, good-bye and took our seat in the ambulance. As we did so, he said to us:
"I have not taken your parole. Gentlemen. I shall trust to your honor not to disclose anything you have seen or heard that might operate against us in a military way.”
"You may rely upon us, Judge; and some day give us a chance to return the courtesy and kindness you have shown to us. We shall not forget it."
We arrived near the Union lines just as the sun was going down. Captain Hatch, who bad accompanied us, waved his flag as we halted near a grove of trees, and a young officer rode over to us from the nearest picket-station. We despatched him to Gen. Foster for a pair of horses, and in half an hour entered the General's tent. He pressed us to remain to dinner, proposing to kill the fatted calf-"for these my sons were dead, and are alive again, were lost, and are found."
We let him kill it, (it tasted wonderfully like salt pork,) and in half an hour were on our way to Gen. Butler's headquarters.

CATHOLIC VIEW OF EMANCIPATION.
"MARYLAND A FREE STATE."
The Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph, the organ of the most Rev. Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati, edited by the Rev. Dr. Purcell and Bishop Rosecrans, contains the following editorial article on the adoption of our new Constitution. It will no doubt be read with interest by our Catholic subscribers in Maryland, and will repay perusal by all classes:
MARYLAND A FREE STATE.
Among the many extraordinary events which have occurred since the commencement of the war, none have surpassed in importance the proclamation of Governor Bradford, proclaiming the adoption of the new Constitution, and declaring Maryland a free State. The first to proclaim liberty of conscience, she has now won an additional honor by excluding from her character the plague-spot of slavery.
Many persons, doubtless, will regret this determination of her people; some will maintain that it is an injustice and a grievance, and will attribute the result to illegal and tyrannical interference with State rights. This must be expected. An event so important cannot happen without exciting the passions of many, but the triumphant party can afford to bear with charity much angry declamation. We rejoice that Maryland, the cradle of the Catholic Faith in the United Slates, is now untarnished with slavery; that the " Word made flesh" is no more dishonored by having His creatures in the same flesh sold as chattels in her markets; and that the Cross, the true sign of liberty, more so than any banner that ever waved on earth, will no longer be insulted by looking down on the red flag of the auctioneer where men and women are offered for sale to the highest bidder. It is a subject; for congratulation to every Catholic heart.
This thing of slavery has fastened itself on the hearts of many people, and hence these remarks will be distasteful to such persons, and find ample and bitter retort in words and in paragraphs. But we are willing to let time judge between us. We have never met with any one who professed his regret that the Church had emancipated the enslaved in the early times of her history; and let a generation elapse, and he will be a bold man who will talk of restoring to Maryland this slavery which she has thrown out of doors. A generation will be sufficient to work such a change in the heads and hearts of her people, that they will refer with pride to the day when mercy succeeded tyranny in their commonwealth, when a nobler civilization, because more nearly allied with the lessons of the Church, took the place of that which was introduced by England into the slave trade.
All that is now wanting for free Maryland is the return of peace to make her fields fertile and her barren plains disappear beneath the hard hand and sweating brow of the white laborer. This will be the result of her emancipation. This will be the triumph of the poor white man who was heretofore excluded from the soil. Great farms, which were more and more exhausted from year to year will the subdivided, and the band that owns will reap the harvest, and think it no dishonor. And with this change in physical prosperity will be also a moral change. The Catholics of Maryland have done much for the Faith. Her prelates, her people, and the noble religious and literary institutions, which have given her honor before all the Catholics in the land, will now be placed in a position to accomplish greater things for God. They are" too noble-minded and generous to regret the loss of slavery, if such results as we anticipate shall follow the political action of her people.

REJOICING PATRIOTISM.
Several of our city ministers, (says the Syracuse Standard,) we hear, preached most loyally and eloquently on Thanksgiving day. We are permitted to give the introduction of Mr. May's sermon, from which the character of the whole may be readily inferred:-
"Next to the 4th of July, the 8th of November will hereafter forever be celebrated as the anniversary of the most important event in our national history. Perhaps it would not be extravagant to say, that the event of this latter date was even more important than that which for more than eighty years has been commemorated as the birth of our nation. For if our Republic may be said to have been born on the 4th of July, 1776, with equal truth may it be said to have been born again on the blessed 8th of November, 1864. Yes, if the augury of that day be not utterly false, our nation is saved-will be regenerated.
<c04>
O! on bow many anxious hearts did the morning of that day dawn! And what a burden, of anxiety was lifted from them, when the result of the election was made known! It had seemed as if the powers of darkness and of hell were combined against the life of this Republic; and no mere human foresight could see certainly that they would not effect their diabolical purpose. It was believed, with too much reason, that the sanctity of the ballot-box was to be violated by tens of thousands of fraudulent voters. It was feared, and, as the event proved, not without cause, that sacrilegious hands would be laid even upon the votes of our absent loyal soldiers, and those for the opposing candidate be inserted in their stead. To what extent such outrages would be perpetrated, no one could foretell. Then there were signs of evil spirits coming from the North, as well as the South, to ply their every art to corrupt the election, and, if successful, to inaugurate a reign of terror over our loyal States. Hundreds of thousands of traitors had leagued together, under such seemly names as "Knights of the Golden Circle," "Sons of Liberty," &c., to let loose the rebel prisoners, assassinate our prominent loyal citizens, rob our banks, and wrap our cities in flames. Never were a people in more imminent peril. We were on the cap of a social volcano-we were at the edge of a political maelstrom!
"Blessed be God! our dangers were discovered in time to be averted. Measures of precaution were so wisely and generally taken, that the diabolical plots of our enemies were thwarted; many of the instigators and desperadoes were arrested and imprisoned, and their accomplices were intimidated. Nay, better still, the more enlightened portion of the Democratic party were alarmed by the rashness and savagery of their base allies; and knowing full well that neither fire nor the sword is discriminating, they co-operated with the loyal guardians of the public safety; and so effectually were the threatened outbreaks provided against, that never did an election pass off more quietly. Indeed, there was a serious, solemn aspect on the body politic, as if the constituents deeply felt that they were called to act in a fearful crisis-to decree the life or death of the Nation. And they elected it to live.' Happy art thou, O Israel! who is like unto thee, O People, saved by the Lord?'"

MATTERS AND THINGS AT BEAUFORT.
BEAUFORT, (S. C.,) Nov. 9th, 1864.
The Election.-Yesterday was a gala day here with us. Excluded as we were from taking an active part in the exercise of that noble privilege, the elective franchise, it was thought best not to let the day pass without a public expression of our opinion, even though it could not Constitutionally tell in the final and great result. Accordingly, preparations having been made and notice given, polls were opened from 9 o'clock, A. M., till 4 o'clock, P. M., granting the privilege to all, black or white, who felt disposed to vote. It was done in this wise-each citizen or soldier came forward with his vote, a person received it in a closed box, with an aperture at the top, like a child's money-box, just large enough to receive the ballot: another sat by with a book to record his name, and the State he was from. Such was the course adopted with all, white or colored. The result was, that when the poll was declared, it was found that 1009 had voted, and that 976 votes had been cast for Abraham Lincoln, and 33 only for George B. McClellan. A ratification meeting was held in the evening, attended with bonfires, patriotic speeches, and excellent music by the post (colored) band.
The negroes enjoyed it finely, and entered into it with patriotic zeal and life. I was amused and gratified at the good nature and earnestness manifested by them. At times, large numbers would gather around the place of voting; yet good order prevailed, and the voting proceeded as regularly as in the rural districts of New England. An attempt was made by a white Irish soldier to practice a little deception. He was a McClellanite, of course; would ask to see their tickets, and then pass back a McClellan ticket, thinking thereby to deceive them, and thus improve the prospects of his own candidate. But it was no go; the negro was too shrewd, and was not to be caught in that way. The poor fellow was soon detected in his fraudulent scheme, and was in a good-natured way jostled about from one end of the crowd to the other. He ventured to suggest that he was too roughly treated. One of the foremost in the play replied, "Look here, white man! suppose one of us should go among your folks, and do as you have among us, would he have fared as well as you have? No! you would have trampled him to the ground, and smashed his head for him." I verily thought the speaker was right; it evidently would have been so, and the poor fellow had good reason to thank his stars that African forbearance is more elastic than Saxon or Celtic.
An instance of cunning shrewdness came to ray knowledge, which I cannot forbear to relate. It shows the aptness which some of the Africans have to make a good turn, even at the expense of others. It exhibits, also, a new mode of electioneering, that would cap the climax of the cutest and most skilful Yankee. A small package of votes was given to one, the night before the election, to distribute. He pocketed them, and on the morning of the 8th obtained an early breakfast, then went among his neighbors, and offered the tickets for sale at twenty-five cents each, representing, of course, that they could not be had in any other way. He actually sold a number. This trick exhibits more cunning than honesty, and is an evidence that the passion for gain, at any cost, is not confined to race or color.
This privilege of an informal vote, even, was highly appreciated; and though some did actually think that they were casting legal votes, I believe the greater part understood it to be only a formal expression of opinion. That many fully realize the importance of the election, relative to their own condition, is evident from the deep anxiety they express. In some localities they prayed and fasted through the day. This morning, as I was walking down Bay street, a negro of some fifty years of age beckoned me to stop, and "with serious, anxious look inquired, "Do you think there is any doubt about the election of Lincoln?" I replied, I thought hot, but as was expressed at the ratification meeting last lining, "As-went Beaufort, so would go the Union." Alas, should it be otherwise, what despair would sink the hearts of the thinking contrabands! God be merciful unto them is my prayer. So much for the election day and its incidents. It was indeed a joyful time to the people, therefore joyous to me. I always take pleasure in seeing others happy.
Freedman's Savings Bank.-The colored people in Beaufort and vicinity are, for the most part, in easy and comfortable circumstances; some of them laying up money. General Saxton, with that sagacity and prudential care that has ever characterized all his acts, and wishing to encourage this desire to save, has established a Savings Bank. It has not been in operation quite two months, and now has in its vaults about 820,000, belonging to contrabands,
<c05>
a part of which is the bounty money of the soldiers, the other part savings of the industrious and prudent. This speaks well for a people who have enjoyed the rights of freemen for three years only. Last Monday was the third anniversary day which set this people free, and which was appropriately noticed by the booming of cannon and the display of bunting among the shipping. But I would not have you infer that there is no poverty here; only that while some are laying up money, others are improving their condition, and the number to be provided for by the government is becoming beautifully less every month. Occasionally, our gunboats import a new lot from the main land, which have to be provided and cared for. This keeps up the need of charity and good works in the North. We have recently had brought among us some forty or fifty families of poor whites, whose condition is far worse than the negro, both physically and mentally. O, Slavery! thou monster, see thy work; behold the degradation of the lordly Saxon! Yet these poor wretches, like the Copperheads of the North, look with contempt on the negro.
Our Schools.-The first week or two after my arrival, I felt a little discouraged and homesick, in view of the work before me, and the apparent indifference manifested by many of the people. It was only apparent; the long vacation had taken their attention from the schools, but as soon as I had time to visit some, and to have a meeting of the citizens called to be addressed by Gen. Saxton and others, the same interest as heretofore, in behalf of the schools, was manifest. The attendance is good, and the punctuality improving. This morning, for instance, nine-tenths of the children were in their seats precisely at nine o'clock, and the other tenth immediately after, which is a decided improvement. Northern teachers well know how much we appreciate this, when told that we have had scholars dropping in from nine till ten, and sometimes till half-past ten o'clock.
We are looking forward with hope for a good work this coming winter. The signs are propitious, and our faith is strong.
Yours, respectfully,
GEORGE NEWCOMB.

THE COLORED RACE.
Rev. Mr. Banvard, in his sermon on Thanks giving day, which was on topics for the times said: The present condition of the colored race in this country, as well as of those in their father-land, is impressively described in that simple yet sublime conception of Anne Whitney in her statute of Africa, now on exhibition in Boston. It is the form, in colossal proportions, of a female with subdued African features, in the act of rising from her couch. She has risen sufficiently to lean upon one elbow, whilst with her other hand she shades her eyes as she endeavors to look in the distance before her, and catch the first rays of the coming dawn. She is awakening to a new, day and looking forward with mingled feelings of curiosity and hope, endeavoring to penetrate the future. It is a grand embodiment of majesty, strength, anticipation, hopefulness, and a readiness to meet the events which the future may reveal. It is an appropriate and majestic symbol of Africa awaking to a new career, and is equally truthful and fitting as an emblem of Africa in our country as in her. She is arising from a long and terrible night. The day dawns. The morning star of hope shines serenely upon the brow of heaven Africa has caught its cheering rays. She begins to stir. She rouses herself from her long night of ignorance, suffering and bondage. She looks before and around her to see what the unusual portents of the times reveal, and she is preparing herself for the future which awaits her. For a long time has her hand been stretched out in supplication to her God; and now there is put into it the alphabet and the Bible, the musket and the banner of freedom, and she is learning to use them all.
The question is asked, and will be repeated with increasing emphasis for years to come, what is our duty toward the colored race in this country? I answer, that during the painful period of their transition from slavery to freedom, which to them is necessarily a period of nakedness and hunger, want and wretchedness, the government and the people should unite to provide them with shelter, clothing and food, until they can make arrangements to provide for themselves. Furnish them also with labor and the elements of education. Send them teachers and books; and when they shall have reached a settled, normal condition, then don't interfere, with them. Let them alone; give them a fair chance, and let them carve out their own fortune, and we may be assured that as a general thing the; will be amply able to support themselves.

ATTACK OUT GENERAL STONEMAN.
[The following extract from a private letter has been banded us for publication:]
In my last hurried note to you, on the morning of the 8th, I promised to give you the particulars of a brutal outrage committed by the keepers of the Bating Station at Wellsville, on the Ohio River. (Their names are Dean, I think.) Maj.-General Stone-man went in with his family to get some tea, and took his colored nurse in with him to feed his child as well as to give her something to eat, as we had not time to get anything at Pittsburgh. We had nothing from the time we left Altoona. When they went in, the room was nearly empty, and they seated themselves at the extremes end. An elderly woman stepped up, and said they did not allow "Niggers" to sit at the table with white folks. Gen. Stoneman remarked that it was only his own family occupying the table. "I don't care, sir, we don't allow them to sit at the same table here with white folks." Gen. S. replied: "Well, let her have another table alone, as I wish her to feed my child." Elderly lady: "No, sir; I will do no such thing. Niggers are not allowed all in this room." And the nurse sat back from the table. Nothing farther was said upon the matter. In a few minutes the on praetor came along, and accosted Gen. Stoneman with: "I want your fare, sir," naming the price. Gen. S. replied: "I will give it to you as soon as I finish, as my time is short." Proprietor retorts: "Do you not wish, to pay, sir? Are you not going to do as other people do V" Gen. S. replied: " Certainly I am to pay you, but as I said before, I wish to eat, as 1 am late, and will pay as soon as I finish. But I do not think you treat the public with proper courtesy, as I was insulted by a waiter about my servant when I came in, and"-Proprietor interrupts him,-"Who insulted you over your servant?" Gen. S.: "That lady," pointing to the elderly: woman before referred to. Proprietor: "Who did she Insult you over?" Gen. S.: "That woman sitting there, who is my servant." Proprietor then struck Gen. Stoneman between the jaw and ear, knocking his head round on one side; another man, a brother of his struck him on the cheek on the other side, and clenched his left hand in the General's hair, and
<c06>
dragged him off his chair, stunned and bleeding as he was, both kicking and knocking him, he being partially dragged on his knees, his arms? hanging by his sides, and unable to make the feast resistance or defence. While his wife pleaded with them for her husband, one of them rudely thrust her away, and continued to pound and kick him, saving at the same time they would kill him. All this transpired in much less time than it takes to tell it, and the few men left in the room were so far away from them that they had lacerated, cut, and bruised him in a frightful manner before he could be rescued. And when it was done, they swore that they were only sorry they had not killed him, and declared their intention of doing it yet, if they could only get the chance. They would kill any" man who would tell them that their mother insulted him over a Nigger. It was well the General did not make himself known, as there were some 148 soldiers on the train. They would have cleared the house, I think The General was just from Libby Prison, Richmond, Va., where he had been confined for two months a prisoner.-N. Y. Tribune.

AN AFFEOTING DESORIPTION.
A correspondent of the New York Times writes from Port Royal as follows, concerning the dreadful condition in which the Union prisoners exchanged on Friday, the 18th ult., were found to be, and in regard to the great joy the poor fellows felt at their release from captivity, cruelty and starvation, unparalleled in the history of civilized warfare. The letter from Florida, published to-day, describes the terrible treatment our soldier prisoners were subjected to by the enemy:
"The rendezvous for the exchanges is at Venus Point, on the Savannah river, a bend of the stream whence the spires and many of the houses of the city of Savannah are visible. Our boats are invariably the first at the rendezvous, anchored in mid-river awaiting the rebel vessels, whose tardiness proceeds from the fact that it is only at the proper tide certain obstructions of the channel above can be crossed. Finally, they appear over the low marshes, belching their turgid clouds of dense black smoke, and in half an hour their uncouth, grotesque, towering shapes are puffing and wheezing near us. Col. Mulford immediately goes in a yawl boat to the Gen. Beauregard, a small steamer used by Capt. Hatch, the rebel agent, as the flagship of his transport squadron, and after a few moment's consultation, during which the rolls of the prisoners are transferred, the two agents go together on board one of the floating objects laden with the released men, and she is at once laid alongside a neat Union vessel, and the poor fellows are transshipped. Those of them who are able to move without aid pass to the protection of the old flag first; then come those (alas! there are many of this class) who hobble on crutches, and last the few whose helplessness requires that they should be carried on stretchers. In all this operation, the greatest formality is observed. A number of rebel civilians, with bands round their hats, labeled "Committee for the wounded," whose position corresponds with our own Sanitary Commission, accompany the boats from Savannah to attend on the sick, and assist in the transshipment, but seldom on either side is a word spoken, except on the subject of the matter in hand. A different course is forbidden, and if on either side there happen to be a disposition to engage in conversation, watchful guards step up, and ask that the conversation shall cease. It is no uncommon thing to see a man who has been so crippled by scrofula that crutches were necessary to his locomotion, under the influence of his ecstacy at again being free, spurn from him his artificial supports, and walk, for a time, as erect and as instantaneously as he whom the Saviour miraculously cured by the healing waters of Bethesda. When the rebel boat moves off, and the men are huddled together on the decks of our own vessels, all fully understand that the last link which bound them to rebeldom has been severed; then rise hearty shouting and cheering, which only can be given under these circumstances. There is the music of intense gratefulness in it. Three cheers and a tiger for the old flag; three more and a tiger for Col. Mulford; then comes a burst of song, most often the words being' Rally round the flag, boys, from near and from far; down with the traitor and up with the star'-the rebels still within hearing, probably gnashing their teeth at the pointed personal allusion, but everybody else feeling that the bad taste of the happy fellows is excusable, even though exhibited under the sacred folds of a flag of truce. Then vermin-infested rags, till now highly prized as the only cover for nakedness, are rudely torn off and flung into the water, or cast with glee into the flaming furnaces of the steamers, and new clothes are issued, and a general cleaning-time inaugurated. But the bathing has long been needed, and scarcely comes soon enough. Many of the men, through illness or carelessness, are so begrimed with filth, that, were it not for the dead color of the blacked epidermis, they might to taken for the sons of Ham. The steamer Eliza Hancox, one of the exchange fleet, has a spacious deck, affording room for dancing, and Terpsichore finds her votaries, even though they are tatterdemalions, who dance not ungracefully in their streaming rags. As soon as possible, barrels of hot coffee are prepared, and hams are cooked, and. boxes of hard bread opened for the refreshment of these men, to whom decent food had been for a long time unknown. It is a touching sight to see them, each with his quart can file by the steaming coffee barrels, and receive the refreshing draught whose taste has long been unfamiliar. It seems scarcely possible that men should feel suck childish joy as they express-in once more receiving this common stimulant. And. then, the eager, hungry glare which their glassy eyes cast upon the chunks of ham as they clutch and devour their allowance with a wolf-like avidity! These facts can only be understood by the spectator in remembering that for months they have been deprived of a sufficient quantity of palatable food, and that the little they-have received has been rarely cooked, because in a country abounding with fuel, and; gloomy with immense pine forests, their jailors forbade them the poor privilege of adequate fires. At the prison pen near Milan, Ga., for some weeks there has been, no meal or flour given to the prisoners, and; the sweet potatoes issued in lien, thereof have been eaten raw, because there was no opportunity of getting fuel for cooking purposes.
Such is the condition of the men whom we are know receiving oat of chivalrous Dixie. These the sons, brothers, husbands and fathers of the North. Men reduced to living skeletons; men almost naked; shoeless many shirtless men, hatless men; men with no other garment than an overcoat; men whose skins are blackened by dirt, and. hang on their protruding bones loosely as bark on a tree; men whose very presence is simply disgusting, exhaling an odor so fetid that it almost stops the breath of those unaccustomed to it, and causes an
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, far the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OP THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
involuntary brushing of the garments if with them there is accidental contact. Imagine 25,000 of such wretched creatures penned together in a space scarcely large enough to hold them, and compare their condition with the most miserable condition that can be imagined! The suffering of the Revolutionary captives on the prison ships at Wallabout Bay will not stand the comparison, and the horrible night in the Blackhole of Calcutta scarcely exceeds it in atrocity. Remember, too, that the men thus returned are the best specimens of the suffering. Only those are forwarded to us whom the rebel medical authorities decide to be strong enough to bear the fatigue of transportation."

REBEL SAVAGERY.
When the world hears of the late attempt to burn the City of New York, it will not fail to mark the peculiarly fiendish elements of the conspiracy.
Under ordinary circumstances, an in the refuge of the weary and unsuspecting traveler, has a character which should protect it from the torch of the incendiary, as if it were a hospital. But our great hotels are full of families, of women and of children gathered together under a single roof-of those very classes to which, when they are in a beleaguered city, fair warning and opportunity of escape is given by a besieging general before beginning his bombardment. This wide-reaching crime, from which God has delivered us, would have been, if consummated, an aggregate of hideous assassinations, closely resembling those committed by the Indian Thugs in more particulars than one. The exigencies of war-and they must always be numerous and painful-have driven us to nothing approximating in all that is horrible to the scene which this city would, but for the merciful interposition of Divine Providence, have presented. The very thought of what was, on that memorable night, but too probable, must send a thrill of horror through the hearts of the most stolid. The plot can never be forgotten. It will occupy a marked place in the pages of history, and the recital of its meditated atrocities, for years to conic, will keep its projectors in a pillory of continuous execration.
And yet their wickedness, so startling on account of its novelty, is no greater, perhaps not so great, as the absolutely barbarous manner in which the Confederates have treated their Federal prisoners of war. It is hard to write with even decent and dignified moderation of the sufferings of our captive soldiers. It is impossible, without crimsoning with righteous wrath, to read of the filth, the fever, the festering wounds, the sickness, the starvation, the sharp and sure mortality which malice a Confederate prison far more dreadful to our soldiers than the most hotly contested field. These shames have extorted from the rebel physicians themselves continual protests, the repetition of which shows that remonstrances have been at least inadequately heeded. These evidences of cruelty and neglect are enough of themselves to prove that both are without excuse, since it is not to be supposed that these surgeons would ask of their government that which they knew it was impossible to grant. Neither can there be any pretence of retaliation. Public opinion would not permit us to maltreat our prisoners, even it there existed any official inclination to do so.
Now, with these facts before them-and how easy it would be to add to their number! we hope, when our foreign critics again take occasion to expatiate upon the unnatural cruelty of this war, that they will be good enough to state upon which side, in their opinion, the want of nature and of humanity exists. It is time for the truth to shame these slanderers into something like decency. It is time that the distortion of facts, and the deduction from them of malicious and obstinate libels, met with something like a check from the moral sense of mankind. All the world is interested in the suppression of the shameful criticism to which we have been subjected; for although it may be our turn to-day, to-morrow some other and perhaps far-distant people may be made the object of like calumnies. The comity of nations is not merely an idle phrase. Public reputation is quite as important, quite as much in need of honest judgment, quite as sacred in the eyes of all intelligent observers, as private character; and The London Times has no more right to lie about us in the mass than it has to lie about, us individually. We perfectly understand the full import of the words which we are using when we speak thus plainly. A foreign observer, who sees no shame in a war waged for the publicly-avowed purpose of perpetuating Slavery-no crime in a treason utterly causeless, or for which "no valid cause has thus far been assigned-no barbarism in murdering prisoners by inches, instead of mercifully putting them to death at once-nothing but ordinary retaliation in a plot to burn thousands of women and children in heir beds-a critic who finds in all these iniquities no reason for even the mildest censure, confesses by his silence, or by his stammering extenuations, that he is prejudiced, or interested, or malicious. There is no room for argument. There is no question for debate. The iteration of a few threadbare phrases and stale insinuations amounts to nothing. The member of Parliament who has, or who thinks he has an interest in promoting the Slaveholders' Rebellion may rise in his place, may hem and haw, may stutter and sophisticate and insinuate to some purpose for a night or a week; but he really changes nothing; he does not make secession a virtue, nor the secede a patriot. And as if those who have undertaken to carry a bad cause upon their shoulders were not already dreadfully overloaded, they must now find room for one of the most diabolical projects of the age; and whereas they have found excuses for murder and treason and man-owning, they must now invent some petty subterfuge by which to make the attempted conflagration of a great city an act of commendable bravery and of righteous retribution. They are welcome, to try it! Let them seek in their repertory of soft words-for a neat and mild one which can be twisted into an application fitted to their present embarrassing emergency! Let them exert themselves to show that we ourselves brought this great peril to our own doors! that we are more fortunate than deserving!-that the Guy Fawkeses of Mr. Davis did not, after all, the innocent creatures! effect what they attempted, and that if they had effected it, they were duly provoked and are not to be severely censured! The charitable ingenuity which has already been so strenuously exerted in softening Confederate crimes, and in exaggerating Federal failure, has now a fairer field for its exercise. Not man-stealing, nor murder, nor theft, nor perjury, nor brutal cruelty are now to be argued into something like virtue; but here is a hellish scheme worthy of the glibbest lawyer-logic of the leading columns! The devil himself never had a better opportunity of making the worse appear the better reason!
But if this same old whine of apology is to be persisted in, let us hear no more from newspapers printed in England, or from boroughmongers prosing in Parliament, of Sepoy cruelties, of Chinese treacheries, of Kaffir crimes"! Fighting is fighting, bombarding is bombarding, and besieging is besieging; but sending spies, in the garb of civilians, into the enemy's cities to fire them under cover of the night, and to doom a sleeping population to the most frightful of deaths-this is a feature of war skin to poisoning wells, and to like strokes of military genius. Something of the old African nature, which kindles villages that cattle may be conveniently stolen, must have been transmitted, perhaps through concubine, to the Confederate leaders. If so, the relationship must be a remote one, and the blood debased by mixture. An ordinary slave would shrink from such a crime. We were told that emancipation would bring terror; but when our houses are to be burned, the torches are applied by the hands of the lordly and superior race. This opens a fine field for speculation, which we leave to the shrewd and learned pro-Slavery ethnologists.-New York Tribune.

REBEL BRUTALITY.
The treatment of our prisoners in Georgia is a disgrace to the American name and to humanity itself. The heart sickens at the details of the terrible condition of those prisoners who have recently been exchanged, and yet we are told that these are the best cases-as for the others, exchange is impossible! Are they demos that can coolly and by system perpetrate atrocities which have hitherto been unheard of outside of heathen darkness? If we had-to do merely with the deprivation of the ordinary food and conveniences of prison life, excuses might be found in the straightened condition of the South. But the prisoners suffer for want of a sufficient quantity of even the coarsest and commonest food in the heart of the producing regions, where there are no difficulties of transportation. They are chilled to death for want of fuel in the
<c02>
midst of vast forests. They are crowded into close and filthy quarters, whose extent of space is not of the least consequence to the jailers. They are made to drink filthy water when pure can be obtained in abundance. The rebel surgeons themselves cry out against the pitiable condition of their patients. But all in vain. Some malign power, behind the mysteries of rebel statecraft, continues its ruthless work of destroying by hunger, cold, filth, vermin, madness and death in all its horrible forms, thousands of unarmed and harmless men. And these unparalleled sufferings call forth demoniac exultation from the central organs of rebellion.
It is impossible to say what can be the animating purpose of such a system of atrocity-whether it be to discourage the North from its great undertaking, or to disable all prisoners from future service. But one thing is sure, the leaders of the rebellion are fixing upon themselves such a stigma for brutality as no other civilized people on the face of the earth would dare to assume. Is not the barbarism of slavery at length fearfully established before the eyes of all men? For if these atrocious deeds, not confined to any spot or method of execution, but pursued wherever our prisoners are consigned and with a devilish fertility of invention, are not the fruits of the distinctive Southern institution, we are utterly at a loss to imagine their origin.-Boston Journal.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1864.
THE CONWAY CONTROVERSY.
Editor of the Liberator:-
With no desire to engage in the "Conway Controversy," I hope I may he allowed to offer a few remarks on the reference to "Anti-Slavery Englishmen," which appears in the letter from Mr. Conway to the Anti-Slavery Standard, reprinted in your last.
Mr. Conway's letter to the "Fugitive" Mason was as much regretted, if not as strongly condemned, by "Anti-Slavery Englishmen," as by the American Anti Slavery Society. Yet when Mr. Conway represented that the first, if not the sole, motive of American Abolitionists, in supporting the Federal Government in the war against the Rebel Confederacy, was the hope of thereby freeing the slaves, rather than the restoration of the 'covenant with death and the agreement with hell," he certainly was understood to represent the sentiments of the most earnest and ardent Abolitionists, both leaders and followers. If he had made any other statement; or example-that the "covenant" was to be sustained, and the "agreement "enforced, by fire and sword, irrespective of the rights and wrongs of the slaves, and thus speaking had pretended to represent the sentiments of, or to be in communion with Messrs. Garrison and Phillips-he certainly would have been scouted as an impostor by "Anti Slavery Englishmen."
Doubtless, all honest and thinking Englishmen would have admitted that-leaving the question of slavery aside-the South had no just cause for the rebellion initiated by South Carolina; and that having gone to the ballot-box, the minority had only to submit to the vote of the majority, which refusing to do, and appealing to the sword, the United States Government had a perfectly legitimate right to employ the sword to compel obedience to the Constitution and the Laws. But I doubt if American Abolitionists, who, by abstaining from voting, had refused to recognize the Constitution, who had wished the dissolution of the slavery-cursed Union, and desired that the slave oligarchy would carry out their threats and "go," could have consistently taken part in any such contest. Any way, the North in such a quarrel would have had no claim on the sympathy of "Anti-Slavery Englishmen." The secret of their good wishes was the trusting belief, that the war was a war of Emancipation; or to be made such, and prosecuted as such, by the strenuous labors of the American Abolitionists.
Mr. Conway has put a very important question as to the real policy of the Anti-Slavery party in connection with the war. I beg to submit that that question is not answered by discussing whether Mr. Conway was "sent" to England, or went there on his own inspiration, or as to where the money to defray the expenses came from, and the means employed to obtain that money. Such matters have little interest for the public; but great is the interest which attaches to the course to be taken by the Anti-Slavery party during the remainder of the war, and in view of possible, or probable, contingencies arising out of the struggle. I offer my opinion with some diffidence, but will suggest that some action, over and above occasional lectures in country towns and villages, should he taken by the Anti-Slavery Associations to enlighten public opinion, so as to bring " the pressure from without " to bear irresistibly upon the President and Congress in favor of Immediate, Universal and Unconditional Emancipation, whether through Peace and Reconstruction, or War and Subjugation.
I am, very respectfully, an Anti-Slavery Englishman,
G. JULIAN HARNEY.
5, VAN RENSSELAER PLACE, BOSTON, December 6,1864.
REMARKS. We "beg to submit" to our English friend, that the question which he so readily disposes of as of no importance is, in our judgment at least, the only one pertinent to be settled in this discussion. It is a question of veracity between Mr. Conway and the "leading Abolitionists of America," with reference to an act of Quixotic folly-he persistently declaring that he was sent by them on a special mission to England, whereby he was warranted in making his preposterous overture to Mr. Mason, the Rebel Envoy; and they denying his assertion in the most explicit manner, and disclaiming and reprobating his conduct in that particular. He declares, moreover, that he was sent as their paid agent; whereas he solicited the pecuniary aid which he procured, otherwise it would not have been forthcoming. If our English friend deems this a light matter, we do not. It is neither defense nor palliation to say, that the Abolitionists would not have given their sympathy to the Government, if it had sought to restore the old "covenant with death"; for that is another issue entirely, and Mr. Conway cannot be allowed to escape behind such a subterfuge. He was not sent to England by anybody but himself;-he begged the needed funds to take him thither; he had no authority from "leading Abolitionists" to confer with Mr. Mason, or with any other rebel, and pledge them to oppose the Government on any conditions in regard to slavery or the rebellion; and, therefore, he is guilty of misrepresentation and untruthfulness. 
It is no part of the moral philosophy of Abolitionists to do evil that good may come. The rebellious South being wholly without excuse for her course,} and the Government entirely in the right, neither as Americans nor as philanthropists could the Abolitionists with honor or propriety pledge themselves to endeavor to force the Government to recognize the independence of the Southern Confederacy, even to secure so great a boon as the abolition of slavery.
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURE. The eighth lecture of this course, at the Music Hall, was delivered Tuesday evening by Wendell Phillips, upon the theme "Our Situation." Notwithstanding the storm, the hall was welt filled. The usual organ concert preceded the lecture. Mr. Phillips occupied an hour and a half in the delivery of his lecture, which was marked by his usual eloquence; and a pretty full abstract of which we are obliged to omit till next week.
The lecture next week will be by Rev, J. M. Manining. Subject-"Victory through Sacrifices."
THE NOMINATION OF MR. CHASE CONFIRMED. The U.S. Senate, on Wednesday, con firmed Salmon P. Chase as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. This appointment will give immense satisfaction throughout the loyal States.
<c03>
THE THIRITY-FIRST NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SCIETY was organized for the immediate and-total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted, "without compromise and with, out concealment," for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official" weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvellous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States; and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so-called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation everywhere should the American Anti-Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God-that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time-let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations am contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. from all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in Its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce, that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the "self-evident truths" enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence!
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Maria Child, Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth von Arnim,
Sarah Shaw Russell, Abby H.-Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May, Eliza Aplhorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah H. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam, Abby Francis,
Mattie Griffith, Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson, Katharine Earle Farnum,
Evelina A.' Smith, Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford, Ellen Wright Garrison.
Caroline M. Severance,

"SOCIAL AIMS."
BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
The second lecture of Mr. Emerson's Sunday evening course was on the subject above named, arid was heard by a highly refined and intelligent audience, completely filling the Melodeon.
Fine manners, Mr. Emerson said, are the finest of the fine arts. Behavior, in some persons, is the first sign of force, making it manifest before performance. Self-command is the main elegance as well as the great virtue. The minute of silence observed by the Quakers before their meals is a good lesson of quietness and repose. To avoid exaggeration is an important rule. A man should stay at home in his own mind, keep quiet possession of himself, and preserve the ability to form a calm judgment of others.
Of dress it may be said that some people need it, and some do not. Manners and talent are sufficient of themselves, and need not regard dress. Mediocrity is more dependent upon it. The insignificant man will do well to have a screen of attire, behind which to conceal himself.
Every person needs one or two intimate companions, with whom to hold real relations of mind arid heart. In assembling friends together, it should be borne in mind that the exclusions are always in the interest of the invitations. It is the necessity of confidence between each and all that makes the best society exclusive. No one should complain of being excluded. These societies are desirous of merit, and will seek it as soon as it appears.
The hunger for society, though keen, should be discriminating. Etiquette should fix the exact term for a call, especially on official personages. The trifler in Washington often remorselessly occupies a nation's time.
Wealth justly receives some distinction in society. In America there is a general conviction that any man may become rich. There is need of wealth as well as of education. Our Western settlements show first log cabins-then white wooden towns-then buildings of brick and granite-then marble edifices. On these differences the distinctions of society rest.
Every community wishes to be officered by a class of accomplished and able men. In Europe they try to attain this by means of hereditary nobility. This method has certain advantages, but the heroic fathers were found not always to have heroic sons, still less heroic grandsons.
Slavery, with all its evils, has this good in it, the pricing of men. It estimates, one man is worth so much, another so much; Can we have a balance that will measure human merit and talent, an anthrop meter? The natural laws to some extent supply this measurement.. The light of the public square will best show the statue, said; Michael Angelo.
Aristocracy has been much decried, but it is desirable and needful. We must have aristocracy, the rule of the best. But it must always be-based on facts. What have you invented? What have yon done? Show us your natural right to a station of power and responsibility. Thus men naturally fall into their appropriate position. We need not pity the man who at any particular time is underplayed, but the man overplaced. The latter is really a misfortune, The
<c04>
former will soon regulate itself. What the people need to know of their candidate is-Has the man a will? Is he anybody? If not, he should not go to Washington. There, the people habituated to office and station have a confidence, a self-reliance, a power of putting their personality over you, which give them immense advantage. The South has been accustomed to profit by this fact, keeping her men in office year after year, and term after term. The North has made frequent changes, and has changed disadvantageously.
The present condition of our country has produced this great advantage, that our young men are now little concerned about European opinion. Their thoughts are turned on their own country.
At this point Mr. Emerson abruptly closed, apparently in the middle of a paragraph. He is accustomed to pause punctually at the close of the hour. If this was the reason of his stopping where he did, the audience will hardly consider him to have chosen the less of two evils. The subject for next Sunday evening will be "Reforms."-C. K. W.

CELEBRATION OF FEEEDOM IN MARYLAND.
Held in the Hall of the Union, Cooper Institute, New
York City, New 28th, 1864.
The doors of the Hall were thrown open at an early hour, and by half-past 7 o'clock, p. m.-a half hour before the time for commencing the exercises-the great Hall was very respectably filled.
The back of the platform was tastefully draped with the Union colors-eight splendid flags of costly silk-and from out the folds of one flag looked the Eagle of Liberty.
The Sons and Daughters of Maryland, and, we suppose, some others, wore the trio badges, and upon them was inscribed, "Liberty triumphant," "November 28th, 1864," and "Maryland is Free."
Just before 8 o'clock, young ladies representing the Goddess of Liberty and her attendant sisters, representing the States, came in and took places upon the platform, amidst the applause of the audience.
Prof. Douglass's Band enlivened the exercises with good music
On the platform was a host of ladies and gentlemen, some of them officers of the meeting. 
At 8 o'clock, the Chairman, JOHN PETERSON, Esq., came upon the platform, accompanied by the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet. Their entrance was the signal for continued applause.
After a few prefatory remarks, the Chairman said:
What brings us here to-night? MARYLAND IS FREE!-the edict of the people setting 87,000 of her slaves free. Maryland, where fell the first martyrs in this cause-Maryland, the place for slave-pens and slave-prisons-Maryland, which could sneer at humanity, and bind her own children in chains-Maryland has cast off her fetters, and now stands forth bright in the constellation of the States.
In view of all this, I say, God bless Abraham Lincoln! God bless Maryland! God bless the people everywhere! I believe that the example of Maryland will be followed by other States: so that from the Atlantic to the Pacific, every foot of this soil shall be free.
The Throne of Grace was then addressed by the Rev. Singleton Jones, Pastor of Zion Church, New York City.
The audience, led by the sisters representing the States, joined in singing "The Year of Jubilee."
The chorus:
"The year of Jubilee is come-
Return, ye. ransomed sinners, home."
The Chairman then introduced the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, who delivered a feeling, eloquent address, appropriate to the occasion.
Mr. J. J. Spelman then sang, with applause, the new song, " Maryland's free,"
"Maryland! Maryland! beautiful Maryland!
Lying in light to the sun and the sea,
Shout from the mountain sides-
Sing where each river glides-
Thunder with ocean's tides-
Maryland's free," etc.,
in place of the "Banner of the Free."
The Chairman then introduced Mrs. Frances Ellen W. Harper, as one of the worthiest daughters of Maryland.
In her own telling way, Mrs. Harper began by saying that the lightning may be a minister of mercy; the tempest, with all its evils, may have swept from the land disease and death: so amid the sorrows which this war has caused, eyes may be too dimmed by sorrow to read aright the lessons which the war is to teach. Mrs. Harper then considered those lessons, and in beautiful, appropriate language impressed them upon her almost breathless auditors.
Mrs. Harper considered that this battle did not being at Bull Run, but when the first slave vessel was brought by the Dutch to the shores. The lads graphically described the past condition of the colored people of the country-pressed down by the Union and the Constitution-and then declared that the lessons of the war as to this reads thus-Simple justice is the right of every race.
Mrs. Harper claimed besides, that the war has introduced the colored man to the nation.
Before, he was not known: if known, only as a menial and a slave. In this the lady paid merited tribute to the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, who, with others, had in turn taught the nation, by their own self-sacrifice, saying: "We can afford to die, if it break our brother's chains." That who could thus nobly die had evinced that the jewel which man prized above all others was the integrity of his soul. Mrs. Harper made honorable mention of Gen. Butler and his regiments in Louisiana, and paid a glowing tribute to the Vice President elect, Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee.
The lady very touchingly referred to Maryland as her native State, and rejoiced in the idea that she could now return to revisit it without fear of arrest. Mrs. Harper gave an earnest exhortation to remove the cause of the war, slavery; and bade her hearers to abate not heart or hope until every foot of this soil be free.
Mrs. Harper resumed her seat amidst great applause, which she modestly acknowledged. Mrs. Harper's address kept up the interest of her auditors to the close. Her voice is not strong, hut she speaks distinctly, and therefore can be easily heard.
Mrs. Sedgwick, of Philadelphia, was then introduced, and sang with precision and excellent effect the song-"Viva l' America."
The audience appreciated the song and the singing of it by earnest applause. The piece,
"All hail, day of gladness"
was then sung by the select choir, the audience joining in the chorus, the singing under the direction of Prof. P. H. Loveridge:
"All hail! day of gladness,
We banish fear and sadness;
Our voices clear in loudest strains we raise-
And freedom's praises singing,
Our hymns of joy out-ringing,
To Him who crowns the labor of oar days."
The chorus:
"Sing! sing! ye grateful hearted! Bring
Songs of triumphant melody!
In sweetest numbers sounding,
While hills and vales resounding,
My Maryland, My Maryland, is free!"
"There Freedom's sun is shining,
The slave no more repining;
For wife and children separated wide-
Nor scourges without number,
Or shrieks awake his slumber,
In slave marts by the river's flowing tide."
"Sing! Sing!" etc.
The following letters were then read by the Chairman from Rev. Dr. Cheever, and the anti-slavery patriarch, Wm. Lloyd Garrison:
NEW YORK, Nov. 28th, 1864.
To the Secretary of the Committee of Arrangements:
MY DEAR SIR:-It is with very great regret that I find myself constrained to send an apology for my absence from your patriot gathering this evening. I am
<c05>
laboring under so severe a cold and exhaustion, that it would be hazardous to attempt to take any part in your exercises; and yon have so many eloquent and fervid speakers, that a "coded orator" would be out of place and quite unnecessary. My warmest sympathies are with you, and I hail with delight the glorious event of Emancipation in Maryland. My hope is that the example of Maryland may be followed by our National government immediately, in Congress assembled passing the long desired and demanded edict of Universal Emancipation, the jubilee edict of Freedom to all the inhabitants of the land. The refusal to do that in regard to the slaves of rebeldom makes us a slaveholding government, and invites foreign intervention. Let us not cease to demand the abolition of slavery by law, immediately, without waiting for any amendment of the Constitution, but requiring it on the ground of justice, the will of God, the protection due from our government to all its citizens, in their personal liberty, as well as life and property, and the equal rights of the slaves and of the colored race as welt as the whites, to all the privileges and benefits of government. The right of representation is one of those rights, and the taking f it away on the ground of color is one of the most oppressive and impious violations of justice that a government, can commit. All the subjects of our government, of whatever race or color, are entitled to that right, and must demand it; and our national peril will not cease till that right be accorded, and we fulfil the promise and exercise the power of protecting all our citizens; a power and promise without which a nation is not a nation, nor a government a government. The judgment of God in the rebellion and war will be inestimable blessings, if they end in making our government a just government, and our nation a living nation, such as our Constitution provides for and requires.
With great respect, I am, most truly yours,
GEO. B. CHEEVER.
BOSTON, Nov. 25th, 1864.
J. R. W. Leonard:
DEAR SIR.-Very much to my regret, I am obliged to decline your kind invitation to be personally present at your jubilee meeting on Monday evening next, for it cannot fail to be an occasion of thrilling interest, intense enthusiasm, and abounding joy. For my own part, my peace of mind is so great, and my satisfaction so profound, in view of the almost miraculous change which has taken place in public sentiment in favor of the immediate and total abolition of slavery, since the rebellion broke out, that I cannot find words to give expression to my feelings.
In the retributive conflict still going on in the land the God of the oppressed is signally vindicating hi justice, and demonstrating that he has not been at any time insensible to the tears, the cries, the groans, the agonies of the millions of his children se long held in the galling fetters of chattel servitude; nor unconscious of the fearful guilt in which both the South and the North have been involved, as principal and accomplice, in combining to perpetuate the climax of all forms of human suffering and bondage, in order to promote their own selfish ends. At the same time, he is graciously showing, even to the guilty, that in wrath he remembers mercy, in that he is opening a way, as through the Red Sea of old, for the redemption of his suffering ones; so that, after merited chastisement, the land may have rest, a lasting peace be secured, and universal freedom be triumphant with measureless prosperity; every man sitting under his own vine and fig-tree, with none to molest or make afraid. Therefore, let us with a full heart and a great shout "give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for his mercy endureth forever. To Him that overthrew Pharaoh and his hosts in the Red Sea; for his mercy endureth forever." "Thy right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power; thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy. Who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?"
Thank God that, after thirty-five years of unceasing labor in the anti-slavery courses, I have been permitted to live to see the day when persecuted, stigmatized, outlawed Abolitionism is the confessed duty and the recognized policy of the government and people! Not that I am weary of longer bearing the cross, or shrink from being still longer reviled as a fanatic; but because Abolitionism is simple obedience to the divine command, "Undo the heavy burden, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. "Hence I am sure as to what are to be the consequences of its adoption. Our light as a nation shall break forth as the morning; our health spring forth speedily; our bones shall be made fat; we shall be like a watered garden whose waters fail not; they that shall be of us shall build the old waste places; we shall raise up the foundations of many generations; and we shall be called. The repairers of the breach, the restorers of paths to dwell in. "For the mouth of the Lord has spoken it."
With a heart buoyant with hope for the future elevation and glory of the colored race, and pledged to their cause while life is preserved, I remain, yours, with thanksgiving,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
These letters were received with rounds of applause.
The "John Brown Song" was then sung with a will.
Notice was here given by Rev. Mr. Garnet, that the second of December, the anniversary of John Brown's death, would be observed by religious and other appropriate services in the Zion Baptist Church, Sullivan Street.
The Chairman then introduced Prof. Wm. Howard Day, who, after a few preliminary remarks, entered upon the discussion of the question of Freedom in Maryland, and in reply to the charge that to decree it without compensation was revolutionary, showed that that measure was a most conservative and merciful one; that as the highest aim of all authority is to confer liberty, Maryland was merely coming back to first principles.
From democratic authority, Prof. Day proved that every democrat ought to rejoice with us in celebrating Maryland's freedom, instead of carping at that freedom as revolutionary.
Prof. Day said, until now, the sons and daughters of Maryland have been homeless wanderers in search of a home. I have found them almost every where in Canada-even amid the snows to which Mr. Garnet referred-even where they were dug out in the morning-all for liberty. He then referred to the various representatives of Maryland he had met beyond Canada-and across the ocean, in Scotland and England. Prof. Day paid a tribute of praise to the vitality of the Marylanders who had been able to "stand the storm"-to the colored people of New York City and State, who had received Maryland's sons when Maryland thrust them out-to the colored people generally who had lived and labored, and prayed for just such a con-summation-to the members of the cabinet, and to Abraham Lincoln, the President.
Prof. Day's address was listened to with deep interest, and pronounced one of his finest efforts.
After singing,
"My country, 'tis of thee,"
the meeting adjourned.
THE ABOLITION OP SLAVERY IN MARYLAND. The colored citizens of Cambridge held a public meeting at the City Hall, on Monday evening last, to celebrate the abolition of slavery in the State of Maryland. The hall was crowded long before the time to which the chair was announced to be taken. Addresses were delivered by Wm. Wells Brown, and Robert Morris, and two poems on Freedom were read by Madame Louise De Mortie, the talented colored lady whose public Readings are so acceptably heard through the New England States. The meeting appears to have left a very favorable impression.

GEORGE THOMPSON AT THE WEST.
Mr. Thompson is every where receiving a most complimentary reception at the West, and delighting public audiences with his eloquence and ability. Writing from Springfield, Illinois, (where he is the guest of Governor Yates,) he says:-
"I have now spoken nine times since I left Boston. To-morrow night I speak in St. Louis, Missouri.
I have been very much pleased with my hasty trip to the West. I have had glimpses of the great lakes-have seen the lumber yards, slaughter-houses, grain elevators, and noble stores of Chicago-have travelled over some of the prairie land of this State-have seen the dwelling place of Abraham Lincoln, and shall presently behold the Father of Waters, and tread the soil of Missouri. My route homeward from St. Louis will be Cincinnati, Wheeling, Pittsburgh, Harpers' Ferry, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York."
PLEDGES made to the American or the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies are now payable; and it is earnestly requested of all who may be owing such to forward the amount of their pledges, without delay, to the Treasurers of those Societies respectively, or to SAMUEL MAT, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston.
<c06>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK NO.XXII
NEW YORJK, Dec 1, 1864
To the Editor of the Liberator:
If there is any place after Richmond for whose safety the Confederates would naturally have been most solicitous, it is the city form which I write, and which at present exhibits no extraordinary marks of devastation by fire. We did our best in the recent election of co-operate with the rebellion in arms. Two out of every three of us voted to lie victory out of countenance by proclaiming the war a failure; to forgive the past four years to the conspirators; to restore the old connection among the States; to renew the old Constitutions in its most pro-slavery sense and vigor; and to receive into office and power the perjured violators of human and divine obligations. I say we did all this-very nearly succeeding in crushing out the fanaticizing of the country-folk in the interior-and yet, when comfortably through our Thanksgiving, we woke up on the second day, and found that we had omitted the chief cause of our gratitude, which was, that we had not been roasted and grilled by our misguided Southern brethren. I am afraid if a vote had been polled, as soon as the facts were fairly developed, we night" have been guilty of a reaction in the direction of Abolition; for there is a limit in the readiness to obliges those who reciprocate your favors with phosphorus turpentine and brimstone. I now recall, indeed in illustration of this amazing behavior, the remark of a gentleman of your city, quite early in the rebellion: that he had received letters from sundry Southern cousins of his, and was struck with the fact that not only did they-express themselves murderously towards the Yankee race in general, but they seemed particularly desirous to begin their blood-letting upon himself and other common relatives, who certainly were not obnoxious for anti-slavery sentiments. But as if to prevent a clear judgment upon this curious and by no means unimportant question, the immunity of the New York Hotel from an incendiary attempt is traceable only to its being the notorious head-quarters of resident rebeldom; though this exemption would have counted for little with a conflagration of which God only knows the possible metes and bounds. The disparity between the success of the plot and its manifestly projected proportions has forbidden us to realize adequately the peril from which we have escaped, and to warn from the heart the epithets "infernal-fiendish-diabolical," which the reason best upon the exploded machination. Even the Daily News admits the immediate implication of rebels-no, that's a word it never uses, being particular about its English-Confederates in this design, but begs the world not to believe that they were emissaries of the Confederate authorities, who have always striven to be a pattern of Christian virtue and forbearance in the savage warfare to which they have been and still are subjected by Northern Vandals. It warns these self appointed mischief-makers, however, that the palpable effect of their operations would be to unite this city as one man against the Confederacy; and the point is worthy of consideration. The World has rather surprised the community by not insisting that the whole affair is a contrivance of the Administration to influence the next Presidential election, on the ground that the only incendiaries in our history have been the Abolitionists. This argues a decay of intelligence in the Belmont organ.
Seriously, the absence of any disclaimer on behalf of the South, and of all astonishment that her citizens were capable of an enormity which involved, besides the incalculable destruction of property, a frightful sacrifice of human life, is proof that the nature of slavery has been so thoroughly exemplified in the rebellion that no man can pretend to be ignorant of it. And herein witness the corruption of slavery, which breeds such monsters within its own domain as those which it has vomited upon us with lighted torches, and yet compels from without the allegiance of men who are witnesses of this damnable brood, and themselves liable at any moment to become its victims. Let the people of the North, let the nations consider, what kind of a cause is maintained upon Southern battle-fields by atrocities like these of Bull Run, Fort Wagner and Fort Pillow; in Southern prisons by starvation and murder, as at Libby prison, Belle Isle and Anderson Ville; and in peaceful districts beyond the reach of its arms by the midnight flames of hired incendiaries.
Three great questions will claim the attention of Congress at its coming session, or of its successor. They are the Constitutional amendment to abolish and forever prohibit slavery; the care of the freedmen; and the reconstruction of the rescued States. The amendment in point of importance is first in order, and is perhaps the only one of the three which we may expect to see consummated before the 4th of March, Swing to the necessary business of the war and of Government which must be attended to. There ought to be no waste of time in argument: the people have discussed to the full the right of slavery to exist on this continent, and have voted overwhelmingly that the system shall die. What now remains is to embalm the public will beyond the brief existence of an Administration, in a statute more irrevocable than that of the Medes and Persians. As for the Opposition, there is nothing to fear, nor indeed much to expect. Outside of the purely rebel representatives from the North, the only Slave State to serve as a nucleus and in some sort a pretext for denouncing a decree of universal emancipation is Kentucky, and even she is learning wisdom from the late election in her borders. The unanimity of her citizens is <illegible> dissipated-McClellan's majority, by the latest returns, not exceeding, numerically or proportionally, that of this city. The solitary press by which she has been effectively sustained hitherto in her conservative, semi-treasonable position-the Louisville Journal-now abandons slavery to its fate, confesses its practical disruption at this moment in Kentucky, and prays that the constant regimen of freedom any be substituted for the prevailing chaos.
The contest concerning a Freedmen's bureau will lie between the Treasury and the War Department I think I am not wrong in affirming that the best friends of the freed people-those who have had to deal directly with them, and are intimately acquainted with their circumstances-prefer, while the war continues, that the military authorities should have control. There are at least two good reasons for such adjustment: first, silent legs inter army, and whether so enacted or not, civilians will always be subordinate in a region where martial law prevails. And the particular means of maintaining this subordination are the rations for which the plantations and colored camps are more or less dependent upon the Commissary. The army, moreover, is indispensable for protections against guerrillas, and its officers will inevitably collide with those whose business is not to fight, but to raise cotton. Second, the mercenary spirit of the Treasury agents will diminish their humanity for the freedmen; and, brutal as has been in times past the conduct of military men towards this unfortunate class, they have redeemed their reputation in comparison with themselves and with these very agents. Much as has been said against Banks's regulations in Louisiana, the testimony now appears to be in favor of them against the latest orders from the Treasury, in which we so much rejoiced.
Reconstruction will come before Congress in the supplication for seats from Louisiana. Whatever be the decision upon the merits of her case, the fundamental principle should be established, that the question is wholly legislative. This done, and Taney's vacancy filled by a jurist who belongs to the present age, we may hope for some artistic remodeling of Southern society and the Federal Union. While the ship is yet at sea, the patchwork that can keep her form sinking is honorable if homely. When we get into port, we must plank anew from stem to stern, or-who knows?-condemn the hull in to, and build another.
M. DU PAYS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MESSAGE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Congress convened at Washington on Monday last, and the two Houses promptly proceeded to their organization. The Message of President Lincoln was delivered at noon on Tuesday, and received with high satisfaction and applause. It is commendably brief, compared with the long-winded productions of Mr. L's immediate predecessors, and characterized 
by his usual simplicity and directness. Its tone is firm, yet conciliatory, and on the subject of slavery radical and inexorable. He urges prompt action with reference to the amendment of the Constitution, making slave-holding an illegal act in any part of the republic. All honor to him! The most interesting passages in the Message we give below, to the extent that the crowded state of our columns will permit:-
The ports of Norfolk, and Pensacola have been opened by proclamation. It is hoped that foreign merchants will now consider whether it is not safer and more profitable to themselves as well as just to the United States, to resort to these and other open ports, than it is to pursue, through many hazards and at vast cost, a contraband trade with other ports which are closed, if not by actual military occupation, at least by a lawful and effectual blockade. 
For myself, I have no doubt of the power and duty of the Executive, under the law of nations, to exclude enemies of the human race from an asylum in the United States. If Congress should think that proceedings in such cases lack the authority of law, or ought to be further regulated by it, I recommend that provision be made for effectually preventing 
foreign slave traders from acquiring domicils and facilities for their criminal occupation in our country. 
Disloyal emissaries have been neither less assiduous nor more successful during the last year than they were before that time in their efforts, under favor of that privilege, to embroil our country in foreign wars. The desire and determination of the governments of the maritime States to defeat that design are believed to be as sincere, and cannot be more earnest, than our own. Nevertheless, unforeseen political difficulties have arisen, especially in Brazilian and British ports, and on the Northern boundary of the United States, which have required, and are likely to continue to require practice of constant vigilance, and a just and conciliatory spirit on the part of the United States as well as of the nations concerned and their governments.
In view of the insecurity of life and property in the region adjacent to the Canadian border, by reason of assaults of desperadoes, committed by limited and desperate persons who are harbored there, it has been thought proper to give notice that, after the expiration of six months, the period constitutionally stipulated in existing arrangements with Great Britain, the United States must hold themselves at liberty to increase their naval armament on the Lakes, if they shall find that proceeding necessary; and the condition of the border will necessarily come into consideration in connection 
with the question of continuing or modifying the right of transit from Canada through the United States, as well as the regulation of imports, which were temporarily established by the reciprocity treaty of the 5th June,1854. I desire, however, to be understood, while making this statement, that the colonial authorities of Canada are not deemed to be internationally unjust or unfriendly toward the United States, but, on the contrary, then is every reason to expect that with the approval of the imperial government, they will take the necessary measures to prevent new incursions across the border.
Official correspondence has been freely opened with Liberia, and it gives us a pleasing view of social and political progress in that Republic. It may be expected to derive new vigor from American influence, improved by the rapid disappearance of slavery in the United States. I solicit your authority to furnish to the Republic a gunboat at moderate cost, to be reimbursed to the United States by installments. Such a vessel is needed for the safety of that State against the native African races; and in Liberian hands it would be more effective in arresting the African slave trade than a squadron in our own hands. The possession of the beast organized naval force would stimulate a generous ambition in the Republic, and the confidence which we should manifest by furnishing it would win forbearance and favor towards the Colony from all civilized nations.
The war continues. Since the last annual message, all the important lines and positions then occupied by car forces have been maintained, and our armies have steadily advanced, thus liberating the regions left in the near, so that Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee and parts of other States have again produced reasonably fair crops.
The most remarkable feature in the military operations of the year is Gen. Sherman's attempted march of 300 miles directly through the insurgent region. It tends to show s great increase of our relative strength that our General-in-Chief should feel able to confront and hold in check every active force of the enemy, and yet to detach a well-appointed large army to move on such an expedition. The result not yet being known, conjecture in regard to it is not here indulged.
Important movements have also occurred during the year to the effect of moulding society for durability in the Union. Although short of complete success, it is much in the right direction that 12,000 citizens in each of the States of Arkansas and Louisiana have organized loyal State Governments with free constitutions, and are earnestly struggling to maintain and administer them. The movement in the same direction, more extensive though less definite, in Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee should not be overlooked. 
But Maryland presents the example of complete success. Maryland is secure to Liberty and Union for all the future. The genius of rebellion will no more claim Maryland. Like another foul spirit, being driven out, it may seek to tear her, but it will woo her no more.
At the last session of Congress, a proposed amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery throughout the 
United States passed the Senate, but failed for lack of the requisite two-thirds vote in the House of Representatives. Although the present is the same Congress and nearly the same members, and without questioning the wisdom or patriotism of those who stood in opposition, I venture to recommend the reconsideration and passage of the measure at the present session.
Of course, the abstract question is not changed, but an intervening election shows almost certainty that the next Congress will pass the measure. Thence there is only the question of time as to when the proposed amendment 
will go to the States for their action; and as it is to so go at all events, may we not agree that the sooner the betters It is not claimed that the election has imposed a duty in members to change their views or their votes any further than as an additional element to be considered. Their judgment may be affected by it. It is the voice of the people, now for the first time heard upon the question. In a great national crisis like this, unanimity of action among those seeking 
a common end is very desirable, and almost indispensable, and yet no approach so such unanimity is attainable unless some deference shall be paid to the will of the majority, simply because it is the rule of the majority. In 
this case the common end is the maintenance of the Union; and among the means to secure that end such will, through the election, is most clearly declared in favor of such constitutional amendment. The most reliable indication 
of public purpose in this country is derived through our popular elections. Judging by the recent canvass 
and its results, the purpose of the people within the loyal States to maintain the integrity of the Union was never more strong nor more nearly unanimous than now. The extraordinary calmness and good order with which the millions of voters met and mingled at the polls gave strong assurance of this. Not all those who supported the Union ticket, so called, but a great majority of the opposing party may be fairly claimed to entertain and to be actuated by the same purpose. It is an unanswerable argument to this fact that no candidate for any office whatever, high or low, has ventured to seek votes on the avowal that he was for giving up the union.
There has been much impugning of motives and much heated controversy as to the proper means and
best mode of advancing the Union cause. But in the distinct issue of Union or no Union, the politicians have shown their instinctive knowledge that there is no diversity among the people.
In affording to the people a fair opportunity of showing one to another and to the world this firmness and unanimity of purpose, the election has been of vast value to the national cause.
The election has exhibited another fact not less valuable to be known-the fact that we do not approach exhaustion in the most important branch of national resources-that of living men. While it is melancholy to reflect that the war 
has filled so many graves, and caused mourning to so many hearts, it is some relief to know that, compared with the survivors, the fallen have been so few. While corps and divisions, and brigades, and regiments have formed and 
fought and dwindled and gone out of existence, a great majority of the men who composed them are 
still living. The same is true of the naval service. The election returns prove this. So many voters could not else be found. 
The States regularly holding elections, both now and four years ago, to wit: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin cast 3,982,017 votes now, against 3,070,222 cast then, showing the aggregate now of 3,982,611, to which is to be added 33,762 cast now in the new States of Kansas and Nevada, which States did not vote in 1860, thus swelling the aggregate to 4,015,773 and the net increase during the three years and a half
<c02>
of war of 145,751. A table is appended showing particulars.
To this should be added the number of all soldiers in the field from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois and California, who, by the laws of these States, could not vote away from their homes, and which number cannot be less than 100,000.
Nor yet is this all. The number in the organized territories is triple now what it was four years ago, while thousands white and black join us as the nation at arms press back the insurgent lines.
So much is shown, affirmatively and negatively, by the election. It is not material to inquire how the increase has been produced, or to show that it would have been greater but for the war, which is probably true. The important fact remains demonstrated that we have more men now than we had when the war began, that we are not exhausted nor in process of exhaustion; that we are gaining strength, and may, if need be, maintain the contest indefinitely.
This as to men: Material resources are now more complete and abundant than ever. The national resources, then, are unexhausted, and as we believe, inexhaustible. The public purpose to reestablish and maintain the national authority is unchanged, and is, we believe, unchangeable. The manner of continuing the effort remains to be chosen.
 On a careful consideration of all the evidence accessible, it seems to me that no attempt at negotiation with the insurgent leader could result in any good. He would accept nothing short of the severance of the Union-precisely what we cannot and will not give. His declarations to this effect are explicit, and oft repeated. He does not attempt to deceive us. He affords us no excuse to deceive ourselves. He cannot voluntarily reaccept the Union; we cannot voluntarily yield it. Between him and us the issue is distinct, simple and inflexible. It is an issue which can only be tried by war, and decided by victory. If we yield, we are beaten; if the Southern people fail him, he is beaten. Either way, it would be the victory and defeat following war. What is true, however, of him who heads the insurgent cause, is not necessarily true of those who follow. Although he cannot reaccept the Union, they can. Some of them, we know, already desire peace and re-union. The number of such may Increase. They can at any moment have peace, simply by laying down their arms, and submitting to the national authority under the Constitution.
After so much, the Government cannot, if it would, maintain war against them. The loyal people would not sustain or allow it. If questions should remain, we would adjust them by the peaceful means of legislation, conference, courts, and votes operating only in constitutional and lawful channels. Some certain, and other possible questions are and would be beyond the Executive power to adjust-as, for instance, the admission of members into Congress, and whatever might require the appropriation of money. The Executive power itself would be greatly diminished by the cassation of actual war. Pardons and remissions of forfeiture, however, would still be within Executive control. In what spirit and temper this control would be exercised, can be fairly judged by the past.
A year ago, a general pardon and amnesty, upon specified terms, were offered to all except certain designated classes, and it was at the same time made known that the excepted classes were still within the contemplation of executive clemency. During the year, many availed themselves of the general provision; and many more would, only that the signs of bad faith in some led to such precautionary measures as rendered the practical process less easy and certain.
During the same time, also, special pardons have been granted to individuals of the excepted class, and no voluntary application has been denied; thus practically the door has been for a full year open to all except such as were not in condition to make a free choice-that is, such as were in custody or under constraint.
It is still open to all; but the trial may come, probably will come, when public duty shall demand that it be closed, and that it be more rigorous than heretofore.
In presenting the abandonment of arms to the national authority on the part of the insurgents, as the only indispensable condition to ending the war on the part of government, I retract nothing heretofore, said. As to slavery, I repeat the declaration made a year ago, that, while I remain in my present position, I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress. If the people should, by whatever mode or means, make it an Executive duty to re-enslave such persons, another, not I, must be their instrument to propose it.
In stating a single condition of peace, I mean simply to say that the war will cease on the part of the government, whenever it shall have ceased on the part of those who began it.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

CAPT. DANIEL FOSTER.
In all the records made by Christian ministers during this rebellion, I believe there is not one more purely noble and patriotic than that of the late Capt. Daniel Foster. Of his early history it is not my purpose to speak. I simply desire to pay a comrade's tribute over the grave which holds so much of what was noble and lovable; to perform the last act of justice which a soldier is able to perform for a friend.
For many years an ardent advocate of the anti-slavery cause, a bosom companion of John Brown through the tragic history of Kansas, it is not surprising that, at an early day, he was ready to take an active part in the war of the Union. No chaplain ever entered the service with a loftier sense of duty than did he, in assuming that responsible position in the gallant Mass. 33d; and throughout all his connection with it, he acquitted himself most nobly of his sacred trust. With his strong, pure love of humanity, coupled with a sympathetic social nature, he soon won the love and confidence of his regiment, effectually removing the prejudice which is too often felt against the chaplain. But not until a later day, when the regiment joined Siegel, and entered into the more stirring campaigns of the winter and spring of 1862 and 1863, were they able to fully appreciate his worth. Through the trying ordeal of battle, side by side with his comrades, musket in hand, by exhibition of the most undaunted courage he cheered them through the hour of combat; and after the strife had ceased, when others were enjoying the period of rest, he would ever be found by the side of the wounded, cheering some poor fellow here, binding up a wound there, or bending over the form of some dying hero, soothing the fleeting spirit with his earnest words of counsel and prayer. Unwearyingly and unceasing in his labor, he thought not of rest till the last sad duty had been performed. In their enthusiastic love, his comrades gave him the title of the"fighting chaplain of the 33d."
The President's Proclamation of Emancipation, and the avowed purpose of the Government to arm the negro, opened a new and more glorious era in our national history. Here also opened for chaplain Foster the path of a higher duty. The negro, whose cause he had so long and ably advocated, was already in the field, striking nobly for his liberty and manhood. Foster determined to give himself personally to his aid; and for this object applied to Gen. Wild, at Norfolk, for a position in his brigade, then organizing in that department. He received the appointment immediately after the battle of Chickamauga, and discarding at once the garb of chaplain, and breaking up the pleasant associations he had formed in the 33d, he reported at Norfolk to enter upon his new duties. He was at once assigned to the Third North Carolina Colored Volunteers, (since made the Thirty-seventh United States Colored Troops,) with the rank of captain. That regiment was then in its infancy; but Foster being temporarily assigned to the Second North Carolina, did valuable service in raiding through the adjacent counties of Pasquotank and Prince Anna, liberating the slaves. Last spring, when the regiment was organizing at Norfolk, he was indefatigable in his labors to promote the welfare and efficiency of his men. Performing for them the duties of commander and chaplain, he threw his talents and the whole ardor of his large nature into the work. No man ever labored harder or more zealously.
Butler opened the spring campaign with the advance up the James River. It is unnecessary to go over the details of our labors through that campaign. Suffice it to say that his ardent zeal never flagged. On the 26th of September he joined the division for duty on the river communication, and participated in the assault on New Market Heights. The country already knows the result of the assault, and the brilliant record which the freedmen made upon that eventful day. One of the strongest and most important positions about Richmond was carried and held at the point of the bayonet. At the dose of the day's struggle, the thirty-seventh was moved to the left, and occupied that night Battery Harrison on Chapin's farm. Half of the regiment was detailed for picket, Foster being of the number. We were in earnest conversation for an hour before he went out, and he seemed, if anything, to be more than usually affectionate and tender in speaking of his family. We all anticipated that the morrow would bring a renewal of the battle, and he, though sanguine of success, yet seemed to feel a shadow of his coming fate."Good bye," he said, as he wrung my hand at parting."If I fall before I see you again, tell my wife and little ones that Daniel Foster never shrank from duty but fell with his face to the enemy." No nobler word's were ever spoken or more truly fulfilled. In the enemy's assault upon us the following day he fell, pierced by a mortal hurt. Yet, as he sank to the earth, he laid himself feeing the foe, and calmly folding his arms upon Iris breast, resigned his spirit to God whom he had so faithfully served upon earth,
<c03>
and who, I believe, in heaven crowned him that day in the noble band of martyrs for the right. With mingled pride and regret we record his fate; regret that our country demanded that day so precious a sacrifice; proud that she had one so rich to offer.
Capt. Foster was deeply beloved by every officer and man of his regiment. Frank, pure and unselfish in his social intercourse; generous and ardent in his attachments, endowed with no ordinary ability, and thoroughly imbued with love for country and mankind, he everywhere commanded both affection and respect. He was most unflinching in his adherence to right, and no matter what was considered expediency, or however high its authority, never failed to hurl a withering rebuke at whatever he considered wrong. The high-toned manhood of his nature shone out through every phase of life. With either the weapons of the Bible or the sword, he was the unflinching foe of error and oppression. Alas! the country has lost in him one of its truest sons, and the service one of its bravest soldiers. All honor to his memory, and peace evermore to his soul! J. E. K. -Carr. Boston Christian Register.

A MONUMENT TO LOVEJOY.
With gratification we find that an association is organized at Alton to raise a monument to the martyr Lovejoy. This work is scarcely more due to the memory of Lovejoy than to Alton, and to the better spirit of the age. The Alton Telegraph well says that the murder of Lovejoy was a crime for which the spirit of that time, rather than the citizens of Alton, should be held responsible. The erection of a monument to Lovejoy will be an appropriate expression of the wonderfully changed state of public opinion since he was sacrificed by it, and the initiation of this tribute by Alton cannot fail to reflect well-deserved credit upon that city.
LOVEJOY MONUMENT MEETING.-Pursuant to a public call, a number of the citizens of Alton met at the Good Templar's Hall this evening, to consider the propriety of erecting a monument to the memory of Rev. Elijah P. Lovejoy.
A temporary organization was formed by the choice of L. A. Parks as Chairman, and James Newman as Secretary.
W. C. Flagg moved that we proceed to take steps to form a"Lovejoy Monument Association," which was adopted.
Rev. C. H. Taylor moved the appointment of an Executive Committee of three, with discretionary power, who shall take such steps as they may deem necessary to secure the permanent organization of an Alton Lovejoy Monument Association, which was adopted, and Messrs. W. C. Flagg, L. A. Parks and M. G. Atwood were appointed such committee by a vote of the meeting.
Adjourned-subject to the call of the committee. J. NEWMAN, Secretary.
ALTON, November 25, 1864.

CRUEL TREATMENT OF THE WIVES AND CHILDREN OF U. S. COLORED SOLDIERS. (Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.)
CAMP NELSON, KY., Nov. 28, 1864. 
This camp has recently been the scene of a system of deliberate cruelty, which, in ferocity of design and brutality of execution, suggests painful misgivings as to whether we, indeed, live in an enlightened age and a Christian land. At this moment, over four hundred helpless human beings-frail women and delicate children-having been driven from their homes by United States soldiers, are now lying in barns and mule sheds, wandering through woods, languishing on the highway, and literally starving, for no other crime than their husbands and fathers having thrown aside the manacles of slavery to shoulder Union muskets! These deluded creatures innocently supposed that freedom was better than bondage, and were presumptuous enough to believe that the plighted protection of the Government would be preserved inviolate.
Since June last, Camp Nelson has been a. recruiting rendezvous for slaves. During this period, over nine thousand colored soldiers have entered the army from this post. When these men left their masters, they assumed the responsibility of their own acts. Most of them left without their masters' permission, and knowing the nature of Southern chivalry, they had clear perceptions of the torture to which their families would be subjected at the hands of their indignant masters. Indeed, in some instances, the wife and children were turned out of doors when the husband enlisted. Hence the recruit was frequently accompanied with his family, and received assurance that, on his entering the army, his wife and children would be provided with shelter, and allowed an opportunity to earn a livelihood by cooking, washing, &c., within the limits of the camp. Assured that his family was relieved from the vengeance of an exasperated master, and provided with a home, however humble, he entered with a cheerful heart upon his new career; and thus the ranks of our army were replenished by men whose subsequent achievements reflected honor on their race. This arrangement, at once just and expedient, entailed little or no expense upon the Government, for these people lived in huts built by themselves from material unserviceable for other purposes. 
Yet that these Kentucky slaves should thus falsify the predictions of their former masters, who delighted to dilate with horrifying amplitude upon the miseries which would inevitably overtake the families of enlisted slaves-this was an act of unpardonable impoliteness in the eyes of certain officers who commanded the camp, and who had a kindly regard for the Southern Moloch. These gentlemen, therefore, put forth persistent efforts to justify the prophetic wisdom of their slaveholding friends, by driving the women and children from camp, and leaving them no alternative but starvation or letters. Through the influence of some parties who had not the fear of the Slave Oligarchy before their eyes, these benignant designs were frustrated for a time. But the furious wrath thus delayed acquired new intensity, and only awaited a favorable opportunity to burst with increased violence upon the heads of the devoted victims. This 
opportunity was presented last Wednesday. Diabolical malignity could have desired no better day on which to perpetrate atrocious cruelly. The air was intensely chilly; the thermometer was below the freezing point all day, and strong men wrapped their overcoats close around them, when the provost guard turned four hundred women and children from their dwellings to face the wintry blast, with light and tattered garments, no food, and no home! Here, indeed, is a picture for our American Macaulay to incorporate in his next volume of his"History of the Rebellion." Armed soldiers attack humble huts inhabited by poor negroes-helpless women and sick children-order the inmates on the pain of instant death, and complete their valorous achievements by demolishing dilapidated dwellings. The men who did all this were United States soldiers, and not Sepoys, and they acted under instructions from a Union General, and not Nena Sahib.
These are stern truths, amply corroborated by affidavits similar to the one which I have the honor to enclose. To day these children of misery are exposed to the pitiless storm. Four are already in their graves; one was frozen to death. Others will undoubtedly find speedy shelter in the tomb, and God only, knows what will become of the rest! Slavery is bad; but here is an act which transcends, in deliberate depravity and cool malignity, the darkest associations of the slave mart. I pass unnoticed the mental anguish, the social sufferings and the domestic sorrows-nor will I attempt to portray an amount of suffering which no language can depict, but which these people now endure. Their condition must be seen to be very approximately realized. No more efficacious plan could be devised for arresting the progress of negro enlistments than that which visits upon their families a merciless persecution, compared with which Slavery, or even death itself, would be a positive blessing. And it is no wonder that slaveholders in this State loudly applaud the course thus adopted, and point their slaves to the sad spectacle us an illustration of what the families of negro soldiers may expect. The heart revolts at the thought that such unparalleled atrocities should be perpetrated with any prospect of impunity; and my design in writing you is to arouse the Christian and patriotic people of the North to a sense of the duty which they owe these innocent sufferers. Let the potent, irresistible voice of a just and humane public demand of the authorities at Washington, that immediate steps be taken to arrest these barbarities, and to bring the responsible agents to stern account. HUMANITAS.
AFFIDAVIT OF A COLORED SOLDIER.
CAMP NELSON, KY., Nov. 26,1864. 
Personally appeared before me, Edward B. W. Restieaux, Captain and Assistant-Quartermaster, Joseph Miller, a man of color, who, being duly sworn, upon oath says: 'I was the slave of George Miller, Lincoln County, Kentucky. I have always resided in Kentucky, and am now a soldier, in the service of the United States. I belong to Company 1, 124th U. S. C. Infantry, now stationed at Camp Nelson, Ky.; when I came to camp for the purpose of enlisting, about the middle of October, 1864, my wife and children came with me, because my master said that if I enlisted, he would not maintain them, and I knew they would be abused by him when I left. I had then; four children, aged respectively ten, nine, seven and four years. On my presenting myself as a recruit, I was told by the lieutenant in command to take my family into a tent within the limits of the camp. My wife and family occupied this tent by the express permission of the aforementioned officer, and never received any notice to leave until Tuesday, November 22, when a mounted guard gave my wife notice, that she and her children must leave camp before early morning. This was
about six o'clock at night. My little boy, about seven years of age, had been very sick, arid was then slowly
recovering. My wife had no place to go, and so remained until morning. About 8 o'clock on Wednesday
<c04>
morning, Nov. 23, a mounted guard came to my tent, and ordered my wife and children out of the camp. The morning was bitter cold. It was freezing hared I was certain it would kill my sick child to take him out in the cold. I told the man in charge of the guard that it would be the death of my boy. I told him that my wife and children had no place to go. I told him that I was a soldier of the United States. He told me that it did not make any difference; he had orders to take all out of camp. He told my wife and family if they did not get up in the wagon he had, he would shoot the last one of them. On being thus threatened, my wife and children went into the wagon. My wife carried the sick child in her arms. When they left the tent, the wind was blowing hard and cold; and having had to leave much of our clothing when we left our master, my wife, with her little ones, was poorly clad. I followed them as far as the lines. I had no knowledge where they were taking them. At night, I went in search of my family. I found them in Nicholasville, about six miles from camp, They were in an old meeting-house, belonging to the colored people. The building was very cold, having only one fire. My wife and children could not get near the fire, because of the numbers of colored people huddled together by the soldiers. I found ray wife and family shivering with cold and famished with hunger; they had not received a morsel of food during the whole day. My boy was dead. He died directly after getting down from the wagon. I know he was killed by exposure to the inclement weather. I had to return to camp that night; so I left my family in the meeting-house, and walked back. I had walked there. I traveled in all twelve miles Next morning I walked to Nicholasville. I dug a grave myself, and buried my own child. I left my family in the meeting-house, where they still remain. And further this deponent saith not.
his
JOSEPH X MILLER. mark.
Witness-JAMES A. SINEN, WILLIAM SMITH.
Sworn and subscribed before me, this twenty-sixth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four.
E. B. W. RESTIEAUX, Capt. and A. Q..M.

THE LATE ATTEMPT TO BURN NEW YORK.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 1.
The Secretary of State directs that the following dispatch be made known in New York and Philadelphia by telegraph:
OFFICE OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, BALTIMORE, Dec. 1, 1864. 
"A letter just received from Annapolis at the office of The Baltimore American, from a paroled prisoner from Georgia, contains a statement which appears to he important in connection with the recent attempt to burn the city of New York. I send you the substance of the letter. It is signed by John H. Ripple, 39th Illinois Veteran Volunteers. He says when he passed through Savannah on the 19th, he was informed by a professed Union citizen that he would hear of the greatest city burning on record if the Rebels succeeded in the North, and that it was to come off in a very few days. The party went on to state that one Captain Montgomery, formerly of Baltimore, who before the war was in the livery business, was the agent charged with the duty of firing the Northern cities. Montgomery, he said, intended to burn New York, Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia. He further said that the rebels in Savannah were high in expectation of soon learning of Montgomery's success, and that he was to receive a large sum of money if successful. The writer says he thought little of the statement until after his arrival. He saw the accounts in the papers, whereupon he deemed it his duty to make the statement for publication. Deeming it proper that this information should be communicated to the Government, I take the liberty of sending you this dispatch. Respectfully,
ALEX. FULTON."
THE INCENDIARY PLOT. In the Richmond Whig of July 24 appeared the following proposition:
"The Devoted Band.-It is believed that there are five or ten thousand men in the South ready and willing to share the fate of Curtius, and devote themselves to the salvation of their country. It is proposed that all who are willing to make this sacrifice shall arm themselves with a sword, two five-shooters, and a carbine each, and meet on horseback at some place to be designated, convenient for the great work in hand. Fire and sword must be carried into the houses of those who are visiting those blessings upon their neighbors. Philadelphia, and even New York, is not beyond the reach of a long and brave arm. The moral people of those cities cannot be better taught the virtues of invasion than by the blazing light of their own dwellings.
None need apply for admission to the' Devoted Band' but those who are prepared to take their lives in their hands, and who would indulge not the least expectation of ever returning. They dedicate their lives to the destruction of their enemies.
A. S. B. D. B., Richmond.
All Southern papers are requested to give this notice a few insertions."
Some of the Democratic papers in New York are trying to prove that the attempted and successful incendiary fires there could not have originated with the Southern rebels, but the above is convincing evidence of their rebel origin.
GEN. LEE'S PLACE. The following interesting extract is from a letter from an officer in the army, dated Fort C. F. Smith, Nov. 24th:-
This afternoon I took a walk of about two and a half miles to visit the rebel General Lee's place, that he left when he entered the rebel army. This place is the Custius estate, belonging formerly to the family of Mrs. Washington; and as General Lee married into the family, it fell into his hands. It is a most splendid place, lying about west from the capital, on the opposite of the river. The mansion is large and stately, though somewhat decayed, and with the grounds around reminds one of an old English estate such as"we read of." It contains about eleven hundred acres, and since its confiscation by the Government has been applied to a very good purpose as a settlement for freedmen, who manage it to very good advantage. I saw and talked with some of the slaves who were born and brought up on the place, and who know all about the Washington, Custius and Lee families. On the ground in the rear of the house is a cemetery, where are buried between seven and eight thousand soldiers. They are burying them constantly, at least fifty graves being already dug, to be filled as the bodies are sent from the front and other places. The graves are all made in a line, and a neat board, painted white, placed at the head and foot; and you stand at the foot and read on the headboard the name, title, company, regiment, age, and time of death of the deceased. There are forts and fortifications to be seen from General Lee's place in every direction, and at least fifty thousand soldiers are stationed around Washington. It would make lively work should the traitors come down, thinking to take it. They know better. I looked into a window of General Lee's house, and saw the furniture standing just as he left it four years ago, even to the brands in the fireplace. How he would rave to see his farm turned into a graveyard! How God has confounded these rebels! Washington was to be theirs, New England left out in the cold, and a new government founded on the ruins of the old, with slavery for its corner stone; but what they thought their greatest good is now turned against them.
That British Peace Petition humbug which was to help the rebels, has turned out a failure. Gov. Seymour would not touch it. Parker, or Barker, the ass who bore the bundle, then sent a note to Secretary Seward, in which he announced his"mission," but the Secretary sent him a fat flea for his ear; and after hearing all about him and his purpose, refused to allow him to present the petition, or to have an interview with the President. Parker, or Barker, bore a letter to Gov. Seymour from Sir Henry de Houghton; and that the baronet should have written to the Governor in such a manner is evidence that he knows nothing about our affairs. He should have addressed himself to the President, or to the Secretary of State, or some other person high in federal official rank, at Washington, so at least to have evinced respect for this country and its government; and his selecting Gov. Seymour as his correspondent allows either that he is ignorant of our modes of doing business, or that they are indifferent to him, and that he supposes we can be insulted with impunity. Sir Henry is said to be the unfortunate holder of Confederate bonds of the nominal value of almost two million dollars. This accounts for the milk in that cocoanut-that is, it shows that the milk of human kindness which the baronet is giving down proceeds from his desire to have a course pursued which would render the funds he holds worth something; whereas now they are as worthless as the Mississippi bonds of Jeff. Davis, and they are no better than the Mississippi paper to John Law. The petition will be presented to Congress, which may lead to a discussion in which many amusing facts shall be brought to light; and the whole thing made light of.-Boston Traveler.
The bearer of the British peace address says he is not the converted infidel, Rev. Joseph Barker, but that Parker is his true name. 
THE"BLACK LAWS" IN ILLINOIS. A petition from fifty thousand citizens of Illinois will be presented at the coming session of the Legislature of that State, for the repeal of the Black Laws of Illinois. Mr. Jones, of Chicago, a colored man of great energy, formerly a slave but now the owner of one of the finest buildings in the city, is among the most active in urging this matter.-Chicago Journal. 
<c05>
Deacon John Phillips of Sturbridge, whose great age (104 years) has been the theme of much remark recently, has just received the following letter from President Lincoln:-
EXECUTIVE MASSION, WASHINGTON
21st November, 1864.
MY DEAR SIR: I have heard of the incident at the polls in your town, in which you acted so honorable a part, and I take the liberty of writing to you to express my personal gratitude for the compliment paid fine by the suffrage of a citizen so venerable. 
The example of such devotion to civic duties in one whose days have already been extended an average lifetime beyond the psalmist's limit cannot but be valuable and fruitful. It is not for myself only, but for the country, which you have in your sphere served so long and so well, that I thank you. Your friend and servant, A. LINCOLN.
DEACON JOHN PHILLIPS.
BUST of COL. SHAW. Among the thousand objects of interest at the Sailors' Fair in Boston was a bust of the hero, Colonel Robert G. Shaw, by Miss. Edmonia Lewis."Miss Lewis," says the Transcript,"is a young colored woman of African and Indian descent, who was educated at Oberlin College. She has been modeling for about a year in this city, and undertook to make this likeness of one whom she had never seen, out of grateful feeling 'for what he has done for her race.' Col. Shaw's family consider it an excellent likeness, and have had it photographed by Mr. Marshall, allowing the artist to sell copies for her own benefit. We are sure that many will be thankful to possess a touching and beautiful memorial of one of the ablest in our long list of brave and truthful souls who have gone thus early to their reward."
JEFF. DAVIS'S FIRST STEP TOWARDS A DICTATORSHIP. The Richmond Examiner and the Whig are extremely violent in their language towards Jeff. Davis for having recommended the repeal of the exemption of editors and newspaper employee. The Examiner says,"many of the people believe it to he the initial step to dictatorial powers," and in this connection hints at assassination as follows:-
Girardin tells his readers that a scheme of making Patrick Henry dictator was talked of in the Virginia Assembly in 1779. Archibald Cary, meeting with Col. Syme, the half brother of Henry, in the lobby of the house, accosted him:"Sir, I am told that your brother wishes to be dictator. Tell him, from me, that the day of his appointment shall be the day of his death; for he shall find my dagger in his heart before the sunset of that day." And the scheme was abandoned, for all knew"Old Iron" would have made good his threat. There are descendants of"Old Iron" living in Virginia yet.
THE FRIENDS OF THE REBELS IN THE NORTH. In the course of a debate in the rebel Congress on Saturday last, on the subject of State exemptions from military service, Senator Foote said:
"The gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Miles) says we have no friends in the North. I make issue with him. I say we have friends-good, true, valiant friends-in the North. Every vote given for McClellan was for peace. Every vote given for McClellan was a vote against Lincoln's African policy. Every vote given for McClellan was a vote given for an armistice. If McClellan had been elected, he (Foote) was prepared to make from his seat a proposition for a convention of the sovereign States North and South, and he believed that the South would have secured from it peace and her independence. If the South had met the North in convention, she would have proposed a league, offensive and defensive, with the North, for the strict enforcement of the Monroe doctrine, a liberal commercial treaty, and we should soon have the whole North American domain, and perhaps Cuba. We had no friends in Europe. It was folly to talk of it. We had more sympathizing friends in the North than in all the rest of the world."
REBEL ARMING OF SLAVES. The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, in his evening sermon of last Sunday a week, referred to the rebels arming their slaves, in the following manner:-
"But, we are asked, what if the slave shall be armed against us in this terrible war? To arm the slave is  to destroy the fatal element in Southern society-their aristocracy-and with the destruction of this element we destroy the cause of the rebellion. Let us pray they may arm their slaves. But it can scarcely be. The very proposition is a death symptom. It is not an argument of coining strength, but of present weakness. Many a desperate sickness might be cured if the patient had constitution enough to bear up under in, and withstand the medicine he takes; but there is not enough stand in the South to withstand four hundred thousand black soldiers in their midst."
ROGER A. PRYOR'S ARRIVAL AT FORT LAFATETTE. Roger A. Pryor has been heard from since his arrival at Fort Lafayette. Starting from this city shortly after daylight on Wednesday, he was not seen by many persons while in Broadway; but on the Brooklyn ferry-boat, which the party took in order to reach the Fort Hamilton cars, Pryor was recognized, and crowds gathered to look at him. His identity was also discovered at other points on the way, but there were no offensive demonstrations. In Fort Lafayette Pryor found himself among friends, who greeted him with much warmth. He was particularly welcomed by the rebel General Page, of Mobile notoriety; the interview between these men was especially cordial. Pryor has been provided with money since he was captured, and it is understood will be able to supply himself, under the regulations, with such articles as he may desire during the period of his confinement.-N. Y. Tribune.
OUR ARMY IN ALABAMA VOTING UNDER FIRE. General Hatche, of the 8th, wrote to his father that he was in command of- regiments of cavalry, then at Taylor's Springs, Alabama, watching and preventing the advance of Hood's army, then at Florence, having some heavy skirmishing." All those who have a right are voting to-day-the reserve voting when the skirmish line is relieved. So we are actually voting under fire. As they vote for Lincoln and Johnson, an occasional shell hisses over the ballot-box, and the patter comes up from the swamp. When a regiment has voted, it gives a rousing cheer for Abraham Lincoln, and goes to its work again, with hope and assurance that he will be President of each and all the States of the Union before his present term expires." 
ARLINGTON SLAVES RETURNED. It will be remembered that several slaves on the Arlington estate, who were left free by the will of Mr. Curtis, but kept in slavery by Gen. R. E. Lee. ran away, were recaptured, whipped severely by the General, and afterwards taken to Richmond. A gentleman who has lately visited Arlington informs us that these have been released by Gen. Lee's son, and have returned to Arlington, free. The young woman who was so badly treated by Lee, and whose case was the subject of some controversy in the papers about the time of the rebellion, is among them, and is living near her aged and worthy parents.-N. Y. Independent.
SALE OF MONTICELLO. Monticello, the former residence of Thomas Jefferson, in Albemarle county, Virginia, was sold at auction on Thursday, under the sequestration act, for eighty thousand five hundred dollars. Benjamin F. Ficklin, purchaser. A negro woman and her seven children (all of the latter being under seven years of age) brought twenty-three thousand dollars. A negro man was sold for upwards of seven thousand dollars.-Richmond Dispatch.

TO THE BENEVOLENT-Thomas F. Small, formerly a slave, and for more than a year in the service of the United States, at the battles of Williamsburg, Malvern Hill, Fair Oaks and other places, having, while sick, been left without help or care, froze his feet so that amputation became necessary; and not having been regularly enlisted, cannot receive a pension or pay from the Government; he, therefore, appeals to the sympathy of the kind-hearted to help him in his efforts to obtain a sum sufficient to procure himself a pair of artificial logs-as in his present situation he can only move himself upon his knees. A portion of the sum needed for this purpose has been kindly subscribed by certain benevolent people in North Bridgewater; and it is very desirable that the whole amount should be made up speedily. Any donations sent to the Editor of the Liberator, or to Robert F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Office, 231 Washington Street, Boston, will be gratefully acknowledged. This unfortunate but deserving young man is about 20 years old, and his crippled condition demands the most compassionate consideration.
The following sums have been received by the subscriber for the benefit of this young man, and will be carefully appropriated to procuring artificial legs for him:-
From John R. Manley,"Boston, $5 00
Mrs. Hannah Castell, Boston, 1 00
A. Winsor, Jr., 1 00
Miss Rebecca Bradford, Roxbury, 2 00
B.B. Marshall, Milford, Mass., 1 00
Dr. Russell, 1 00
Alvan & Nancy L. Howes, Barnstable, 5 00
Miss E. H. Day, Lewston, Me., 2 00
 $18 00
Bostony Nov. 7, 1864. ROB'T F. WALLCUT.
<c06>
 DIED-In this city, Nov. 21, Mr. EDWARD FRANCIS,
 aged 53 years.
On the 54th of 11th month, 1864, at his residence, West Fallowfleld, Chester Co., Ps., THOMAS WHITSON, as earnest and acceptable Minister to the Society of Friends, aged nearly 69 years.
He was one of the signers of the Anti-Slavery Declaration of Sentiments at Philadelphia, and assisted in the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society; He was ever among the truest of the true to those in bonds.
He was buried on the 27th ultt., in the Friends' burial ground at Sadsbury. His funeral was attended by his widow and seven children, and an immense concourse of loving and admiring friends, among whom were many colored people.

MR. GARRISON'S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. P. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher. Nov. 25. tf
LUCIFER MATCHES.
THE philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorus and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is Necrosis, the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of these cases, mostly young women, have been treated in the New York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?
Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous cases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,-
This Child was Binned to Death BY LUCIFER MATCHES.
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE,
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of dollars.
FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry sticks together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned
TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils,) scientific chemists have, for more than a quarter of a century, been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,-
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors.
Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs to a.
SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST,
who has produced, to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the meed of a world's gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combinations, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?
A MATCH INODOROUS AND SAFE,
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.
NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHORUS 
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building. In order that the 
PEOPLE OF AMERICA
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent here, and an association formed under the name of
THE UNIVERSAL SAFETY MATCH CO.,
who now offer to the citizens of the United States 
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE, and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or"Wind-Defler,
which neither wind nor rain can extinguish.
A fair trial will verify the truth of our statements.
JOHN P. JEWETT.
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company, NO, 18 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
P. S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to wax composition? Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest and most perfect wax tapers ever produced.
Dec. 9.-4wis.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary's Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this road thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary's Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the center of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and even frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mills in the State; au Orchard of 800 apple and 1300 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a. 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around aim could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each hiving a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, house utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offend at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who hare waited the St. Mary's Lake Fans.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, NOV. 18, 1864. 
A SCHOOL MAGAZINE FREE!
CLARK'S SUNDAY SCHOOL VISITOR-Vol IX.-1865.
SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR.
Readings, Dialogues, Speeches, Music, Poems, Mathematics, 
Grammar, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c. 
THE Publisher of this popular DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY, in order 
to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR ONE YEAR FREE TO ONE PERSON, (who will act as agent,) 
AT ANY POST OFFICE in the United States. Address, with five cents, for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, PUBLISHER,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
One cloudy day that ended in October,
When winds were calm, and leafy woods were still,
Clad in their colors gorgeous, rich and sober,
While yet their tints surpassed the painter's skill,
I stood upon the brow of Muldrow Hill,
Where scattered cedars, slight and smooth and slim,
Rose green with life, no frost could kill or chill:
I saw below the childhood haunts of him
Whose fame and wreath and name long ages may not dim.
The man who now has nations for beholders,
Who dared to say his Government was made
To lift the weights from off of all men's shoulders,
Though for a time its purpose was delayed;
While Treason's banded millions were arrayed,
He had become the chosen Chief of State,
Displayed the art that made those hosts afraid:
While others wavered, traitors were elate,
He calmly used his might to rule our nation's fate.
Born in a region famed in song and story,
Where rugged hills have lovely vales between,
Where pure, cold streams, like gleams of transient glory,
At once will burst from bluffs that gape and lean,
And sink again to hide their crystal sheen,
Where cedars cluster in the forest shades,
Their green boughs screen the deep, unseen ravine,
Where brooks will wind and sparkle through the glades,
Or fall like molten silver brightly in cascades.
A poor man's son, his lot was one of rigor;
But toil and training in his early youth
Gave mind and body their unwonted vigor,
Imbued his soul with honesty and truth;
He was the man he seemed to be in sooth,
A patriot such as could never feel
That ruth for Treason with its serpent tooth
Which shameless scoffers often will reveal,
And haters of our land can never well conceal.
His dwelling places, like his callings, vary,
But helped to mould him as he was designed;
On wooded hills, or in the grassy prairie,
He gained that nature, double in its kind,
The statesman's with the woodman's tact combined;
Led by a judgment passion cannot cloud,
A mind whose like we rarely ever find,
With that uncommon common sense endowed,
That lastly overmatches genius bright and proud.
He timely came, when Treason was defiant,
From prairie lands beneath the sunset glow,
Our champion, and our rugged Western giant,
To deal the traitor Southron such a blow
That yet shall cause his utter overthrow;
A living type of Freedom's cause and creed,
Whose foe shall yet be baffled and laid low,
The man most fit to do that glorious deed,
And guide the "Ship of State" in peril's hour and need.
Few would have thought who heard him telling stories,
And jokes that rustic hearers might applaud,
That he would be one of our country's glories,
And live to send those edicts far abroad
That made enslavers tremble and be awed,
And meet the punishment they well deserved
For fraud and crime they long had loved to laud;
That power which other rulers tamely served,
He ventured to defy, and have its arm unnerved.
Firm as that hill upon its wall of boulders,
His faith was that our fathers had this aim:
To lift the weights from off of all men's shoulders,
And that their sons, if worthy of the name,
Would live and strive and battle for the same;
One glorious boon their valor should retain;
He came to just conclusion to proclaim
Words that shall loose the bondman from his chain,
And leave our country free from one huge guilt and stain.
Though called to govern in our darkest season,
He vaunted nothing by a mere display;
Not only had he to contend with Treason,
Bat with the loyal faint with one dismay;
Much was accomplished by a wise delay
In his attack upon a power and wrong
Which they were long accustomed to obey;
Despite their prejudice unduly strong,
To even fight for Right he aptly won this throng.
Before that rest, wherein the body moulders,
May he and we behold the brighter day
That lifts the weight from off of all men's shoulders,
And takes the strength of Treason quite away,
And gives to Freedom all her rightful sway.
May he remain a man of rarer mould,
His ray be light that never leads astray,
His heart be warm, his judgment calm and cold,
Our chosen Chief of State, who wisely could be bold!
CYRUS WICK,
Company F, 17th Regt. Ind. Vols., Louisville, Ky.
Silver Springs, Wilson Co., Tenn., Nov. 8, 1864.

MARYLAND IS FREE.
Raise me a little higher, boys;
Cap., read it o'er to me;
"We helped to wash away the stain,
And Maryland is free!"
Yes, that was it; say, was it not?
Pray, comrades, tell to me,
Just once again before I die,
That Maryland is free!
We helped to knock her shackles off,
We helped regenerate,
And wash away the awful sin
Of our dear native State.
Thank God He let me live so long
This happy day to see;
I care not, boys, how soon I die,
For Maryland is free!
She is my only mother, boys,
My own is in the grave;
I'm glad she said before I died,
She'd no more hold a slave:
The air around seems purer, boys-
The sky seems bright to me;
A heavy weight seems off my heart,
For Maryland is free!
I will not last much longer, boys;
So listen, if you can;
Please tell the folks at home how I
Fought with Phil Sheridan;
Just say I was no coward, boys,
That I loved liberty;
And that I died upon the day
That Maryland was free!
I hope to see this fight fought out,
And treason get its due;
But if He had not taken me,
He might have taken you;
No, I am satisfied to die-
He has been kind to me,
And let me fall upon the day
That Maryland was free!
The air seems growing darker, boys,
My life is ebbing fast,
And every breath I draw now, boys,
Feels as it were the last.
Dear Captain, read it o'er again-
Our Father! pity me-
Forgive my sins-yes, that was it;
My Maryland-I'm free! S.
-Baltimore American.

NOVEMBER 8, 1864.
We breathe more freely now the struggle's done,
Now that the glorious victory is won;
The grandest civil triumph which shall stand
Recorded in the annals of the land.
We trusted in the cause-we knew that Right
Must conquer Wrong, however hard the fight;
That not in vain by patriots had been shed
The precious blood with which our soil is red.
No, not in vain; to-day the pledge we give,
That by that blood the Union yet shall live;
And from the strong tips of the loyal North
In thunder tones the promise now goes forth.
<c02>
Faith in that promise makes my eyes to gee
Peace rising through the smoke of victory;
And as the cloud of battle drifts away,
I see the white dawn of a future day.
Above the din of war I seem to hear
From tower and roof the sweet-toned bells of cheer
Ring out the welcome tidings to the skies,
While joyful paeans on the air arise.
I see bold Freedom with a giant's stroke
Hurl to the earth the bondman's heavy yoke;
I see her strike from off his horny hands
The galling chains and fetters where he stands.
I see a temple; from its dome on high
A glorious banner greets the broad blue sky;
The starry emblem of a mighty land,
Whose people all are one in heart and hand.
-Harper's Weekly.

The Liberator.
RATIONALISM IN THE CHURCH.
A RATIONALIST ASSOCIATION AND ANNUAL CONVENTIONS PROPOSED.
MR. EDITOR: DEAR SIR-Rationalism is the subject of much mistake and misconception, and friends of truth will be glad to have it assume definite and intelligible positions, and explain itself distinctly to the world. Worcester defines it-"[Theol.] Interpretation of Christian truth on the principle of human reason, or the adoption of human reason as a sole and sufficient guide, exclusive of tradition and revelation." The word is variously used in different works. Those Christians who accept it as descriptive of the religions systems which they embrace, may be allowed to show in what sense they accept it. The writer of this article speaks for himself, and he thinks that professed Christian Rationalists throughout the world concur in his views on the subject. Every denomination of religionists, and every school both of religion and philosophy, is allowed to define its own positions and principles, and is entitled to be judged from its own showings. Hostile critics cannot define religious denominations and schools correctly. With the best intentions, they will often grossly caricature and misrepresent them.
Christian Rationalism is distinguished from all traditionary and arbitrary systems of Christianity, on the one hand; and from all systems of infidelity and skepticism on the other. It departs widely from the opinions of Augustine, Calvin, Wesley, and others who follow them, as well as from the Roman and Greek Churches, and it deviates still more from the infidelity and skepticism of the English and French Deists, Pantheists and Atheists of the seventeenth century. It has many dogmas in common with the Orthodox, and receives the whole body of Orthodox truth and knowledge, but rejects the so-called Orthodox delusions; and it has some doctrines in common with all honest and intelligent Infidels and Skeptics; but differs widely from both. It is in no danger of being taken for Ortodoxy, or confounded with it; and nothing can be more incorrect or unjust than to confound it with Deism, Pantheism, Infidelity and Skepticism. The common charges of Deism, Infidelity, Pantheism and Skepticism, which are made against it, are false and slanderous. Christian Rationalists are neither Deists, Infidels, Pantheists nor Skeptics. Deism exalts Natural Religion against Christianity, which it rejects and disparages; Infidelity rejects Christianity, either with or without a substitute, and Skepticism adopts principles subversive of all historic faith and knowledge of the invisible and remote. Pantheism confounds God with his works. From all these systems of error, delusion and ignorance, Christian Rationalism declares off, and stands aloof. It receives all that is proved, and all that is known to be true, and rejects only beliefs known to be erroneous. As long as opinions are doubtful, it admits them as doubtful, and only accepts them where all doubt is dispelled. It has in it, therefore, no element of Infidelity. Skepticism rejects valid evidence, and refuses to believe much that is fully proved. This is not Christian Rationalism, but unchristian Irrationalism. Christian Rationalism admits evidence of every kind, and draws its inferences and conclusions from the broadest fields of observation, and the most complete aggregates of facts and evidences. It has in it, therefore, no element of Skepticism. It accepts all normal and virtuous faith in Christianity; pursues all possible knowledge, both of its facts and principles; and only disbelieves where unbelief is a duty, and faith a sin. It is willingly ignorant only where knowledge is impossible or useless.
Christian Rationalists are a school; they are not yet organized as a sect; whether they ever will be, remains to be seen, and will depend somewhat on the course of events. No founder of Rationalism as an organic body has yet arisen. Rationalism in its present attitude makes no war on any sect or denomination; it offers its divine light and love to all, and proposes to benefit and serve all. In a few denominations it is freely tolerated, in most it is resisted and disparaged, and in not a few is hunted out and expelled. Rationalists are an unorganized party in all sects in which they are tolerated, and would quickly be found in all sects, if tolerated in all. This is well understood by the anti-Rationalists, and a thorough discipline and prompt exclusion of Rationalists from their respective bodies is publicly advocated as indispensable to the preservation of the anti-rationalistic faiths. This admission is constantly met with in Quarterlies, Sermons and Reviews, and deserves to be well considered. It is a virtual acknowledgment of the impotence of Orthodoxy and the power of Rationalism. Rationalism asks no factitious aids, and scorns them. It is perfectly tolerant of the old opinions, and only asks leave to reason them down. Against the truth, reason has no power, and no hostility. Rationalism arises naturally in all sects where it is tolerated; its disciples are numerous and increasing, and it would quickly appear in strength in all sects, if tolerated in all. It is a great blunder in any not to tolerate it. When not tolerated, occasionally it appears in independent and earnest minds; and some that might otherwise be lights and pillars in their orders; become, like Jesus among the Jews, stones of stumbling and rocks of, offence and disquietude to their neighbors.
The sole first principle of Rationalism is respect for evidence as a ground of faith. Rationalism loves faith, and seeks to aid and strengthen it, but admits only a faith according to evidence. It is careful and anxious to believe all that is proved, and is just as careful and anxious not to believe the unproved. It takes the Scriptures and traditions of the Church for all they are, and all they teach, but only admits their legitimate showings. Any assumptions beyond these it repudiates and resists. On examining the Scriptures, it does not find them to be in all cases authentic productions of the persons to whom they are generally attributed, and judges them accordingly. It finds some to be supernatural divine inspirations. In much that they teach, it finds them infallibly correct, and their teachings divine; in some of their teachings, it finds them erroneous, and the opinions of their writers requiring to be revised and corrected by the more extended and accurate information and discriminating judgments of later times, and more advanced stages of human society and culture.
The supernaturalisms of the Bible it finds to be fictitious, equally with those of the Greek and Roman poets and historians, and rejects them on the same grounds. It finds the miracles of the Bible entirely destitute of any valid evidence in their favor, and bearing decisive marks of fiction. It does not reject them from the category of facts on infidel or skeptical grounds, as has been often done, but on those of the most logical and convincing evidence. Its conclusions cannot be permanently discredited or resisted. We know the Bible miracles to be fictitious by the same rules by which we know any thing, and with the same certainty.
<c03>
Every man who embraces the first principle of Christian Rationalism, to judge of the Bible and interpret it agreeably to evidence, is a rationalist. Every man who understands the divine laws of faith and knowledge must submit to them, and honor them. They come home to the soul with irresistible effect, and command its unhesitating assent and love.
Rationalism is deemed by many to be destructive and disorganizing, and is hated and opposed as ah enemy to true religion. All the true religion there is in Christendom is of the Rationalistic kind. Rationalism is disorganizing as Jesus was, and as all the sons of God have been. It destroys errors and shams, and detects and unmasks impositions and usurpations, but is profoundly reverent and conservative of all truth. It repudiates all fictions and sham miracles, but acknowledges with infinite delight the stupendous and true miracles of creation and Providence. These it finds in all ages and countries, and they speak to us of God and his power with irresistible effect. It finds no facts and holds no dogmas subversive of piety and virtue, but, on the contrary, all its faiths minister to both. The living and everywhere present God is the object of its great idea, ever present and acting; speaking to men face to face as of old, meeting them on the earth's high places, and visiting them in its calm and secluded retreats, challenging love and good will by his present doings; and the present rewarder of all human well-doing. Man stands out to the eye of a Christian Rationalist the noblest of God's terrestrial works, capable of infinite adornments, and of inconceivably exalted gifts and glories; in a high degree admirable and estimable for what he is, but infinitely more so for what he is capable of becoming under God's benevolent tutelage and loving paternal care.
Professed and declared Rationalists are few, compared with the millions that abjure Rationalism. Many silently embrace its leading principles, and allow their divine light to shine but dimly. Professed Rationalists are found, however, in considerable numbers among the Lutherans in Germany and Reformed Churches of Switzerland, France, and Holland and the Unitarians of Great Britain and the United States. Several clergymen and many laymen in the Church of England embrace Rationalistic views, and are either partially or generally Rationalistic. Some laymen and a few ministers among the Episcopalians and Universalists in the United States are Rationalists. The Clerical profession is proverbially conservative in all denominations. If it were more independent, it would be less conservative, and more progressive. Independent conditions favor independent and manly thinking, and dependence tends in the opposite direction. Good men will resist it as well as they can, and truly brave souls will seek and accept the truth, whatever crosses it may impose, and at every cost.
We have said that Christian Rationalism is yet a school, and not a sect. What is to be its future? Is it to continue a school? or to emerge into a sect? Is it to decline and die, as many Christian schools and sects have done? or is it to become general, permanent and dominant? We think it is to become general, permanent, and dominant; and advise good men to prepare for its progress, and clear its track. It has all the elements of progress and power. It is the kingdom of truth and of God, and all its influences on men are benignant and elevating. The weapons of its war are mighty, and the ages are its inheritance. All things serve it, all sciences, all arts, and all good men. Its truths are precious and valuable. They are the gems and pearls of the universe. They are too valuable and too much needed to be laid aside in napkins, and buried out of human sight with decaying carcasses; and demand the open field of conflict and victory. Its lights call for light-stands, and cannot be allowed to continue indefinitely under beds and bushels.
But Rationalists have something to do to publish their great salvation, and make it effective. They cannot afford to stop with barren negatives; they must work with high and ennobling positive truths. Their great implements of labor, like those of all true religionists, are true doctrines of God and of his laws. These must be noted and wielded by the Rationalist soldier. They are the sword of the divine spirit, and the ax and hammer for the erection of its magnificent edifice of regenerated souls. God and his laws must be cried in all ears, exhibited to all eyes, and every-where loved, honored, and adored. Rationalists, as such, have not begun to work out their highest service, nor make proof of their divine ministry of happiness. But the time has come when this must be done; the age calls for it.
If Luther had done no more for Lutheranism than Rationalists have yet done for Rationalism, where would have been the Protestant Reformation? Without another Luther, it would have been nowhere. If Wesley had done no more for Methodism, Methodism as a watchword of piety and progress might have slumbered with the dead of old; and its untold triumphs have been unattained. If John Robinson had done no more for Congregationalism, Congregationalism might have never established itself in America, nor inaugurated the reconstruction of all human social order on the basis of justice and equality, in the independent and free Republican government of the United States.
Lutheranism, Methodism, and Congregationalism started from small beginnings at a recent period, but have accomplished mighty works. A still mightier and nobler work is on the hands of Rationalism. Shall that also be done? Time will show; and as in the past, some of its developments will be matters of great surprise to those uninitiated into the mysteries of the future. But the future is not all a blank. From the beginning of the world, and all along the tract of ages, great events have cast long and portentous shadows before. It is so now. The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, and has some glimpses of things to come. Rationalism must live and grow with the ages, and gild them with divine glories. It must perform its divinely appointed task, and fill the world with light and love. It is the complement of Lutheranism, Congregationalism, Methodism, and all other imperfect systems of Christianity, that have preceded it, and must accomplish fully what they have attempted and failed to effect. Let us then be known as Rationalists, and make our principles known; let us demonstrate their efficiency and power by applying them to their appropriate ends of human elevation and advancement. If they will not make nobler, braver, better men than the traditionary delusions which they seek to displace and supersede, they are also shams, and should be given up; but if they meet man's necessities fully, and lift him up to the Godlike and divine, they are themselves of God. Let them be put to the test of an experiment.
Finally, let us have a Rationalist association and convention, and come together from bur different denominations of Christians, during the next anniversary week in Boston, shake hands together, compare views, consider questions of policy, truth and duty, and address ourselves to saving [at last] the world; the true end and object of the mission of Jesus, and of all true Christianity.
Yours, most truly,
LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
‘TIS WELL. Mr. Lincoln is the first citizen of the North, whom the honor of a re-election to the Presidential office has ever been conferred. The preceding two-term Presidents have been Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe-all from Virginia-and Jackson of Tennessee.
Theodore D. Weld, as was predicted, gave his hearers on Sunday at Florence, a rich intellectual and moral treat. His affluent and forcible diction, his splendid bursts of eloquence, and his sublime and elevating thoughts, stamped him an intellectual king.
A confectioner in New York got up a Thanks-giving cake for the Ladies' Home Mission, which was 20 feet long, 22 inches wide, and 16 inches thick. To make it took 1000 eggs, 175 pounds of flour, 125 pounds of sugar, and 80 pounds of butter. Rather expensive.
<c04>
THE BRYANT FESTIVAL
We are permitted to publish (says the Chicago Tribune) the following letter, received by a gentleman of this city, from a lady who was a participant in the honors paid to WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT, the venerable poet and patriot. The charming sketchy description of the occasion will cause it to be read with interest:
NEW YORK, Nov. 10, 1864.
MY DEAR DOCTOR:-I believe that I promised in the summer to write you from Long Branch, but I found the fascinations of seaside life too many for me. My old accustomed pen-pleasure was entirely thrown in the shade, while as for reading or any other intellectual enjoyment, the only thing of the sort which I indulged in was an occasional perusal of the newspapers or the last Atlantic. One evening, however, we had in our large drawing-room a literary treat which I shall not soon forget. Daniel Dougherty-one of she most brilliant members of the Philadelphia Bar-and as genial a man as I ever met, recited us several dramatic pieces, including a very powerful ballad of the Irish Rebellion by Richard Larol Shiel.
The audience was profoundly attentive, and I observed, even among grey-haired men, several who were moved to tears, as they might well be, for the reciter's pathos and eloquence were thrilling. His dramatic power was wonderful; and did I not know his eminence in his profession, I might say that a superb actor had been spoiled in the lawyer; but it is only fair to suppose that he could excel in either position. Speaking of actors-Edwin Forrest, who spent a week at our hotel, also gave us some recitations. I was not fortunate enough to hear him, having through sheer fatigue done an unwonted thing-retired for the night at half-past nine-but if one might judge from the most boisterous applause and the general satisfaction expressed, the next morning, I should say he was at least as entertaining as Mr. Dougherty. I was again reminded of the latter last night in a conversation with George Boker, par excellence the poet of Philadelphia. We were joining in regrets that Mr. Dougherty's absorption in the engagements of the political campaign prevented his participation in the entertainment we were then enjoying-the festival in honor of William Cullen Bryant's 70th Birthday, given by the members of the Century Club in this city.
As might easily be imagined, this was an event of great interest. Not only were the best representatives of our own most cultivated society present, but Boston, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Albany, and other towns, contributed some of their most distinguished citizens to honor the anniversary and enliven the evening.
I have appended a copy of the programme which was followed on the occasion:-
ORDER
OF THE
BRYANT FESTIVAL,
AT THE
ROOMS OF "THE CENTURY,"
Nov. 5, 1864.
[Mr. Bryant was 70 years old on the 3d of November, but the celebration was appointed for the 5th, that being the regular monthly meeting of the club.-Not by your correspondent.]
1. Address to Mr. Bryant by the President of the Century.
2. Response of Mr. Bryant.
3. A chant for his 70th birthday. By Bayard Taylor. Music by Louis Lang.
4. Responses and recitals of Poems, by the guests of the Century.
5. Presentation to Mr. Bryant of a portfolio, to contain finished sketches by more than forty artists, members of the Century.
6. Letters from absent friends, and further responses by guests.
7. Intermission for conversation and refreshments.
8. Addresses by guests and members of the Century.
This programme was carried out to the letter, and seemed to give great satisfaction. We were fortunate enough to arrive in time for the opening of the exercises, and pushed our way through a crowd as bejeweled and perfumed, as beautiful and artistic as one ever sees in the most aristocratic of our salons, to the great drawing-room of the club house, where the centre of attraction was standing on the platform, listening with quiet dignity to the address of the President, Mr. Bancroft. Around the bard, in all directions upon the walls, hung handsome decorations in natural flowers, drapery and gilding-including several quotations from Mr. Bryant's poetry surrounded by wreaths, and a harp hung with garlands bearing the letters W. C. B. For these as well as the other artistic adornments of the Anniversary, we had to thank Messrs. John H. Gomlie and Louis Lang, together with other artists and men of culture in the Club, who had assisted the Committee on Art and Literature.
Though a great historian, Mr. Bancroft is not an eloquent or agreeable speaker. His evident love of the object of his eulogy, and his admiration for him, redeemed the congratulatory address from the charge of dullness; still we were agreeably relieved by the graceful response of Mr. Bryant. This was delivered with as much vigor of voice and manner, with as much humor and geniality as if he had been thirty years younger.
In fact, despite Mr. Bryant's silver hairs, it is difficult to think of him as an old man, which, by the way, said in as many different forms as the English language or human ingenuity make possible, was the substance of Mr. Bancroft's speech. He exhausted his vocabulary in his use of adjectives, and at the close of every eulogistic period the audience responded with bursts of applause. He constantly assured Mr. Bryant that though this was praise- "great praise," it was not flattery, in acknowledgment of which the latter bowed with a modesty, and replied with a coolness, which to me, seemed positively wonderful. With charming ease and raillery, he facetiously warded off all the compliments which had been thrust at him, and skillfully drifted into a beautiful acknowledgment of the American genius which either present or absent on this occasion had been connected with his own career, referring particularly to those who joined in the festival by presence or letter. He spoke of his early friends, the Poets Dana, Fitz Greene Halleck and Pierpont; then of Longfellow, Lowell and Whittier, detained at home but sending regrets; then of Emerson and Holmes and Street, who were present, and finally of our younger poets, Bayard Taylor, Stoddard, Willis, Boker, Stedman, Aldrich, and that brilliant artist bard, Buchanan Read.
The chant, with words by Taylor and music by Lang, was now sung by three little Trinity choristers in pages' dress and plumed turbans. The voices of these boys were remarkable for resonance and purity. Their execution of the sweet and appropriate, but somewhat difficult music was very good. They sang with a harp accompaniment, in a little gallery or "chamber on the wall" projecting above the door of the saloon, and attracted much attention by the singularity both of their position and their costume.
Mr. Emerson was next called upon for a speech. He began in his usual conversational, deliberate and almost hesitating manner, but his thoughts soon flowed into the smoothest channels of speech and he made an address as beautiful as it was characteristic. In fact, if 1 had heard no one but himself, and seen no one else, I should have felt repaid for the trouble of preparing to attend the festival. Among other exquisitely graceful and appropriate figures or similes used by him was this, which I give nearly in his own words. Addressing Mr. Bryant, he said:
"You, sir, are regarded by this brilliant audience as the modestest of men. The American people would generally be astonished to hear you called a braggart. Yet you are the most arrogant of men- the king of egotists. Like that wicked Phidias, who carved his own name so deep on the shield of his Athene that it was found impossible to efface it without destroying the statue, you have engraved your name over the rocks and the valleys, and the forest portals and the granite walls of our whole American scenery, so that your personal associations tyrannize over use very where, and hold us in willing vassalage."
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was next, if I may use such a common-place expression, "called upon the stand." She looks the very embodiment of my ideas of a Pythoness. I am sure she would have adorned the tripod if she had been born in that station of life. She has just the pathetic and well-measured voice for oracular manifestations; and while reading one of her own poems, as on this specific occasion, looks remarkably inspired; She was received with much applause; and was followed by Mr. Boker and Dr. Holmes, whose characteristic and charming verses were so much the poetic feature of the evening that I should deeply regret not having time to get you copies of them now, were they not shortly to be printed in a pamphlet memorial, with all the other contributions to the occasion.
By this time the guests were very glad to adjourn to the large supper saloon and sitting-room, thrown open into each other, down stairs. Here the choicest
<c05>
edibles were spread in appetizing array-one extremity of the hall being occupied by a table containing brimming Knickerbocker bowls of century punch, (Father Prout would have given his oldest breviary for the recipe.) claret punch and lemonade, flanked by all the trickeries of the French cake- baker. These constituted a permanent base of supplies for anybody who chose to help himself or a lady.
At the opposite end of the hall, a table ran entirely across, loaded with the delicacies for which the century cuisine is so famous-oysters, raw, scolloped and stewed; lobster and chicken salad, boned turkeys, Perigord pies; a variety of ices, creams, jellies and pastry; sandwiches, coffee and chocolate.
In some instances, these fascinating delicacies invited us to our doom no less than to their own. I know that J suffered, myself; for a dress fabricated "for this occasion only," as they say of the star combinations, came out of the hungry crowd a perfect bill of fare. The chicken salad, as if it wished to avenge the shades of all the fowls sacrificed on Mr. Bryant's altar, made me the vicarious sufferer of enough dyspeptic remorse to have atoned for all the wrongs of the hen-roost since the present salad's respected progenitress clucked her way out of the Ark. In spite of my having yielded to it, to my minding the century salad is so delicious that were I a lobster or a chicken, I should look forward to this as my apotheosis, and after ascertaining that I was intended for the Century, should interpose no resistance when taken out of the lobster-pot or coop.
There are so many delightful things about the Club that I don't wonder gentlemen like to pass evenings there. The dining-room was pleasant, even after most of the guests had either retired or re-ascended to the saloon, where telling speeches were delivered by Drs. Osgood and Bellows, and Mr. Evarts, and Stoddard, Street and Buchanan Read had been invited to deliver poems. Stoddard's contribution was read by Taylor. Street read his own; but owing to a miscalculation of time, Mr. Read concluded himself compelled to reserve his poem until it should be published in the Memorial-a decision deeply regretted by all who were present, and expecting to hear him. The poems that were read were graceful tributes, and received sincere applause.
Those of us who had felt too weary to return up stairs, and had been satisfied with the attractions of the supper room, moved like myself and Mr. L- into a good sized ante-chamber at the left of the entrance hall, brilliantly lighted, hung as full as the walls could hold with pictures by our first artists belonging to the Club, and enlivened by groups of appreciative spectators.
Le Clear, one of our strongest portrait painters, exhibited a head, modelled with his characteristic vigor. There was another head-a charming ideal of Stone's-that of a beautiful girl, with dreamy blue eyes and golden-brown hair. The flesh tints of the picture, always managed with the tenderest feeling by this artist, were unusually delicate and real. In the warm, palpitating light thrown from overhead, the lips seemed almost to glow and the shapely chest to undulate with the breath of a fresh young life. Hennessey, who has lately perfected some lovely pictures taken from studies made while he was one of our party last summer at Long Branch, exhibited a perfect gem of genri art. Everything about it was beautiful-the pose of the lovely girl's figure just coming from a walk across the autumn-tinted fields; a wreath of bright frost-turned leaves swinging carelessly from her down-dropped listless hand; the clouds above-the earth beneath. But that portion of the picture which held me spell-bound was a pure stretch of amber sky, so exquisitely delicate and significant, that it irradiated the entire view with both tender light and pensive sentiment. I had previously seen it in the Artist's own studio, where it showed to still better advantage by the sunlight which came through a quaint Gothic window, and fell across an ivy clambering from a pot carved with the legend,
"Je meurs ou jem' attache,"
to the top of the sash, whence it drooped in a graceful maze of tendrils. Kensett, Gifford, Haseltine, Whittredge, Lang, C. P. Cranch, Cropsey, and a number of our other prominent artists were also well represented on the Century walls upon this occasion. The monthly meeting nights of the Century are always honored by such a display on the part of artists, the Century being the first public to which the members show their first accomplished work of art. As nearly all our eminent painters and sculptors are centurions, you can imagine how I envy my gentlemen friends in the club their monopoly of aesthetic "first sensations."
From the pictures we went back to the rooms where we had taken supper-enjoyed a pleasant talk with that most genial of conservationists, the autocrat of an earlier repast-and for half an hour before going home, mingled in the crowd and listened to the gentlemen who were unrestrainedly talking to each other, while they supped untrammeled with the care of ladies' dresses, or provision for their plates.
During this period, I became convinced of a fact which I have long held in privacy, but will now confide to you.
The dear men who laugh at women's fondness for praise, demand just as much flattery as we do, and like it full as well, only they take it in a different way. They have a business-like manner both of giving and receiving it. They do the thing by wholesale-we women by retail. It is well understood among them that if A says a good thing of B, the latter must respond in a similar tone, thus: "I need hardly say that, in referring to the most brilliant ornament of the profession, I mean the Hon. B who now stands before you," etc.
B-"It is needless to observe that I experience unaffected pleasure in receiving commendation from one so well qualified as the Hon. A to understand excellence by the study of his own career," etc.
Men do not fish for compliments, as women do- or if they fish, are not, like us, content with catching minnows. Nothing short of a Leviathan satisfies them. With innocent affectation of simplicity, a lady in the cloak-room says to her bosom-friend:
"Angelica, dear, do tell me, is my waterfall properly pinned on? Your hair looks perfectly lovely! That bandeau of pearls is superb-just the thing for your complexion. Do tell me, am I a fright this evening?" Whereupon Angelica assures Seraphina that she never saw her look more charming, repeats some pretty compliments she has heard paid her friend, and winds up with "Did you hear anybody say anything about me?"
Thus they go on, sweetly bespreading each other until their gloves are buttoned, their fans unfurled, and they stand bathed in sunny smiles, ready for their respective escorts. Men take their praise in larger doses. They contrive elaborate public dinners for the purpose of getting puffed in toasts and speeches. They secure whole columns of eulogium in the daily papers; they attend scientific and business meetings to intoxicate themselves with an atmosphere of compliment. At all manner of festive and political gatherings they load each other with an amount of flattery which would quite break down the slender shoulders of a woman. They gorge themselves with encomium like boa-constrictors with rabbits, and thus being able to subsist for protracted periods without a fresh supply, present a specious appearance of superiority to us women, who take our praise regularly and steadily, but in the most delicate of morsels. The capacity of men for being praised is enormous; their deglutition elastic to a marvel; their digestion calm as conscious greatness: yet, dear souls!-they think all the vanity lies with us!
Now in view of the fact that Mr. Bryant is seventy years old, I should say, after a long and careful mathematical calculation, that he received on his festival night enough praise to last him the entire remaining term of his natural life, even if he never went to sleep again, but sat up all the year round to think about it. The other poets present being younger, and in a few eases more vigorous, received enough, perhaps, to last them until-the next time.
The ladies, to whom Mr. Bryant addressed some of his most graceful compliments, comparing them to flowers and other pretty things, hoping they might drink from the fountains of eternal youth, or failing to get that, (which may possibly happen through an oversight of the Croton Board,) that they might always have their faces irradiated by the beauty of that same kindness of heart which had induced them to pay him the honor of their presence-these ladies, I was about to remark, got enough praise to last them-I don't wish to exaggerate, so I will say-down stairs and into the cloak room.
All classes of guests agreed that they had passed, under the hospitality of the Century Club, one of the most agreeable and memorable evenings of their lives.
 R. O. L.
<c06>
GREAT RAILROAD DIASTER.
We have to record the most extensive and fated casualty ever known in this country. Yesterday morning, at an early hour, a very large train left Orange, N, J., en route for the White House, Washington, D. C. under the charge of chief engineer, George B. McClellan. It was expected to make the trip through in twelve hour. The train was very heavily laden with merchandise shipped by a New York Jew house, August Belmont, agent. All the copperheads in the country were passengers, besides a few innocent people who had been deluded into taking an excursion trip by the offer of deadhead tickets. Horatio Seymour, of New York, was the conductor, assisted by Franklin Pierce, C. L. Vallandigham and Joel Parker. Ben, Wood was appointed to hold all the money received for fares, and wore a hatband marked conspicuously, 4-11-44.
For convenience and comfort, the passengers were classified in the cars; the fogies under the charge, of Robert C. Winthrop and Millard Fillmore, the short boys under John Van Buren and Capt. Rynders, the mountebanks and minstrels led by Jack Rogers and Marble, editor of the World, and a few clergymen marshaled by the very Rev. C. Chauney Burr and H. J. Van Dyke. There were several cars that were intended to be attached to the train that did not make the connection-one from Canada with George N. Saunders conductor, and a roomy one from New York, filled with Gov. Seymour's "friends," were both detained by the unwarrantable interference of a man named Benjamin F. Butler, who came to New York last week to stop a spell. The cars were gorgeously decorated with such elegant mottoes as the following; "Butter has riz," "Abe Lincoln is a gorilla," "Little Mike's the by, be Jabers," "Niggers for slaves, Irishmen for our masters." "We are coming, brother Jeff." "Let us change our base." "Here's your spaniels for you, Massa Davis."
They moved out of the Orange depot guilt to the tune of Dixie, though the engineer hesitated when the final moment of departure came, about stepping on the platform, and was at last only got on board by a little experiment of Fernando Wood, who pulled him into the train backwards by his coat tail. Engineer McClellan was dressed in the full rig of a Major General, for which his Uncle Sam paid. He was very nervous, and remarked that he should prefer a gunboat to a ride on such a locomotive. The engine was a new one, built at Chicago last August, but on a plan designed by Benedict Arnold and subsequently improved by Aaaron Bnrr and John C. Calhoun. It was built to the order of Jeff Davis, and bore the engaging name of "Cessation," which was adopted as a slight change from the ordinal designation "Secession."
It occasioned a good deal of remark that hardly any soldiers took passage on the train. There were some men named Grant, Sneridan, Sherman, Hooker and Dix around, who very ungenerously expressed doubts as to the safety of the track and the ability of the engineer, and it is supposed this prejudiced the "blue coat boys." Besides, the conductor of the train refused to have an American flag on the engine, and the soldiers have a stubborn feeling of prejudice on that subject. Notwith-standing these slight drawbacks the train moved off with the good wishes and cheers of all the rebel soldiers in Lee's army, all the British aristoerats, and the pirate Semmes and his friends. From all that can be learned from the incoherent talk of the few survivors of the sad catastrophe, it appears that there was trouble from the very start.
The engineer and his fireman Pendleton quarreled, all the trip, about the method of firing up; and the conductors and the fare taker were constantly giving contradictory orders to the brakemen, and nervous conservative old gentlemen pulled frantically at the bell-rope, giving engineer McClellan no end of trouble. Just how the accident happened, no one can tell now, but certain it is that before the train got half way through, there was a shocking smash-up. The locomotive, exploded, the cars were all piled up in fragments, the track was torn up, and such a multitude of passengers fatally injured that it is doubtful if their names can ever be ascertained. Some assert that an old Illinois joker, familiarly called old Abe, caused the disaster by putting a rail on the track; others that the fireman Pendleton let too much water out of the peace tank upon the fire in McClellan's boiler; others that Vallandigham ran the train off the track by dropping an "O. A. K." stick of timber under the wheels; still others that the engineer was frightened by suddenly discovering "a nigger in his wood-pile" on the tender, and overturned the locomotive by attempting to change his base too suddenly. Whatever be the cause, there is no doubt of the complete wreck of the whole train, and the fate of the excursionists. There are but slight fragments of the more distinguished persons that are recognizable. Ben. Wood is missing altogether, except his 4-11-44 badge. Fernando was recognized by a copy of the statute of limitations in his trousers pocket; Horatio Seymour and Yallandigham were found locked fast in each other's arms and crushed under the weight of certain "dry goods boxes" that contained bogus soldiers' votes; Governor Parker was badly bruised, and lost his eye sight, so that he "can't see it" any more; Pendleton was pitched headlong into a nasty ditch filled with secession mud, which choked him; and as for the engineer, he was blown so much higher than Gilderoy's kite, was so minutely pulverized, that there is no ocular proof that any such man ever existed. The funeral of these excursionists will very soon be attended in Richmond, Va., by Jeff. Davis and all his cabinet, and it is currently reported that U. S. Grant may attend, not, however, in the character of a mourner. There will be no more trains run on this road, as the company being made bankrupt by this calamity will immediately wind up its affairs. The Union line, however, is in good running order.-Jersey City Times.

A RAFT IN MID-OCEAN.
Correspondence of the N. Y. Evening Post.
H. B. M. STEAMER SWORDFISH,
Inside Sandy Hook, Nov. 12.
This vessel cast anchor here two hours since, a passage of twenty-two days from the Cape of Good Hope. On Friday morning, 10th inst., latitude 35 degrees North longitude, 66 degrees West, the lookout in the foretop descried a strange looking object on the lee bow, which, on meaning, proved to be a raft with a number of people on it.
So singular a circumstance threw the ship into great excitement. The Captain ordered a boat launched immediately, supposing the people to have escaped from a foundered vessel, and of course desiring to be picked up. By this time we were within hailing distance, and the steamer was nearly stationary. A jury-mast was rigged on the raft, and they ran up a flag and cheered lustily. Our Captain never swears in English, but is addicted to a sort of Persian oath. "By the great oz," he cried, "what does this mean?"
There were about twenty-five men on the raft, and they were in very jolly humor. Seeing the boat lowered, one of the party shouted, "Send us some whiskey. We don't want to be picked up." The Captain couldn't stand that. "Where are you going, and where are you from?" he shouted "None of your business; send us some whiskey, and we'll give you a despatch to take into port." The raft was now close under the lee of the ship, and a rope was thrown out to it, which they held on to while a barrel of whiskey was slung off. As soon as they got it safe, they let go the rope, to which they had tied their despatch. On opening it there appeared a list of passengers, which the clerk read aloud. The first name on it was James Guthreis "By thunder," cried the Captain, "that's the Chicago platform!" A cheer and a yell went up from the raft as the sail was spread again to the wind. The clerk went on reading the names. The list was as follows: James Guthrie, Geo. H. Pendletco, Horatio Seymour, Fernando Wood, C. L. Vallandigham, S. S. Cox and nineteen others.
When last seen, the raft was making southeast, apparently on a bee-line for the coast of Africa.
Respectfully, BULLJACK.
<illegible>
LL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should <illegible> for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. tDec. 1.
