THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILIPS.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN AS INTERPERATED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 6.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1624.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:-
Can any good citizen or true patriot read, without a tingling in the toe of his boot, the atrocious and treasonable expressions of Mr. Wendell Phillips at the Anti-Slavery Society meeting of Friday, as reported in your paper of Saturday? It will not do to represent this torch of incendiarism as a person of no influence or consideration, for the contrary is notoriously the fact. In may humble opinion, there is not at this moment in Massachusetts a person of more wide influence over the general heart and mind than he As a public lecturer, he is by far the most popular man in the State. Wherever he goes, he is welcomed with the greatest enthusiasm; the largest halls are always filled to their utmost capacity, whenever he is announced to speak; and so soon as he appears on the platform, he is greeted with shoutings, clappings of hands, wavings of handkerchiefs, and all the ecstasy of intense admiration, sublimed almost to idolatry. He boasted on Friday that he had received between one and two hundred invitations to lecture this winter, and I have no doubt it is true. Everybody knows who and what Mr. Phillips is; and he is not invited to lecture, except by those who in the main sympathize with him. And this is the man who, on Friday last, said that he should deplore a victory by our noble McClellan, because the sore would be salved over; and who thanked Beauregard for marshalling his army in front of Washington, because it conferred upon Congress the constitutional right to abolish slavery! This heartless and cold-blooded traitor exults over the convulsions and agony of his bleeding country because of the wild hope that, in the destruction of government and civil society, the negro may somehow be emancipated. He beards and defies the Government, and, in so doing, so far as I can see, he is backed by the public sentiment of Massachusetts. How long is this state of opinion and feeling to last and what is to be the end of it? I put these questions to the people of Massachusetts, and especially to the Republican party, by and through whose most mistaken and unfortunate countenance and encouragement the Anti-Slavery party in Massachusetts has grown to its present formidable dimensions; for they are formidable, and he cannot or will not discern the truth who refuses to admit it.
And now let me go upon another tack for a few moments. You have lately been spending some of your editorial powder and shot upon the Boston Journal,-a game, let me remark, hardly worth the charge.
Observe, in the Journal of Saturday, the account of the proceeding of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and see how meagre and imperfect it is, and how especially it omits everything which has the sting of treason and the venom of fanaticism. It is an emasculated report, with the vice taken out, For instance, Mr. Phillips, in the forenoon, made a long speech filled with mischievous matter; but the report of the Journal does not even mention his name Mr. Garrison also reported a string of very objectionable resolutions, but the report of the Journal does not say that Mr. Garrison reported any resolutions at all or even name him as taking any part in the proceedings. In the report of the afternoon's proceedings a brief sketch of Mr. Phillips's speech is given but everything acrid and treasonable is omitted; and especially the outrageous statements about McClellan and Beauregard which I have above and the whole is toned down till it becomes a string of sounding but not glittering generalities. Now in the advertisement of the Boston Journal, it is said that their journal is "an indispensable necessity to every man who would keep himself informed of the important events which are daily transpiring." It strikes me that the action of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, just now, is a very "important event," and that the sixty or eighty thousand readers of the Journal ought to be kept informed of what is said and done at these meetings.
All this might pass by as one of the accidental oversights and omissions incident to the conduct of a daily paper in large circulation, were it not that it is in unison with what I have long observed as a usage in Republican newspapers. The proceedings abolitionists are not, in general, fully reported in these newspapers, but they are "doctored" for the Republican palate. The support of the voting abolitionists is essential to the existence of the Republican party, and nothing must be done to impair the harmonious relations existing between them. Especially is this important just now, when so many of the moderate Republicans, appalled by the consequences present and impending of the mad counsels which they have lent themselves, are on the anxious seats of the penitent, and beginning to show signs of a change of heart. Could these men read a full report of the knot of traitors composing the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, their conversion might be completed. In order to prevent this, the conductors of the Journals deceive their readers by a systematic suppression of the truth; and in the same paper they set the dirty little turnspit they keep in Washington a barking at the Courier, the truth and the whole truth might be found members of the Republican party as were candid and unprejudiced enough to seek for it. And such is the course of the paper which proclaims itself in large capitals to be "the best general newspaper a New England." SUFFOLK.
HOW TO RETRIEVE THE BULL RUN DEFEAT IMMEDIATELY. Let Garrison, Greeley, Brownson, Wendell Phillips, Beecher and Cheever be arrested, the government, sent to Fort Lafayette and boarded there for six months. This action will at once produce a moral effect upon the Union sentiment of the South, which would make Jeff. Davis's confederacy cave in. almost without a battle, in less than two weeks. These abolitionists are traitors to the Constitution, and deserve to be imprisoned. Let it be done at once, and the Bull Run defeat, which they caused, will be amply and immediately retrieved.-N. Y. Herald.
COX-COMICAL. In the U. S. House of Representatives, last week. Mr. Cox, of Ohio, came to the defence of Gen. McClellan against a criticism upon the latter of lack of military energy by Mr. Gurley.
Mr. Cox referred to the animus of these attacks on Gen. McClellan-it was because be would not make this war an abolition war. He would not now discuss this aspect of our debates. Happily, he could announce that no confiscating or emancipating bills can pass this Congress. Let the Abolitionists howl on-let Phillips declare that a victory by McClellan would only cover up the old slavery sore, and there fore was to be deplored. He hoped that these attacks on our commander, our Constitution, and the Government, which were discouraging to the army and the tax-payer, would cease, for the common object-the restoration of the Union.
<c02>
The Liberator.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
THURSDAY EVENING, Jan. 23.
SPEECH OF WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
MR. PRESIDENT,-It is too late, I think, for me to make even a brief speech; and I feel extremely reluctant to intrude upon your time, or your bodily endurance, as a mere matter of courtesy or kindness. It seems to me that after the speech to which we have listened, [referring to the speech of J. S. ROCK, Esq.] nothing need be added to deepen the impression of this audience in the right direction, in favor of the cause of the oppressed. Had I not better sit down? (Loud cries of "Go on," "Go on.") I will, then, say a few words.(Great applause.)
One such speech as that which has just been made is a complete and triumphant answer to all the folly and nonsense that we have heard for so many years in regard to the intellect and the possibilities of the black man (applause);-whether he is an inferior being or not-whether he is capable of civilization- whether, if free, he can take care of himself-like other men. Is there a man in this house who would not be proud to be able to make such a speech, whatever his complexion? I, for one, hesitate about going on after its delivery (applause)-a speech so well reasoned, and so thoroughly conclusive in all its positions.
Mr. President, our friend, Mr. Alger, this morning, began the opening speech of our Convention by giving us a word of cheer, and congratulating us on the auspicious signs of the times. Those who came after him were generally inclined to take a somewhat sombre view of the state of public affairs; on the whole, so sombre that I feel disposed to try if I cannot at least strike a balance, and endeavor to show that, even if we may not be thoroughly exultant in spirit, we have no reason to be cast down, and that our cause is steadily onward, and making as rapid progress as we have any just reason to hope. Why, how is it as respects this meeting? A year ago, and our anniversary was furiously assailed by a howling mob. Where are the mobocrats now? Some of them have gone to fight those in whose behalf they howled upon our track last year. At any rate, they are not here; or, if they are, they are sitting decently, "clothed, and in their right mind." This, surely, is encouraging. So, too, when a considerable portion of them are seen in martial array going down Broadway, New York, on their way to Virginia, singing-
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave-
His soul is marching on,"
I think our cause is also "marching on." (Loud applause.) It is for us to be hopeful and confident. An Apostle of old said,-though the days were perilous in which he spoke, and though the trials through which he and his associates were passing were terrible-" We are always confident"; and so the Abolitionists may say. 
What have we to rejoice over? Why, I say, the war! "What! this fratricidal war? What! this civil war? What! this treasonable dismemberment of the Union?" Yes, thank God for it all!-for it indicates the waning power of slavery, and the irresistible growth of freedom, and that the day of Northern submission is past. (Applause.) It is better that we should be so virtuous that the vicious cannot live with us, than to be so vile that they can endure and relish our company. No matter what may be said of the Government-how it timidly holds back-how it lacks courage, energy and faith-how it refuses to strike the blow which alone will settle the rebellion. No matter what may be said of President Lincoln or Gen. McClellan, by way of criticism-and a great deal can be justly said to their condemnation-one cheering fact overrides all these considerations, making them as dust in the balance, and that is, that our free North is utterly unendurable to the slaveholding South (applause); that we have at last so far advanced in our love of liberty and sympathy for the oppressed, as a people, that it is not possible any longer for the "traffickers in slaves and souls of men" to walk in union with us, I call that a very cheering fact. (Applause.) Yes, the Union is divided; but better division, than that we should be under the lash of Southern overseers! Better civil war, if it must come, than for us to crouch in the dust, and allow ourselves to be driven to the wall by a miserable and merciless slave oligarchy! (Applause.) This! war has come because of the increasing love of liberty here at the North; and although, as a people, we do not yet come up, to the high standard of duty in striking directly at the slave system for its extirpation as the root and source of all our woe-nevertheless, the sentiment of the North is deepening daily in the right direction. I hold that it is not wise for us to be too microscopic in endeavoring to find disagreeable and annoying things, still less to assume that everything is waxing worse and worse, and that there is little or no hope. No; broaden your views; take a more philosophical grasp of the great question; and see that, criticise and condemn as you may and should, in certain directions, the fountains of the great deep are broken up-see that this is fundamentally a struggle between all the elements of freedom on the one hand, and all the elements of despotism on the other, with whatever of alloy in the mixture. (Applause.)
I repeat, the war furnishes ground for high encouragement. "Why," some may exclaim, "we thought you were a peace man!" Yes, verily, I am, and none the less so because of these declarations. Would the cause of peace be the gainer by the substitution of the power of the rebel traitors over the nation for the supremacy of the democratic idea? Would the cause of peace be promoted by the North basely yielding up all her rights, and allowing her free institutions to be overthrown? Certainly not. Then, as a peace man, I rejoice that the issue is at last made up, and that the struggle is going on, because I see in it the sign of ultimate redemption. Besides, whether we would have it so or not, it comes inevitably, because of our great national transgression, which is slavery. Slavery is anti-democratic, anti-Christian, anti-human, demoniacal. It does not believe that the image of God in man is sacred. It does not regard a human being as having any natural,
<c03>
essential and inalienable rights. It believes in might, in power, in dominion, in desecrating the image of God for gain, and turning it into a mere article of merchandise. For this we are to be severely scourged, and we deserve it. But, with this retribution, God mingles mercy, and He now permits us to do great things in His name by putting away our iniquity, and letting the oppressed go free. What! no progress made in this long-protracted Anti-Slavery struggle! Our prospects dark and almost hopeless! All our labors and sacrifices in vain! Why, see what a marvellous change has taken place within the last twelve months! One year ago, and the President of the United States had no more power, constitutionally, to touch the fetter of a single slave in any of the slave States, than he had to be the sovereign of Great Britain. Now, by the rebellion, and in consequence of it, he is constitutionally clothed with full power to abolish slavery forever. (Loud applause.) Is not this something to rejoice over, and may we not give thanks for this altered state of things? Yes, President Lincoln to-night, if he will but do it, may constitutionally emancipate every slave, and thereby give a death-blow to the rebellion in our country. The power is in his hands, the right is indisputable, the necessity imperative, and holding back covers him with guilt, covers the Government with blood, and makes it a more criminal omission of duty than that which characterized the conduct of Pharaoh in the days of old. (Applause.)
Something has been said about the charge made against the Abolitionists, that they have been the cause of this war. Well, everything depends upon the meaning of language. If it is meant that the Abolitionists have so far educated the conscience of the North in respect to the claims of bleeding humanity and the rights of the oppressed, that they have brought it up to this point at last, no longer to consent to the further extension of slavery, and that, in consequence of this determination, the South has revolted and withdrawn from the Union, it is all true. But that, surely, is not discreditable to the Abolitionists! They have been doing a good work. True to freedom, true to all free institutions, they have indeed so changed the Northern mind and purpose as to inspire the Spirit of Liberty to stand up, and say to the Slave Power-"Thus for <illegible> thou come, but me further, and have shall thy proud waves be stayed." This is progress. (Applause.)
I do not know that some margin of allowance may not be made even for the Administration. I would rather be over magnanimous than wanting in justice. Supposing Mr. Lincoln could answer to-night, and we should say to him-"Sir, with the power in your hands, slavery being the cause of the rebellion beyond all controversy, why don't you put the trump of jubilee to your lips, and proclaim universal freedom?" possibly he might answer-"Gentlemen, I understand this matter quite as well as you do. I do not know that I differ in opinion from you; but will you insure me the support of a united North if I do as you bid me? Are all parties and all sects at the North so convinced and so united on this point, that they will stand by the Government? If so, give me the evidence of it, and I will strike the blow. (Applause.) But, gentlemen, looking over the entire North, and seeing in all your towns and cities papers representing a considerable, if not a formidable portion of the people, menacing and bullying the Government in case it dare to liberate the slaves, even as a matter of self preservation, I do not feel that the hour has yet come that will render it safe for the Government to take that step." I am willing to believe that something of this feeling weighs in the mind of the President and the Cabinet, and that there is some ground for hesitancy, as a mere matter of political expediency. My reply, however, to the President would be-"Sir, the power is in your hands as President of the United States, and Commander-in-chief of the army and navy. Do your duty; give to the slaves their liberty by proclamation, as far as that can give it; and if the North shall betray you, and prefer the success of the rebellion to the preservation of the Union, let the dread responsibility be hers, but stand with God and Freedom on your side, come what may!" (Loud applause.) But men high in office are not apt to be led by such lofty moral considerations; and, therefore, we should not judge the present incumbents too harshly. Doubtless, they want to be assured of the Northern heart, feeling, cooperation, approval. Can these be safely relied upon when the decisive blow shall be struck? That is the question; and it is a very serious question. Does not the Boston Post-the Democratic (!) Boston Post-menace the Government if it shall dare to go for Democratic freedom to the slaves? Do not the Boston Courier, the New York Journal of Commerce, the New York Express, and scores of other satanic papers, tell the Government that the moment the proclamation of freedom shall go forth, the army will be demoralized, disorganized, disbanded-that the officers will throw up their commissions-and even intimate that Congress will be driven out of the Capital?
That is the state of things with us. Nevertheless, I think the Administration is unnecessarily timid, and not undeserving of rebuke. I think that this bellowing, bullying, treasonable party at the North has, after all, but very little left, either in point of numbers or power: the fangs of the viper are drawn, though the venomous feeling remains. Still, it has its effect, and produces a damaging, if not paralyzing impression at Washington.
One word in regard to England. There is an unusual sympathy for the Southern slaveholders manifested on the other side of the Atlantic. Scoffers say, "Look at anti-slavery England-Exeter-Hall, antislavery England! There are your English Abolitionists! See how they can hypocritically talk about the wrongfulness of slavery, and yet go readily over, for selfish considerations, to the side of the Southern Confederacy, whose corner-stone is slavery! See how they have blustered and threatened war, in case those rebel ambassadors, Mason and Slidell, were not instantly liberated! They are a people hypocritical to the last degree. They are meanly jealous of as, and hate us, and want to see our free institutions overthrown." Mr. President, I think much of this, on analysis, will be found to be gross misapprehension. In the first place, the British Government is not, and never has been, an anti-slavery government, in the sense of being imbued with the spirit of humanity
<c04>
towards those in bondage. It was opposed to the abolition of slavery in the West India Islands, and used its power to prevent that beneficent measure. It was the moral and religious sentiment of the people, making it finally unsafe for the Government any longer to withhold the boon, that gave freedom to the slaves of the West Indies. But recollect that nearly a whole generation has passed away since that struggle took place. Those who are now living have had no trial of their principles; there has been no anti-slavery agitation, no powerful West India interest to test them, whether they would dare to be on the side of the bondman or not. All these things have passed away, and left only a mere sentiment opposed to slavery, because human nature everywhere (self-interest being removed) rises up to pronounce sentence against that crime. My friend, Mr. Whiting, read an extract from an article in the London Herald; and I was pleased to hear him state that the Herald is the organ of the aristocracy. That is true, and that explains the matter. Slavery, in the guise of Confederate independence, in this country, now appeals for sympathy and aid to the aristocracy and toryism of the Old World, because it sees that its hour of overthrow is rapidly approaching. While it held the reins of power throughout the land, and dictated and controlled the national policy, from the time of George Washington down to that of Abraham Lincoln, there was no special anxiety on the part of English toryism in regard to American democracy thus governed. Now, for the first time, slavery goes to the wall, the Slave Power is ousted from the Government, and there is a cry of distress raised, and the toryism of England naturally comes to the rescue. But England is not all aristocracy, all toryism. I will put JOHN BRIGHT, and RICHARD COBDEN, and GEORGE THOMPSON, and the stalwart veteran T. PIERRONET THOMPSON into one scale, and the London Times, and London Herald, and all the other venal presses of England, into the other, and I know which will kick the beam.(Applause.) The intelligent, moral and democratic portion of England naturally and necessarily gravitate to the side of the North. They understand, that whatever may be the short-comings and inconsistencies of our Government,-and they are many and grievous,-and notwithstanding it is entangled more or less with slavery,-after all this is essentially a struggle between democratic freedom on the one hand, and slaveholding despotism on the other, and they give their sympathy to the side of freedom.(Applause.)
I say this, and I feel bound to say this, in defence of that portion-and a very considerable portion, too-of the English people. I have been among them a great deal, have travelled extensively, have met them socially and publicly, and I never saw, in all my travels, anything of jealousy toward this country, any manifestation of hatred or rivalry. I never heard any expressions of ill-will, any hope expressed that our free institutions would be overthrown. No; but I have again and again heard, in public assemblies, the most eulogistic commendations of America, wherein she deserved to be commended, and always the house came down with thunders of applause, showing a very generous and sympathizing spirit. I believe there is incomparably more hatred of England in America than there is hatred of America in England.(Applause.)
Well, we must endeavor to secure the cooperation of the friends of freedom throughout the world. There is but one way to do that, and that is for us, as a people and as a Government, to decree the immediate abolition of slavery. (Applause.) O that the Government had more faith and more courage! O that the army had more of inspiration! O that General McClellan were prepared to go forth as a deliverer! It is sad that it is so. But we must remember the actual state of the country. A year ago, and Anti-Slavery meetings were mobbed from Boston to Buffalo. The people have been everywhere surcharged with a proslavery spirit. We are now going through a fiery trial, that we may be educated to see that we cannot possibly have any liberty left to ourselves, while we are in complicity with those who enslave their fellowmen. We are to be taught by much suffering. Suppose the army should be defeated-very likely it will; suppose our naval operations shall be baffled-very likely they may be; suppose that many an additional vial of retribution shall be poured out upon us-we deserve it all. And yet, it will not be a hopeless day. No; when the justice of God is abroad-when retribution for long-continued iniquity is poured out-it is not a hopeless day. Through sore trials and merited chastisement, we may be brought back to God; through much tribulation, we may enter into the kingdom; and so, putting away our sins against freedom and humanity, we may finally secure victory, and the benediction of Heaven.
I have great faith in the future. We shall not go back to "the beggarly elements" of old. The "covenant with death" is annulled; the "agreement with hell" no longer stands. Under the new order of things, new relations exist, and the Government is invested with extraordinary powers. There is freedom of speech; we may now assemble together as we will to denounce slavery, and the people are eager to hear and ready to applaud. Multitudes of petitions are pouring into Congress from all parts of the great North, asking that body at once to abolish slavery under the war power. (Applause.) George B. Cheever speaks in the city of Washington, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, before four thousand people, in favor of immediate emancipation, and is applauded to the echo. (Applause.) Horace Greeley, Dr. Brownson, and Mr. Dickinson go there on the same mission, to enforce the same duty upon the Government, and they are all applauded. It is stated that our eloquent friend and coadjutor, Wendell Phillips, is also to go there, and bear his testimony. (Prolonged applause.) Is not that cheering? Why, you have just cheered it! (Laughter.) True, as I recently said at New York, there is a little drawback to all this; for while this indicates great progress, I feel not a little humiliated when I remember that it is possible for these brave men thus to speak, only because there are 150,000 Northern bayonets in and around Washington! An American citizen has a right to stand in the Capital, in. Charleston, in New Orleans, under the flag and the Constitution, and denounce oppression in every form, without any liability to suffering or personal danger. But it takes 150,000 Northern bayonets, to-day, to render it possible for Dr. Cheever, and 
<c05>
Dr. Brownson, and Horace Greeley to speak at Washington in favor of impartially carrying out the Declaration of Independence in our country! On the other hand, it is something to hare 150,000 bayonets there! (Applause.) And so I extract consolation even from deep humiliation.
Let us criticise where we can, and condemn where we must. The conduct of the Government towards the contrabands is painfully equivocal, but I do not think it is all brutal. Let me generously make a slight plea for the Government. The order sent by Secretary Cameron to Fortress Monroe was-" Don't send any of the contrabands back to slavery, whether belonging to loyal or disloyal masters!" (Applause.) Gen. Sherman received the same instructions at Port Royal. So far good. But it is said-" The Government has not proclaimed them free. "Not exactly. The Government is "prudent," "judicious," you know. That is to say, it means, undoubtedly, never to send the fugitives back-never! (Applause.) They are to have their freedom; they are to have the wages, ultimately, which they are now earning; but the Government avoids saying this in so many words at present, as a measure of policy. Not only will they never be again enslaved, but events are tending to universal emancipation. (Applause.) The Government-well, as it is sometimes said, in a certain contingency, both "mother and child are doing as well as could be expected," so I am charitably inclined to think that, on the whole, the Government is doing "as well as could be expected"! (Laughter and applause.)
Of course, I am now taking rather a rose-colored view of things, because it seems to me, on the whole, that the strain to-day has been a little too despondent, and I want you to feel encouraged and hopeful in respect to the future, and the certain triumph of the Anti-Slavery cause. (Applause.)
The closing session of the anniversary was held at Music Hall, Friday evening, Jan. 24, the President, EDMUND QUINCY, Esq., in the chair. An admission fee of ten cents was charged, which no doubt lessened, in some degree, the number of the audience; but, nevertheless, from a thousand to fifteen hundred persons were in attendance, whose close attention and frequent applause certified to their hearty sympathy with the Society and its objects.
The meeting was called to order at half-past 7o'clock, when Mr. GARRISON read the resolutions previously offered by the Business Committee, and printed in the Liberator of last week.
Rev. A. A. MINER, of Boston, was then introduced, who was heartily greeted by the audience, and proceeded to speak as follows:-
SPEECH OF REV. A. A. MINER.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:- In most cheerfully accepting the invitation which brings me here to-night, I am not insensible to the fact, that I am little entitled to be heard by you on the great question which is agitating our country, and in its most momentous crisis. I am not unaware, as you cannot be unaware, that there are gentlemen before you-to some of whom you will listen to-night- who are competent to discuss this question, from having made it a life-study, as I cannot hope to do. I come here, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your command, that I may testify to you, in the few words I may have the honor to submit, the sympathy which I feel, and which, you will permit me to say, I have long felt, in the cause of Liberty, which cause seems to me to have gathered up all its interests in a manner to indicate the duty of the nation, Administration and people, so clearly, that he who runs may read. (Applause.)
When I remember the array of names which have of late been connected with this cause-some of whom have been connected with this very meeting-many of whom have been hitherto elsewhere, and some of them perhaps nowhere, it does not seem altogether improper that I should be now here; since it only requires another collocation of the letters of nowhere to make now here; and, clearly, now here it the place. (Laughter and applause.)
The great principles, ladies and gentlemen, which have been entertained by most, if not all of you, in times past, in one form or another, with all the variety of views and discrimination which has prevailed on this platform on each returning anniversary of this Association, and which have also found expression elsewhere-those principles, ever the same, have taken form, as to their application, by the understanding and judgment of those who held them, and the peculiar phases of the hour. Now, it is so plain to day, that we owe our chief woes as a nation to the institution of slavery, that no man, no sane man, really controverts it; and so plain that we have, in this regard, (whatever differences of opinion may have prevailed among us,) come to think and feel very much alike as to the general operation of those principles; and yet, unhappily, to-day, as in times past, we are divided on a variety of questions as to their application-as to time and place, how and when, where and by whom, now or by and by-so divided in this regard, (which is really a very small ground of difference,) that we are hesitating, as a people, the Government is hesitating, the President manifestly is hesitating. For I summon you, my friends, to consider what has transpired. I ask you to recollect the proclamation of Gen. Fremont in Missouri, (applause,) and I ask you to remember how several days went by, and there was no qualification of that proclamation from Washington; there was no note of alarm raised by the President, nor any member of the Cabinet; and remember, also, that when word came from Kentucky to the President to rectify what was claimed to be wrong in that proclamation, he did not see any thing wrong in it. In his letter to Gen. Fremont, dated Sept. 11, he says-" Assuming that you upon the ground could better judge of the necessities of your position than I could at this distance, on seeing your proclamation of Aug. 30th, I perceived no general objection to it." But "the particular clause in relation to the confiscation of property and the liberation of slaves," he says, "appeared to be objectionable in its non-conformity to the act of Congress," and as Gen. Fremont desired him to take the responsibility, he directs that it shall be modified so and so.
I do not say this as a reproach to the President. I believe his heart was right. I believe, if he had been hero enough to say-"Abraham Lincoln will
<c06>
die here in this Thermopylae of liberty before he will modify that proclamation, let Kentucky say what she will!" (applause,) the entire North would have wheeled into line, and we should have been a united people. Even the Boston Post, in its eagerness to be on the right side, declared, in that brief interim, "This is a blow in the right direction; this is a blow at the heart of the enemy"; but now that same Boston Post says that the men at the North who desire freedom are joining hands with the secessionists, and are thus traitors, and ought to find a home in Fort Warren. That act of the Administration, friends, was an awful blow for our country. I cannot agree with the very able gentleman who has said, in one of your meetings, I think, that he believed that the responsibility of this act rests with the Government-meaning the people. We have seen a great exigency arise. In such an hour, the Administration should lead. When the Administration, organized for the government of a great people, scattered abroad from ocean to ocean, finds itself in an emergency, it cannot run to every town and village throughout the country, and feel the pulse of every sick man, and consider what treatment the nation requires. It must judge from the symptoms it beholds, and must give the dose, trusting in Providence that it will effect a cure. Hesitations and delays are not remedies, and there is great reason to fear that in our case they will kill the patient. Prompt, effective treatment is what is wanted. For a disorder like this, a thorough emetic is the thing. Treat it as you would a child in spasms; let it throw off the disturbing substance; and if our nation is in spasms from slavery, throw it off! (Applause.)
But, my friends, we have settled one point during the last year which has hitherto been in controversy. These gentlemen have believed, in years gone by, that there was no hope for our nation, except by the overthrow of the Government. I do not think they calculated on just the course of things that has arisen. Certainly, there have been changes about us somewhat remarkable; and we all need to trim the sails of our craft anew. Why should we not? The wind has changed. There is a stiff breeze; it promises to rise to a gale; it may prove a hurricane. God Almighty will let loose the winds of heaven upon us, more and more fierce, until they drive us toward the port He means. It is the hand of Jehovah, the Lord God of Hosts, that is buffeting us in these our times:- the hand of Jehovah, the Lord God of Hosts, who judgeth in the earth, who verily is a God of righteousness, who does not permit a nation to slumber in wrong. It is the retribution of his hand now being visited upon us; and how fitly, how discriminatingly! Our merchants, who have helped plunge us into this abyss, are now meeting privateers on every sea. Rich by slow degrees and much moral abasement,-poor at a blow! So God deals with the children of men. But I return to my point. One thing has been settled. It has been proved that we could not solve the anti-slavery problem without war; a peaceful solution was impossible. For, observe, we could not stay the rising power of oppression, except by joining issue with it at some point. Now, if there were possible any issue that could turn the tide, could solve the problem and save the country without war, the least possible barrier to slavery was the one that would do it. That least possible barrier was raised. It was not that the slaves in gener. I should be emancipated; it was not that the border Slave States should become free; it was not that slavery in the District of Columbia should be abolished; it was simply this, that there should be no more slave territory-the least that could be said, and say anything-the least issue that could be joined, and join any issue with the Slave Power. That was the issue at the last election. It was a very narrow one, but it had this merit in it-it involved the question of approval or condemnation of slavery; and involving that, it involved the question of approval or condemnation of the slaveholder; and it is the sting of that condemnation that has gone home to the heart of the tyrant, and has made this quaking. It is the sting of that condemnation, born of the universal sense of the wickedness and guilt of slaveholding tyranny over all the world, expressed through the North, the East, and the Northwest, that has waked the lion in his lair, and the result is war. The South does not pretend that the President intended any onslaught on slavery where it was ensconeed. There was no leading man of the Southern Confederacy who pretended to believe that the President intended to violate any of the so-called and generally acknowledged claims of slavery under the Constitution. That was not their fear. Their fear was, (besides the condemnation to which I have referred.) that if a wedge was entered here, it would be driven home by the hand of God himself. Perhaps they saw only this remote fact, that, shut out from the Territories, slavery must at length destroy itself, by the multiplication of the slaves; for it is a law of population, that the laboring classes multiply more rapidly than the aristocratic classes. They may have seen that, shut up to their own territory, to the Slave States, the blacks would increase until, as now in South Carolina and some other States, they outnumbered the whites, with a consequent depreciation in the value of the slaves, and finally a necessity for the removal of the whites, or the setting free of the blacks. Besides this, they may have reflected that when the South should nave become accustomed to the rule of a Republican Administration, there would be no longer any opportunity to work on the fears and apprehensions of the people, and no purchase, therefore, for the leverage by which to raise a rebellion and overthrow the Government, and secure a division. Thus we are safe in concluding, that the issue joined was the least possible, and the result being war, it was impossible to reach a peaceful solution.
Well, my friends, I nave no doubt the South has been greatly disappointed, and certainly we have. We thought slavery a bad thing; we thought slaveholders guilty of great inconsiderateness; we thought that the tyrannies sometimes committed under the system were such as should make intelligent, cultured humanity everywhere shudder; but we did not believe that they could go so far as to lay a suicidal hand upon the very institutions which sheltered them. For myself, I am free to confess, that while I believed a great deal in the diabolism of slavery, I did not believe it was so thoroughly diabolical as it has proved itself. And I think they of the South have also been mistaken; for they thought, undoubtedly, that they could
22
THE LIBERATOR.
FEBRUARY
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
secede, and by raising that pleasant philosophical cry, 'Don't coerce us!" while they were stealing our arms, rifling our arsenals and our mints, and rallying their hosts in martial array, ready for the fight-I have no doubt, I say, that they thought their cry of Don't coerce us!" "Don't plunge us into a fratricidal war, the most inhuman of all wars! " would prevail, and that the <illegible> spirit of the North, and the prejudices of party which they had nourished for seventy years, would secure their admission into the family of nations, and that it would be a bloodless victory for them. I am glad that they have been disappointed in this. (Applause.) I should have been ashamed of the country of my birth if we could have, permitted the rebellion to go on, and allowed the southern Confederacy to be admitted into the family of Nations without a blow for the preservation of the integrity of our Government, and for the institutions bequeathed us by our fathers. But, fortunately, their impatience could not brook delay, and Sumter fell. Of what use is it to stop and ask who is responsible for that? One says it is the slaveholders; another says, it is the Anti-Slavery men; another says, it is the merchants of the North. Let me say, the responsibility rests on all of them together; but if yon wish to know what the responsibility of each is in this matter, then see what each has done in the work. It is undoubtedly true, that if it had not been for the garrison in Fort Sumter, the Southerners would not have attacked it. It is undoubtedly true, that the garrison would not have been there, in that menacing attitude, if Mr. Buchanan had seen any way to get them out without a too plain confession of his purpose. For General Scott warned him of other forts that were undefended, told him that the rebellion which was on the point of outbreak was one that would require an armed force to suppress it, and asked leave to garrison those undefended forts, but was not permitted.. It is undoubtedly true, that there would have been no vote to shut up slavery in its own territory, if there had been no party to stir up the elements of liberty in this country. It is undoubtedly true, that if there had been no institution of slavery in our midst, there would have been no such party; and it is undoubtedly true, that if there had not been those in former times who brought slaves from Africa to our shores, there would have own no such institution here. So we might go hack, step by step, as far as we pleased, and all the threads of the web are essential to the web itself; but if you would know the responsibility of each or all, see what each has done. He who moves the public heart, and fans the expiring flame of liberty, is not guilty of wrong in attacking the rising waves of oppression. It is not his fault if there be an outbreak. My friends, when one of your police arrests a criminal in your streets, and his accomplices assault the policeman, do you say the policeman is responsible for the assault To be sure, there would have been no assault if he had not arrested the criminal; and I have no doubt, if we would turn round and join hands with the Southern Confederacy, and seek just what they seek, there would be no war. So, if we would join hands with the liquor shops of Boston, and the Mayor and Aldermen, and Chief of Police, who seek the protection of liquor selling by law, there would he perfect peace between the friends of Temperance, the liquor sellers, and the Mayor and Aldermen. Let the whole community join hands with iniquity, and there will be no trouble, no outbreak. Look out for it in Heaven, when in such case there is none on earth! (Applause.)
 Well, having gotten to this stage in the great struggle, there are not a few persons, in whose souls there is a genuine love of liberty, and an honest, though not very vigorous, perhaps, or clear -sighted, hatred of slavery and oppression, who think, after all, we cannot do anything; that it is all very well to talk about liberty, but nothing can be done—it is not time to do anything .Just so on the subject of Temperance. The Chief of Police tells us that the police have no control over the liquor traffic, and the friends of Temperance cannot do anything. They have the prohibitory statute, it is true, but it cannot be executed—nothing can be done. These friends of freedom to whom I have alluded may even admit, with you and me, that our constitutional obligations to tolerate slavery are at an end, if there ever were any: they may admit, with you and me, that a rebel, whether an individual or a State, is an outlaw, and that there may be a right on the part of the Government, as there unquestionably is, to take the life of a rebel, when he can be caught; or, (since the greater includes the less if you -hang him at a rope's end, you may take his goods and chattels from him;—there are not a few people who believe all that, and yet think that, at present, nothing can be done; at present, somehow, after all, there are constitutional difficulties; that, whatever may be said of the rebels, there are troubles hanging about the question which make it an impracticable question. For example: they say your armies cannot move forward without damaging the loyal man as well as the rebel, and the government is under obligation to protect the loyal citizen. Well, my friends, if there is any one present who is troubled just at that point, let, us stop and think of it a moment. If I am wrong, you will know enough of the question to keep right, and to set me right. Is the Government really in trouble on; that point? Consider. This rebellion is either by States or by individuals. I believe that the theory of the Administration is, that it is a rebellion of individuals—that the States cannot rebel. It was well said by Mr. Brownson, that whatever we may say of what cannot be done, the States hare rebelled; and is not that true? Is it not true that several of the States that elect Senators to Congress by their legislatures have, by the same authority, rebelled? Is it not true, that in some other States, the question has been submitted to a vote of the people, and the people, voting as they would vote for members of the House of Representatives, have voted to secede and go out of the Union? Thus, in both forms in which it is, possible for a State to act, by its constituted authorities, and by its people, in their individual capacity as citizens of the State, they have voted that their State should secede. Now, what matters it that a State cannot legally secede? That is true; and hence the administration is right in maintaining that they are not legally out of the Union. Their only way out of the Union is by Revolution, and obtaining a recognition among the family of nations; not by legal steps, but by revolutionary steps. The rebellion ripens into revolution. That is the philosophy of that method. Therefore it is a rebellion of States. Now, look at the duty of the Government to a loyal man in a rebellious State. As a citizen of that rebellious State, he must take his chance with the rest. What business has the government to paralyze its own arm by going about to find one in a hundred professedly loyal men, and thus put it out of its power to suppress the rebellion itself?
Or, take the other horn of the dilemma—that it is a rebellion of individuals. Individuals having seceded, they have incurred all the responsibilities that secession or rebellion can bring. They have exposed themselves, as traitors, to the punishment and contribution of the Government, if the Government can lay its hands upon them. That is what the Government is trying to do. Suppose it succeeds, and that a loyal citizen is made to suffer—are we not suffering? How does it happen that a loyal citizen south of Mason and Dixon's line is of more value than a loyal citizen north of that line? (Applause.) How does it happen that the Government stands by and sees the Southern Confederacy confiscate the property of Northern men, and the debts owed to Northern men, and their ships and merchandise on the high seas, and yet does not feel itself constitutionally authorized to make reprisals on the property of the members of the Southern Confederacy? Is this game of war undertaken after this fashion—all the right of confiscation on one side? Have they a " divine right" to pick us and shoot us, and have we no human right, even, of shooting and picking in return? Is it a battle in which one army is, by the very Constitution, called upon to stand still, and the other army to do all the fighting? Is it not the whole game of war, with all its strategy, just as broad on one side as it is on the other?
<c02>
Again, my friends, it is impossible, in the nature of the case, whether the rebellion be that of States or of individuals,-it is impossible that the rebellion shall be crashed without interfering with private interests, and the private interests, to some extent, of loyal men at the South-if any such there are. It is this work of interfering with private interests that must be undertaken in earnest by the Government itself. It is this work, which, if carried on, weakens the rebellion. It is this which alone can take from it the vigor with winch it is now sustained. But while many good friends feel that this can be done, so far as respects theory and principle, they yet feel that, after all, as regards even the disloyal men of the South, the traitors themselves, we must touch the question of slavery very tenderly. Yes, my friends, there are in Boston multitudes of opulent, supposed to be cultured, and socially influential people, who have no scruple at all about hanging a traitor, if they can catch him, but have a grave scruple about taking from him his slaves, or setting the slaves free, even after they have hung the matter. While they have no scruple about taking the general property of a rebel, which has no direct relation to the institution of slavery,-his lands, his stocks, his bales of cotton-they have a grave scruple whether they may take from him his negro. It seems to me like that rule of compound proportion, which I used to study in my boyhood, where it was said, that more required less, and less required more.(Laughter.)The less claim a man has, the more care you must take about meddling with it; and the more un­founded his claim, the less you are at liberty to touch it.(Applause.)
But a word further touching this matter of constitutional obligations to loyal men. In the first place, it is matter of grave, of very grave doubt, even after the late battle in Kentucky, whether there are absolutely any loyal men at the South. I do not believe there are many men in the slaveholding States who are unconditionally and unqualifiedly Union men; and I hold to-day, (I do not say that they mean that,) that the most dangerous men in our country are those so called Union men in the border States, who stand there, and by " divine right" claim to dictate to the Administration what it may and what it may not do. (Applause.)That is the power that is paralyzing the arm of the Government to-day. That is the power that is holding us as a nation at bay. That is the barrier, the adamantine wall, that we have not been able to scale, which rises up between us and those homes of oppression to which we must go. Why, the same game was played, at another stage, by Virginia. While the subject of Compromise wag yet undetermined, Virginia was terribly loyal. She was the " mother of statesmen," and she was intensely jealous of her ancient glories. She had no intention of proving herself in any wise unworthy of her proud fame. And yet she Mood there, between the power of the Administration and the disloyal States in rebellion, just as long as she could keep the mask on her face. When she met, face to face, in the Peace Congress, men able to answer her positions, and charge home her guilt upon her, when the mask was torn off, she swung over, by natural gravitation, into the arms of Secession itself; and if that fearful hour for the nation (fearful in every point of view) shall come, when the Southern Confederacy shall have attained independence, and shall be received into the family of nations, as certainly as water runs down hill, every border State will be with it, unless we hold them steadily and continuously by force of arms.
Now, that slavery is the bone of this contention from beginning to end, there is at present little doubt. That it has, by its influence as a great interest, operating through the market-places of the world on the one hand, and through the channels of political power on the other, stolen away the public heart, blinded the public eye, deafened the public ear, and deadened the soul of our humanity, there can be little if any doubt. Why, I ask you to go back a few months to the closing hours at the late Administration, and hear that old man in the chair, saying, in a special message to Congress, that he must once more warn them that they are in the midst of a revolution; and yet he did not lift a finger to check it. He saw it coming on, knew what it meant, and warned Congress they were in the midst of it. Why did he do so? He wanted to urge upon Congress the adoption of the extremist measures of Compromise that were demanded; and when your own Senator, Charles Summer, of immortal renown, (loud applause.) bore a message from the Governor of the good old Commonwealth of Massachusetts, assuring the President of the hearty support of this State in any emergency that might arise, and asked, " What further can we do?" that old granny said, " Go and pass the Compromises"! - showing clearly enough what he meant. But I must ask pardon of all the respectable grandmothers in the world.(Laughter.) If there is any one whom I would especially honor, it is that noble specimen of womanhood, a legitimate grandmother, to whom we give the cosiest place by our firesides, and the warmest place in our hearts. But an illegitimate granny, made up of a drivelling old man, and a bachelor at that, (great merriment,) whose pericardium is so dry that his heart's pulsations creak like an old ricketty wagon-such a granny is worthy of no man's respect. The normal grandmother is a creature of Heaven; the abnormal granny is a thing of the other place. (Laughter and applause.)
The resolutions which have been laid before you to­night have, in unmistakable terms and with a rare and solid logic, (rare anywhere else but on this platform,) told us that the institution of slavery must be abolished, as the only possible solution of the question before us. First of all, it must be abolished to save us from the ruin and festering corruptions which its toleration would bring. When it is said that it must of necessity be abolished, I do not know what the opinion of other gentlemen may be, but it seems to me, that we may have to confess this much, that it is just barely possible that, for the purpose of utterly overthrowing us-if it is true that we have sinned beyond the possibility of mercy-God may permit the Northern armies to triumph, and permit some sort of adjustment to be made, by which slavery, in the main, may be left where it is. Then it will only remain to reassert its rights and renew its influence; to struggle again for dominion and power; and we may then fairly expect a return to that state of feeling which uttered itself, I believe, in the city of Boston last year, and which will manifest itself in like manner again, crying out-" Let press and pulpit and platform be dumb! Have we not had one war on the subject of slavery, and will you plunge us into another? "-forgetful of the everlasting truth, that you cannot take a great wrong into the bosom of society, without God's stirring the heart of humanity against it. It is that which gives rise to struggle and outbreak, and the state of war, when it comes. If a compromise is effected, that struggle will come again; the strife will be renewed, in Congress and out; and we shall have further years, no man knows how many, of bitterness and contention, with the shameful presage of ultimate overthrow. There is but one pathway out of this difficulty, and that is by 
eradicating the evil which is its cause. I do not see how our armies can make any considerable progress, without carrying freedom with them. When, as at port Royal and Beaufort, slaveholders run away from their slaves-and there is no law to bring back fugitive masters (laughter and applause)-I do not see how the Government is to keep those slaves in their chains. I do not see how they can be otherwise than free. But still further, I believe that they are now really and legally free, without any action of the Government. In repudiating the Constitution, the Southern Confederacy has repudiated their entire legal status; and all rights rooting in the Constitution originally have, by their throwing off the Constitution, been destroyed. They may reestablish and reenact slave laws, but the Government knows nothing of these; the Constitution knows nothing of these; and when they shall be subjugated and brought back again under the dominion of the Government, there will be no law by which the condition of slavery can be retained I believe the Government should stand on
<c03>
that ground, and if it should, there would be no need, even of a proclamation. A bold stand in this regard would waken the enthusiasm of the North, and enlist the sympathies of the world on our side.
Allow me a word further, my friends, and I will leave this place to those whom you will be better pleased to hear; and that is, a word in regard to the responsibility of the North in this hour. I do not know what proposition may come before us, but I believe that God. in his mysterious Providence, if you please, has placed the Northern people, not less than the Southern, in a certain relation to slavery. The slaveholder tells us that God has providentially subjected the slave to the missionary influences of that institution. Let it be so. Perhaps He means its missionary influence shall reach over to us, and waken I all our hearts. We do not, indeed, bear the primary responsibility, but we have a secondary responsibility by no means insignificant, or to be lightly considered. Our material interests have strengthened the bonds that have knit them to us, and we have to share the responsibility in a degree that it would be exceedingly difficult for the moralist to define. Can we throw it off at our pleasure? Can we say to the South-"Go stand by yourselves, with your slavery and all"? Have we any right to say that, when those four millions of colored men-men as certainly as we-are looking out to us through the darkness of the almost dawning morning, and praying to Heaven that our hearts may be touched, and that we may use the power that has been put into our hands to bring them to liberty, of which they despair in any other way? Are we at liberty to refasten the chain upon the limbs of the slaves, or permit the Government to rivet those chains and perpetuate the bondage which is now legally at an end? I do not believe that the North can fail on this point. I do not think it is fully awake, but I have faith that it will be awakened. I believe in a logic of events that will lead us to see the possible discomfiture that may come upon the field, the possible failure of our expeditions by sea; and the public heart will be touched. We shall see our duty, and shall not fail to perform it. The righteous judgment of Heaven will pursue us until we awake to right, and turn into the pathway of duty.
I have hope chiefly from one circumstance. Some are pleased to rejoice at the success of our arms. I have seen no success that seems to me a certain indication of the end. I do not, however, despair, so far as the war is concerned. But my chief hope is in the decision of the nation at the last election-and I know that has been the immediate occasion of the war. That was a step in the right direction. If it was not a step for selfish ends, if it was not influenced by pecuniary considerations,-the desire to obtain productive lands, and the privilege of occupying those lands, -if the elements of justice and freedom entered into that decision, (and I venture to hope they did,) it was a step in the right direction, indicating penitence on the part of the nation; and God does not cut off a nation or a man in the hour of penitence. If an individual goes to Him, and seeks forgiveness for the wrong he has done, he finds forgiveness. That is the best ground of hope I know of. I wish it were broader, I wish it were more assured; but let us believe, let us pray; and let us remember that there are exigencies in life when the very best style of praying is fighting with vigor and perseverance. (Loud applause.)
THE PRESIDENT. The inhabitants of Boston, ladies and gentlemen, are generally considered by the rest of the country to have an exceedingly good opinion of themselves, and to be unduly proud (we think no more proud than we ought to be) of their historical associations,-Bunker Hill, Faneuil Hall, Lexington, and Concord. One of Jefferson Davis's Secretaries promised the Confederate forces that their march should not cease until they had planted the standard of the Confederate States upon Faneuil Hall. Why did he say that? Because Faneuil Hall was a representative phrase which stood for Liberty-the Liberty which was rocked into life in that "Old Cradle," and which has been ever since connected with it. Well, Faneuil Hall was the Temple of Liberty, if you please, but it was a temple that had what they call in England a "chapel of ease" to it; and that "chapel of ease" was the Old South Church. (Applause.) For the Revolution was not nursed entirely in Faneuil Hall, by any means. Perhaps almost as many and as influential public meetings which produced the Revolution were held in the Old South Church as in Faneuil Hall; and those venerable walls have reechoed with the words of Sam Adams, and John Adams, and Warren, and Hancock, and all the men who were the means of rousing the public heart at that time, to the Revolution. And as a punishment, as you will remember, it was made a riding school by the British when they had possession of the city. The Old South Church was synonymous with the love of liberty in those times. Well, since our new revolution begun, we must confess we have not associated the Old South Church with the anti-slavery movement for the last thirty years. But, in the course of those revenges which, as Shakespeare says, "the whirligig of time" is ever bringing about, it so happens that the Old South Church swings round alongside of the Anti-Slavery platform (loud applause); and I have the pleasure and the honor of introducing to you, this evening, the Rev. Mr. Manning, its junior minister. (Prolonged applause.)
SPEECH OF REV. J. M. MANNING.
After saying that he did not feel any embarrassment in coming there that evening, Mr. Manning proceeded: 
He was glad to receive the invitation, and to accept it, although there was not even the prospect of a mob to fill the house, and make the meeting lively. (Laughter.) This was a free platform; which cannot be said of some platforms. The gentlemen who spoke there were not responsible for anything but their own remarks. Most societies, when inviting speakers, sounded them a little, and were very careful to get men who thought pretty much as they did, and who would make an impression on the community favorable to the objects they had in view. But this Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on the contrary, welcomes to its platform none more gladly, he believed, than its opponents (applause); it is only sorry that they do not come a little oftener. (Renewed applause.)
It was this fact in regard to the Society-the perfectly free discussion which characterized all its meetings-which seemed to him to be a reason why the organization should be continued. They had heard it said in some quarters lately, that the Anti-Slavery Society had better disband; its work was done; the nation was converted to its principles. He feared that they were not yet all converted to the great idea of impartial liberty, of free thought and free speech; and until that day arrived, he trusted the Society would hold together, and not disband. (Applause.) Let it remain here in Massachusetts as a witness to the fact that there is such a thing as free speech (renewed applause); that there was a Society which dared to speak what it believed, and invited others to come upon its platform, and speak what they believed; and a Society, too, which, in the exercise of this generosity, had not become bankrupt; for he saw by the Treasurer's Report in the paper that evening, that there were eleven dollars and a few cents in the treasury (laughter)-which was more cents than some treasuries can boast of, whose societies had not been quite so generous in extending free speech to all with whom they have to do.
But there was another reason why that Society should keep together. He loved it for the educating power which it had exerted among the people. In former years, when he was a student, and used to come to Boston during the vacations, he dropped in occasionally at the old Melodeon, where the Society used to hold its Conventions; and he must confess that his impressions were not always the most favorable. There would be some brother in one corner, who would make a speech which did not seem to have much to do with the resolutions which had just been read on the platform; and then, perhaps, some woman would "speak in meeting," from the gallery, and de-
<c04>
nounce even the Anti-Slavery Society itself as inconsistent, and not up to the mark; and there would be a running fire, which generally "hung fire" a good deal, in various parts of the room, until, finally, some gentleman sitting on the stage, evidently "born to rule the storm," would bring back the wandering debate, and close up by giving the clergy some very hard hits. (Laughter.) He never thought that was fair! (Renewed merriment.) He did not think, to this day, it was fair. He did not mean to say that the clergy were censured more than they deserved to be; but he thought that when a man attempts to do the censuring, he should be impartial, and should go clear through, and thrash the whole crowd, if he thrashes one. (Applause.) Now, he was a clergyman, and he was proud of the fact. He would not be in any other profession; and he honored the members of his profession as he did those of no other. Some of them differed with him, even on this question; but he would stand by them as far as he honestly and conscientiously could. He thought they would compare favorably with the members of the legal and medical professions, in the interest they had taken in the Anti-Slavery cause.
He then saw only from the outside; he did not get for inside. As he got further in, and discovered the central moving force, his respect for the men who controlled this Society began to deepen at once. He saw there was a high moral and intellectual tone at the centre of all its proceedings. He saw the outside and its surroundings. The current was swift and strong, and there was considerable floodwood drifting on the surface; but the stream was not to blame for that. We all know, that when there is a fire, the light, dry material is borne to it by the currents of wind which always blow towards the fire; and wherever there is light, there is a class in the community who will be attracted by that light.
It was a peculiarity of the Anti-Slavery Society that whatever came within the circle of its influence, it put life into. If the thing it influenced was wrong, it only made it more energetically wrong than it was before; and if the thing was right, it developed the rightness, and made the man stronger and more energetic in his righteousness.
Now, he had thought, sometimes, that it would be an excellent thing if all the good men and women in the world could be selected out of those whose natures are noble, whose instincts are refined, who love the beautiful, the good, and the true. If they could be collected, and subjected to the influence of some live force, such as that Society had supplied in its meetings, it had seemed to him that it would be a very good plan. On the other hand, he had thought that it would be an excellent plan if all the crooked sticks, if all the base natures, could be gathered to gather into a company, and subjected to some soporific, conservative power, putting them to sleep, making a kind of Barnum's "Happy Family" of them, keeping them from making a disturbance in the community. (Laughter.) But the fact is, we get awfully mixed up in this world. All kinds come in contact with the educating force of this Society, and therefore some crooked sticks get to be frightfully crooked; and all kinds come in contact with the soporific, conservative power, which puts men to sleep, and hence the world is cheated out of a great deal of useful material.
The Anti-Slavery Society had associated women with men in its labors, and this struck him as a peculiarity, almost, in its proceedings, and something that had tended to the better development of all who had labored in it. He did not <illegible> that man could ever be developed normally, in full and fair proportion, without the influence of woman. (Applause.) They were made to go together, all through life, everywhere, and should go together, the connection not stopping with the domestic and social relation, It was this which had seemed to him, as he had watched the course of the Society, to have contributed much to that nobleness and refinement of nature which he had seen in some of the most active members of the Society. He had attributed this to their contact with woman's intellect and woman's noble heart-
"For a great heart is hers, that loves to go in
To the prison, the slave-hut, the alley of sin,
And to bring into each, or find there some line
Of the never completely out-trampled Divine."
For this reason, he would have the Anti-Slavery Society continue. He did not mean to say that there was nothing better than that Society. He believed that the Cochituate water-works were better than pumps; but he would not have all the pumps filled up, because there might be some stoppage in the pipes, or the lake might give out, and then we should be glad if the pumps were in working order. Out in Western New York, at Lockport, they have machinery for lifting the canal boats up a declivity; and so it was with this Society. By means of mobs, and other such appliances, it had lifted many noble souls from the common level up to the highest summits of manhood. (Applause.) He knew that, at the present time, it is raining patriotism, and there is a deluge all over the earth, and the weakest and timidest of us are borne forward in the ark of freedom, high above the reach of slavery and the Slave Power. And he prayed God that the flood might not abate until all the mountains and high hills of compromise were covered; and if the dove of peace went out from the ark, let her return each time with the olive branch in her mouth, until the bow of Emancipation glitters in the heavens. (Loud applause.) Then we will go forth, and sacrifice as Noah did. That is what he hoped for; but he might be mistaken. It might not come; and then, if we were reduced to the old level, again, and must fight with the populace who are by certain interested politicians sent to disturb the meetings for free speech, -if we must have those disturbances again, then let us retain the old system of locks, that we may grow up to be men and women somehow. (Applause.)
"I like this Society," (continued Mr. Manning,) "and would have it remain as it is, because I believe that it has contributed greatly to the solution of the slavery question in this country, and also of the problem before the Government at present; and that offers the true basis on which to conquer the rebellion. (Applause.) We hear a great deal, in these times, about a 'basis of operations.' Well, I do not know but I am inclined to think that the true 'basis of operations' would be the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. (Applause.) We hear a great deal about the tactics of Gen. McClellan, and of his plans for carrying on the campaign. Perhaps he might learn something from Mr. Garrison. (Loud applause.) I know, when I was a boy, we used to practise jumping. First we would jump, and then, in order to jump further, run and jump; but in order to make the longest leap, we placed a spring-board on the ground, and run and jumped from that. Well, the Government tried to put down the rebellion by developing a Union feeling in the South-that was the simple jump. Now, it is trying to put down the rebellion simply by conquering the insurgents, without regard to slavery-that is the run and jump. But I suspect it will never outleap Secession, which has beaten it thus far,-will never outleap it finally and forever, until it tries the spring-board of Emancipation. (Hearty and prolonged applause.) God grant that it may begin to practise that jump pretty soon!-for the spring-board is some what difficult to manage, and if they do not try it until they are obliged to, they may use it in so awkward and unskilful a manner, that, instead of sending them beyond their antagonist, it will only give them a summerset, and break their own necks. (Applause.)
I do not wish to criticise the Administration or the Government, for I look on the outside of the Government. I remarked, a few moments ago, that my impressions of the Anti Slavery Society were once wrong, because I had not seen the inside. I have not seen the inside of the Government. All I know of it comes through the reporters and sensation-letter writers, the disappointed contractors and ambitious politicians. But I am not yet as despondent as some of my friends. I believe that Mr. Lincoln is a sensible man; perhaps not quite as fast a man as some clergymen are, (laughter,) but a sensible man; and Mr. Sumner wrote, not a great while ago, to a friend, say-
<c05>
ing-'Courage, my friend! I know what is coming.' And when Mr. Sumner says that, I do not feel disheartened. (Applause.) That may be true, or it may be false; but I shall hope to the last minute. I do not believe that Mr. Lincoln is so much opposed to the Anti-Slavery Society after all. I am inclined to think that be feels grateful to them for some useful ideas and comments. I do not despair of seeing some of the leaders of the Anti-Slavery movement-our honored friend Mr. Phillips, for instance-in the Senate of the United States. (Loud applause.) I mean no indignity to him (great merriment); for I anticipate that the character of Congress will improve under the discipline of the war; and I do not believe that Mr. Lincoln would object to having some such representative of the free anti-slavery spirit of the North in the House of Representatives, or in the Senate. I remember that a Congressman once asked an Abolitionist why he thought so much of the negroes, and he replied that it was because he believed in giving everybody a chance, from a negro down to a Congressman. (Laughter.) Well, if we can only get some men we know of there, on the wave of this free spirit which is sweeping over the land, I am inclined to think that such remarks in regard to the intellectual and moral standing of Congress would not be made as they have been heretofore.
It seems to me, my friends, every day more and more clear, that the Government must come to something of this kind. Why, there was a rebellion in heaven, once, and how did the Governor of the universe go to work to put down that rebellien? We know what the rebels did. They came to this earth, and enslaved the new-born race which God had placed upon it. What did he do? Did he say to Michael, and the other warriors, "We will crush out this rebellion, but we will not disturb the relation between these rebels and this new race which they have enslaved"? No, the Ruler of heaven went to work just the other way. He sent a Redeemer to redeem those men who were in bondage to the powers of darkness; and when Satan saw that Redeemer coming, we read in the sacred book that he fell like lightning from heaven. Now, will the Government at Washington do as the Governor of the universe did, or will it advise its armies to crush the rebels, but spare the victims? Let them take the course which common sense, which justice dictates-for we hear a great deal about justice in these days. It has been printed in the newspapers several times, that emancipation should be decreed as an act of justice. Justice to whom? Why, when they go on to explain, it means justice to the Union, or justice to the slaveholders; it does not mean justice to the enslaved, God's own people, his poor, crushed, downtrodden ones, on whom he looks with infinite compassion. When I speak of justice, in this connection, I mean justice to those whose oppressors have been grinding them for centuries into the dust, and those whose tears God is keeping in his bottle, and will pour out in vials of wrath in future, as he now does, unless we let this people go free. Yes, let the Government do something which shall change our flag, our glorious symbol of nationality, from a sign of bondage, of a slaveholders' Union, into an emblem of liberty! (Applause.) As Mr. Phillips said, a few evenings ago, whoever looks upon that flag, black or white, let him read Emancipation written there! (Renewed applause.) Let it be lifted up in the sight of these poor ones who have been bitten by the flaming, fiery serpents of slavery,-let it be "lifted up as Moses lilted up the serpent in the wilderness," in sight of the stricken Israelites. (Applause.)
I told the Secretary that I should not make a speech, but only a few remarks this evening; and I have not. I will conclude with a story. I boarded at one of the hotels in Boston last Summer. One Sabbath, at dinner-table, a couple of gentlemen, sitting behind me, had evidently been to church this morning and were giving an account of where they had been who they had heard. One says, "Been to church this morning!" "Yes, sir." "Where?" "I have been down to the Old South." "Acquainted there?" "Yes, sir, I used to be a member there. I have not been acquainted there much of late years. I know the Doctor, but do not know the other minister." "O, they have two ministers there?" said the other gentleman. "You know the Doctor?"- (and if he were here he would enjoy the story as much as any of us.) "Yes," said the gentleman "He is some connection of Wendell Phillips? " "Yes, brother-in-law, I believe." "Rather conservative, isn't he? "" Yes, he is rather conservative on that subject." What the word that referred to you may imagine, coming in connection with the name, (Laughter.) "How is it with the other minister?" "Well, I believe he does not differ from Mr. Phillips quite so much. In fact, "says he, "I am inclined to, think they drive on the same box." The head waiter whispered something in the gentleman's ear just then, so that I did not hear what followed. (Laughter.) But it showed me where the public had located me (applause); and I felt it was too much honor to ride on the same box, and help drive the same team with Wendell Phillips. I should never attempt to drive that chariot, as Phaeton attempted once to drive Apollo's car; but with him on the box with me, I am not afraid to ride. (Applause.) I believe that my children, when they think of me and my name, in future generations-I believe that your children, when they think of you and your name in coming generations-will recall with special pleasure the John Brown meeting, (applause,) and the Anti-Slavery meetings, and every crisis where you have spoken a true word or struck a hard blow for Justice, Truth and Liberty. (Applause.)
There is a private history, my friends, of my own, in regard to this question, which there is not time for me to relate, and which I should not care to relate if there were time. I have been accused of zeal without knowledge on this slavery question, of talking of what I knew nothing about; but there is a background of personal experience-a bitter experience-from which I have always spoken on this subject, of which very few persons know. It has been to me a more practical matter, a more serious matter, than many i have understood. I have spoken with broken hearts before my eyes, families scattered and ruined;-not the families of the blacks, but of the whites;-families of those whom I loved, who are dearer to me than any others, bound to me for time and for eternity; and that which has nerved me always has been the hope that I should sometime meet these poor ones for whom I have labored, and be permitted to welcome them to a nation of freedom, and to all the blessings which I enjoy.
The Abolitionists ought to be a brave people, they ought to be a devoted people. There are eight millions of dusky hands lifted up to heaven for us continually; four million simple faces are turned tearfully toward heaven, beseeching God, day and night, to guide us. and keep us, and make us brave for justice; and the souls of the martyrs under the great altar are crying continually-'How long, O Lord! how long!'" (Loud applause.)
THE PRESIDENT. I believe it is the privilege of every author to give his own title to his composition, whether it be published by the press or by speech; therefore we will permit the reverend gentleman who has just taken his seat to call the beautiful discourse with which he has favored us tonight, "a few remarks"; only I am sure you will join with me in hoping that at our next meeting, we shall have a speech; from him! (Applause.)
MR. MAY. We have just listened to a very excellent story. In other meetings than this, a story suggests a song-why not here? and if it be a song of old John Brown. I am sure Mr. Manning will not object to it. We have had this simple song printed, and though there has been no preparation made to sing. I trust it will sing itself. I say, there has been no preparation made, but I trust you are all prepared to sing this song-those of you who sing at all. We know that many of our Northern regiments, we may say, the best of them, as they have gone down to the bat-
<c06>
tle-field have marched through our cities, and through the slaveholding States, some of them singing the "John Brown Song."
The audience then rose, and joined in singing this spirited and popular air, with much enthusiasm. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS then came forward, and was received with prolonged and vociferous cheering. A full report of his speech will be given hereafter.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1862.
PEACE WITH AMERICA.
GREAT MEETING AT BROMLEY, ENGLAND-SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
As soon as intelligence was received in England of the release of Mason and Slidell by the American Government, a public meeting of an influential character was held at the lecture-hall, Bromley by-Bow "for the purpose of giving practical expression to the pleasure which pervaded all classes of the community in consequence of the gratifying intelligence that the dreadful prospect of war with the United States has been averted." A large number of the most respectable citizens of the neighborhood attended, and amongst those on the platform were:-George Thompson, Esq., late M. P.; Harper Twelvetrees, Esq., F. W. Chesson, Esq., John Noble, Esq., of the Middle Temple; C. E. Garman, Esq., sen., M. R. C. s.; Herbert Thompson, Esq., J. A. Horner, Esq., the <illegible> E. Matthews, W. H. Bonner, P.Pocock, B. A. John Ford, Esq., Editor of the "stratford Times;" captain Reid, John Carden, Esq., Captain Thomas, <illegible>
Manne, Esq., Lord of the Manor of Bromley the Rev. Charles Armstrong, and Messrs. John Wells, Samuel Day, James Reynolds, J. J. Andrew, John Foot, William Foot, Johnson, Thomas Buffham, William Martin, James Poppleton, and other gentleman.
Mr. HERBERT THOMPSON moved that <illegible> Twelvetrees, Esq., be requested to preside. He also begged to announce that intimations had been <illegible> from the resident clergymen and dissenting <illegible> of the district, acquiescing in the object of the meeting, and regretting that its being held on a Saturday evening would prevent their attendance. (Hear hear.)
The motion having been seconded was unanimously carried, and Mr. Harper Twelvetrees took his seat is the chair amid great applause.
Speeches, admirable in spirit and eloquent in language, were then successively made by the chairman, John Noble, Esq., (of the Middle Temple.) and Rev. W. H. Bonner-at the conclusion of which, 
The CHAIRMAN said he head now the pleasure to <illegible> upon a gentleman universally known and admired for his eloquence as the champion of freedom and the advocate of peace. He was sure he had only to mention the name of George Thompson to excite their enthusiasm, (Great cheering.)
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON then came forward, and was received with the most enthusiastic applause, which having subsided, he said he had come to the meeting prepared with the following resolution, which he requested permission to submit:-
"That, in addition to recording its profound satisfaction at the happy termination of the late dispute <illegible> the Government of the United States, this meeting deems it its duty to ascribe the chief merit of its <illegible> adjustment to the moderation, justice, and high mindedness of the Cabinet of Washington, and more <illegible> to the statesmanlike ability and adhesion principle of the Hon. William H. Seward, the <illegible> of State; and would further express its <illegible> that by this wise settlement of the Trent affair, this nation has not only been saved from the horror of a war with its Transatlantic kinsmen, but from as alliance with a Confederacy based upon human slavery and the alleged inferiority of the races, and from virtually taking sides with those who hold four millions of persons (many thousands of whom are <illegible> own offspring) in the most debasing physical, more and intellectual bondage-a bondage which this meeting trusts has already received an irreparable <illegible> and will speedily be brought to a perpetual end (Cheers.)
In submitting the resolution, Mr. Thompson observed that, in common with his countrymen <illegible> his mind had been relieved of the most <illegible> apprehensions by the intelligence brought by the last mail from America. He had also experienced a feeling of exultation in the thought that those who, for <illegible> weeks, had been assiduously endeavoring to <illegible> a war between two hundred nations, had been <illegible> in their wicked attempt to make England the ally of a hand of infamous conspirators against their own Government and the liberties of the human race (Cheers.) There was to be no war with America but no thanks to that portion of the press of this country that had prostituted its influence in the cause <illegible> felons and traitors. He had read the daily diatribes of certain journals, first, with the eyes of an Englishman, and then with the eyes of an American. As an Englishman, he felt that his country had been disgraced by these venomous and brutal <illegible> and if he had been an American, and had thought that such articles were a true expression of British feeling, he should have desired the <illegible> and humiliation of such a people. (Hear, hear) No thanks, then, to the press, that we have had peace instead of war, excepting always those organs of the true principles of English patriotism which had,<illegible>spite the slanderous opposition of a host of venal contemporaries, maintained their ground, and spoken the language of courtesy and conciliation with such unflinching fidelity. (Loud cheers.) No thanks, either to the Government of this country, if it should appear that, for three or four weeks, they had been in possession of the assurance of the Cabinet of Washington that a peaceful settlement of the question was <illegible> desired. In Mr. Seward's despatch of the <illegible> November, there was a clear disavowal of the act of the United States officer-(cheers)-there was a distinct proposal to come to a friendly and amicable <illegible> of the question. Now, it was morally <illegible> that the contents of this letter had been communicated to the British Government, and that without delay. It was not conceivable that that which was obviously intended for the information of the British Cabinet would be kept back by the American Minister; yet the Ministerial organs had for four weeks subsequent to the arrival of this important document in this country continued daily to influence the passions of the people, by representing that there was a deliberate design on the part of Mr. Seward to go to war with England; and a million of money, or more had been spent in preparing for a bloody conflict with the people of the United States. If this should <illegible> to be the case, there were no words sufficiently <illegible> in which to denounce the criminality of such as act, and the Minister guilty of it would merit impeachment by the House of Commons. (Loud cheers.) If he possessed a seat in the Legislature of the country, he would not lose an hour, after the meeting of parliament, in demanding categorical information upon the whole subject, and in fixing the blame upon the official by whose guilt or neglect the country had suffered a month of unnecessary doubt and anxiety. (Hear-hear.) No thanks than, he repeated, to the Government of England. But we had, nevertheless, great reason to be thankful for having been saved from a collision with America. There would, in such a contingency, have been not only all the horrors inseparable from war, but added to them an inconceivable anguish to the minds of all who had to labor for their bread. (Hear, hear.) The reverend gentleman who preceded him had designated the Commissioners, about whom the terrible difficulty had arisen, worthless individuals. Perhaps he (Mr. Thompson) might be permitted an afford the meeting an opportunity of judging for itself how richly they deserved the title, by relating a few of their antecedents.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A VOICE-Never mind them, how about the insult? Mr. THOMPSON (pausing and looking deliberately at the interrupter.)- There has been no insult proved yet. (Loud cheers.) There can be no insult where none is intended. (Renewed cheers.) There was no insult, as was popularly supposed, in the act of firing across the bows of the Trent: and if there was a nautieal man in the room, he would know that statement to be correct. (Hear, hear) The only error committee was in taking the four persons out of the Trent, instead of not carrying her into some port, a proceeding which would have caused much more inconvenience to the vessel than what had actually been done. (Cheers.) New about these Southern commissioners. (Hear, hear and cheers.) of Mr. Slidell he should say little more than that he was a slaveholder, and had long <illegible> Of Mr. Mason he should speak <illegible> more fully. The name of Mr. Mason would go down to posterity, steeped in infamy, as the author of the execrable and internal Fugitive Slave Law-a law which spread the widest distress, the wildest dismay as well as unutterable sorrow throughout all the Free States of America. It ever a man's memory should be doomed to he heaped with curses, it would be the memory of the man who made it punishable with imprisonment and a fine of 1,000 dollars to give a cup of cold water to a panting, flying fugitive from the hell of American slavery, it was a law so exe <illegible> that it was found utterly impracticable to work it. So great a failure was it, that twelve fugitives <illegible> all that could be recovered from the Northern States. With all the eloquence of their best men, they could not get Sims out of Boston until the militia were paraded, and the Court-house surrounded with chain and not even then would his rendition have been accomplished, if it had not been for the interfer<illegible> of the friends of peace. (Hear, hear) On the 14th of march, 1854, Mason was in the senate of the United states when Edward Everett, the senator from Massachusetts, presented a memorial signed by three thousand ministers of religion in New England, so many protesting, in the name of Almighty God, against the <illegible> Bill for repeal of existing legal prohibitions of slavery in the territories of Kansas and <illegible>. This sane Mason moved "that the memorial <illegible> received," and this he said he did "without any disrespect to the cloth, which, to say the least the memorialists did not grace." Mr. Seward nobly vindicated the memorial, and did justice to those who had signed it. (Hear. hear.) Mr. Mason was the man who catechised the gallant veteran John Brown for three hours, when he lay bound, wounded and bleeding. (Shame.) It was he who moved for and ,<illegible> an inquisitorial and unconstitutional committee of the Senate to bring to its bar every man who was suspected of knowing anything of John Brown. This was the man whom the slaveholders of the south had chosen as their chief commissioner to the government of England! A fit representative he was of his <illegible> masters. (Hear. hear)
The resolution expressed satisfaction and thankfulness at their escape from the anticipated war with America, which would have involved this country in recognition of the Southern confederacy, and would have made as practically the allies of the South, diverting the North from its present plans-a result which would have been fraught with unspeakable calamities to the slave population. The international conflict now raging in the States was a war for the extinction of slavery: and if you traveled from the batteries which fortified New York to the farthest confines of Minnesota of Kansas, one feeling alone would be found upon the subject. He, however, had an idea that the honor of emancipating the slaves would not be for the North, for he had a very confident idea that, in two or three weeks, the Northern troops would be in New Orleans, the South would be surrounded, and partly by this effect the freedom of the colored race would be accomplished, not however by the direct act of the North, but by the act of their owners.
Mr. Thompson, after paying a high tribute to the noble band of abolitionists who had for so long steadfastly and earnestly upheld the banner of universal freedom, said that, for years, the North had been speaking the language of the South-not what they believed, but what they considered expedient-there fore they had not now to be instructed in the principles of abolition; and now that the South was gone from them, and they were no longer under the influence of the slave power, the North almost unanimously acknowledged anti-slavery opinions. (Hear.)
A war with America would have retarded indefinitely the abolition of slavery, and would, perhaps, have enabled the South to put in execution their cherished scheme of reopening the slave trade, without which their plans would never be complete. The Times had declared that the United States was ruled by a mob, and that if the bob clamored for war, the American Government would never be able to stand against it; but the intelligence over which they were rejoicing gave the lie to that statement. The Times had stigmatized the citizens of America as a mob. He and Mr. Matthews knew something about America, and they could say the Americans were not a mob; at any rate, if they were, and it were not for the cankerworm of slavery, the mob of this country might gain a great deal from free trade with the mob of that country. (Cheers.)
Having spoken favorably of the character of the American people generally, Mr. Thompson proceeded to make some laughable remarks upon the stock-job-lung efforts of a portion of the London press, in connection with the anticipated war. He stated that, one <illegible> morning, the Post came out with the information that the "Europa" had arrived, and brought no news, a circumstance which it declared to be unfavorable to peace. Down went the stocks in the city; so the timid sold, and the knowing ones bought. A few hours after, out comes the information that the Americans had acceded to our request-up went the stocks, timid ones bought again. the knowing ones sold, and went home to dinner with their pockets full. (Laughter and cheers.)
Mr. Thompson next referred to the enormous expense to which the Government had put the country, in anticipation of a war with America. A short time ago, we had been forced to pay for large fortifications under the fear that Napoleon was going to invade us; and the noble lord at the head of the government had pictured that potentate with his right hand extended to us in friendship. and his left upon the hilt of his sword. But we had forgotten all about Napoleon now. (Laughter and cheers.) Oh, let us be wise! Let us hope that the hour of peril is past, and the halcyon day of peace has come; and may-every honest heart endeavor to perpetuate it! (Mr. Thompson concluded his eloquent speech amid tremendous applause. )
The resolution offered by him was adopted. An extended report of the entire proceedings is contained in the <illegible> Hamlets Express a paper edited by Mr. Herbert Thompson, a son of George Thompson, Esq. We regret that we are so flooded with matter that we cannot find room in our present number for any of the other speeches.
When it is remembered with what pro-slavery malignity and brutality Mr. Thompson was every where pursued during his philanthropic visit to this country, even his bitterest enemies must accord to him extraordinary magnanimity and a rare sense of justice in his eloquent defence or the American Government.
LETTER FROM RICHARD D. WEBB.
DUBLIN, (Ireland.) January 10, 1862. DEAR MR. GARRISON,- I have been spending my which reached these shores, and have particularly directed my attention to the Hon. George S. Boutwell's speech in Boston on the 16th of December, and that of Wendell Phillips in New York three days afterwards. I have to thank my friend, the Rev. Samuel May, who specially commended Mr. Boutwell's oration to my notice; for, otherwise, having no knowledge of that gentleman's antecedents, I should probably have passed it over in a more perfunctory manner. I need hardly tell you that I entirely agree 
<c02>
with the tenor of his remarks, but the tone of them especially gratified me. His statesmanlike and cosmopolitan manner of treating his subject, struck me as contrasting favorably with that of Mr. Phillips, whose speech I naturally took first, as that of one whom I have known so long and honor so much. Foremost as the latter gentleman is among the Abolitionists, noble his devotion, beautiful his daily life, splendid his talents, and highly cultured and accomplished his mind, I have of late been greatly surprised that his patriotism is so narrow that he often seems incapable of ordinary fairness to England, her statesmen and her people.
Mr. Phillips appears fully to share in the general indignation which the course of England in the Trent affair has excited on your side. What other course we could have taken, consistent with national self- respect and our rights as a neutral people, I really cannot see. It is precisely what you would have done yourselves if the case had been your own. That we took the correct view of it has been acknowledged by Mr. Seward. I only wish that he had made this acknowledgment more promptly, for then he would have avoided a very unfortunate manifestation of illfeeling on both sides. It has been repeatedly intimated that this unhappy occurrence was merely a pretence, on the part of England, to get up a quarrel with the Free States in their present extremity. If we had bribed Captain Wilkes to act as he did, there would be some ground for this accusation; but under actual circumstances, to attribute such a pretence to England is like the accusation of the wolf against the lamb in the fable. In making this application, I do not mean to insinuate that America is the wolf, and England is certainly no lamb.
In the extraordinary state of affairs in your country, and with an unfettered press in ours, it was inevitable that much would be said on both sides that had much better be left unsaid. A thoughtless, prejudiced, ill-informed newspaper editor has such enormous power for evil, under such circumstances as the present, that I have often felt that the liberty of unlicensed printing was by no means an unqualified advantage. For example-the haughty, insolent, overbearing, domineering style of the London Times is no more to be regarded as an expression of English opinion on the one hand, than that of the New York Herald would be recognized as a fair exponent of cultivated, intelligent American opinion on the other. As far as my observation goes, the Herald is quoted ten times here for once any other American paper is referred to-and most probably the same thing may be said of the Times in the United States. It was at the Anti-Slavery Convention in London, in 1840, that I first heard of the Herald. Some of my new American friends quoted it, and told me what an infamous sheet it was; but yet, that everybody talked of it, and everybody read it. Now, the Times-its insolence and want of principle apart, (and these, I admit, are large reservations)-has always been a decently conducted journal, in regard to the proprieties.
My reason for referring to these papers is to illustrate my own opinion, that by far the greater part of the ill blood and misunderstanding which have been recently manifested between the two countries has arisen from unprincipled journalists, whose victims are their readers, and over whom the Government on either hand have no control, and the thoughtful, the large-minded, and the truly patriotic no influence.
Mr. Phillips asks,-"Why does the London Press lecture us like a school-master his seven-year-old boy? Why does England use a tone such as she has not used for half a century to any power?" I might answer, that the London Press, being perfectly free, say what they please; that some say one thing, and some another. Some are hostile, some friendly; some kind, courteous and sympathizing; some directly the contrary. Some talk in the interest of the South, some in the interest of the North, and some appear to be influenced by merely selfish considerations. There are many men, many minds, and all kinds of writers and readers, as any sensible man would expect in a population nearly or quite equal to your own thirty-four States, packed into a space probably not one-hundredth part of the extent. Why should Mr. Phillips be so indignant at being lectured by others? Has he never lectured himself? And as to the reasonableness of the lectures, this is all a matter of opinion-though I have had, until lately, no objection to those that have been delivered by him. As to the Times. If he reads it regularly, he must know that that paper lectures everybody. Emperors, kings, communities, principalities and powers,-from the " despots of Europe" to the humblest parish vestry,-all are taken in hand, scolded and castigated like "seven-year-old boys." And why should your Republic and your public men expect to escape? Our rulers are no more responsible for the demeanor of the London Press than I am; and why should they be blamed for what they cannot prevent ? The Times would regard Lord Palmerston's wishes as little as they would regard mine, in the penning of their leaders.
It is, I believe, now generally conceded that, in the recognition of the Southerners as belligerents, our Government had no choice, unless they had made up their minds to go to war with them and treat them as pirates. This would have been an extreme measure, and inconsistent with the non-intervention policy of England, which was maintained during the struggle in Italy, although the nearly unanimous sentiment of the British people (exclusive of the Irish Catholics) was enthusiastically in favor of Italian unity and independence. I am confident that if your Northern uprising had been for universal liberty throughout your land, instead of for the restoration of the Union with slaveholders, the hearty good wishes of England would have hailed every step in your progress, and that your success would have been far greater than it has hitherto been. Mr. Phillips says we may well admire and envy the strength of your Government when, instead of our impressment and pinched levies, patriotism marshals 600,000 volunteers in six months. In any similar case of national extremity, with similar pay, I doubt not that we could obtain quite as many volunteers as would be required. England's wealth and her credit are both very great, and I do not see that she need envy, however she may admire, other nations for their possession of similar advantages. Then, again, impressment does not exist in England. It has not been practised for nearly fifty years.
In accounting for his conversion from the disunion sentiments he has until lately held, Mr. Phillips asks, "When I see twenty millions of people determined that this Union shall mean justice, why should I object to it?" For no reason that I can see-when he sees it. But when we, three thousand miles away, real of the cruel restoration of slaves to their masters by Northern Generals; of the hesitation of Northern statesmen, the hostility of Northern editors-and, as four as we can discover, a great portion of the twenty millions-to the proclamation of freedom, I think greater charity should be shown towards us than Mr. Phillips is disposed to exhibit-utterly confused and confounded as we are by the statements of your own newspapers. He is more like himself-usually can did and magnanimous-when he says: "I do not wonder at the want of sympathy on the part of England with us. The South says, 'I am fighting for slavery.' The North says, 'I am not fighting against it.' Why should England interfere? We have nothing on which to hang their sympathy." This is true, and to the point. Here he hits the right nail on the head.
I have been asked, by some of my American correspondents, whether, the cause and the motives of the South being altogether execrable, it is not plainly our duty to sympathize with the other side? I answer, that want of confidence in the new-born anti-slavery zeal of the North is so prevalent, and it is so generally supposed that their darling object is the restoration of the Union, at any price, that we naturally suppose the slaves have a far better chance, in the event of secession; since, in that case, the South could not long maintain slavery with the opinion of the world against her, and the free and powerful North in utter hostility.
<c03>
Notwithstanding the fact that loud and long-continued cheers greeted Mr. Phillips's ungenerous apostrophe,- "There stands England, the most selfish and treacherous of modern governments," - I maintain that nothing has occurred since the outbreak of your civil war to justify such a libellous accusation. Whilst it is true and inevitable that there are all shades of sentiment towards you, from the most cordial to the most hostile, amongst our complex and diversified community, I maintain that the general tendency is to abhor slavery; to regard war with the North as a fearful calamity on every religious, moral, social and commercial consideration; and to believe that we should be very good friends if it were not for mischief-making demagogues, for the careful nurture you receive in hatred to the mother country by your foolish and boastful fourth of July celebrations, and for the melancholy fact which has just been exemplified in the case of Captain Wilkes, that in no way can any ambitious American so easily obtain popularity and consideration as by insulting England, although by doing so he should plunge his own country into the waste, bloodshed, and madness of war.
Furthermore, however you may agree with Mr. Phillips, it is the general sentiment here that the conduct of our Government has been marked by prudence, forbearance, and a total absence of bluster, bullying and discourtesy. We have not at any time, desired war with you. Our rulers know it, and they have acted as if they felt it. Lord Palmerston and Earl Russell are both old men, who have spent their lives in the public service, and whose tenure of power depends on their skill in guiding, the affairs of the country in harmony with the wishes and interests of the people; and we are no such fools as to rush into a war uncompelled by principle or interest-a war, too, in which, no matter how good our cause, we would be open to the charge of taking part with slaveholders, and taking advantage of your difficulties. All these considerations made the prospect of hostilities especially repulsive, and I hear nothing but congratulations that we have escaped such a catastrophe.
Finally, I regret that one whom I regard as one of the bravest, best and most gifted of Americans should pander to the most unhappy prejudices of his least educated countrymen. With the tenor of his speech and that of Mr. Boutwell, I cordially agree; but I think Mr.Boutwell's, whilst fully as convincing as that of Mr. Phillips, is decidedly preferable in its freedom from unjust and mischievous prejudices and imputations.
In the same Liberator which contains Mr. Phillips's speech, and immediately succeeding it, is an article signed "W.," under the caption of "The War with England-its spirit," which I am really at a loss to characterize. Nobody who understands the actual state of things in these islands, or who has had any opportunity of conversing with Englishmen, Irishmen, or Scotchmen of intelligence and education, could have put such a mass of misstatements together. It is not true that our people, as distinguished from the aristocracy, are "over-taxed and over-governed.' It is not true that education is withheld from them. Vast sums are expended every year in promoting the education of the people; and in England, at least, it is far more difficult to induce the poorer classes to accept of education for their children, than it is to obtain; any money that may be required for the purpose. The progress of popular education has been amazing in Ireland in my own memory. The English are a slower people, but in England also the substantial progress has probably been greater, owing to the absence of the active hostility of the Romish priests, which is such that we rarely hear of a working Irishman trying to elevate himself by self-education; whilst it is well known that some of the greatest men England and Scotland have produced have been of this class. Such men as Rennie, Telford, Stephenson, Faraday, Davy and multitudes more, who had no such advantages as are now within the reach of every poor English child-so far, at least, as the Government schools (which are excellent) can help him, and as he is not impeded by the selfishness or intemperance of his parents. "W." tells us that "the corner-stone of the English aristocracy is the slavery of the people with all its ignorance and degradation." He will perhaps be amazed and incredulous when I tell him that there is no slavery of the people in these islands, except that which they impose on themselves by idleness, improvidence or intemperance; and that for these the English aristocracy of the present generation are no more responsible than is "W." himself. The people -the mass of the people-the poorest people, are at least as free as any people in the world. I know of no people more free than those of England and its colonies. They can come and go, they can buy and sell, they can talk, print and publish (within the limits of abstinence from conspiracy against the Government and the laws) with a degree of liberty which cannot be exceeded. An act of open oppression against any poor man would rouse the press throughout the whole country against the wealthiest and noblest in the land.
It is not true, no matter who may say it, that any proof can be show of hatred on the part of the aristocracy of the country towards America or its institutions. As we generally understand them, we see no special reason to fear, hate or envy these institutions. It is a delusion to suppose that your pro-slavery Constitution is the admiration and the hope of the world. The Abolitionists and History being judges, the United States government has for the past fifty years been controlled by slaveholders in the interests of slavery; and now that things have taken a turn, it is extremely difficult for us to discover, from the language of American visitors or American newspapers, that the mass of the Northern people have made up their mind to get rid of the curse and disgrace of their country. Their hesitation in this respect looks like judicial blindness. We should be foolish to envy a country in such a position, and wicked to hate it. In their feelings towards you, there is no proof that our aristocracy differ from the great mass of intelligent observers, some of whom think one thing, some another. Of the envy, I see no trace any where.
As to the taxation of England, heavy as it is, it is mainly borne by those who are well able to bear it, and it forms a small proportion to their ordinary expenses. The British people spend far more annually in strong drink than they pay in taxes of all kinds. No poor man who chooses to abstain from alcohol, tea, coffee, tobacco, and such like luxuries, need pay a penny of taxes-the income tax and other direct imposts falling entirely upon those who are able to pay them. Any man in England who pays fifty dollars a year for his holding has virtually a share in the government of the country, for he has a vote for members of Parliament; and it is by the House of Commons, and not by the House of Lords, nor by the Queen, that our affairs are really controlled. It is undeniably a growing feeling here, that the voice which controls the Government should be that of those who have intelligence, education and something to lose, but not that of a mere numerical majority, ignorant, excitable, prejudiced, and easily flattered to the injury of their own best interests. In this opinion our aristocracy are not singular-and on this account we have no inducement to injure, envy, fear or hate you, since, strange as it may seem, we think that our own is the more advantageous position.
I do not deny nor do I mean to insinuate that there are not in these countries, as in every other country, plenty of people of all classes who are selfish, tyrannical, overbearing and cruel. All I wish to convey is my belief that our national sins are peculiar to no one class of rich or poor, high or low, democrats or aristocrats, and that whatever our shortcomings toward you, they do not specially consist in the indulgence of hatred, envy or jealousy of your greatness and prosperity. I suppose the truth to be this: every nation has a notion that, all things considered, it is better off than any other upon earth-and every other nation thinks the idea ridiculously mistaken.
Hoping you will excuse the unexpected length of this letter, I remain ever yours, most truly,
RICHARD D. WEBB.
<c04>
MEETIHG OF MIDDLESEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY
LOWELL, Feb. 3, 1862. 
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-Most gladly do I hasten to inform you, as substitute for the absent Secretary of the Middle sex County Anti-Slavery Society, that their meeting here, on Sunday last, in the large Jackson Hall, was a most complete success; rather thinly attended in the morning, but largely increased in the afternoon, and in the evening crowded by an apparently appreciative auditory. Though some apprehension was entertained in regard to Mr. Pillsbury's strength holding out, as he would be deprived of the assistance of Mr. May, and also for the disappointment of the people, as the advertisements and notices announced his presence, yet I think at the close of the meetings very little room was left for regrets of any kind, as the speaker, after presenting some of the most direct resolutions, proved himself to be one of those rare spirits who can "chase a thousand"-a host in himself- " true as the needle to the pole."
He did not dwell so much upon the rebellion of the South which every schoolboy must, by this time, most fully understand, as the continued and criminal complicity of the North with the Giant Wrong, and while <illegible> to crush the rebellion, still upholding and <illegible> the guilty cause of all their troubles.
Language would fail me to describe the intense interest and apparent indignation which seemed to arise in the hearts and manifest itself in the countenances of his hearers, as, in his masterly manner, with all the calmness and sincerity of indisputable truth, he unfolded page after page of the nation's infamy, supported by the Government, and sanctioned by the Pulpit and the Church. And though he very modestly requested that no noisy demonstration of applause be made, yet at the conclusion of some of his boldest utterances, it was absolutely "irrepressible." For instance, in some comments upon the expenses and inactivity of the army, he concluded with the assertion that John Brown, with his seventeen white men and two negroes, sent more terror and consternation through Virginia, and in the South, than Gen. McClellan with all his host; which was received with long continued and most enthusiastic applause. Also, the least allusion to Fremont or his Proclamation.
The resolutions were passed unanimously, which seems sufficient evidence that the people are actually famishing for want of strong, healthful nourishment, or "of hearing the words of the Lord." Many of Mr. P's illustrations and figures were drawn with artistic skill from Scripture history. At the opening of the afternoon meeting, he read a part of the 23d chapter of Jeremiah; and Mr. Richard Hincheliffe, from Andover, repeated a thrilling poem, which you will receive for publication.
Short but very pertinent remarks were made in course of the day by Mr. Plympton, of this city, Mr. Melvin of Chelmsford, and some others whose names I did not ascertain.
The meeting was presided over, during day and evening, by Mr. Barrett, of Concord, who, I understood him to say, walked the whole distance, there being no conveyance from that place by railroad or stage on Sunday. A small contribution was taken, and a number of subscribers obtained for the Standard, and perhaps for the Liberator, as a similar recommendation was made of both papers.
SARAH CLAY, Sec'y pro tem.
RESOLUTIONS.
Resolved, That in contending for a reconstruction of the Federal Union on the original basis, with slavery an essential element as before, the Government is warring not so much against the Southern confederated banditti of man-stealers and cradle-robbers, as against Justice, Freedom, and God.
Resolved, That if any people are ever left "to strong delusion to believe a lie, that they may be damned," it must be those who, denying the doctrine of the "irrepressible conflict" which God and Nature have instituted between Freedom and Slavery, are seeking and expecting to reestablish our former Union with slaveholders. 
Resolved, That the enthusiastic determination of the people to suppress the rebellion at the South, at whatever cost to slavery, as manifest at the fall of Fort Sumter, at the murderous mob in Baltimore on the l9th of April, and, especially, the almost universal approval and rejoicing at the issue of Gen. Fremont's Proclamation in Missouri, all these are indications of how entirely and speedily the incubus disunion might and would have been exterminated, had the same brave and honest purpose animated the Government.
Resolved, That while Treason stalks unblushingly and unhung in every department of the Government, defying all "Investigating Committees," and daring all executive authority, as at present, it is time for the people to arise in their own sovereignty, and arrest such outrages against all decency as well as all law, or thrust the authors of them from place and power, and consign them to the scorn and contempt of mankind.
Resolved, That a Church and Pulpit that, one year ago, were in full sacramental communion with the man-stealing ministry and membership of the South, but are to-day in arms against them, supplying the men to kill them, and the chaplains to pray for victory, that so the former governmental Union and ecclesiastical fellowship with Southern robbers and adulterers may be restored, are now convicted of having given the country a type of religion so absurd and so monstrous as that, at the call of the Government, it can butcher the same brethren with whom, an hour before, it broke the sacramental loaf, and poured out the communion cup, in recognition of their brotherhood under "one Lord, one faith, and one baptism."
LETTER FROM DANIEL RICKETSON, ESQ.
NEW BEDFORD, January 22, 1862. 
To the Annual Meeting of the Mass. A. S. Society:
RESPECTED FRIENDS,-As I am unable to be present at the Annual Meeting, I would express herein my continued heartfelt interest in the cause of emancipation in which we have been so long engaged. The present occasion is truly a momentous one, when we consider how much is involved in the struggle between Slavery and Freedom, and the great apparent danger of the latter being lost to our generation at least.
With the Abolitionists, under God, rests the salvation of our country from its impending ruin. Never before in the history of our sacred enterprise has there been need of greater exertion on the part of the friends of the slave, and of our own liberty. Notwithstanding the number of opponents to slavery has been greatly augmented by the rebellion of the South, still, the direction of the course to be pursued remains in the hands of those who have thus far conducted public opinion to its present demonstration against the wicked institution.
In the failure of the government to perform its duty, it is to the people we are to look for reform. Our efforts hereafter must be directed to them. The whole public should be thoroughly aroused to a deep sense of the great danger we now lie under of losing all that we and our fathers have held dear. The hour is waiting for the man. Who is he? Where is he? Are not our minds directed, as it were, by the finger of God, to him* who has so long, so faithfully, and so wisely heralded the truth, and stood boldly with his life in his hand, as it were, by the side of our revered pioneer? Let us stand by him, and each and all in his own sphere and vocation be ready, for the hour of our deepest trial appears to be near at hand.
In the bonds of sympathy for human rights, I remain, most truly yours,
DANIEL RICKETSON.
P. S. In justice to myself, I should add, that, although a friend of Peace, I do not see any escape from the old and usual method for the removal of tyranny, in our present conflict. D.R
Wendell Phillips.
<c05>
DEATH OF WILLIAM A. HOGEBOOM.
FRIEND GARRISON,-With a bleeding heart, I communicate to the Liberator a brief notice of the death of an all but idolized son, WILLIAM A. HOGEBOOM, not yet having attained his twenty-second year.
My son was emphatically a reformer. In his efforts for the uprooting of our great national sin-slavery- he was most indefatigable. He esteemed it the highest honor to have enjoyed the personal acquaintance and respect of not a few of the Garrisonian school of lecturers. It was with rapt delight that he listened to their eloquent and stirring appeals, and would ever after speak of them in terms of glowing eulogy.
Agriculture was his favorite pursuit. An ardent admirer of the beauties of Nature, he was a florist by instinct, and for it evinced a predilection in early childhood.
Amid the fossil remains of Central New York, the study of Geology had for him its charms. Antiquarian research was ever congenial with his large reasoning powers.
As a student, he always worked with a will. Several terms spent at the Spencertown Academy, in Eastern New York, were marked by the most untiring industry. Two years ago, he spent his last winter at that institution, boarding in the family of its distinguished President, Dr. Woodbridge, in whom he has a sincere mourner.
Last fall he gained fresh laurels at the Teachers' Institute in Hamilton, N. Y., in the Chenang Valley; and enjoyed the cordial friendship of our excellent State Superintendent.
In September last, he left us, to teach a large and flourishing school near the parental home of that anti-slavery champion, Aaron M. Powell. Partial illness, attended with the spitting of blood, finally induced him to heed the injunction of his medical adviser, and abandon, for a time at least, the confinement of the school-room.
Flattering himself that he had still a good share of physical stamina, and after a little time for recuperation, he yielded to his patriotic instincts by accepting the post of second Sergeant in the 91st New York Regiment, then in rendezvous at Albany. Returning home on a recruiting expedition, he made, through our local papers, a successful appeal to the young men of his native county.
Soon after his return, the regiment was removed to New York; and my son, having taken cold, and been subjected to an ordeal common in camps, measles and mumps, was soon an inmate of the hospital on Bedloe's Island, where, from lack of regular nurses, the patients are much neglected.
I joined him on the 5th inst., and was his constant attendant, night and day, up to the hour of his death, which occurred early on the morning of the 9th.
He was a firm believer in the philosophy of the new Spiritual Revelation; and, as I trust, has visited us with cheering and consoling communications from that bright world where seraphs tune their harps to Heaven's own melody. As he occupied a high moral plane here, so he does there.
His remains were tenderly received by his grief-stricken family and neighborhood. At the funeral, a large and deeply affected audience listened to a finished address on "Immortality," prepared and delivered by A. V. Bently, Esq., of Deruyter, N. Y., one of the most eloquent men of Central New York, a noble pioneer in the great work of reform.
Yours, truly, A. HOGEBOOM.
Sheds Corners, N. Y., Jan. 18, 1862.
THE LATE RICHARD CLAP, ESQ.
FRIEND GARRISON,-I have been looking for a more extended notice in reference to our departed friend, RICHARD CLAP, Esq., from some one more intimately acquainted with him than the writer of this.
By referring to the record of the Dorchester Anti-Slavery Society, I find Mr. Clap was elected Vice President of the Society at the time of its organization, more than twenty-six years ago. He continued to take a deep interest in the Anti-Slavery enterprise until prevented by the infirmities of age. He had great faith in the righteousness of its principles, and hope of its final triumph, and was always ready to speak words of encouragement in hours of darkness, and urge perseverance in the good cause.
At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Dorchester Anti-Slavery Society, Oct. 23, 1835, two days after the great pro-slavery mob in Boston, Mr. Clap offered the following resolutions:- 
Resolved, That the toleration of slavery inconsistent with the Declaration of American Independence, and that it is the duty of every free citizen in the United States to raise his voice, extend his aid, and exert his influence in behalf of the slaves in our country, and to persevere till slavery shall be abolished in our land and throughout the world.
Resolved, That the cause of Abolition is a righteous cause, being founded on the broad basis of reason, religion, justice and humanity; and those engaged in it, having adopted the Savior's golden rule, can persevere with confidence, relying on the divine blessing for final success.
Resolved, That the principles of Temperance and, Abolition are very similar; and those who have adopted total abstinence from ardent spirits ought, in consistency, to adopt the principles of total abstinence from the sin of holding human beings as property; therefore it is the duty of patriot, philanthropist and Christian in our land to use their influence in behalf of the slave, till the foul stain of slavery shall be wiped off from the fair face of American liberty.
The Anti-Slavery cause in Dorchester, as in other places, had much to contend with, not only from the rabble, but from a powerful influence in the church. One of the largest religious societies in town refused the Anti-Slavery Society the use of their vestry for a meeting where the speaker for the evening was a minister of their own denomination, in good and regular standing, and the applicants in behalf of the Anti-Slavery Society were members of the church. Some of us well remember the scorn, contempt and ridicule heaped upon the Anti-Slavery women of Dorchester, who signed and circulated a petition to the Legislature to abolish all laws in the State that made a distinction on account of color-laws which the Legislature has long since abolished. Then came the hue-and-cry about the "infidelity" of the Garrisonian Abolitionists, who felt it their duty to rebuke pro-slavery in Church as in State.
Most of those connected with the Anti-Slavery Society in this town, especially those who were members of churches, lost their active interest and zeal in the cause, and were contented with some manifestations at the polls, once a year, with a party which shifted its policy and candidates every four years, and was careful not to disturb the peace and quiet of a pro-slavery church. Not so with our departed friend: he continued to take a deep interest in the cause as a moral and religious question. Of the early Abolitionists, he was almost the only man in the town who retained his connection with the church, without losing his active interest in the Anti-Slavery cause; but he had, what most of the others had not, a faithful minister to sympathize with him, and speak words of encouragement.
Mr. Clap was honored by his fellow-townsmen with offices of trust and responsibility, and discharged his duties as a conscientious and upright citizen; and by his strength of character and influence did much to encourage us in this unpopular cause.
And now as another (who, in the course of nature, seemed to stand between us and the grave,) has passed away from earth, it becomes us to take heed to the admonition, "Work while the day lasts."
Port Norfolk, January, 1862. H. W. B. 
"IN MEMORIAM."
Among the losses to our Anti-Slavery band, recalled by our Annual Festival, we record with heartfelt tenderness and sorrow one which escaped mention in our papers at the time of its occurrence-that of LYDIA H. CHASE, of Salem, Mass. Her presence has for many years been a welcome addition to the social joys of our Fairs and Festivals; her purse has always been open to our needs; and the Anti-Slavery laborers who have sought to arouse the torpidity of Salem have ever
<c06>
found in her charming home a hospitable reception. With rare social qualities, with every advantage which wealth and culture could give, she had long been the centre and life of a large circle of friends, who find it hard indeed to realize that she can bless them no longer with her bright smile, cheering voice and wise counsel. Nor in the Anti-Slavery field alone has her liberal hand been recognized. Many a poor widow, many a lonely orphan and invalid heard of her departure with bitter sorrow, and the despondent cry, "What will the poor do without her?" One of these poor Irish pensioners of her bounty; on hearing of her death, burst into tears, saying, "May the Lord give her a pleasant room in Heaven, for she tried to help us all here!" Nor did she forget to provide for their wants, or fail to remember our needs, in the final disposition of her property. We understand that liberal bequests were made to the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and to the Female Anti-Slavery Society of Salem, as well as to various charities, but owing to some informality in the execution of the will, it is possible that her generous designs may not be carried out. With the poor Irish woman we say, "May the Lord bless her in his Heaven, for she has long blessed his earth!-Communicated.
COLLECTIONS
By Finance Committee, for Expenses of Annual Meeting, 1862.
Ruth Buffum 100
Alden Sampson 100
Edward B. Perkins 100
M.B.Goodrich 100
E.H.Merrill 100
Joseph Merrill 100
W.L.Foster 100
Alvan Howes 100
S.H. Cowing 100
Mrs. M. A. Lockley 100
S. A. Martin 50
H. H. Brigham 100
Miss Ireson 50
Mrs. Bailey 25
John Curtis 100
G. W. Greene 50
Sarah A. Allen 100
Joseph Jones 100
Mrs. Sarah Cowing 100
Henry Duncan 10
Richard Clap 100
H.W. Carter 25
W.D - 100
E. F. Eddy 100
A. T. Draper 100
F. G. Hartshorn 50
A. C. Davidson 25
Samuel Barrett 100
Edwin Thompson 50
H. L. Sherman 100
Sarah M. Nowell 100
Sarah J. Nowell 100 
S. A. Barnard 300
Emily Howe 200
Elbridge Sprague 100 
D. P. Harmon 100
Miss I 100
Caroline Wellington 100
Eliza Wellington 100
Dio Lewis 200
Naney L. Howes 100
M. S. Jenkins 100
J. C. Lindsley 100
Mrs. E. P. Ayres 100
L. S. Putnam 100
P. Shaw 100
Alice Tralon`` 100
Helen C. Lewis 100
Samuel May, Jr. 100
W.L. Garrison 100
Jonathan Buffum 100
William Ashby 100
George miles 100
Edmund Quincy 100
Mary P.Trask 100
Mrs. Mary Jackson 100
Sarah H. Southwick 100
Henrietta Sargent 100
 L. S. N. 25
Maria W. Chapman 100
Deborah Weston 100
Josiah Hayward 100
Thomas Vickers 100
E. Brockway 100
Ezekiel Thaeher 100
H. W. Blanchard 100
H. Willis 100
Mrs. A. W. Clap 100
Mary P. Clough 100
Levi Kendall 25
Mrs. Richard Clap 100
Martha Clap 100
A. P. Putnam 100
Wm. Sparrell 100
Dr. Howard 50
A. M. Chase 100
A. Howard 50
Mrs. Sterling 18
J. T. Lawton 100
E. Allen 75
H. A. Lowell 100
Mrs. Brigham 100
A. P. Bramball 200
Lima H. Ober 100
Mary L. Richmond 100
R. H. Ober 100
Mrs. Logan 37
Wm. Bassett 100
J. M. Aldrich 100
H. T. Adams 100
Z. H. Spooner 100
J. H. Stephenson 100
Georgina Otis 100
David Merritt 100
David Lee Child 100 
John Clement 150
Mary G. Chapman 100
DONATIONS
To Massachusetts A. S. Society, Annual Meeting, 1862.
Samuel Barrett 2000
Mary May 200
H. Willis 500
John F. Emerson 100
Ruth Wheeler 100
H. W. Carter 200
Joshua Coolidge 1000
John Tucker 300
Joel Smith 100
Ambrose Keith 100
Charles W. Warren 100
Eliza A. Lawton 100
William Loud 100
William Dunn 100
Geo W. Simonds 700
Lewis McLauthlin 200
Bourne Spooner 100
E. D. Draper 100
Edmund Quincy 2500
S. S. Hemmenway 600
Mary G. Chapman 509
P. B. Francis 50
Mrs. J. M. Bacon 100
Mrs. Loud 50
Eliab Wright 200
George Miles 100
J. M. Aldrich 2000
Martha B. Goodrich 500
Abraham Folsom 500
Mary L. Willard 200
Lucy G. Ives 200
Alvan & Nancy Howes 500
Susan Allen 50
Susan A. Messer 50
Mrs. Southey 100
Ezekiel & Alice E. Thacher 200
S.W. - 500
A. Whiton 100
G. W. Greene 100
Charles Moulton 100
James Hutchison, Jr. 100
Perley King 100
M. A. Carter 100
S. M. Babcock 100
Uriah Ritchie 500
W. L. Foster 100
M. S. Barker 100
Mrs. T. J. Sawyer 50
C. K. Whipple 200
-Kimball 25
Ellis Allen 25
Josiah Hayward 100
Warren Low 100
John B. Wall 100
Daniel Mitchell 300
Benj. W. Gage 500
Maria S. Page 100
W. L. Garrison, Jr. 100
Wm. Bassett, Jr. 100
Anna J. Ford 25
Andrew G. Davison 100
N. H. Whiting 300
John Starrett 200
T. W. Hartshorn 50
J. Jones 100
M. A. Still 50
M. Russell 200
John Howe 100
J. B. Pierce 200
Benj. Thompson 25
S. E. Wall 500
Wm. Sparrell 100
F. W. Forbush 50
J. Johnson 100
Mrs. Julia Maloon 500
Mary Willey 100
P. Fiske 500
Helen E. Garrison 100
Sundry Friends 5332
Tickets Sold 11638
PLEDGES
To Massachusetts A.S. Society, at Annual Meeting, 1862.
Wendell Phillips 10000
Edmund Jackson 5000
Samuel May, Jr. 5000
Mrs. M. M. Brooks 2000
Bourne Spooner 2000
Henrietta Sargent 2000
Misses McFarland 1000
Katherine E. Farnum 500
Harriet R. Earle 350
Abby S Stephenson 250
Sarah H. Southwick 250
Weymouth Female A. S. Society 2500
Mrs. L. A. Reid 300
H. L. Sherman 300
J. Harris 100
S. P. Adams 500
W. P. Garrison 100
E. S. Vennard 100
John Mills 1000
E. R. Place 100
J. B Pierce 1000
Mrs. Johnson 100
Mrs. Wheelock 100
J. Johnson 100
NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Sixth Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York will be held in ALBANY, at ASSOCIATION HALL, on FRIDAY and SATURDAY, February 7th and 8th, commencing at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M. Three sessions will be held each day.
Among the speakers who will address the Convention will be Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Rev. Beriah Green, Parker Pillsbury, Rev. Samuel J. May, Susan B. Anthony. Wm. Wells Brown, Aaron M. Powell, and others.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold a meeting at Neponset, Sunday evening, Feb 9; and in Essex. Sunday, Feb. 16, all day and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on "Common Sense" in
Hopedale, Sunday, A. M., Feb. 16 On "The War," in
Milford, Sunday evening, Feb. 16.
Rock Bottom, Monday " " 17.
East Cambridge, Sunday, " " 23.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE-The next lecture will be given at Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening next, by HORACE GREELEY. Single ticket, 25 cents.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture at Greenfield, on "Abolitionism and the War," on Monday evening next.
JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., will deliver his lecture on "The Colored Man and the War," where he may be invited, for a trifle over his expenses. His address is No. 6 Tremont Street, Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
DIED-In Medford, on the 27th ult., at the residence of her son, (S. P. Adams,) Mrs. JULIA ADAMS, formerly of Medfield, aged 96.
In East Abington, Jan. 26, Mr. DAVID POOL, aged 83 years. [Obituary notice next week.]
JOHN S. ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW
No. 6 TREMONT STREET, - BOSTON.
J B SWASEY,
LAW OFFICE, 114 STATE STREET, ROOM 11.
BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Herald of Progress.
A TRIBUTE
TO THE LIFE OF FRANCIS JACKSON.
"Disregarding the self-evident Declaration of 1776, repeated in her own Constitution of 1780, that 'all men are born free and equal,' Massachusetts has since, in the face of those solemn declarations, deliberately entered into a conspiracy with other States to aid in enslaving millions of innocent persons. I have long labored to help my native State out of her deep iniquity and her barefaced hypocrisy in this matter. I now enter my last protest against her inconsistency, her injustice and her cruelty, towards an unoffending people. God save the fugitive slaves that escape to her borders, whatever may become of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts!"—[FRANCIS JACKSON'S last Will and Testament.]
I.
How charged with Truth's electric force
Are those brave words of him who felt
The wrongs by Power and Passion dealt,
Unto a race in whose veins course
Their only crime—from sacred source!
II.
Though thou art gone, most noble soul,
These words will still reverberate—
Strong undertones, which, soon or late,
The hosts of liberty shall roll
Through every land, from pole to pole.
III.
Blest be thy rest! for thon best striven
Most nobly with a giant wrong
Ignobly suffered overlong;
The succor to God's prophets given
Hath won the good man's meed in Heaven.
IV.
Sustained by God's good angels, thou
Couldst face the frowns of Pride and Power, 
To aid, in many an evil hour,
That martyr who wears even now
The hero's laurels on his brow.
V.
Though men may now ignore thy claim,
The thanks of millions yet to be,
"Redeem'd from color's infamy,"
Will make for thee an envied fame,
And put false pride of race to shame.
VI.
All generous lovers of mankind
The curse of slavery bemoan,
And work not for the slave alone:
The chains which but his body bind,
Confine and curse the master's mind.
VII.
What hardened hearts and darkened minds
Are' these in which the peaceful Dove
Can find no resting place: and Love,
The sweet, transforming angel, pines,
A pilgrim at deserted shrines!
VIII.
Oh, shall Progression's golden ear
Be hindered here, or backward roll?
Must all the high hopes of the soul
Be quenched in gloom, as falls afar
The nations bright, ascending star?
Massachusetts, Dec., 1861. A. B. D.
From the Boston Pilot.
THE WOES OF COLUMBIA.
BY JAMES L. ROCHE.
To-night there is wailing and sorrow
Our beautiful country all o'er,
And, oh! it were joy if to-morrow
There should be no grief to deplore!
But, ah! there are hearts that shall never
While living be strangers to grief,
Whose hopes are all shrouded forever
With sorrow that knows no relief!
CHORUS.
Oh! grief of all griefs, that is writhing
The hearts that were always so blest;
Oh! treason of treasons that's blighting
The beautiful land of the West!
The wife and the maiden are weeping
For those who in battle were slain,
And through the long night they are keeping
Their vigils of mourning in vain! 
Ah! long by the hearth shall the places
Of these they lament be adored,
And long shall their familiar faces
Be missed at the family board.
CHORUS.—Oh' grief of all griefs, &c.
The innocent babes, in their prattle,
Repeat the loved names o'er and o'er,
Of sires who have fallen in battle,
More fondly than ever before;
Oh! many a widow is making
A garment to wear in her wo,
And many an orphan's heart's breaking,
When told that his father lies low.
CHORUS.—Oh! grief of all griefs, &c.
There's many a once happy dwelling,
To-night that is gloomy with care,
Where once happy bosoms are swelling
With anguish and hopeless despair;
no more shall be seen there returning
Those dear ones who dwelt there before,
And long shall they keep the lamp burning
Before they shall knock at the door!
CHORUS.—Oh! grief of all griefs, &c.
Oh! many a heart-broken mother
The boy she adored has to mourn, 
And many a kind-hearted brother
Has left his poor sister to mourn;
And many a beautiful maiden,
Whose heart should be happy and light,
Is with mountains of grief overladen,
Lamenting her lover to-night!
CHORUS.—Oh! grief of all grief, &c.
Port Jervis, N. Y.
From the Independent.
TO ENGLISHMEN
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
You flung your taunt across the wave;
We bore it as became as,
Well knowing that the fettered Slave
Left friendly lips no option save
To pity or to blame us.
You scoffed our plea. "Mere lack of will,
Not lack of power," you told us: 
We showed our free-state records; still
You mocked, confounding good and ill,
Slave-haters and slaveholders.
We struck at Slavery; to the verge
Of power and meant we checked it:
Lo!—presto, change! its claims you urge,
Send greetings to it o'er the surge, 
And comfort and protect it.
But yesterday you scarce could shake,
In slave-abhorring rigor,
Our Northern palms, for conscience' sake:
To-day you clasp the hands that ache
With "wallopping the nigger"!*
O Englishmen! in hope and creed,
In blood and tongue our brothers!
We too are heirs of Runnymede;
And Shakespeare's fame and Cromwell's deed
Are not alone our mother's.
"Thicker than water" in one rill,
Through centuries of story,
Our Saxon blood has flowed, and still
We share with you the good and ill,
The shadow and the glory.
Joint heirs and kinfolk, leagues of Wave
Nor length of years can part us:
Your right is ours to shrine and grave, 
The common freehold of the brave,
The gift of saints and martyrs.
*See English caricatures of America:—Slaveholder and cowhide, with the motto, "Haven't I a right to wallop my nigger?"
<c02>
Our very sins and follies teach
Our kindred frail and human: 
We carp at faults with bitter speech 
The while for one unshared by each
We have a score in common.
We bowed the heart, if not the knee,
To England's Queen, God bless her!
We praised you when your slaves went free:
We seek to unchain ours. Will ye
Join hands with the oppressor?-
And is it Christian England cheers
The bruiser, not the bruised?
And must she run, despite the tears
And prayers of eighteen hundred years,
A muck in Slavery's crusade?
Oh, black disgrace! oh, shame and loss
To deep for tongue to phrase on!
Tear from your flag its holy cross,
And in your van of battle toss
The pirate's skull-bone blazon!
Selections.
THE ROCK WHENCE YE WERE HEWN.
To the Editor of the Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser:-
SIR,-The extraordinary course taken by the organ of the English Anti-Slavery Society calls for distinct utterance on the part of all who ever loved the union between religion and politics, or looked with gratitude on the way in which in past times they have wrought together for the world's deliverance.
A lady of rare powers, for the exercise of which all generations will call her blessed, roused a sleepy world to consciousness of the deep, irreconcileable hostility between slavery and all that is humanity, generosity, religion. It was not a prosy descant, ending in requests for a subscription; but a lively holding up the mirror to all concerned, ending, like the efforts of the Athenian orator, in producing from those addressed the exclamation the Frenchman rendered by "Allons, battons Philippe!" All men, and all women, longed to be up and doing, before the evil ceased without their help.
And what hereon is the course taken by the professed religionists of the day? To collect the arguments of crooked politicians, and give them out again, to far as may be, with the stamp of their authority. Take the reasoning at first hand, and see what it amounts to. As the place where quotation ends is not distinctly marked in the Society's organ, no charge of intended misrepresentation must be raised on error:-
"We are now told that the liberation of the slave will be the certain issue of this war, because the American people are coming to see that they can conquer the South in no way so effectually as by proclaiming emancipation; but, if that were true, how does it entitle them to the sympathy and respect of the antislavery party in this country? Is it not obvious that they adopt the principle of emancipation, if they adopt it at all, not from any sense of the sinfulness of slavery-not from any sentiment of kindness for the slave-not from any love of liberty or hatred of oppression-not because they fear God or regard man-but simply because they imagine it a cunning war-measure against the South; that is, they are prostituting a great moral principle into the mere instrument of their own lust of conquest and revenge. 'If the majority of the American people,' says the Examiner, in an admirable leading article on General Fremont's proclamation, 'still adhering to the Union, sincerely believed that they were bound, as a free and Christian community, to liberate the 4,000,000 of slaves, the profits of whose compulsory labor they have indirectly shared in up to yesterday, but the remembrance of which they now find intolerable, we should honor their repentance, however tardy, and content ourselves with adjuring them to contribute, as we did, by a general act of self-sacrifice, to mitigate the loss and suffering to a comparatively small class which any sudden measure of liberation must entail. But neither the Legislative, the Executive, nor the popular voice of the Northern States, has given utterance to any sentiment; of the kind. From first to last, emancipation has been used, and used only as a political threat to coerce the South into submission. That was bad enough; but what is now attempted is much worse; for it is neither more nor less than an attempt to play with one of the greatest and noblest moral principles in the most summary and arbitrary way, to palter with a social and religious truth in a double sense, and to degrade the vaunted immutability of equal justice to the level of ruthless confiscation dealt out by drumhead court-martial.'"-Anti-Slavery Reporter, Dec. 2d, 1861.
So, because the whole American people are not found, with one consent, declaring they will abolish slavery through pure moral dislike, the vote of the British Anti-Slavery Society, as presented by their organ, is that emancipation short of this be not accepted, and that cold water be thrown on it and its supporters!
By the same rule, the Protestant Reformation I should be rejected, because more than one of its leading promoters were actuated by anything but moral abstractions. What a shame that anybody should accept the Reformation, when it is well known that so far from being the unanimous act of the nation, the numerical half, at least, were the other way, and the others glad to get it done by hook or by crook, not throwing either in the face of Providence the fact that a man in the influential position of Sovereign Prince, chanced to see a remarkably pretty girl of an alderman's daughter, who adhered to the Protestant belief! Do not all men come at good by hook or by crook, and when they are able? Was the abolition of the British Slave Trade got by acclamation, the Bishops in their coaches going to head the unanimous adherence? And did the Society of Friends turn out on that occasion to declare they could not submit to a public act which was got with maimed rites, and what, in a specially bad metaphor, is called "by a side wind"? Too happy is a man to get off a lee shore by a side wind or a great deal worse.
Or when a Revolution took place in England which put popular interests into the ascendant, did any religious body, even though it did not appear in the flesh at the Boyne or Culloden, exclaim, " This is no unanimous Revolution. There are many Jacobites in the land, which we could point to. We cannot accept such a pitiful Revolution. Therefore, throw cold water in the faces of all the men and women that stand up for it."
Or to take a later instance, when, after many struggles, the liberation of commerce from the Corn Laws was effected, did anybody say, " This is only half a change. It is no unanimous act; half the nation is doing all it can another way. And of those who are for it, not one in ten is actuated by purely moral motives. They are all looking to something else, which, in their own wicked hearts, is the object of their movement."
After this comes the more peculiar objection, which is-"War." You cannot abide to see things done by war. Your sentiments on war have always been treated with respect and love. The only objection anybody had to them was doubting their universal practicability, because it is one thing to hold a doctrine of non-resistance under the shadow of a powerful army and police, and another for universal practice. But there was no quarrel upon it. Men who had grown grey in arms thought themselves honored by your friendship, and by your cooperation where it could be given. But you never advanced the doctrine before, that where there was, war without you, no good must come by war if you could binder it. This is a novelty that must be looked to. The character of religion and religious men is implicated; and the man who stands neuter on it is a turnip-paring.
When you condescended to be pathetic on the losses which might be incurred by the slave-drivers, did you not know, as you shall answer for it on a day when you will be asked, that it had been determined eighty years ago that to work the cotton plantations for wages, would from this moment be the cheaper way? Why do yon not stand out for the thieves and pickpockets of London, that they must have remuneration for the loss of their old trade, before you can think of forcing them to live on the better pay of honest labor?
Lastly, will you say why, with your very limited acquaintance with military affairs, you insist on maintaining that it was right, proper, humane, according to the best rules of morality and Christianity, to incur the slaughter, misery, and defeat of the Bull's Ran and all that may succeed it. sooner than distress your clients, the slave-drivers, by the apparition of an army with four hundred thousand colored allies in prospect in the enemy's rear, saying, "Now peace and restoration to the Union, on condition of carrying on your cotton plantations as before, and we will see whether the Provost-Marshal cannot keep the colored people from trying their hands on you in vengeance". You call this doing evil that good may
<c03>
come. I call yours refusing good that evil may come.
As descended from those who, whether right or not, did all according to their knowledge with religious motive, I cannot help referring the question to the professors of religion here, and if they fail, to a greater Judge hereafter.
Yours sincerely,
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Eliot-vale, Blackheath, Dec. 26, 1861.
[The friends of freedom and emancipation In the United States are deeply indebted to Gen. Thompson for his indefatigable efforts, with his trenchant pen, to enlighten the British public in regard to the true nature of the rebellion at the South. His essays have been able, sagacious, and multitudinous, and read with deep interest by a wide circle.]
MASON AND SLIDELL IN ENGLAND.
The agents of the man-stealing, child-selling, woman-flogging Confederacy will soon taint with their presence our free English air. They come with the avowed purpose of seeking our friendly alliance and substantial aid for the rebel faction which blasphemously boasts that it will make the divine origin of slavery the foundation and corner-stone of its political fabric. With an effrontery which would excite our mirth, if indignation and disgust did not overpower all other feelings, they will ask England basely to abjure her cherished principles, and to lend a helping hand to the champions of the iniquity which she most deeply loathes. They would have us stain with eternal infamy the flag beneath whose shadow the fetters of the slave fall forever from his limbs, by suffering its folds to mingle with those of the standard which floats over a Confederation of kidnappers and bondsmen. This is the hopeful errand on which Messrs. Mason and Slidell are at this moment speeding across the Atlantic. As the day draws near which will witness their landing on our shores, it is well that our countrymen should awaken to a clear perception of the nature of their mission. Though the English organs of the insurgents may still strive to throw dust in the eyes of the credulous, there can no longer be any misapprehension among thoughtful men with regard to the motives of the rebellion, and the results which are hoped for from its triumph. The official avowal of Mr. A. H. Stephens, the Vice President of the Southern Confederacy, that the new nationality which he and his co-conspirators am striving to found will be based upon the doctrine that slavery is of God, is endorsed by other champions of the rebel cause, who give us a yet deeper insight into their nefarious schemes. Mr. W. L. Yancey, a Confederate Commissioner, who has been for some time past busily at work in London, avows his conviction that "the Federal laws prohibiting the African slave trade, and punishing it as piracy, are unconstitutional, and are at war with the fundamental policy of the South, and therefore ought to be repealed." It is not enough that the four millions of Africans who now wince under the Southern lash shall remain perpetually subject to the cupidity, the lust, and the ferocity of their taskmasters. Thousands more are to be torn from their homes to feed the greed of Southern pirates by the new Confederacy, which would have England, by its alliance, assume complicity in the nefarious crime. But the negro is not to be the only victim converted by brute force into an animated chattel. The Richmond Examiner avers that the cause of slavery has suffered from the restriction of the argument to the question of black servitude, and adds, " The laws of the Slave States justify the holding of white men in bondage." Serfdom, disappearing from Russia, is to spring up in full vigor in the Southern Confederacy, and England is to lend her aid in rivetting the white laborer's manacles! A rabid hatred of liberty in every shape pervades the diatribes of the organs of Secession. The South-Side Democrat denounces free thought, free schools, and, in short, everything free, as "all belonging to the same brood of damnable isms." The Muscogee Herald declares that it "sickens at the name of free society," and exclaims, "What is it but a conglomeration of greasy mechanics, filthy operatives, small-fisted farmers, and moonstruck theorists? " The Richmond Enquirer proclaims that slave society must take the place of free society, which it stigmatizes as "unnatural, immoral, and un-Christian." These are the principles for which the Southern Confederacy is contending, and for the vindication of which it asks for England's aid. Perpetuity of negro bondage, the renewal of the hideous slave-trade piracy, and the enslavement of impoverished white men, are the glorious ends towards the attainment of which Messrs. Mason and Slidell come to seek our national cooperation.
The emissaries are worthy of their mission. The author of the most infamous enactment that ever defiled the pages of a statute book has been wisely chosen to plead the cause of man-stealers and pirates. Those who feel any doubt as to the nature of the reception which should be accorded to the Confederate Commissioners, if they venture to court the public gaze, may be guided to a correct conclusion by the reflection that Haynau was an angel of light compared to the man who claims the Fugitive Slave Law as his offspring. That man is Mr. Mason. Englishmen in general know nothing of this disgrace to the code of a civilized nation beyond the bare fact that it authorizes the capture of escaped slaves and their relegation into bondage. They have not even a faint conception of the scandalous iniquity of its provisions. It makes the affidavit of a pretended owner, before a single magistrate in a slave State, sufficient to secure an official certificate of the escape of an alleged bondman. It makes the exhibition of this document to a single magistrate in a free State, coupled with the deposition of the claimant, enough to secure the delivery to him of any negro. It shuts the mouth of the assumed fugitive, rendering him incapable of giving evidence in his own defence. It bribes the magistrate to perpetrate a grievous wrong by making his fee ten dollars if he hands over the negro, and only five dollars if he sets him free. It inflicts upon every one who harbors or abets a fugitive, six months' imprisonment, and a fine of $1,000, with $1,000 damages in addition if the slave makes good his escape. It degrades the officers of free States into active kidnappers, by compelling them, when required, to convey the fugitive slave back to the State from which he fled. It insults the slavery-hating citizens of the North, by commanding them to help the man-stealer whenever he sees fit to claim their aid. This is Mr. Mason's handiwork. The noble resistance of the free States to its odious provisoes was the incentive which moved the South to take up arms in defence of that masterpiece of the Devil, which they extol as the palladium of political and social existence. Never was there an enactment which entailed such awful responsibilities upon its author. Upon the head of Mr. Mason is the blood of many a noble-hearted citizen who has laid down his life in striving to shield the escaped slave from his pursuer. The pecuniary ruin of the true heroes whose Christian sympathies, more potent than their worldly thrift, stimulated them to give shelter and succor to the hunted runaway, and paid the penalty of their good deeds, lies at his door. The anguish of the captives upon whose limbs the cast-off chains have again been riveted-the waste of blighted lives worn away in renewed bondage, rendered yet more grievous by the evanescent glimpse of freedom-the hideous cruelties which jubilant slave-owners have inflicted upon the recaptured fugitives-all these will assume ghastly presentments in the visions which will hover around Mr. Mason's dying pillow. Such are the fruits which have sprung from the most memorable achievement of the man who will soon set his foot on our free English soil, and ask our countenance and aid for those who deem his Fugitive Slave Law an inevitable corollary from the Gospel. Let not these Confederate Commissioners nourish the delusion that it is out of any sympathy for them or for their cause that England has taken action for their deliverance. If a man chooses to keep a pet viper, the law will set its engines in action against any one who steals it from him, and compel its restitution but it is not to be thence inferred that we are ready to take the reptile to our bosom. The principle which we have vindicated is dear to us, not because it accidentally gives shelter to such as they, but because it affords protection to heroes whose good deeds have enshrined them in the people's love. If they choose to profit tranquilly by the asylum which we accord to them, they are welcome to rest in peace. But if they venture to obtrude themselves in search of an ovation, or labor to involve England in complicity in the diabolical schemes of their rebel employers Englishmen, remembering who they are, what they have done, and how odious is the cause of the in surgent faction which sends them forth as its emissaries, will point at them the finger of score, and shrink from them with deadly loathing.-London Morning Star and Dial, Jan'y 10.
<c04>
TRUSTED TRAITORS.
One of the severest evils under which this country labors, and under which it has labored from the beginning of the secession war, is the infidelity of many of the <illegible> at Washington, whose example is probably imitated by some of their brethren in ether parts of the country. The mass of these officeholders are traitors, many of them openly and confessedly so, while others are false at heart, but are too prudent to commit themselves against their present employers. For years the government was in the hands of the slaveocracy, and whether democrat or whig ruled or misruled at the White House, he was but the tool of the Southern interest. Hence there grew up in the departments a corps of janisaries, men who could be depended upon to be faithful to the slaveholders, and unfaithful to their country, So long as the South should rule, these fellows would be true to the government, but no longer. The day came, at last, when it was thought that a government not certain to do the work of the slaveholders had been inaugurated, and so the slaveholders revolted, and with them went nearly all the Washington officeholders, who, however, never left the capital, but remained there to be useful as an efficient body of spies in the service of their masters. They, at least, have not failed in their vocation, and have done more for the benefit of the secession cause than has been done therefor by the genius of Davis, or through our own extraordinary failures. Our case has been not unlike to that of England after the Revolution of 1688, when the throne of that country had been bestowed-upon William and Mary, and the offices of government were mostly held by men who were hostile to the new order of things, and utterly corrupt besides. As the new English government undertook to carry on its business with the agents and machinery of the Stuarts, so did the new American government undertake to carry on its work with the agents and machinery of the secessionists; and our government has failed as signally as did the government of William and Mary on many occasions. The error of employing these villains was pointed out by congressmen, by the press, and by private individuals who visited Washington; and it was admitted to be an error, but coupled with the admission was the declaration that it was unavoidable! Members of the government said it was impossible to get along without the aid of the skilled labor of men who had been so long in office, and who knew all about the business of every branch of the public service! This, instead of being an excuse for the employment of traitors, was an aggravation of the original sin of employing them. A stupid enemy might, perhaps, be tolerated, but to retain in your service a skilful enemy, simply because he is skilful, is to exhibit a degree of greenness that we certainly never expected from American politicians. The greater the enemy's skill, the stronger the reason for getting rid of him. He does not employ his skill in your behalf, but in that of your enemy, and so is serving you after the reverse fashion of an honest man. But what could be done? Was it possible to get along without these men? It is not possible to get along with them, as the state of our cause shows. Of what avails it that we fit out our great secret expeditions, like that under Gen. Burnside, if the enemy are to be made acquainted with all that we do? It is known that that expedition had to change its destination, because it became known to the rebels, and thus the work of weeks was thrown away, and perhaps a poor plan substituted for a wise one. Could the worst that could befall us from the blunders of unskilful but honest men be so bad as this? Better the services of awkward friends than those of clever traitors. So was it in the case of the Pensacola, the sailing of which ship was known to the enemy before it was to our own men, and she escaped destruction only because she, one of the strongest vessels of war in the world, was protected by the presence of several merchantmen. Such are the consequences of employing knaves at Washington, when honest men could be had in abundance. The number of these false servants is said to be five hundred, by the congressional committee appointed to examine into the matter; and they receive high pay from the very government whose secrets they make known to the secessionists. They also, we may suppose, receive something from their real employers at Richmond. Were, they but five in number, they could do more mischief to our cause than five thousand soldiers could do good in a month, even if they should chance to be ably commanded, and allowed to fight. But think of that injury multiplied an hundred-fold! The very money that is taken from the people is used in part to support these scoundrels, whose salaries may amount to a million a-year. Who can wonder that we make so little headway against the rebels, and are becoming victims for foreign cannon and bayonets, when we maintain a battalion of the enemy's spies at our very head-quarters! We might contend till dooms-day, under such circumstances, without gaining anything; and that contest would not be long either, for the day of our doom must quickly come when we act so foolishly. There is not another government on earth that would thus allow its business to be traded in by its servants, who ought to be composed of the most trustworthy of men, instead of the most unfaithful fellows in the land. Is it possible <illegible> imagine the Emperor Napoleon, or Lord Palmerston, or the Czar, or any other European ruler, having his bureaux filled with traitors? Every government is liable to have some knaves in its service, but that is a very different thing from organized treachery. If the daily countersign of a French army were to become known to the enemy before given out to that army itself, how long would the Emperor be in ascertaining who was the traitor, and how long would that traitor have to live? A very short time would see reform instituted, and punishment meted out to the detected villain. European governments know better than to spare traitors, and hence their offices are filled by honest men who are not the less capable because of their honesty. It is because treason has not been punished, but patronized, at Washington, that traitors are there so bold. They believe that government dare not punish them; and they expect the return of the secessionists, when they hope to secure greater rewards than ever for their fidelity to rebellion. There is some prospect of a change. The congressional committee to investigate the subject has completed its labors, and its report is expected soon, when the country will be made to know of what sort of material its bureaucracy is composed. Reform must then be had, for opinion in behalf of it will become irresistible, and government will heed public sentiment. Nor will there be any great difficulty in filling the offices with competent men, considering that the country abounds with persons trained to business pursuits, not a few of whom are now out of employment because of the suspension of ordinary callings.-Boston Traveler.
GEN. LANE ON THE WAR.
Gen. Lane was at Chicago on Wednesday, and made a speech on the war, in which he said the Administration had changed its policy. We make the following extract from his remarks as reported by the Chicago Tribune:-
"It is no time for talking now, but for action. We have consumed eight months in inactivity, have wasted three hundred millions of dollars and sacrificed twenty-five thousand lives, and turned this country upside down in our endeavors to put down this infernal rebellion and save slavery. I tell you it can't be done, and the Government has come to that conclusion. Let me tell you, confidentially, that on Monday last they opened a new set of books, and came to the conclusion that if the Union can't be saved and slavery saved, then down goes slavery. The rebels have either got to submit, to die, or to run away. I tell you the time has come when play must stop. The rebels must submit, or be sent down forthwith to that hell already yawning to receive them.
This desirable consummation was effected by a compromise. The radical men agreed that the conservative men should carry on the war according to their notions, for eight months, provided they were allowed the next eight. The time is up for the conservatives, and they now hand the war and its conduct over to the radicals, and every conservative man should now extend the same encouragement and support which we gave to them in the prosecution of their method.
There are in the South 680,000 strong and loyal male slaves, who have fed and clothed the rebel army, and have as good as fought upon their side. Government now proposes that these loyal slaves shall feed and clothe our army, and fight upon our side. The other day, while I was talking with the President, Old Abe said to me, Lane, how many black men do you want to have to take care of your army?' I told him, as my army would number 34,000, I proposed to have 34,000 contrabands in
<c05>
addition to my teamsters and wagon-masters. I consider every one of my soldiers engaged in this glorious crusade of freedom a knight-errant, and entitled to his squire to prepare his food, black his boots, load his gun, and take off his drudgery. Vanity and pride are necessary adjuncts of the soldier, and I do not propose to lower him by menial offices, nor compel him to perform the duties of the slave. So, while I shall elevate the slave by giving him his freedom and making a man of him, I shall also elevate the soldier, and leave him no work to do but fighting. [A Voice in the crowd-" What are you going to do with the niggers?"]
The General, singling out the owner of the voice, and pointing his long finger at him, replied: 'Ah, my friend, you are just the man I have been looking for. I will tell you what I am going to do with them. I am going to plant them on the soil of the Gulf coast, after we have got through this war; let them stay there, and cultivate the land; have Government extend a protection to them as it does to the Indians, and send superintendents and governors among them, and pay them wages for their labor. There could be no competition between black and white labor.' He believed, whether the rebels liked the idea or not, that the blacks, at no distant day, would have possession of the Gulf country, to which they were acclimated and physically conditioned. He proposed to establish free State governments as he went along, and he could promise his hearers that either he or the rebels would be cleaned out."
MISSOURI SLAVES AND KANSAS CONTRABANDS.
In slavery, a Missouri negro seems to be the most helpless, shiftless and indolent of beings, apparently childish, stupid and clumsy to the last degree, having but little idea of reason or Self-dependence. But the moment freedom is assured, and from the change grows the necessity for effort, then a revolution, complete and instantaneous, is effected in the character of the former slave, and in the latter condition they have proved invariably industrious and self-reliant, prudent and well-behaved, and above all, most eager to learn. It will interest our readers to give a brief statement of what has already been developed touching the condition of these people, now that the great question of this age is forced upon us, not to be evaded or turned aside, What to do with the slaves of rebels? And since slavery and the rebellion are hand-in-hand, this leaves our Government to deal with and hold the disposal of all but a moiety of those held in bondage, since in proportion to the whole body of the disloyal, the number of Union slaveholders is very small. Let us see what has been proven on the Kansas border. 
The number of slaves freed by the agency of the Kansas soldiers, up to this date, cannot be less than 3,000, while several hundred others have crossed the river and border from Missouri, of their own volition. General Lane's Brigade, since August, has brought out at least 2,000; Col. Jennison has relieved the rebels of not less than 700 or 800, while jayhawking parties and smaller detached commands have brought in as many more. A great many men are employed by officers, and as cooks in the messes of the soldiers. These all receive pay more or less liberal, varying from $8 to $20 per month, with clothes and rations. Besides this, a number are employed as teamsters. The wagon-master of the Kansas Brigade is a black man known as Buck. He is quite a well-known character on the border. The total thus employed must approximate to 500 persons. It would be desirable if some kind of discipline and drill could be given them, both because they generally show themselves courageous, and because it would be beneficial in forming and fostering habits of self-respect.
Experience has shown that the slave is not deficient in that which constitutes courage, except one thing. He has endurance-the passive power of resistance - strength, great natural energy when roused, but lacks that which we Anglo-Saxons denominate "pluck." This grows out of self-reliance and individuality, and in excess it makes of us bullies. The negro learns rapidly, and in no way would he gain a proper self-confidence so quickly as by having arms in his hands, being drilled, and then told to use them for his own liberty.
The principal portion of the contraband population live in the border counties and towns. Leavenworth, Lawrence, Osawatomie, Atchison and Mound City have the larger population of them. Leavenworth probably has a population of over a thousand in the city and immediate vicinity. There has been for a long time an active and well organized Underground Railroad at that point, the superintendent of which is a colored man. The knowledge of this depot is wide-spread among the slaves in the contiguous portions of Missouri, and they are constantly availing themselves thereof. Lawrence has a population, in and around the town, of about the same as Leavenworth. Atchison has two or three hundred; Osawatomie and neighboring township three or four hundred; Mound City, Linn and Bourbon county must have over a thousand, as this section is where they were brought by Lane. At Topeka and other points there are a number. At first, the people were alarmed at this influx of "cullerd pussons," and the prejudices of the majority found noisy vent. But that seems to be passing away, and the more active feelings of charity have been called forth to help them out of their destitute condition. True, this was fostered by the fact that the labors of these people came in very handily to supply that taken away by the war. All who are industrious can readily and do obtain work.
In the fall, it was indeed a serious question what these people would do during the winter. But this, like the rest of questions, meets its solution in practical results. The best authorities say that, among all the contrabands now coming to Kansas, there will not be over five per cent, who will in any way become chargeable to the public purse. Nor will this five per cent long remain in a condition of pauperism. At all their meetings for education and other self-improvement projects among them, they have unmistakably shown their desire to do without aid from white people.
Most of the contrabands brought in by the army were provided with teams, or plunder of some description. Then our efforts and those of the soldiers, generally enabled them to bring away from their "secesh" owners a wagon, oxen or horses, bedding, provisions, &c., enough to give them a start in their new life. On the occasion of the last visit to Independence of Lieut. Col. Anthony, with a portion of Col. Jonnison's regiment, a train of 130 contrabands were sent to Leavenworth under charge of a scout.
They took with them ten wagons, six yoke of oxen, some forty horses and mules, and considerable bedding, &c. By order of Lieut. Col. Anthony, this property was sold at public auction when the train arrived in Leavenworth. The proceeds reached to over $1,200, which were divided among the negroes in proportion to their wants, and their chances of employment. All of those able to work readily obtained it within a few days of their arrival. So at Lawrence, to which town was sent the first train Col. Jennison took; the wagons and teams they had were sold, and the proceeds divided among them.
In the matter of education, the contrabands themselves show great eagerness to learn, and all the parents seem determined to obtain some education for their children. The citizens of the neighborhoods in which the negroes congregate are also doing much to aid them. At Lawrence a free school has been established, which is kept open in the day time for children, and in the evening for adults. Over one hundred of the latter attend regularly, and it is certainly a most interesting sight to see the stalwart men and women, with their grotesque appearance and swarthy faces, so eagerly bent over their books, attempting to obtain that knowledge before which slavery vanishes as snow before the sunlight. The expenses of this school are at present paid by donations of the citizens. Most of the leading men of the town give liberally. Col. Jennison subscribed to the Lawrence school largely, and has also started and sustains, himself a school for them at Osawatomie, which is under the direction of Rev. Elder Read, one of the survivors of the Marais des Cygnes, in May, 1856. At Mound City another school has been started. At Leavenworth, where there is considerable of a free colored population, they have two schools, sustained by the members of the two churches to which they belong, and for tuition in which a small sum has been charged. They are now organizing for the purpose of establishing a free school. Under the city ordinance, the taxes paid by the colored people are to be used to sustain their schools. Under the State school law, they are entitled to the benefits of the school lands and funds, the statutes providing for a vote of the inhabitants of a district on the question
<c06>
of separate schools. Measures are being taken to secure these rights for the benefit of the colored people. These movements indicate to the observer the fact that the despised African shares with the more favored portion of the world the progressive desires of humanity. Among other efforts for the contrabands now being projected, is the organization of intelligence offices under the direction of responsible parties at the principal towns, by means of which, the contrabands may be aided to find shelter on arrival, and work at an early date. A number of families have already been provided <illegible>and others will be as the movement extends.-<illegible> cago Tribune.
LETTER FROM COL. CROCKER.
From the Iowa State Register.
The subjoined letter was directed to the secretary of State. By permission of Mr. Sells, we are able to lay it before our readers. It is too good to be lost.
HEAD QUARTERS, JEFFERSON CITY. MO.
January 6th, 1862.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:-The weather for the last few days has been bad, so that we have been confined to our tents, and time has dragged <illegible> We have very little acquaintance with the citizens of the town. The more intelligent and cultivated of them are slaveowners, and they are strong<illegible> constituting the upper ten. There are some <illegible> ice from the North, and considerable Dutch who <illegible> Union people, but they are not in what is called is city. They are generally poor, and, as far as have seen, not over intelligent. The Secesh <illegible> only turn up their noses at them, but they stick them up at all the soldiers from the North. The men <illegible> course, have to be very circumspect, but the women take no pains to conceal their sentiments.
These people, however, seem well enough satisfied to have a regiment or two of well-disposed, <illegible> troops here to keep the peace for them, protect the R. R., and see that their negroes do not run away I do not see that the are here for much else.
I have travelled over Missouri somewhat <illegible> sively, and it is my candid conviction that there <illegible> not twenty slaveholders in the State that are <illegible> They are all Secesh, etther openly or covertly. <illegible> this to be the case everywhere in the south and all this talk about the president and congress so shaping-their policy that they may not <illegible> loyal slave-owners is, in my opinion, simply <illegible> There are no loyal slaveowners. And if troops <illegible> be sent into these States, simply to keep the <illegible>
and protect their property, this war will last <illegible> I am one that is not infatuated with war. I can want to be a soldier any longer than the dictates <illegible> an ordinary patriotism will compel me. What want is peace, so that I can come home to my <illegible> and children. And became I want peace, I <illegible> the Government to fix upon some settled <illegible> regard to the prosecution of this war against the <illegible>. There is too much proclamation- too <illegible> paper work. The war spirit wants to be <illegible> concentrated, directed South through and through the very heart of Secession, making use as we <illegible> along of all the advantages that circumstances <illegible> the peculiar situation of the rebels throw in our way Organize the grand army now in the field into <illegible> two or three separate divisions. Let there division
start from the border States directly to the create of the hornet's nest. Let them carry which them <illegible> of the states, and authority to make the <illegible> support itself by forced contributions from the <illegible> districts.
I am aware that this is easier said done. <illegible> I know it can be done, and I know it ought to be done. Get the troops together; fit them out <illegible>, and let the petty districts like this take care <illegible> themselves. go at the enemy with fierce and <illegible> purpose of conquering him.
A HISTORY
Of the Origin of the F. F. V.'s-the first <illegible> of Virginia.
[BY A SON Or A SECOND FAMILY]
Virginia's "First Families" boast of a name, 
But never confess how they came by the same; 
So the comical yarn I'll relate unto you,
And it's worthy a song, for it's novel and true.
In the time of King James, a few dozen of men
Came out in a ship to Virginia, and then,
While planting; tobacco, and digging for pearls,
Sent back the old ship for a few servant girls.
When the men in due time saw the vessel return,
Their bosoms began with an itching to burn,
And they vow'd that the man whose emotions <illegible> human
Was justified now if he purchased a woman.
So all, who the risk and expense could afford, 
Ran down to the ship, and in haste went aboard; 
When, seeing the damsels were fleshy and nice, 
They turned to the Captain, and asked him his <illegible>
The Captain replied, "Of the money you lack,<illegible>.
Therefore you may pay me in fine-cut tobacco!
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY GOOD POUNDS you my weigh me,
And that for each damsel will just about pay me!"
Each man hurried off his tobacco to find,
And soon hobbled back with his pack on behind; 
When, choosing his woman, he went up to smack be,
And paid with delight all his fine-cut tobacker.
Soon other big vessels came sailing in dock,
To gather large profits oil servant-girl stock;
But the market was full, so on going their rounds,
The Captains were glad to get ONE HUNDRED POUNDS
Some buyers their "fine-cut" refused to disburse,
Which now to their children is proving a curse;
For being by nature in trading too snug,
They paid for their women in musty "old plug."
FIRST buyers now walked with a sauntering strut,
And claim'd that they ought to be known as “<illegible>,”
While the SECOND, alas! with their comical mugs,
Have ever been known as the "BALTIMORE PLUGS.”
From the FIRST lot of girls the "FIRST FAMILIES" rose
To high aristocracy-so the tale goes;
And the F. F. V. letters, wherever they're found,
Prove the owners are not from the ONE HUNDRED FOUNDS.
SONG FOR THE TIMES.
A darned great viper has grown stout
Inside the Constitution, 
And how to get the critter out
Is a question for solution.
Folks shied the serpent, cause, you see,
his tail was gin to thrashing; 
And still the more they let him be,
The more he made a smashing,
At last, folks say if he were dead, 
"T would better all the nation;
But bow to hit him on the head 
Is now the botheration.
Ben Butler sheered up nigh to him,
With cautious legal phrases;
Then Fremont went as nigh agin,
And frightened him like blazes.
There 's swords unsheathed the beast to hack,
And stop his course unlucky; 
But old Abe pulls'em all aback,
Because of old Kentucky.
Until we kill this beast outright.
He'll always keep rampaging;
'Twill always coat a nation sight
To feed him or to cage him.
To end him n the only way
That stands to sense or reason;
For with the pisen thing we slay 
Its spawn of bloody treason.
Success to them who hit him best!
And may their blows prove lucky!
‘Tis fool's play thus to spare the pest,
For fear of old Kentucky. 
Boston Traveller.
The Life and Letters of
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN,
WHO was Executed at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2. 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery: with Notices of some of his confederates. <illegible> by RICHARD D. WEBB.-This very valuable and <illegible> work, which has met with a most favorable reception and ready sale in England, has been carefully prepared by <illegible> of the most intelligent and experienced friends of America in the old world. For sale at the anti-slavery office<illegible> Boston, 221 Washington street, Room No. 6. Also in New York, at No. 5 Beekman street; and in philadelphia, at No. 106 North Tenth street.
