THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWORD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 48. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1712.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
LETTER OF RIGHT REV. BISHOP HOPKINS,
BISHOP OF THE DIOCESE OF VERMONT, PRESIDING BISHOP OF THE PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF THE UNITED STATES.

SLAVERY DIVINELY INSTITUTED.
To the Right Rev. Alonzo Potter, of the Diocese of Pennsylvania, and the Seceding Clergy of Philadelphia:
I have seen, with great amazement, a protest against my letter on the “Bible View of Slavery,” signed by you and a long list of your clergy, in which you condemn it as “unworthy of any servant of Jesus Christ,” as “an effort to sustain, on Bible principles, the States in rebellion against the Government in the wicked attempt to establish, by force of arms, a tyranny in the name of a Republic, whose corner-stone shall be the perpetual bondage of the African,” and as such you say that it challenges your “indignant reprobation.”
Now, my Right Reverend brother, I am sorry to be obliged to charge you, not only with a gross insult against your senior, but with the more serious offence of a false accusation. My letter was first published in January, 1861, more than three months before the war began, at a time when no one could anticipate the form of government which the Southern States should adopt, or the course which Congress might take in reference to their succession. And when I consented to its republication, I did not suppose that it would be used in the service of any political party, although I had no right to complain if it were so used, because the letter, once published, became public property. But in its present form there is nothing whatever in it which bears on the question of rebellion, or of the perpetual bondage of the African, or of a “tyranny under the name of a Republic,” of which slavery should be the “corner-stone.” On the contrary, I referred, on, the last page, to my lecture, published in Buffalo, in 1850, and to my book called “The American Citizen,” published in New York in 1857, where “I set forth the same views on the subject of slavery, adding, however, a plan for its gradual abolition whenever the South should consent, and the whole strength of the Government could aid in its accomplishment.” “Sooner or later,” I added, “I believe that some measure of that character would have to be adopted. But it belongs to the slave States themselves to take the lead in such a movement. And, meanwhile, their legal rights and their natural feelings must be respected, if we would hope for unity and peace.”
With these facts before your eyes, I am totally at a loss to imagine how even the extravagance of party zeal could frame against me so bitter a enunciation. The whole object of my letter was to prove, from the Bible, that in the relation of master and slave there was necessarily no sin whatever. The sin, if there were any, lay in the treatment of the slave, and not in the relation itself. Of course, it was liable to abuse, as all human relations must be. But while it was certain that thousands of our Christian brethren who held slaves were treating them with kindness and justice, according to the Apostle's rule, and earnestly laboring to improve the comforts and ameliorate the hardships of the institution, I held it to be a cruel and absurd charge to accuse them as sinners against the Divine law, when they were only doing what the Word of God allowed, under the Constitution and established code of their country.
I do not know whether your band of indignant reprobationists ever saw my book, published in 1857, but you read it, because I sent you a copy, and I have your letter of acknowledgment, in which, while you dissented from some of my conclusions, you did it with the courtesy of a Christian gentleman. In that letter there is nothing said about my opinions being “unworthy of any servant of Jesus Christ,” and nothing of “indignant reprobation.” But, tempora mutantur, et nos mutamur in illis.
Yes! the times are indeed sadly changed, and you have changed accordingly. For many years you met in brotherly council with these Southern slaveholders. You invited them to the hospitalities of your house, and paid them especial deference. The new light of Eastern Abolitionism had not yet risen within our Church, and if you then thought as you now think, you took excellent care that no man among your Southern friends should know it. Moreover, your favorite Theological Seminary, only three years ago, was the Virginia school at Alexandria, raised to great prosperity by Bishop Meade, a slaveholder, and I am sure that nothing at variance with my Bible view of slavery was taught in that institution. Yes! I may well say of you, as of many others: Quantum mutatus ab illo! How changed is the Bishop of Pennsylvania, in three years, from his former course of conservatism, peace and Scriptural consistency!
But the Word of God has not changed; the doctrine of the Apostles has not changed; the Constitution of our country has not changed; the great standards of religious truth and real civic loyalty remain just as they were; and I remain along with them, notwithstanding this bitter and unjust assault from you and your clergy. I do not intend to imitate your late style of vituperation, for I trust that I have learned, even when I am reviled, not to revile again. I respect the good opinion of your clergy, and I am not aware that I have done any thing to forfeit it. I respect your office, your talents, your personal character, and the wisdom and success with which, for many years, your Episcopate has been conducted.
But I do not respect your departure from the old and well settled rule of the Church, and from the Apostolic law of Christian fairness and courtesy. I do not believe in the modern discovery of those Eastern philanthropists who deny the divinity of our Redeemer, and attach no importance to the Bible except as it may suit themselves. I do not believe that the venerable founders of our American Church were ignorant of the Scriptures, and blind to the principles of Gospel morality. I do not believe that Washington and his compatriots, who framed our Constitution with such express provisions for the rights of slaveholders, were tyrants and despots, sinners against the law of God and the feeling of humanity.
But I do not believe in the teaching of the inspired Apostles, and in the Holy Catholic (or universal) Church, which you and your clergy also profess to believe. I know that the doctrine of that Church was clear and unanimous on the lawfulness of slavery for eighteen centuries together; and on that point. I regard your “protest” and “indignant reprobation” as the idle wind that passes by.
I wish you, therefore, to be advertised that I shall publish, within a few months, if a gracious Providence should spare my life and faculties, a full demonstration of the truth “wherein I stand.” And I shall prove in that book, by the most unquestionable authorities, that slaves and slaveholders were in the
<c02>
Church from the beginning; that slavery was held to be consistent with Christian principle by the Fathers and Councils, and by all Protestant divines and commentators up to the close of the last century, and that this fact was universal among all Churches and sects throughout the Christian world.
I shall contend that our Church, which maintains the primitive rule of Catholic consent and abjures all novelties, is bound, by her very Constitution, to hold fast that only safe and enduring rule, or abandon her Apostolic claims, and descend to the level of those who are “driven about with every wind of doctrine.” And I shall print your “indignant reprobation,” with its list of names, in the preface to my book, so that if I cannot give you fame, I may, at least, do my part to give you notoriety. 
That the nineteenth century is a century of vast improvement and wonderful discovery in the arts and sciences, I grant as willingly as any man. But in religious truth or reverence for the Bible, the age in which we live is prolific in daring and impious innovation. We have seen professedly Christian communities divide and subdivide on every side. We have seen the rise and spread of Universalism, Millerism. Pantheism, Mormonism, and Spiritualism. We have even seen our venerable mother Church of England sorely agitated by the contagious fever of change, on the one hand toward superstition, and on the other toward infidel rationalism; and we have heard the increasing clamor against the Bible, sometimes from the devotees of geological speculation, sometimes from the bold deniers of miracles and prophesy, and, not least upon the list, from the loud-tongued apostles of anti-slavery. We have marked the orators which cry, “Down with the Bible, if it maintains the lawfulness of slavery!” We have marveled at the Senatorial eloquence which proclaimed that “it was high time to have an anti-slavery God and an anti-slavery Bible.” We have heard the Constitution of our country denounced as “a covenant with hell.” We have heard the boasted determination that the Union shall never be restored until its provisions for the protection of slavery are utterly abolished. And what is the result of this new philanthropy? The fearful judgment of God has descended to chastise these multiplied acts of rebellion against His Divine Government; and what that final catastrophe shall be is only known to Him who seeth the end from the beginning.
After forty years spent in the ministry, more than thirty of which have been spent in the office of a Bishop, I can look back with humble thankfulness to the Giver of all Good for all this, at least, that all my best labors have been directed to the preservation of the Church from the inroads of doctrinal innovation. At my ordination I promised “so to minister the doctrine and sacraments and discipline of Christ, as the Lord hath commanded, and as this Church hath received the same”—and certain it is that this Church had not received the modern doctrine of ultra-Abolition at that time, as I trust she never will receive it, because it is contrary to the sacred Scriptures.
I also promised “with all faithful diligence to banish and drive away from the Church all erroneous and strange doctrines, contrary to God’s Word,” and I made those promises in the true sense which the venerable Bishop White, my ordained, attached to them—I believed then, as he believed, that our Southern brethren committed no sin in having slaves, that they were men of as much piety as any ministers in our communion. I believed, as he believed, that the plain precepts, and practice of the Apostles sanctioned the institution, although, as a matter of expediency, the time might come when the South would prefer, as the North had done, to employ free labor. 
Those promises I have kept faithfully to this day —and if, when I am drawing to the end of my career, I am to be condemned and vilified by you and your clergy, because I still maintain them to the utmost of my ability, be assured, my Right Reverend Brother, that I shall regret the fact much more on your account than my own. 
In conclusion, I have only to say that I feel no resentment for the grossly insulting style of your manifesto. The stability and unity of the Church of God are the only interests which I desire to secure, and I am too old in experience to be much moved by the occasional excesses of human infirmity. 
JOHN H. HOPKINS, 
Bishop of the Diocese of Vermont. 
BURLINGTON, VT., Oct. 5, 1863. 
This letter is followed by a manifesto from the Rev. Mr. Van Sant of Philadelphia, sustaining Bishop Hopkins, and condemning the views put forth by his own Bishop, Potter, and his clergy aforesaid. Mr. Van Sant says:—
“The inevitable conclusion to be drawn from this [Hopkins’s] letter, by any one whose judgment is accessible to reason, is, that Slavery is a Divine institution, which no man can interfere with, without at the same time calling God Almighty to judgment for creating it. Bishop Hopkins sets forth what God says in his Holy Word on the subject of Slavery. The letter is God speaking through Bishop Hopkins. Your protest is really a protest against the Almighty. He created Slavery, and not Bishop Hopkins. So long as the Bible teaches that Slavery is a Divine institution, I shall maintain that it is. Upon the rock of the everlasting Scriptures I will stand forever. No man can remove me there from.
“Bishop Hopkins also proves conclusively by abundant authority, both sacred and profane, that Slavery is an institution that has been recognized in all ages of the world, established by positive law in the Old Testament, and admitted as an institution from God by our Savior and all the Apostles. It has also been recognized during all this length of time as an institution by the Church, and even by your own Church. I have no doubt it would still be recognized as a just and Divine institution, had it not been for the false theories, as I think, of mistaken New England philanthropists, in which they invent out of it a New Sin.”

BISHOP HOPKINS'S LETTER.
We invite the particular attention of our readers to the masterly response of Bishop Hopkins, of Vermont, to the Bishop and clergy of Pennsylvania, published in our present issue. It is worthy of attention on several accounts. 
We are at once surprised and gratified at Bishop Hopkins's announcement of his purpose to publish a volume on the relation of the Church to slavery, evidently intending an argument in the same general line as that pursued by ourselves in the article on the Church and slavery in our last number. That line of argument is the true one; and we doubt not that, in the hands of Bishop Hopkins, it will prove unanswerable. The time has evidently come when the Protestant Churches of Britain and America must renounce, emphatically, the semi-infidel heresies of abolitionism, or fall into utter apostasy. From this conviction it is that, we devote now so large a portion of our space to that subject.—Louisville True Presbyterian.
<c03>
Selections.
GEORGE THOMPSON.
We are sure that we shall give nothing but satisfaction to any of our readers, and the most sincere pleasure to most of them, when we announce that there is a speedy probability of seeing this faithful friend of the American slave once, more among us. Every one who reads the Standard knows how great are the obligations of the anti-slavery cause to him, on both sides of the Atlantic, while those of them who have had the happiness of his personal acquaintance will rejoice at the prospect of seeing his face once more. He may reckon on the warmest welcome which gratitude for his public services and the warmest friendship for his person can afford him. He has for some time contemplated this his third visit to this country; but its uncertainty made it advisable to withhold the announcement of its possibility. Now we believe that it is as certain an event as is consistent with human uncertainties, and that he may be looked for in the course of the next month. We regret to learn that it is not likely that he can arrive in season for the Decade Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at Philadelphia. His presence on that occasion would give it an added interest, and be another motive for a large attendance on the part of its members and friends. But we trust that his visit will be long enough to enable him to renew all his old friendships, which the casualties of life have left him, and to form new ones with the younger generation who have come forward even since his last visit, twelve or thirteen years ago.
We think that we speak within bounds when we say that there is no living man to whom the emancipated slaves, everywhere, will owe a greater debt of gratitude than to Mr. Thompson, after every bond shall have been broken. For his charity in behalf of the black man began at home. In the great agitation which preceded and compelled the emancipation of the West Indian slaves, he bore a prominent and effectual part. The first fruits of his great talents as a public debater and platform speaker were laid upon the altar of West Indian freedom. When that was successfully achieved, he did not regard his work as done. He looked beyond the boundaries of the British Empire, and saw four times as many human beings still pining in chains within the domain of the daughter land, as he had helped to set free in that of the mother country. He heard the voice of the American slave calling to him, as the Men of Macedonia did in vision to the Apostle, “Come over and help us!” And he was not disobedient to the entreaty. He came to the help of the American Anti-Slavery movement in the day of its small things, and he did much towards building it up to the day of its great things. In the performance of this duty, he literally took his life in his hand. The malignity of the spite with which he was pursued by the pro-slavery press, and the murderous violence with which he was hunted by the pro-slavery mobs of 1835, are hardly credible even by those whose memory runlets back to those evil times. It is generally known that the Boston mob of October 21st, in that year, was raised and directed against “the Englishman Thompson,” and only accidentally directed against Mr. Garrison. Had Mr. Thompson been found, his life would not have been worth an hour’s purchase. Such was the demoniac fury of that time, that he had to leave the country privily to escape those who were lying in wait to slay him. But during the year of his abode among us at that time, his fresh and glowing eloquence was heard by gathering multitudes in the remoter districts, and helped largely to create that solid foundation of hatred to slavery which is the fulcrum on which the moral, political and military levers rest, which are to heave the load from off the conscience of the nation.
Returned to England, in whatever position he found himself, in Parliament, or on the platform of other reforms, he never failed in his fidelity to the American slave, and to the friends of the slave. And in the year 1850, he revisited our shores once again, and did an excellent work in the anti-slavery field of that day. But it is the services he has rendered the country, since the breaking out of the rebellion, which form the latest and strongest claims to our gratitude. The value of those services can hardly be over-estimated, and we apprehend that there is no man in England to whom the preservation of peaceful relations with this country is more due than to Mr. Thompson. Though he has not made himself prominent in the measures he has promoted, preferring to put forward others whose general influence might be greater than his, we believe that the revival of the anti-slavery sentiment of England, politically and religiously, has been largely owing to his untiring exertions. For such service there is no man on the Eastern continent so well qualified. His knowledge of American affairs at large, and in particular wherever they are complicated with slavery, is absolutely complete. We are certain that there is no man in Europe; and we believe that there are but very few in America, so thoroughly well-informed on American topics as he. Thoroughly acquainted with all the machinery of English government and society, he has been able to use the exact appliances necessary for the accomplishment of the particular necessity of each critical moment of our affairs in England. That there was a strong, overbearing disposition on the part of the governing classes there to throw the weight of England on the side of the rebellion, no one can doubt who has kept an eye on the press and the public speech of that country. Had this malign influence prevailed, and the blockade been broken, if not the independence of the Confederacy recognized, what a fearful difference it would have made in the present state of our affairs! That predisposition on the part of the landed interest, the manufacturers, the great lawyers, the merchants, and almost all that is potential in English politics, could only be counteracted by the counteracting public opinion of the middling and lower classes, of the dissenting interest, of the conscience and religious sense of the underlying masses. We believe that no man has known so well how to direct the machinery necessary to arouse these powers into action, and to give them a right direction, as Mr. Thompson. And what he has known to do, he has done, and done well. 
We hold, therefore, that Mr. Thompson deserves a grateful and warm reception, should he accomplish, his visit, not only from the Abolitionists, but from all who estimate aright the importance of the neutrality of England at the most urgent crisis of our affairs. That it was a very dubious matter at one time whether that neutrality, such as it has been, would be maintained, has been always clear to careful observers. That the popular demonstrations lately made have greatly aided, if they have not absolutely caused the adoption of neutrality as the settled policy of the government, is an equally well-ascertained fact. And for the strength, the directness, the adapted ness of those demonstrations to the particular emergency, we have very largely to thank Mr.
<c04>
Thompson. We trust, therefore, that all Republicans, all War Democrats, all loyal men of every-name, may unite with the Abolitionists in giving this true friend of America such a welcome as his great services have earned for him. And it would be a fitting reward for his life-long service to the American slaves, could his eyes be blest with the sight of their final and complete Emancipation.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
 
SECRETARY CHASE IN BALTIMORE.
Secretary Chase recently addressed an immense Union meeting in Montgomery Square, Baltimore. The following is a brief report of his remarks:-
“I see, my countrymen, that you need no speech to-night. I have not come for the purpose of speaking; I have come to express my profound sympathy. I feel that I am with the unconditional Union men of Maryland. (Applause.) To you our whole country looks for the ratification of what we did in Ohio. (Cries of 'Good, bully for Ohio, &c.) Twenty thousand majority promised in Maryland cannot, by Ohio men at least, be regarded as quite equal to one hundred thousand given in Ohio for the same cause, but in Maryland it tells the whole country that the Union is safe beyond peradventure. 
I read here to-night, 'The Union.’ ‘Emancipation,’ 'Goldsborough,’ 'The Union First.' Emancipation is a sure means of perpetuating the Union, securing the triumph of the Union, cause, and the election of your worthy candidate as a symbol which Maryland gives of her fidelity to the great cause. (Applause.) I thank you, my friends, in kind terms, for this introduction. I wish I were worthy to be counted leader of such a host as this, but, my countrymen, the time has come when the people are the leaders.
When a people have become aroused to a consciousnets of their own dignity, their own manhood, and their own interests, they will trample under foot any leader who dares to desert the principles of freedom, justice and the Union. You are about to show yourselves wise and patriotic men, by returning to his seat in Congress—two years occupied by a man of very widely different principles—the patriotic, gallant, eloquent, fearless man who has borne the standard in this State. (Applause.) He did not shrink from the hazard of the contest.
Other men might have paused, but Winter Davis went straight on, (applause;) other men might have doubted, but Winter Davis never faltered. (Voices—'Never!') Then stand by him; he has stood by you and your interests, as you are determined to stand. We shall welcome him at Washington as a strong, solid prop of our cause.
Fellow-citizens, one word more. The unconditional Union cause is one and the same throughout the land. It is one here in Maryland; it is one in Ohio; it is one in Missouri; and the time has come when all unconditional Union men of the whole country must stand together, and shrink from no responsibility which the times may bring about. You will shrink from none. You will do your duty on the 4th of November. 
You will proclaim your adhesion to the cause of the Union and to the cause of Emancipation, in tones which cannot but be understood. I hail this grand meeting, this grand outpouring of the people, as a sure symbol and pledge of the times. (Applause.) I did not come to make a speech. (Cries of ‘Go on; go on!') 
You are very kind, but there are other gentlemen here who will address you much more acceptably than I can, for it is my business to work, and not to talk. I am just going back, to do my work. I am paying off the army.” (Long continued cheering.)

EFFECT OF THE EMANICIPATION POLICY ON THE BORDER STATES.
The Emancipation policy of the President has been ferociously assailed by the Copperheads of the North ever since it was announced. The objection most strongly urged was, that it would alienate the border States from the Union, and drive them inevitably into rebellion. Many patriotic men were made to believe that such would inevitably be the consequence, if the Presidence adhered to his policy. But what has been the result? Have the border States been exasperated into revolt? Have they seceded, and joined the Confederacy? The wisdom of the President's policy has been made manifest to all men. The edict of emancipation has fixed the border States irrevocably in t he Union. It has put an end to the desire to secede. It has caused the citizens to resolve to abolish slavery, and make them free States. Missouri led off. A large majority of the people demanded the abolition of the rebellion-breeding institution, and the issue now is, whether it shall be gradually got rid of, or ended outright. The friends of a summary riddance seem to be in the majority. 
The people of Maryland have just rendered a verdict of 25,000 majority, that slavery is no longer fit to live in that State, and that it must speedily die. The State is more ardently Union this day than Illinois. Delaware has come to the same resolution, and this week will pronounce the doom of slavery within her borders. One of the first acts of West Virginia was to abolish slavery, and the last was to elect three radical anti-slavery men to Congress. Last August, Kentucky gave 50,000 against Copperhead Wickliffe and the unconditional Union. The people have thus solemnly pledged themselves to stand by the Federal Government, slavery or no slavery. It is very probable that before the next general election passes, they will conclude to follow the glorious example of the other border States, and decree Emancipation.
Even in Tennessee, which belongs to the Middle Slave States, the Union men, with Gov. Johnson at their head, have pronounced for Emancipation, and the cause is gaining strength every day, and ere long the infernal practice will cease in the land of the Hermitage.
Now, these are hard, obvious, undeniable facts. The Emancipation policy of the President has not caused any border State to try or wish to leave the Union. On the contrary, it has induced the citizens to take steps to assimilate their domestic institutions with those of the great free sisterhood of the North, and to cling to the Union more firmly than ever. The policy of Emancipation has given the Administration more strength than 200,000 soldiers, without it, would bring. When the rebellion broke out, there were but nineteen States voluntarily loyal and unconditional for the Union. The Emancipation policy has added four to the number, and a twelvemonth hence it will have added five more. Before Mr. Lincoln has served out his second term, it will have added the remaining six. The Union will then be “all one thing.” The house will no longer be “divided against itself.” The “irrepressible conflict” will be forever ended. The demon of discord will be exorcised, and permanent peace will bring healing and happiness on her wings. How much of the credit will be due to the Copperheads?— Chicago Tribune.
<c05>
Gen. Butler can desire and receive no higher compliment than what is embodied in the following diatribe, considering the source whence it emanates.
 
GEN. BUTLER AT NORFOLK.
Intimations have been given that the south side is to be the next road to Richmond. The appointment of Butler is not indicative of active operations in itself, but he may have been sent forward not only for the purpose of present robbery in the district already subjected to Yankee control, but to prepare the machinery of oppression, which it would afford them the most exquisite delight to inflict upon Richmond by the most abject of all their vile instruments. The gallant soldiers who have hitherto defended the capital need no stimulus in the good cause, but even their valor might derive fresh fire from the thought that Butler is to boast of any success that may be obtained, and to show his ingenuity in inventing indignities for any population that may unfortunately come under his control. 
The vulture has not a keener scent for the field of carnage, nor is the pilferer at the battle-field a surer indication that the storm of war has passed by, than is the presence of this man a sign and an indication that the arts of plunder and ingenious tyranny are to be employed to complete the work prepared by the intervention of force. Despotism needs and employs a variety of tools. It must have not only the skill and the power which overcome armed resistance, but the relentless cruelty which follows up the blows, the petty malice which devises the various modes by which the most sacred sentiments and the tenderest affections can be wounded, and the sharpened ingenuity of avarice which constructs the effective machinery of regulated robbery. These qualities are rarely combined in the same individual. The prowess of the civilized soldier may be found, though not usually, joined with the cruelty of the savage. Scarcely ever is it linked with that pettifogging ingenuity and untiring malice which permeates every corner of domestic life, and insinuates itself into the most secret recesses of the soul.
It was at New Orleans, however, that he touched the zenith. There was unmistakably displayed his aptitude and ability for administering the final stage of Yankee conquest. His people and his government were only, however, ungrateful. They boldly shielded him against the obloquy and scorn heaped upon him from all parts of the world, and accepted him—to which opinion there will be no dissentient voice—as the fitting type of his country.
It may, at the first blush, seem to be a degradation of the “Grand Yankee,” as the Atlantic Monthly styles him, to place him in so insignificant a field as Norfolk, after the rich harvest he was allowed to gather in New Orleans. Can unfortunate Norfolk, so long impoverished by the rule of tyranny, afford anything worthy of the ingenuity of him who has been accustomed to plunder by millions? It is a proof of patriotism on his part that he descends to so insignificant a sphere, or it is a compliment to his ability that he is expected to glean additional treasures from a region that seems utterly exhausted to less skilful robbery.
It may not be useless to recall to mind that the Confederate Government, not taking the same view of Butler's act as his own countrymen, proclaimed him an outlaw, and required that he should be executed by any officer into whose hands he might happen to fall. The proclamation remains in full force at the present day, and we have thought fit to refresh the memory of all Southern officers in this neighborhood, by its republication in the present number of the Richmond Examiner. That he should assume command so close to the Confederate Capital, with the sentence hanging over him, smacks a little of bravado. He will, no doubt, use all those wise precautions for his personal safety which he has been accustomed to take; yet it is not impossible that his vigilance may be found at fault on some occasion, and it would make a pleasing and appropriate termination to his career if the soil of Virginia, which witnesses his disgraceful defeat in his first essay of arms, should provide the scaffold on which he should meet the merited retribution of his crimes.—Richmond Examiner. 

HENRY WARD BEECHER IN EXETER HALL.
The great London demonstration in favor of the American Government, and to give a cordial welcome to the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, was held in Exeter Hall on the evening of the 20th ult.—an immense assemblage being present. The chair was taken by BENJAMIN SCOTT, Esq., Chamberlain of London. 
The Chairman said: Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that the crowd outside the building is so dense that Mr. Beecher has not been able to force his way punctually. It has been with the greatest difficulty that myself and some other members of the committee have found our way here. You will therefore, I am sure, make all allowance for Mr. Beecher if he should yet be a few minutes behind time. (Cheers.) I will proceed to address a few words pending the arrival of Mr. Beecher. Appearing before you to preside this evening, I regret to say in place of Mr. Bright, whom we had hoped to be present—(cheers)—I must inform you that it is not our object here to-night to discuss the great American struggle. There will be, and there are presented to us, from day to day, abundant opportunities of discussing that momentous question. Our object to-night is to afford an opportunity to a distinguished stranger—(cheers)—to address us on that absorbing topic—a gentleman who is entitled, whatever opinions we may hold, to our profound respect. (Great cheering.) Whether we regard Henry Ward Beecher as the son of the celebrated Dr. Beecher—(hear)—or as the brother of Mrs. Beecher Stowe—(cheers)—or a stranger visiting our shores—whether we regard him as a gentleman or a Christian minister, and as the uncompromising advocate of human rights—(loud cheers)—he is entitled to our respectful and courteous attention. (Cheers.) I am quite sure that this assembly of Englishmen and English women will support me in securing for him a respectful hearing. It becomes the more incumbent upon us to do so since he states that the rapid and fragmentary reports which were , flashed across the Atlantic by the telegraph, have been so brief and hurried that they have not conveyed to us his full meaning and sense. He has been very often misunderstood, and, I fear, misrepresented, and as a stranger about to depart from our shores in a few days, he asks for this opportunity of putting himself right with the London public on this question. You will hear him, and judge of his statements, and I am sure you will accord him a fair hearing. I shall myself abstain advisedly from entering upon the subject of to-night's address. I wish merely to take this opportunity of saying how much I esteem the man personally, and because he has been the uncompromising advocate, for twenty-five years, in times of peace and before the war, of the emancipation of the enslaved and oppressed. He was one of the few thinking men who were the noble pioneers of freedom on the American continent.
<c06>
He was so when it was neither fashionable nor profitable to be so. He took his stand, not on the shifting sands of expediency, but on the immovable rock of principle. (Cheers.) He had put his hand to a plough which would never turn back. Some people had allowed their ears to be stuffed with cotton (laughter and cheers)—some were blinded by gold dust, and some had allowed the gag of expediency to be put in their mouths to quiet them. (Cheers.) But Henry Ward Beecher stood before the world of America, and for some time stood almost alone, and called things by their right names. (Cheers.) He had no mealy-mouthed expressions about peculiar institutions, patriarchal institutions, and paternal institutions-(“hear, hear,” and laughter)—but he called slavery by the old English name of slavery. (Loud cheers.) And he charged to the account of that crime, cruelty, lust, murder, rapine, piracy. (Loud cheers.) He minced not his terms or his phrases. He looked right ahead to the course of duty which he had selected; and, regardless of the threats of man or the wrath of man, although the tar-pot was ready for him and the feathers were prepared— although the noose and the halter were ready and almost about his neck—he went straight onward to the object; and now he has converted—as every man who stands alone for the truth and right will eventually convert—a large majority of those who were originally opposed to him. (Cheers.) What the humble draper's assistant, Granville Sharpe, did in this country, Henry Ward Beecher and two or three like-minded men have done on the continent of America. When he heard Christian ministers— God save the mark!—standing in their pulpits with the book of truth before them, and stating that the institution of slavery was Christian, he did not mince the matter he affirmed that it was bred in the bottomless pit. (Loud cheers.) I honor and respect him for his manliness. He is every inch a man. (Cries of “Beecher,” and cheers.) He is a standard by which humanity may well measure itself. (Loud cheers.) Would to God we had a hundred such men! (Cheers, and cries of “Put Beecher up.”) I will now call upon Mr. Beecher—(great cheering) —but allow me to say that we shall only prolong our meeting in this heated atmosphere by not affording the speaker a fair opportunity of addressing you. (Loud applause.)
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher then advanced to the front of the platform amidst the most enthusiastic demonstrations of applause. The whole, audience stood up: hats and handkerchiefs were waved, and for some minutes the most exciting manifestations of hearty English good feeling were extended to the American advocate of freedom. As the uproarious greeting subsided, a few hisses rose up from the middle of the room, as if a body of serpents had some how or other found their way into the assembly, and were adding their prolonged tribute to the general display. Mr. Beecher then addressed the audience as follows, speaking distinctly and deliberately:” Ladies and gentlemen,—The very kind introduction that I have received requires but a single word from me. I should be guilty if I could take all the credit which has been generously ascribed to me, but I am not old enough to have been a pioneer. And when I think of such names as Weld, Alvan Stewart, Gerrit Smith, Joshua Leavit, William Goodwill, Arthur and Lewis Tappan, William Lloyd Garrison—(loud applause)—and that most accomplished speaker of the world, Wendell Phillips—(renewed applause)— when I think of multitudes of that peculiar class of Christians called Friends—when I think of the number of men, obscure, without name or fame, who labored in the earliest days at the foundation of this reformation—and when I remember that I came in afterwards rather to build on their foundation— I cannot permit in this fair country the honors to be put upon me, and wrested from those other men that deserve them far more than I do. (Cheers.) All I can say is this, that when I began my public life. I fell into the ranks under the appropriate captains, and fought as well as I knew how in the ranks or in command. (Loud cheers.) As this is my last popular address upon the American question in England, I may be permitted to glance at my brief history here. (Hear, hear.) At Manchester, I attempted to give a history of the external political movement for fifty years past, so far as it was necessary to illustrate the fact that the present American war was only an overt and warlike form of a contest between liberty and slavery that had been going on politically for half a century. (Hear, hear.) At Glasgow, I undertook to show the condition of work or labor necessitated by any profitable system of slavery, demonstrating that it brought labor into contempt, affixing to it the badge of degradation, and that a struggle to extend servile labor across the American continent interests every free working man on the globe. (Cheers.) For my sincere belief is, that the Southern cause is the natural enemy of free labor and the free laborer all the world over. (Loud cheers.) In Edinburgh, (I endeavored to sketch how out of separate colonies and States intensely jealous of their individual sovereignty, there grew up and was finally established a nation, and how in that nation of united States two distinct and antagonistic systems were developed, and strove for the government and control of the national policy, which struggle at length passed, and the North gained the control, and the South abandoned the Union simply and solely because the Government was in future to be administered by men who would give their whole influence to freedom. (Load cheers.) In a Liverpool, I labored—(laughter and cheers)—to show that slavery in the long run was as hostile to commerce and to manufactures all the world over as it was to free interests in human society—(cheers) —that a slave nation must be a poor customer, buying the fewest and poorest goods, and the least profits paying—(hear, hear)—that it was the interest of every manufacturing country to promote freedom, intelligence, and wealth amongst all nations-(cheers) that this attempt to cover the fairest portion of the earth with a slave population that buys nothing, and a degraded white population that buys next to nothing, should array against it the sympathy of every true political economist, and every thoughtful and far-seeing manufacturer, as tending to strike at the vital want of commerce—not the want of cotton, but the want of customers. (Cheers.) I have endeavored to enlist against this flagitious wickedness, and the great civil war which it has kindled, the judgment, conscience, and interests of the British people. (Cheers.)
I am aware that a popular address before an excited audience, more or less affected to party sympathies, is not the most favorable method of doing justice to these momentous topics; and there have been some other circumstances which made it yet more difficult to present a careful or evenly balanced statement; but I shall try to do the best I can, so that there may be no vestige of doubt left that slavery was the cause—the only cause, and the whole cause—of this gigantic and cruel war. (Cheers.) I have tried to show that sympathy for the South, however covered by excuses or softened by sophistry, is simply the most audacious attempt ever made to build up a slave empire pure and simple. (Hear, hear.) I have tried to show that in 
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY CIPATION OF THE SLAVES FROM the instant that the slaveholding States becomes the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAR INCAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRT IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TARES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” J. Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
this contest the North were contending for the pre-serration of their Government and their own territory, and those popular institutions on which the well- being of the nation depended. (Hear, hear.) Now, I ask you to-night to look at this struggle from an American point of view, and in its moral aspects. (Hear, hear.) That is, I wish you to take our stand-point for a little while-(cheers)-and to look at our actions and motives, not from what the enemy says, but from what we say. (Cheers.) When two men have disagreed, it is quite in vain to promote peace between them by attempting to prove that either of them is all right, or either of them is all wrong. (Hear, hear) Now there has been some disagreement of feeling between America and Great Britain. I don't want to argue the question to-night which is right and which is wrong, but if some kind neighbor will persuade these two people that are at disagreement to consider each other's position and circumstances, it may not lead either to adopting the other's judgment, but it may lead them to say of each other, "I think he is honest and means well, even if he be mistaken." (Loud cheers.) Your may not thus get a settlement of the difficulty, but you will get a settlement of the quarrel, and tonight I am not here to ask you to bolt bones, flesh, and all, without discrimination. (Hear, hear.) I may say, I merely ask you to put yourselves into our tracks for one hour, and look at the subjects as we look at them-(cheers)-then, after that, form your judgment as you may please. (Cheers.)
Mr. Beecher proceeded to make a long and telling speech, full of brilliant points and felicitous hits, which elicited the most enthusiastic applause. We regret that we cannot publish it entire in our present number for want of space. Mr. Beecher concluded as follows:
I shall be able to bear an assurance to our people of the enthusiasm you feel for the cause of the North. And then there is the very significant act of your Government-the seizure of the rams in Liverpool. (Loud cheers.) Then there are the weight words spoken by Lord Russell at Glasgow, and the words spoken by the Attorney General. (Cheers.) These acts and declarations of policy, coupled with all that I have seen, and the feeling of enthusiasm of this English people, will warm the hearts of the Americans in the North. If we are one in civilization, one in religion, one substantially in faith, let us be one in national policy, one in every enterprise for the furtherance of the gospel and for the happiness of mankind. (Cheers.) I thank you for your long patience with me. (Go on!) Ah! when I was a boy, they used to tell me never to eat enough, but always to get up being yet a little hungry. I would rather you should go away wishing I had spoken longer than go away saying, "What a tedious fellow he was!" (A laugh.) And therefore if you will not permit me to close and go, I beg you to recollect that this is the fifth speech of more than two hours' length that I have spoken, on some occasions under difficulties, within seven or eight days, and I am so exhausted that I ask you to permit me to stop. (Great cheering.)
Professor Newman then rose, and moved the following resolution, which he supported in an eloquent speech:-
Resolved, That this meeting presents its most cordial thanks to the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher for the admirable address which he has delivered this evening and expresses its hearty sympathy with his reprobation of the slaveholders' rebellion, his vindication of the rights of a free Government, and his aspirations for peace and friendship between the English people and their American brethren; and as this meeting recognizes in Mr. Beecher one of the early pioneers of negro emancipation, as well as one of the most eloquent and successful of the champions of that great cause, it rejoices in this opportunity of congratulating him on the triumph with which the labors of himself and his associates have been crowned in the anti-slavery policy of President Lincoln and his Cabinet. (Cheers.)
George Thompson, Esq. seconded the resolution. He spoke as follows:-
Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen,-I promise you that my words shall be exceedingly few. Two "new men" have set you and me the example of brevity, and I, an old man, will not violate the example they have furnished. I may, however, be permitted to say that it is with more than ordinary interest I attend such a meeting as this, when I recollect that more than nine-and-twenty years ago I was laboring with a handful of faithful men and women in the city of Boston, in the State of Massachusetts, amid much obloquy and frequent danger, in disseminating those very truths which are now convulsing and converting America-regenerating and establishing America-and which will through many future ages, and I trust centuries, cement together the several parts of America-and in no long period from this moment exhibit to the world a continent in which there neither domineers a tyrant nor crawls a slave. (Loud cheers.) I can, from the study and observation of thirty years, during which I have paid two visits to America, and held familiar intercourse with many of the wisest-certainly of the best-in that country, and have enjoyed uninterrupted intercourse with them by correspondence and the reception of newspapers through that whole time,-I can bear my humble testimony to the truth of all that, in substance at least, Mr. Beecher has said to-night. (Hear, hear.) Let Mr. Beecher know that the heart of England would have beaten in all its pulses but for-whatever may have been the motives-the perversions of the truth which have been steadily kept before the public. Let Mr. Beecher know that the men throughout this country	who have manifested a decided leaning towards the South are men who belong to two classes, and two classes only-either the unteachable, and therefore the ignorant, or the informed, and therefore the wilful. (Cheers.) I have heard in this meeting occasional cries of "No." Now I have had an opportunity in almost every part of England of taking the amount of information possessed by those who at public meeting like this shout, "No, no." If the provincial papers had not to a great extent followed the example of some members of the London press, Mr. Beecher need not have come to this country to know what the opinions of the honest and uncorrupted millions of Englishmen on this subject have ever been. (Cheers.) Had the North been disposed to pay the price which the South has paid, the venal pens that have slandered the North would have been as ready to magnify and exalt the North. (Hear, hear.) It comes within my knowledge that in the city of Manchester, where there is a feeble imitator of a great public instructor of this metropolis-(A Voice: The Manchester Guardian)-in that city many public meetings have been held, in all of which, by immense majorities and frequently with perfect unanimity, resolutions have been passed in favor of the North, and approving and supporting the anti slavery policy of President Lincoln, and in all the great surrounding towns similar meetings have been held and resolutions passed, and yet that newspaper has given no publicity whatever to the occurrence of such meetings-(shame)-while it has blazoned forth every little and insignificant meeting held by little knots of Secessionists, whose names until recently we could not by all diligence obtain. (Hear, hear.) Let Mr. Beecher see that while this hall has been crowded, and while thousands have been gathered in the hall below, and in the Strand and neighboring streets, and while in all the various districts of London and its suburbs there have been multitudinous meetings, always with the same results, and almost unanimous in their support of the North, only two meetings have been held in London-or, at least, meetings only in two places-in support of the South: one, a meeting called to hear lecture from some redoubtable Colonel Fuller, who volunteered to tell us all about the question, and the other a meeting held up a pair of stairs in Devonshire-street, Portland-place. (Laughter and cheers.) And yet the Times and the Manchester Guardian ignore the occurrence of meeting like this! But what for? It serves their masters for the time; it pleases their patrons for the time; and it manager the market for the time. But it will come to pass on this question, as it came to pass with regard to other questions discussed on this platform, that the "brayings" of Exeter Hall will become the utterance of the feelings of the English people. (Cheers.) You are asked to commend the address of Mr. Beecher, because in it he has rightly reprobated the slaveholders rebellion. (Hear, hear.) There are a few Copperheads in this assembly. (Laughter.) I don't know whether you all are aware what they are, and Mr. Beecher could tell you better than I can. South Carolina is called the Palmetto State, but besides having the palmetto for its ensign, it has also the <illegible>. (Hear, hear.) The <illegible> loses its skin every year, and gets a new one-and I hope that South Carolina will also lose its skin, and get a new one-but while the process is going on, the <illegible> becomes blind, and the copperhead snake brings it the food it requires. 
<c02>
Therefore the people in the North who sympathize with the South have got the name of Copperheads. (Laughter. Now if, on leaving this hall, you should hear any gentleman finding fault with Mr. Beecher, 1 do not say call him a Copperhead- (laughter)-but you may at any rate suspect that he is very nearly one, (Great laughter.) Mr. Beecher has said that this is a slaveholders' rebellion. Slaveholders conceived it, and developed and formed all that is vital and influential in the Southern Confederacy. Their President is a slaveholder, and if not, he was one until the advance of the Federal troops set his slaves at liberty. (Hear, hear.) The simple object of the South is to raise an empire by the subjugation of a weaker race. But 1 believe that the South will not succeed in her criminal designs, and that, notwithstanding temporary checks and reverses, the Federals, who have been compelled to draw the sword, will in the end achieve the victory. (Cheers.) And I earnestly pray that when the smoke of battle shall have passed away, and the tears have been wiped from the eye of every mourner, and when the grass has begun to grow upon the graves of those who have fallen, universal liberty will prevail, and the whole of America be made hallowed ground. (Protracted applause.)
The motion was then carried amidst loud cheers, only three hands being held up against it. 

WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
SPEECHES, LECTURES, AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Boston: James Redpath. 
In vigor, in point, in command of language and felicity of phrase, in affluence and aptness of illustration, in barbed keenness and cling of sarcasm, in terror of invective, in moral weight and momentum, in copiousness and quality of thought, in aggressive boldness of statement, finally in equality to all audiences and readiness for all occasions, Wendell Phillips is certainly the first orator in America,-and that we esteem much the same as saying that he is first among those whose vernacular is the English tongue. That no speeches are made of equal value with his, that be has an intellectual superiority to all competitors in the forum, we do not assert; but his preeminence in pure oratorical genius may now be considered as established and unquestionable. Ajax has the strength, perhaps more than the strength, of Achilles; but Achilles adds to vigor of arm incomparable swiftness of foot. The mastiff is stout, brave, trusty, intelligent, but the hound outruns him; and this greyhound of modern oratory, deep-chested, light-limbed, supple, elastic, elegant, powerful, must be accredited with his own special superiorities. Or taking a cue from the tales of chivalry, we might say that he is the Sir Launcelot of the platform, in all but Sir Launcelot's sin; and woe to the knight against whom in full career he levels his lance! 
And yet one is half ashamed to praise his gifts, so superbly does he himself cast those gifts behind him. He is not trying to be eloquent; he is trying to get a grand piece of justice done in the world. No engineer building a bridge, no ship-master in a storm at sea, was ever more simply intent on substantive results. It is not any " Oration for the Crown" that he stands here pronouncing: it is service, not distinction, at which be aims, and be will be crowned only in the gladness of a redeemed race. The story of his life is a tale of romance; he makes real the legends of chivalry. He might have sat at meat with Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and looked with equal unabashed eyes into theirs; and a thousand years hence, some skeptic, reading the history of these days, will smile a light disdain, and say, " Very well for fiction; but real men are selfish beings, and serve themselves always to the sweetest and biggest loaf they can find." 
We praise his gifts and his nobility, not always his opinions. He was once the apostle of a doctrine of disunion; he fervently believes in enforcing "total abstinence" by statute; he is the strenuous advocate of woman-suffrage. We have stood by the Union always; we have some faith in pure wine, notwithstanding the Maine Law; and believing that women have a right to vote, we believe also that they have a higher right to be excused from voting. We are unwilling to consume their delicate fitnesses in this rude labor. It is not economical. We do not believe in using silk for ships' top-sails, or China porcelain for wash-tubs. There are tasks for American women-tasks, we mean, of a social and public, not alone of a domestic nature-which only women can rightly perform, while their accomplishment was never more needed than here. 
Mr. Phillips is no "faultless painter. "He is given to snap-judgments. The minor element of considerateness should be more liberally present. He forgets that fast driving is not suitable to crowded streets; and through the densest thoroughfares, the hoofs of his flying charger go ringing over the pavements, to the alarm of many and the damage of some. Softly, Bucephalus! A little gentle ambling through these social complications might sometimes be well. 
Again, while he has the utmost of moral stability and constancy, and also great firmness of intellectual adhesion to main principles, there is in him a certain minor changefulness. He pours out a powerful light, but it flickers. Momentary partialities sway him,-to be balanced, indeed, by subsequent partialities, for his broad nature will not be permanently one-sided; but meantime his authority suffers. Mood, occasion, the latest event, govern overmuch the color of his statement; so that an unsympathetic auditor-and every partiality, by the law of the world, must push some one out of the ring of sympathy-may honestly deem him unfair, even wilfully unfair.
 Finally, he relies too much upon sarcasm and personal invective as agents. He has a theory on this matter; and we feel sure that it is erroneous. Not that invective is to be forbidden. Not that personal criticism is always out of place, or always useless. We are among the "all men" whom Thoreau declared to be "enamored of the beauty of plain speech." We ask no man in public or private life to wear a satin glove upon his tongue. We believe, too, in the "noble wrath" of Tasso's heroes. When the heart must burn, let the words be fire. It is just where personal invective begins to be used as matter of theory and system, that it begins to be used amiss. Let the rule be to spare it, if it can be spared, and to use it under the strictest compelling of moral indignation. And were not Mr. Phillips among the most genial and sunny of human beings, really incapable of any malign passion, he would feel the reactive sting of this invective in his own bosom, and so become fearful of indulging it.
Still, it must be said that he has the genius and function of a critic. He is the censor of our statesmanship. He is the pruner of our politics. Let his censure be broad and deliberate, that it may be weighty; let his pruning be with care and kindness, that it may be with benefit.-Atlantic Monthly for December. 
To the Editor of the Portland Press: 
We must thank the publisher, Mr. Redpath of Boston, for furnishing us at this time the Letters, Speeches and Addresses of Wendell Phillips; a book executed in that truly beautiful style of typography for which Messrs. Welsh, Bigelow & Co., printers to Cambridge -University, are so justly celebrated. 
These writings possess at this time rare interest; the productions of a great mind ranking easily among the foremost in our country-a man, who, more than any other in the land, has developed and given creation to that sentiment which will be " the healing of the nation," the salvation of the great Republic. The writings of one acknowledged on every hand the most eloquent in America.
Among many others, I noticed recently the Leaven worth Conservative, a leading Commercial Journal whose editor, D. Webster Wilder, is a graduate of Harvard, holds this language:- 
"We understand that Edward Everett is soon to visit the West. We should be glad to hear him in this region; next to Wendell Phillips, he is the most eloquent man in the country.'" 
A gentleman in Washington told me, a short time since, that be was about to furnish his son, as an aid to his education, the writings of Wendell Phillips, with directions to write off and study; these presenting the finest specimens of eloquence, especially of American eloquence. 
I could multiply these evidences of the worth and popularity of the book at pleasure.
I have myself seen the book only in the hands of a friend, being unable, when in Boston, to purchase a copy, the several editions having been rapidly exhausted. The sale has been very large. But one who knows Welsh and Bigelow's University Press of Cambridge, must know that they will soon supply the public demand. 
I say again, we must thank Mr. Red path, the publisher, for this timely work. 
Yours truly, S. W. C. 
BOWDOINHAM, Oct. 26, 1863. 
<c03>
The Liberator. 
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FKIDAY, NOVEMBER 27,1863. 
CELEBBATION OF THE THIKD DECADE 
OF THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New York, in May last, it was unanimously 
Resolved, That in accordance with usage, and from reasons of obvious fitness, it is proper that the completion of another Decade of the Society's existence should be marked by a special public meeting devoted to a general review and survey of the cause; and that therefore this Society, when it adjourns on this occasion, will adjourn to meet in the city of Philadelphia, on the 3d day of December next, then and there to celebrate, in an appropriate manner, the thirtieth- and we would fain hope the final-anniversary of its formation." 
In accordance with this vote, the Executive Committee hereby announce that the THIRD DECADE of the Society will be held at Concert Hall, in Philadelphia, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863-commencing at 10 o'clock, A, M., and 7 o'clock, P. M. 
Historically, it will be an occasion of thrilling interest and joyous congratulation, unequalled in the eventful career of the Society since its formation. Unquestionably, it will be largely attended by the friends of universal liberty, representing every section of the country loyal to the Government. Who among them will need any stronger appeal than the simple announcement of the fact to induce him to be present, if circumstances should permit? Let them make their arrangements accordingly. " Whosoever will, let him come"-come in the spirit of justice and love-come as remembering those in bonds as bound with them-come as one abhorring " the guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man "-come to put down the rebellion by helping to exterminate the hideous system from which it has legitimately sprung! 
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be in attendance. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries. 
CHARLES C BURLEIGH, 

"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL 
THE LAND." 
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society congratulate its members and friends that, through the madness, rebellion and secession of the South, avowedly in behalf of its Heaven-accursed and world-abhorred slave system,-involving the country in a civil war of the hugest proportions and the most sanguinary character, which still continues its desolating work,-the constitutional powers of the Federal Government are now ample to decree the immediate and total abolition of slavery. They believe that, as a measure of national peace and unity, of humanity and justice, such a decree should be passed by the ensuing Congress at as early a period in the session as practicable,-thus not only sustaining the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln of January 1st, 1863, but also effectually disposing of that remnant of the slave institution which was exempted by the Proclamation aforesaid, in such manner as may seem most equitable and expedient by Congress. 
The warrant for this procedure is to be found in the still greatly imperilled state of the republic, and in the legitimate functions of the Government that may be exercised in such an alarming crisis. By common law, an individual has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law. In view of international law, a nation is an individual, and has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law; one of those means being the destruction of any dynasty or institution that imperils national life. Slavery has struck at the life of the nation, and declared its own existence incompatible with that of the nation. Hence the nation, acting through its official organs, has the right to abolish slavery throughout its dominions; and past events demonstrate alike the necessity and duty of exercising this right without delay and without compromise. 
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, therefore, deeply impressed with the importance of a general co-operation of the friends of impartial liberty at this time, in order to influence and secure the action of Congress in the manner described, hereby announce, that they have resolved to put forthwith into the lecturing field as many agents as the funds of the Society will warrant, whose sole work shall be to enlighten the public mind on this subject, stimulate to a wide-spread movement in favor of universal emancipation, and thus make the recurrence of another SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION an impossible event. 
To sustain and increase the number of these agents, the Committee solicit the generous contributions and donations of all who desire to see the speedy suppression of the war, and in the fullest sense "LIBERTY AND UNION " made "ONE AND INSEPARABLE." 
In furtherance of this patriotic and Christian object, the " Women's Loyal-National League " at New York has taken the field, in advance, to procure to a petition to the next Congress, for the total abolition of slavery, A MILLION OF SIGNATURES on the part of the loyal women of the republic. It deserves all possible encouragement and success, and we shall extend to it the heartiest co-operation. But let the loyal MEN be equally zealous and resolved to be as potentially heard in the same manner, by the same body. Let such a petition be sent to Congress from every city, town, village and hamlet in all the loyal States. No time is to be lost. "One last, best effort now!" 
The Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society is WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Mass. Donations may also be sent to OLIVER JOHNSON, Esq., Anti-Slavery Office, 48 Beekman Street, New York, and to J. MILLER Mc. KIM, Anti-Slavery Office, 106 North Tenth Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
CHAS. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries. 

ONE MILLION SIGNATURES! 
CIRCULATE THE PETITION! 
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:- 
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States: 
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States. 
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition-a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President's 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable. 
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing- the object is godlike-the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved. 
Congress convenes at Washington on Monday, Dec 7th. It will be, perhaps, the most important session ever held. Send in the petitions! 
<c04>
THE SIGNERS OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY 
DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS. 
The Convention which formed the American Anti-Slavery Society assembled in Philadelphia, Dec. 4th, 1888, and continued in session three days. A memorable DECLARATION or SENTIMENTS was unanimously adopted by the Convention, engrossed upon parchment, and signed by the members in the following order:- 
Maine.
David Thurston,
Nathan Winslow,
Joseph Southwick,
James F. Otis,
Isaac Winslow.
New Hampshire.
David Cambell.
Vermont.
Orson S. Murray.
Massachusetts.
David S. Southmayd,*
Effingham L. Capron,*
Joshua Coffin,
Amos A. Phelps,*
John G. Whittier,
Horace P. Wakefield,
James G. Barbadoes*,
David T. Kimball,Jr.
Daniel E. Jewett,
John Reid Cambell,
Nathaniel Southard,*
Arnold Buffum,*
William Lloyd Garrison.
Rhode Island.
John Prentice,
George W. Benson,
Ray Potter.*
Connecticut.
Samuel Joseph May,
Alpheus Kingsley,
Edwin A. Stillman,
Simeon S. Jocelyn, 
Robert Bernard Hall.
New York.
Milton Sutliff,
Beriah Green,
Lewis Tappan,
John Rankin,
William Green, Jr.,
Abraham L. Cox,
William Goodell,
Elizar Wright, Jr.,
Charles W. Denison,
George Bourne,*
John Frost.
New Jersey.
Jonathan Parkhurst,*
Chalkley Gillingham,
James White.*
Pennsylvania.
Evan Lewis 
Edwin A. Atlee,*
Robert Purvis,
James McCrummell,
Thomas Shipley,
Bartholomew Fussell,
Enoch Mack,
John McCollough,
James M. McKim,
Aaron Vickers,
James Loughhead,
John R. Sleeper,
Thomas Whitson,
Edwin P. Atlee,*
John Sharp, Jr.,
David Jones, 
Lucas Gillingham,
James Mott,
Summer Stebbins.
Ohio.
John M. Sterling,
Levi Sutliff.
The names of those who have since deceased are marked with an asterisk, as far as we know; but it is probable that the list is incomplete, and we shall be obliged to any one who can make it entirely accurate. Indeed, it is very desirable that the place of birth, and the age of each at the time of signing the Declaration, of those whose names are appended to this historic instrument, should be furnished-in season, if possible, for the approaching celebration.
We believe the oldest surviving member of the Convention is the Rev. DAVID THURSTON, of Maine, whose name was the first one appended to the Declaration, and who is now in his 85th year-a truly good and much revered man, whose testimonies against the "sum of all villanies" have ever been faithful and unremitting. 
As there was but one apostate among the twelve Apostles, so, of the sixty-three signers of the Declaration, we believe there has been but one who has openly betrayed the cause and repudiated his Anti-Slavery principles-namely, JAMES FREDERICK OTIS. At the time young, promising, of fine talents, he ran well for a season, and might have won virtuous fame and honorable distinction, had he proved faithful to the end. 
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. We are in receipt of the Atlantic Monthly for December. The following is its table of contents and list of contributors:-
The Man without a Country, by Frederick Ingraham, U. S. N.; The Birds of Killingworth, by H. Wadsworth Longfellow; Literary Life in Paris; The Garret; The Great Air-Engine, by the author of " Life in the Iron Mills;" A Loyal Woman's No; Eugene Delacroix, by W. J. Stillman; Sympathetic Lying; Something about Bridges, by Henry T. Tuckerman; Internal Structure and Progression of the Glacier, by Louis Agassiz; In an Attic, by Miss Elizabeth Akers; Longfellow, by George W. Curtis; Letter to a Peace Democrat, by Francis Wayland, Jr.; Reviews and Literary Notices. 
This number completes the twelfth volume. 'The thirteenth volume commences with the January number, and the publishers announce that the Atlantic Monthly has attained a circulation and prosperity never equalled by any American Magazine of its class. This result might naturally be expected from the long array of eminent literary talent comprised in its list of leading contributors. For the next volume they promise several new poems by Robert Browning, a new romance by Hawthorne, and brilliant contributions from Longfellow, Mrs. Stowe, Trowbridge, Prof. Agassiz, Whittier, Bryant, and a host of luminaries. 
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY for December is received from A. Williams & Co. The following is the table of contents:- 
The Nation, by Hugh Miller Thompson; Buckle, Draper, and a Science of History, by E.B. Freeland; Diary of Frances Krasinska; The Sleeping Soldier, by Edward N. Pomeroy; My Mission, by Ella Rodman; Letter Writing, by Park Benjamin; The Year, by W. H. Henderson; The Great American Crisis, by Stephen Pearl Andrews; Was he Successful? by Richard B. Kimball; Dead, by Anna Gray; Reconstruction, by Henry Everett Russell; Virginia, by H. T. Tuckerman She Defines her Position, by Eliza S. Randolph; Whiffs from my Meerschaum, by Lieut. R. A. Wolcott; Literary Notices; Editor's Table. 
Any person remitting $3, in advance, will receive the Magazine from July, 1862, to January, 1864, thus securing the whole of Mr. Kimball's and Mr. Kirke's new serials, which are alone worth the price of subscription. Or, if preferred, the subscriber can take the magazine for 1863, and a copy of "Among the Pines," or of "Undercurrents of Wall Street," by R. B. Kimball, bound in cloth, or of " Sunshine in Thought," by Charles Godfrey Leland, (retail price, $1.25,) the book to be sent postage paid. 
HARPER'S MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for December, is received, and presents the following table of contents:
Saint Christopher; Twilight on Sumter; Scenes in the War of 1812-VI. The War on the Coast; Pictures of the Japanese-II. Rural Life; Cap and-Bells, a Novel in Ten Chapters; William H. Prescott; The Telling Treasure; Light through Darkness; An Experiment; Overland from St. Paul to Lake Superior; The Small House at Allington; The Gulf; What's in a Name; My Friend Crackthorpe Again; The Ethics of Love; The Rev. Mr. Allonby; Job Warner's Christmas; A Woman's Complaint; Monthly Record of Current Events; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer; Fashions for December.
This number has numerous well-executed illustrations, and is very entertaining. It commences a new volume-the Twenty-Eighth. Terms, $3.00, or two copies for $5.00. A good time to subscribe. 
A Williams & Co., Booksellers and News-Agents, 100 Washington Street, Boston. 
PETERSON'S LADIES' MAGAZINE. The number of this popular Magazine for December contains thirty-eight articles and seventy-four embellishments. Terms, $2 a year in advance. A new volume commences with the new year. Subscriptions received by A. Williams & Co., Washington Street. 
THE REBELLION RECORD-Part XXXVIII.-A Diary of American Events, 1860'62. Edited by Frank Moore, and published by G. P. Putnam, 441 Broadway, New York. The present number contains finely engraved portraits of Maj. Gen. Hiram G. Berry and Admiral D. G. Farragut. The work itself needs no commendation.
SANTA CLAUS Book OF GAMES AND PUZZLES. Among the presentation gifts for children, now that Christmas and New Year are approaching, the one that will furnish many an hour of innocent amusement is this neatly printed and handsomely illustrated little work, published by John H. Tingley, 1521/2 Fulton Street, Street, New York, and for sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street. 
<c05>
EXTRACTS FR0M LETTERS. 
NORFOLK, (Va.) Oct. 5, 1863. 
DEAF FRIEND-My duties have been at various places since July; Newbern, Fort Havelock, Beaufort, &c., in North Carolina, and now at Portsmouth, Va., till next week, when I shall depart for Charleston, (S. C.) but expecting to find obstructions in the way, and to be delayed for a while at Morris Island, where my regiment and the other regiments of Wild's brigade, including the Massachusetts colored troops, are now doing duty. 
One is more and more impressed with the horrible magnitude of this dreadful war, My visiting the different centres and stations of the military forces. The vast expense and boundless waste of wealth and life grow upon the mind till war and destruction seem to be the world's great business. Railways with their long trains, ferries, steamboats, public edifices formerly hotels, churches, colleges, warehouses and private mansions, the best in every city, are taken, by confiscation or otherwise, and converted into war offices, hospitals, military store-houses, soldiers' quarters, and whatever else the service requires. In the cities, every other individual on the sidewalks, in hotels and; stores and everywhere, is an officer or soldier: the quick martial tread of the guard-relief companies, or the slow, solemn, funeral march to the grave passes every hour. If you pass a mile beyond the city in either direction, long lines of white tents, or extensive fortifications, keep up the impression of universal war as man's normal condition.
The financial ruin of the whole South is indescribable. Even in places like this and Newbern and Memphis, now under the protection of the Federal Government, and no longer despoiled by rebel robbers, the poverty of the people is pitiable. Families bred in the highest affluence and luxury now inhabit their stately mansions without servants, revenues or resources of any kind against starvation;-and some even of that class, and hundreds of the middling class, whose husbands are now in the rebel army, crowd around the U. S. Commissary with their baskets to receive their dole of bread, rice, bacon, &c. Those rations are indeed paid for by contributions mostly from their own fellow secesh citizens, but it is a great boon to them that the provisions are supplied at Government prices, which are from half to two-thirds the market rates. 
No cities in the United States are more beautifully and advantageously situated for luxury of living and natural resources of wealth than Norfolk and Portsmouth, which are united by a steam ferry crossing every ten minutes the river, (or arm of the bay,) which separates the cities. The harbor is safe, and of unlimited extent, the surrounding country is fertile and healthy, communication with the rich interior in time of peace easy and extensive. Fish and oysters of the richest kind fill the bay; nothing is wanting that nature could bestow to make Norfolk and Portsmouth excel Brooklyn and New York. Yet Norfolk in its best days held but 25,000 inhabitants, and Portsmouth but half as many. No reason can be imagined for this disparity between natural advantages and actual prosperity, except such as are referable to slavery. D. M.
FOLLY ISBLAND, (S. C.) Nov. 4 1863.
DEAR FRIEND-The only good thing about Folly Island is the sea on which we can sail away from it. The beach, however, is something; it furnishes a smooth hard road, on which we can ride or walk the whole length of the island on its seaboard side-some eight or nine miles. The whole length is fringed with tents, having a flag-staff with the stars and stripes floating at intervals of two or three miles, indicating the headquarters of some brigade or division commander. An abundance of pretty shells, though of few varieties, are found on the beach, of which the soldiers have gathered large quantities to take home as trophies. It is a Robinson Crusoe life-there are plenty of Fridays-but no kids nor parrots, nor are we as yet the monarchs of all we survey. Our batteries and gun-boats are " pegging away " at Sumter, which is so much demolished as hardly to offer a fair mark; yet the heavy balls (from 100 to 300 pounds) generally hit something, for we can plainly see the dust and smoke where they strike. It is said that an assault is soon to be made. There is no doubt that we can take it, but the question is, whether we can hold it comfortably when we have spoiled it so that the rebels can hold it no longer-for it is commanded by rebel batteries, which will also " peg away " when our forces are in it. Charleston looks fair and smiling at this distance. Why she is spared so long I know not. Fort Gregg, in our possession, is within easy striking distance-less than three miles, which is a mile nearer than the Swamp Angel, which plumbed a dozen shot successively into the city. It is now the general expectation that "something will turn up" soon—our officers and men want to see it. 
Notwithstanding the greatness of the events which we expect to bear a part in, I suppose the object of chief interest in every man's mind is the coming mail. It comes once or twice a week. Then you may see the expectant countenances as the bag conies round-the exulting looks of some, and the sad visages of others, as the matter is distributed, and some get a dozen letters, and others none. Then the late news of only a week old-how it is devoured!
I saw in a late paper the petition headed by Gov. Andrew concerning the Ambulance System. Please put my name to it. I have seen the ambulances and ridden in them, and know some of the officers who rode in them from Bull Run and Cedar Mountain, when wounded. They are cruel contrivances. The whole system needs a thorough revisal. I feel sure that there is no good in ambulances on the field of battle, nor within ten miles of it, which might not be better attained by an efficient " stretcher corps." The ambulance system is certainly expensive. An ambulance, two horses and a driver are kept nearly idle the year round at large cost for forage and loss of animals, and vehicles, and pay of drivers, for the possible chance of use one day in six months, on an average. An ambulance will hold three badly wounded men, and one or two more slightly wounded, and sitting with the driver. The motion on the best roads here is not so easy as the hardest baggage wagons over the roughest pavements in Boston. This I know by experience, unwounded, but most uncomfortably shaken and pitched about while riding in Newbern and in Norfolk to and from the camp. This on fair roads. How wounded men with bleeding bodies and mangled limbs endure their motion over the rough grounds of battle-fields, you may judge. The description given me by those who have so suffered is terrible. 
Consider how a stretcher corps might be made to manage the matter. Two men of the strength and activity of which at least twenty men in every company are capable, will carry a man at the rate of four miles an hour for at least one hour, or seven miles in two hours, all day, over the roughest ground, and with a motion as easy as that of a child in a cradle. Therefore six men could carry an ambulance load, excluding the slightly wounded, who generally can walk out of harm's way. The maintenance of six men, deducting the other service they can perform, would be much less than that of one ambulance with its horses and driver-so that even on the score of cost, leaving out the all-important argument of humanity to our wounded soldiers, the be stretcher system would be the best. The stretcher men, being-armed, might form a reserve corps in battle, and hold a post not particularly in danger, and be drawn away only as wanted. At all other times, for camp duty, guard-mounting, scouts, fatigue duty, &c., they would be as efficient as others. So their peculiar duty as stretcher men would but little interfere with regular duty. I would not abolish the ambulances altogether. They would be useful on long marches for conveyance of those who fall out, and they can be made to do duty in other ways in the more peaceful posts.
I thank God that he hath put it into the hearts of the people of Maine and Pennsylvania and Ohio and other great States to know their duty in this time of 
<c06>
national peril. The election news is worth more than a hundred Richmonds and Charlestons; wherefore we may well console ourselves. The nation is safe.
Our regiments are in good health and spirits. I do not know that I am at liberty to enumerate the force on this and the adjacent islands, but we are strong enough to hold our position, and do something more. We are working hard, but it is in fortifying, not advancing; but this will come by and by. D.M.

THE REPUBLIC.
The prevalence of those qualities which distinguish a race are under fixed laws.
Any scientific breeder can produce color, or any particular quality desired in the mental or physical organization of the animal, to the extent of the full development of that race.
The same laws which hold good to alter the structure of the intellects and bodies of animals also hold good to change the benevolent or moral sentiments in men.
To establish a state of society in which men shall be politically equal, and in which there shall be no suffering from poverty, requires a development of the moral sentiments to the extent of the capacity of the race.
Grossness and plethors, want and emaciation, are not more certainly followed by disease, than great riches and great poverty are followed by crime.
In Peru, under a mild despotism, want was unknown, idleness was not tolerated. Every man was obliged to give a certain portion of his time to the public, and the Government sustained every man is times of scarcity from the public granaries. Morality was required imperatively for the welfare of the State; and, in consequence, licentiousness, that, robbery and murder were hardly heard of; and when found were immediately destroyed-the criminal being accounted unworthy to continue his race. 
Under the light of Christianity, the people of a Republic should be able to do as well, and better, for themselves, than was accomplished for those living under a heathen despotism. 
It is the first duty of a free people to see a moral education for every child in the nation; for, by allowing religion to be free, and making morality paramount to the cultivation of the intellect, they will secure a continuance of a free form of government.
Each county throughout every State, wherever there is a Recorder's office, should have an office for the registry of the name of every child in the county.
Every child should be enrolled as a member of a school; and his crimes, his faults, his virtues and good conduct, his punishments and rewards, tried and adjudged by his companions, should be reported and registered, quarterly, until twenty-one years of age.
In accordance with certain known principles of moral law, every delinquent should be tried by his school; and the standing of each individual, until he is twenty-one years of age, being thus ascertained and on record, would offer a body of Statistics of great advantage for reference to in criminal cases, and for every matter appertaining to public usefulness.
In the primary assemblies of the people, voted, then, would not be at a loss to know how much the speaker could be depended upon, or how fair a record had been kept for the first twenty-one years of the life of a candidate for office. The people could always be nearly sure of the moral stamina and courage of their officers. In so complex a system as that of a united confederacy, this certainly would be of the utmost advantage.
The present system of education is mainly deficient, and dangerous to the public weal, because it looks as first and foremost to the development of the intellect, and by this it enables the born devil to beget evil to the last possible degree; consequently, there are immense forgeries, detestable iniquities, stupendous crimes, which involve the whole body politic in suffering, and threaten the State with instant ruin. 
A free people owe it to themselves that no individual shall be tempted by hunger, or want of clothing, or idleness, to commit a crime. Public granaries can be filled by a small tax, or by its equivalent in so many days' work.
In looking through the vistas unfolded by the moral education of the children of the nation, one can see an entire change in the laws, habits, capacities, and physical appearance of a people, and that produced in but a few generations; for it does not admit of a doubts that color, form, size and capacity can all be bred.
This being granted, it should be the leading idea, in the minds of a republican people, to school the children with moral sentiments, to develop the good in them, counting the intellect as always secondary to the integrity of the individual.
Moral education will infallibly produce intellect in a few generations; but the more development of the intellect tends directly to deteriorate the race, and to place power and wealth in the hands of a few persons.
A bureau of public instruction-a supervision by the nation, through its officers, of the moral education of the children-is as much a necessity for the continuance of a free republic, as it is for the people to eat in order to live. CARBON.
DEPORTATION OF THE NEGROES.
ELMWOOD, III., NOV. 16,1863.
It is a fact worthy of note, that while the mass of the Western people are growing more favorable to the policy of emancipation, public sentiment is being moulded to new forms of injustice, which are to supply, it may by, the place of the old. Everywhere, the blind prejudice of the people against the negro is deferred to, and denunciations of slavery and advocacy of the emancipation policy are coupled with the proposition that the two races cannot occupy the same territory in peace, and that we must choose between slavery with all its countless brood of evils, and the deportation of the black race. At the Springfield Convention, which it was my good fortune to attend, though the cause of the war was faithfully pointed out and eloquently denounced by all, only one man, Gen. B.F. Prentiss, (God bless him!) had the greatness of soul to rise above all political entanglements, and all prejudice against color, to denounce the Black Code of Illinois, and to demand immediate and entire emancipation, and a generous policy which should has ten forward the works meet for genuine repentance; firstly, as acts of simple justice, in obedience to divine law; and secondly, as a military necessity.
"If, in crushing the rebellion," said Senator Doolittle, "slavery gets its death-stroke, it may die and be d-e for aught I care." (What a prodigious anti slavery sentiment!) Then followed his favorite Central American Colonization scheme.
Hon. E.C. Ingersoll, after fiercely denouncing slavery, denied with equal energy the right of the "inferior" race to equal social and political privileges with the "superior." Deportation of the negro was his method of removing this stumbling block out of the path of the Anglo-Saxon.
And so said and so say nearly all the Union orators in this region. Is this the true gospel? "If slavery comes to grief as an incident of the war, we shall say amen with rejoicing," is the pet formula. That is to say, if by accident God is served in the upshot of the war, why, so much the better; but if not, then we will go on as before, seeking first the kingdom of Mammon and its policy, trusting that God, in his own good time, will add all sorts of national good things to "ourselves and our posterity."
Deportation is almost as impracticable and impolitic as it is wicked; but a public sentiment is being formed in its favor which may work infinite mischief and suffering. How shall we meet and counteract this new danger? Since speakers of the true stamp are so few at the West, who will write a pithy and pungent tract on the subject? I would like to see one which should include Buckle's terrible picture of the expulsion of the Mariscoes from the Spanish dominions, and the fearful consequences of that national crime. Yours, for Justice, liberty, and Union, E.R. BROWN.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
STATES WHICH SUPPORT THE GOVERNMENT
O H I O,
I O W A,
K A N S A S,
I L L I N O I S,
O R E G O N,
I N D I A N A, 
V E R M O N T,
M I S S O U R I,
N E W Y O R K, 
M I C H I G A N,
M A R Y L A N D,
D E L A W A R E, 
W I S C O N S I N,
K E N T U C K Y,
M I N N E S O T A,
C A L I F O R N I A,
C O N N E C T I C U T,
R H O D E I S L A N D,
P E N N S Y L V A N I A,
W E S T V I R G I N I A,
M A S S A C H U S E T T S,
N E W H A M P S H I R E.
The Copperhead position can be seen at glance:
New Jersey.
00
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Windsor, Canada West!

THE CONSECRATION OF THE GETTYSBURG CEMETERY.
GETTYSBURG, Pa., Nov. 19, 1863. 
The President's party arrived last evening, but the train which conveyed the Governors was delayed by a slight accident until near midnight, so that they were not able to participate in the proceedings of the night, which were of a marked character. The President, Secretary Seward and Col. Forney were serenaded, and each replied to the compliment.
President Lincoln said he was happy to see so many of his friends present to participate in the ceremonies, but he would make no speech as he had nothing particular to say. (Laughter and applause.)
Secretary Seward was loudly called for. He said he was sixty years of age, and had been forty years in public life. This, however, was the first time he had dared to address people residing upon the borders of Maryland. He anticipated forty years ago that the battle of freedom would be fought upon this ground, and that slavery would die. (Loud cheering.) There had been a great issue between the people of the country North and South, and it was now being determined in this contest. He had elevated his voice to warn the people to remove that cause when they could by constitutional means, and so avert the catastrophe of civil war that now unhappily had fallen upon the nation, deluging it in blood. That crisis came, and we see the result. He was thankful that we were willing to hear him at last. He thanked God that he believed this strife was going to end in the removal of that evil which ought to have been removed by peaceful means and deliberate counsels. (Good.) He thanked his God for the hope that this is the last fratricidal war which will fall upon the country-a country vouchsafed by Heaven-the richest, the broadest, the most beautiful, most magnificent and capacious ever yet bestowed upon a people, that has ever been given to any part of the human race. (Applause.) And he thanked God for the hope that when that cause is removed, simply by the operation of abolishing it, as the origin of the great treason that is without justification and without parallel, we shall thenceforth be united, be only one country, having only one hope, one ambition, and one destiny. (Applause.) Then we shall know that we are not enemies, but that we are friends and brothers, that this Union is a reality, and we shall mourn together for the evil wrought by this rebellion. We are now near the graves of the misguided, whom we have consigned to their last resting place with pity for their errors, and with the same heart full of grief with which we mourn over the brother by whose hand, raised in defence of his Government, that misguided brother perished. When we part to-morrow night, let us remember that we owe it to our country, and to mankind, that this war shall have for its conclusion the establishing of the principle of democratic government- the simple principle that, whatever party, whatever portion of the Union, prevails by constitutional suffrage in an election, that party is to be respected and maintained in power, until it shall give place, on another trial and another verdict, to a different portion of the people. (Good.) If we do not that, we are drifting at once and irresistibly to the very verge of the destruction of our government. But with that principle this government of ours-the freest, the best, the wisest and the happiest in the world-must be, and, so far as we are concerned, practically will be, immortal. (Applause.)
Col. Forney made a brief speech, in which he referred to Douglas's services to the Union. He eulogized the President, and spoke of him as one that would live in history as the savior of the country. 
The ceremonies attending the dedication of the national cemetery commenced this morning, by a grand military and civic display, under command of Major-General Couch. The line of march was taken up at 10 o'clock, and the procession marched through the principal streets to the cemetery, where the military formed in line and saluted the President. At a quarter past 11, the head of the procession arrived at the main stand.
The President and members of the Cabinet, together with the chief military and civic dignitaries, took places on the stand. The President seated himself between Mr. Seward and Mr. Everett, after a reception marked with the respect and perfect silence due the solemnities of the occasion, every man in the immense gathering uncovering on his appearance. 
The military then formed in line, extending around the stand, the area between the stand and military being occupied by civilians, comprising about 15,000 people, and including men, women and children. The attendance of ladies was quite large. The military escort comprised one division of cavalry, two batteries of artillery, and a squad of infantry, which constituted the regular funeral escort for the highest officer in the service.
The services commenced with a funeral dirge (by Bergfeld) by the band. An impressive prayer was delivered by Rev. Mr. Stockton. After the prayer, an oration by Mr. Everett was delivered, and was listened to with marked attention.
President Lincoln then delivered the following dedicatory speech:-
"Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. [Applause.] Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation or any other nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are met on a great battle field of that war; we are met to dedicate a portion of that field as the final resting place of those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or to detract. [Applause.] The world will little note nor long remember what we may say here; but it can never forget what they did here. [Applause.]
It is for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried on [Applause.] It is rather for us here to be dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that those dead shall not have died in vain. [Applause.] That the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom; and that governments of the people, by the people and for the people, shall not perish from the earth." [Long continued applause.]
Three cheers were here given for the President and the Governors of the States.
After the delivery of this address, a dirge and the benediction closed the exercises, and the immense assemblage separated about 2 o'clock. 
After the dedication services at Gettysburg, President Lincoln proceeded to the church arm-in-arm with the renowned Tom Burns, the brave old man at Gettysburg who shouldered his musket and joined our forces at the time of the battle.
A letter in the Chicago Tribune says that Jeff. Davis has signed a large number of blank commissions, and the rebel Secretary of War has boxed them up, and sent a Colonel to visit Missouri to fill up the blanks with names of such persons as will engage to raise guerilla companies.
<c02>
THE PRESIDENT'S HYMN.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:— 
SIR,-Enclosed you will find a hymn written by our beloved and revered fellow-citizen. Dr. Muhlenberg, founder of St. Luke's Hospital, and writer of the immortal hymn, "I would not live alway." Will you not give it a place in your columns, and use your editorial influence to induce to our people throughout the loyal States to sing it in the churches on the approaching Thanksgiving, as "The President's Hymn"?
It has a right to that designation. It is, as a comparison of the two will prove, a metrical version of the President's proclamation, which this year, for the first time, makes our "Harvest Home" a national festival-a significant and blessed augury of that "more perfect Union" with which, with God's blessing, the war shall leave us as a people.
Solicitous to have the highest authority given to the use of this national hymn, I obtained the reluctant consent of its writer (author also of the music to which it is set) to ask our Chief Magistrate's permission to style it "The President's Hymn." The Secretary of State, through whom the application was made, telegraphed me a few hours afterward the President's leave, in the decisive style which has now become so familiar to our people-"Let it be so called." May we not hope that millions of our people will, on November 26th, be found uniting in this National Psalm of Thanksgiving, and that " The President's Hymn " will be the household and temple song of that solemn and joyful day? It will help to join our hearts as citizens, thus to blend our voices as worshippers; and the blessings of Union, Liberty and Peace will sooner descend on a people that can thus unite in its praise and hosannahs.
Respectfully yours,
HENRY W. BELLOWS.
[This Hymn may be found in our poetical department.]
FREEDMEN'S RELIEF MEETING.
On Monday evening, the 16th inst., a large meeting was held in the Cooper Institute, under the auspices of the National Freedmen's Relief Association, in behalf of the suffering "contrabands" in the Department of the Mississippi. Rev. A. S. Fiske, the Chaplain of this class of people in that Department, was present, under instructions from Gen. Grant, to represent to the assembly their destitute condition, and solicit means for their relief
The Rev. Dr. Tyng, on taking the chair, made a spirited address. 
Having alluded to the glorious results of the recent elections, he said they had been achieved on the avowed principle that rebellion was slavery, and slavery was rebellion. The rebellion was to be overwhelmed, and slavery was to be exterminated. The overwhelming of the rebellion would be the extermination of slavery, and the extermination of slavery would be the overwhelming of the rebellion. (Applause.) They had lived to see the whole current of public sentiment changed in regard to slavery, and he ventured to say that there was not one single village or township in the Northern States in which a majority of the people would not now sympathize with the slave seeking his liberty, and with those who were striving to elevate and bless him in its attainment. The time had come when there was no longer in the nation the spirit of mercy to slavery; and the men who held on to it, the people who held on to it, the Administration who held on to it, and the party who held on to it would go down where the Savior sent the hogs into which the devil entered. (Applause.) No gradual emancipation now. No compensated emancipation now. Now put the axe to the root of the tree and down with it-down with it. (Applause.) In regard to the emancipated slaves he said: In all that elevates the human character, black men and black women had shown themselves as exalted and glorious as any white men and white women in the land. The time had come when we should take them cordially by the hand, and say of each one of them, it is my brother, it is my sister, it is my fellow- citizen: the very rights which I have, he shall have; the respect which I demand, he shall receive; the countenance which I require, I will myself impart to him. The time has come when the distinction between black and white, as a distinction of reciprocal respect and regard, shall be one of those hateful things which we have buried beneath the pyramid under which copperheadism is interred till it rots for an eternity. (Applause.)
MR. VALLANDIGHAM'S VENOM.
In a private letter written the other day, Vallandigham said:—
I remember when, a few years ago, the name of Salmon P. Chase was the synonym of everything odious and vile; and when he was one of the leaders of a party not numbering in the whole United States one-tenth part as many as the votes which I received in Ohio at the late election, and poor and humble enough to be content with the crumbs that fell from the colored people's table at the Baker street chapel. My friend, Mr. James Brooks, remembers, also, when he rescued Mr. Chase from the violence of a mob in Dayton, and led him, all trembling, by the arm, to a place of safety. Now Salmon P. Chase is high in wealth and position, clothed in purple and fine linen, and faring sumptuously every day, while I am the subject of his scoffs as an exile. But I shall live to see the time when Mr. Chase will be rent in pieces by the whirlwind which he has contributed so much to raise, and made the victim of the very mob before which he triumphs and exults, as did Beltshazzar at his feast.
He omits to state that it was about the time Mr. Chase was 'odious and vile,' and leader of the party represented as so contemptible, that Medary, Vallandigham, Farran, Pugh & Co., were glad to make him a United States Senator, the first official position he ever held. It is a curious fact that Pugh got his first office at the same time. As to the Dayton mob, the recent vote of that city indicates a more healthful state of things there since the leader of its rowdies sought safety on British soil.—Toledo Blade.

DAMNABLE REVELATION!—CAIRO A SLAVE MART.
A Cairo correspondent of the Des Moines (Iowa) Register makes some startling revelations relative to the villainous practices of certain officials at Cairo, who have been engaged in nothing less than selling contrabands into slavery! The revelations are contained in a letter from Col. Shaw, in command at Columbus, to Gen. Hurlbut. Col. Shaw says he became satisfied that the superintendent of contrabands at Cairo, one Yocum, was engaged in selling negroes to be taken into Kentucky, and his investigations in conjunction with the Provost Marshal of the district, resulted in establishing the fact. Yocum was detected in selling a negro boy to two Kentuckians for $50. The parties were arrested, and confessed their guilt. Yocum charges that Rev. Mr. Rodgers, chaplain of contrabands, had sold no less than eleven negroes into slavery! Col. Shaw charges Gen. Buford, in command at Cairo, as being in collusion with these slave traders, and says that when Yocum was arrested, Buford organized a sham commission to try him, which found him guilty, and sentenced him to continue as superintendent of contrabands for three months with out pay! The Col. thinks that at the rate Yocum has done business, he will make "a good thing of it" yet, even at that. He further states that one John Atchers stole a contraband belonging to Cairo, carried him South into the rebel lines, and sold him. Returning, he reported to Gen. Buford, and was allowed to go free on taking the oath of allegiance. Col. Shaw, however, had Atchers arrested, tried by military commission, and sentenced to ten years hard labor, which sentence was approved by Gen. Hurlbut. One of the parties who bought the negro boy states that it is a very common occurrence for negroes to be kidnapped in Cairo and vicinity, and taken into Kentucky. 
Gen. Buford denies to Gen. Hurlbut any knowledge of these villainous transactions, and prefers a charge against Col. Shaw, of "conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman."-Western Transcript.

THE NEGRO AND THE WAR.
The lecture on Friday night at the Emancipation Society's rooms was delivered by T. M. Chester, Esq., a gentleman of color, from Liberia. The chair was occupied by Gerard Ralston, Esq., Consul-General of Liberia, and there was a numerous attendance.
Mr. Chester chose for the subject of his lecture:-
"The Negro as affected by the War." After describing the nature of the great conflict now raging in America, and exhibiting the fundamental differences that existed between slave and free society, the lecturer dwelt upon the special interest which the negro had in the war, and the profound faith with which the African race, whether bond or free, regarded it as the sure means of deliverance to the enslaved. Speaking from personal observation, he testified to the noble spirit which animated the colored volunteers, and to their resolute determination to die, if needs be, in the effort to emancipate their brethren. He did not believe that Jefferson Davis would arm the negroes. If he did, they would soon find a way to fight for Union and Liberty. The lecturer concluded an eloquent and forcible address by expressing his belief in the ultimate civilization of Africa through the agency of Liberia, and similar settlements of civilized colored men.
The Rev. J. Sella Martin, Mr. William Craft, and other gentlemen having addressed the meeting, a vote of thanks both to the lecturer and the chairman was enthusiastically adopted.-London Morning Star, Oct.20. 
Five girls dressed in male attire arrived at Louisville, the other day, in a party of three hundred rebel prisoners.
<c03>
COLORED SOLDIERS IN THE HANDS OF THE REBELS.
WASHINGTON. NOV. 22, 1863. 
The government has determined that no further exchange of prisoners shall take place till the rebel authorities will agree to an exchange without reservation. Colored soldiers, and officers who commanded them, now in rebel hands, or at least captured by the rebels, must be accounted for. 
The Star of last evening, in an article said to have been "inspired" at the War Department, says:
"In determining on the employment of colored troops, this government became bound by the highest moral obligations, as well as by those appertaining to the well-being of the service, to give our soldiers of that description every guaranty that they should be protected and cared for, and, indeed, treated in all respects like any other troops in service. The rebel authorities, so soon as we placed colored soldiers in the field, proclaimed the purpose of handing over their officers when captured to their several states' authorities to be punished under their states' laws as criminals engaged in inciting slave insurrections, and of selling into slavery our colored troops, as they might perchance fall into their hands. As far as this government has been able to learn, we apprehend they have rigidly carried out this threat, formally promulgated in a message from the pen of Jefferson Davis, it will be recollected.
"Thus, nothing whatever has been ascertained of the fate of such of our officers commanding colored troops as were captured at Milliken's Bend, Charleston and Sabine Pass. If alive, the rebel authorities have them somewhere immerged in secret dungeons, not having even pretended to bring them to public trial under their state laws. But the impression is irresistible that they have been murdered, as no traces of them can be found. So, also, is it clear that our colored soldiers captured by them have shared the same fate, or been reduced to slavery, the latter being most probable." 
The War Department seems to be firm on this point-it will not consent to a further exchange until it is made general, including all Union soldiers who have been captured. The President, I understand, agrees with the War Department, and all good men will support them in the position they have taken upon this subject.
THE EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS.
The following is a letter addressed by the Solicitor of the War Department to a gentleman in Boston, in reply to some inquiries for information as to the causes of the cessation in the exchange of prisoners:-
WAR DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON CITY, NOV. 20, 1863.
DEAR SIR-Your letter of the 17th has been received, in which you inquire whether any documents are now accessible, or will be likely soon to be published by our Government, relating to the exchange of prisoners of war; and you justly remark that the subject excites a deep interest in consequence of the sufferings of our men in Richmond. 
The correspondence published in the Richmond papers does not, it is thought, present the matter in its true light. In a few days, the entire correspondence will be made public here by authority. 
There are several serious difficulties in the way of continuing an exchange of prisoners: One is the bad faith of the enemy in putting into active service many thousands of paroled prisoners, captured at Vicksburg and elsewhere, without releasing any of our soldiers held by them. But another difficulty of still greater importance is the peremptory refusal by the enemy to exchange colored soldiers and their white officers upon any terms whatever. It is well known that they have threatened to sell colored captured soldiers into slavery, and to hang their white officers. 
The Government demands that all officers and soldiers should be fairly exchanged, otherwise no more prisoners of war will be given up. The faith of the Government is pledged to these officers and troops that they shall be protected, and it cannot and will not abandon to the savage cruelty of slave-masters a single officer or soldier who has been called on to defend the flag of his country, and thus exposed to the hazards of war. 
It has been suggested that exchanges might go on until all except the colored troops and their white officers are given up. But if this were allowed, the rebels would not only be relieved of the burden of maintaining our troops, but they would get back their own men, retaining their power over the very persons whom we are solemnly bound to rescue, and upon whom they could then, without fear of retaliation, carry into execution the inhuman cruelties they have so basely threatened.
The President has ordered that the stern law of retaliation shall, without hesitation, be enforced, to avenge the death of the first Union soldier, of whatever color, whom the enemy shall in cold blood destroy, or sell into slavery. All other questions between us may be postponed for future settlement, but the fair exchange of colored soldiers and of their white officers will be insisted on by the Government before another rebel soldier or officer will be exchanged. 
The sufferings of our men in Richmond are the subject of deep regret and sympathy here; and there has been no want of effort to afford all possible relief.
Very truly yours, 
WILLIAM WHITING.

MCCLELLAN vs. MCCLELLAN.
"Occasional," (John W. Forney,) in a letter to the Philadelphia Press, explains the plan which the Union men of Philadelphia adopted on election day to spoil the effect of the "last card" of the opposition, which was Gen. McClellan's letter in favor of Woodward. They published in all the loyal journals a letter "Little Mac" had written just one year previously, strongly praising Gov. Curtin. "Occasional" says:
"It was an amusing sight to see posted at every precinct poll in Philadelphia, the letter of Gen. Geo. B. McClellan, applauding Andrew G. Curtin for his activity and energy in strengthening his army in one of the darkest hours in the campaign of 1862, and by the side of that letter another from the same Gen. McClellan, asking the people of Pennsylvania to vote for George W. Woodward, who had never given utterance to one single sentiment in favor of the war, and had never spoken a word in favor of the same Geo. B. McClellan."
HENRY WARD BEECHER AT HOME. The New York papers contain elaborate accounts of the reception of Mr. Beecher at Plymouth Church, on Tuesday evening. The Evening Post says:-
"Mr. Beecher's arrival was the signal for a great outburst of the affectionate enthusiasm which his presence always inspires among the people of Plymouth Church. He was stayed in his progress through the lecture-room to the church, to undergo numerous hand shakings and warm congratulations-but he was himself the happiest person there. It was such a welcome as father receives when wife and sons and daughters flock to embrace him on returning from a long and perilous journey. No precise order of ceremonies was permitted-Plymouth Church is not a place for strict observances of ceremonial etiquette-There was no formal reception; no set speech, of welcome-Mr. Beecher does not like distant formalities among his people. Instead of these, men, women and children ran together to look at their pastor, and cheered him mightily when they could not get at his hand to shake it. Few men have had so touching and simple, yet so eloquent a welcome as Mr. Beecher had last night."
The Commercial Advertiser comments on the great value of Mr. Beecher's labors in Great Britain. It declares that "no American in Europe ever rendered such important service to his country as that which Mr. Beecher rendered by his speeches in England."
On Sunday morning last, the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher preached his first sermon since his return from Europe in his church. The house was filled the passage ways, even further than the speaker's voice could be heard, were crowded, and hundreds who did not arrive before the hour for the services to begin were obliged to go away, unable to obtain admission.
Mr. Beecher, in his Manchester, (Eng.) speech, used the following figure, in explanation of the clauses in the Constitution relating to slavery:
"You must recollect that in all stages it was the opinion of every man who founded the Constitution that slavery was dying, and they did not feel as you and I would have felt, but said, 'Ease it up in every way.' Slavery was like some brigand brought into an Alpine convent where he was given a room and a place to prepare to die in decently, and the old brigand did not die, but called in the confederates, and ruled the very hospital where he was being nursed for a Christian burial."
CONSPIRACY AMONG THE REBEL REFUGEES IN CANADA. On Wednesday night, the 11th. the British minister, Lord Lyons, notified the Government, that the Governor General of Canada had notified him that there were reasons for believing that a plot was hatching among Rebel refugees in Canada, to invade the United States, destroy the city of Buffalo, take possession of steamboats on Lake Erie, set free the prisoners on Johnson Island, etc., etc. Secretary Stanton immediately communicated these facts to the Mayor of Buffalo, and took other steps requisite 
to foil the conspirators. 
It is understood in Canada, that Vallandigham, a son of Henry Clay, and the pardoned villain, Marshal Kane, are in the plot. Lord Lyons got out of bed at midnight to communicate the news to Mr. Seward, which was honorable in him. Hon. Preston King has been sent to Canada, to confer with the authorities.
<c04>
JEFF'S COACHMAN. This colored gentleman, William A. Jackson by name, has already become quite notorious, per force of circumstances. He hails, originally, from the Sacred Soil of Virginia. We were obliged to be absent from his lecture on Thursday evening last, but learn from those who were present that it was very entertaining and instructive. Since leaving Richmond, he has visited England, and his lecture was in a good measure confined to a rehearsal of personal adventure and observation while there. He represents the masses of the English people to be very friendly to the cause of the slaves. While in England he had an introduction to the rebel emissary (extraordinary) "Mason." We understand Mr. Jackson is engaged by the Anti-Slavery Society to lecture throughout this State, and it would be worth while for Copperheads, who doubt that the black man is human, to go and hear him, and be convinced that there are instances wherein such, have been furnished with good sense and reason, similar to those of lighter extraction. He had a crowded audience in this town. Exeter News-Letter.
MORE NEGRO REGIMENTS. Intelligence from Nashville informs us that Major George L. Stearns, of Boston, is organizing a negro regiment at Gallatin, another at Columbia, one at Murfreesboro', and one at Clarksville. He musters one hundred and two men into each company, including four experienced cooks. In six weeks he raised one full regiment, and six hundred men in another. Enlistments at Gallatin and Columbia, on the borders of Kentucky, somehow or other rope in a great many Kentucky slaves, and it is said to be quite difficult to distinguish them from the Tennessee article. Major Stearns is gradually being charged with the support of crowds of impoverished women and children, who come within our lines. His purpose is to put them on abandoned rebel farms around Nashville. 
GEN. BUTLER'S ORDER No. 1. Gen. Butler had scarcely set foot within Fortress Monroe, before he issued the following explicit and admonitory order:—
"Representations having been made to the Commanding General that certain disloyally disposed persons within this department do occasionally, by force, interfere with, and by opprobrious and threatening language insult and annoy loyal persons employed in the quiet discharge of their lawful occupations, it is hereby announced that all such conduct and language is hereafter strictly forbidden, and will be punished with military severity. All officers of this department are directed to order the arrest, and to bring such persons as are found offending against this order before the tribunal established for the purpose of punishing offences within this department." 
BURLINGTON, Vt., Nov. 22. Considerable excitement was caused yesterday in the villages of Rouse's Point and St. Albans, by reports that a body of secessionists in Montreal had planned to seize Fort Montgomery, destroy the drawbridge at Rouse's Point, and plunder Plattsburg and Burlington. Information of such a plot reached Governor Smith, and Collector Clapp of this port, on Friday. They immediately took steps to communicate with the officer in charge of Fort Montgomery, who soon had its guns manned and ready to give the renegades a warm reception. This scheme was probably linked with the Johnson's Island project. Ample preparations have been made by Governor Smith to repel any attack which may be made on our border.
ARREST OF CONSUL GIDDINGS. The telegraph has stated that Hon. Joshua R. Giddings was arrested at Montreal for kidnapping. It is now stated that one Redpath was recently arrested in Montreal, taken to New York, found to be the wrong man, subsequently released, returned to Montreal, and has taken legal steps for redress. Consul Giddings was mixed up in the affair, and has written an explanation to a Montreal paper, by which it appears that his action in the premises was merely of an advisory nature, and that was given under misapprehension. 
SUFFERING OF OUR PRISONERS AT RICHMOND. De Witt C. Walters, an Indian scout, equal to Leather Stocking, captured just before Chickamauga, and paroled with 350 Union prisoners, has arrived at Washington, and tells, among other things of absorbing interest, that the average number of deaths among our men in Richmond hospitals is forty-three a day, and that most of them got their death warrants on Belle Island, a sandy, low, damp desert, swept with winds and wrapped in fogs. Our men are without blankets, and but one-third of them sheltered under mould-eaten tents. All the starved sicken instantly, and run down with frightful rapidity. Four dogs entered the island during the twenty days Walters was confined there, were greedily cooked, and joyfully ate. In the hospital to which he was transferred, the sole diet was corn bread, made up without salt. Not a beef animal had come to Richmond in twelve days. Virginia is stripped of food, and the border portions of North Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky. 5000 Union prisoners are now on their way to Lynchburg and Danville.
NEW YORK, Nov. 23. By the Fulton from Port Royal 20th instant, we learn that the sea wall of Sumter has been entirely destroyed. The rebels were building a bomb-proof in the ruins. The bombardment still continues. A Morris Island letter of the 19th says 19 shell were fired into Charleston on the 17th inst., falling into the most populous part of the city. On Sunday night a very heavy fire was continuously poured into our batteries from the rebel works. Nothing new in the fleet The Fulton has the rebel blockade- runner Banshee in tow, having captured the latter on the 17th, after a long chase and firing many shots at her.
GENERAL SCHOFIELD AND SLAVERY IN MISSOURI. The order of Gen. Schofield for the enlistment of colored men in the army is generally regarded in Missouri as the death blow to slavery in that State. The order is more stringent than that applied by the Secretary of War to Maryland and Delaware. It dispenses with the owner's consent from- the first, instead of requiring the consent of loyal owners during the first month, and then dispensing with it, if necessary.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 27. The first free school of the City of Washington for colored children will be opened to-morrow under the auspices of the Freed-men's Relief Association. A free evening school for adults will be connected with it. Contributions in aid of the cause may be sent to George E. Baker, Treasurer.
THE LEGISLATIVE SESSION. The Legislature adjourned Wednesday, of last week, having passed four bills and six resolves. The bill to make up the deficiency in the pay of the 54th and 55th (colored regiments) passed. It is expected that the General Government will reimburse the State for the money thus expended. The expense of this Session is $7468.
DEATH OF EX-LIEUT. GOVERNOR CUSHMAN. The Greenfield Gazette announces that the Hon. Henry W. Cushman died at his residence in Bernardston, of typhoid fever, on Saturday, after a sickness of nearly three weeks. Mr. Cushman has for the past twenty-five years been a leading and active man in the politics and business of the county. Formerly a whig, he became a democrat in 1828, and has since acted with that party. 
DEATH OF AN OLD COLORED CITIZEN. Mr. Samuel Fowler, an old colored citizen of Charlestown, having resided there for over forty consecutive years, died Saturday morning at the age of eighty-six years. He was formerly a slave in the State of New York, but escaped from bondage when about thirty years old. He was very well known and generally respected.
The "Swamp Angel" battery on Morris Island cost seven thousand days' work. It stands on the softest of mud, twenty-two feet deep. To construct it, ten thousand bags of sand were carried two miles, and three hundred pieces of timber ten miles, and two and a half miles of bridge had to be built. Col. Serril, who constructed it, says he can "in two weeks, with the means we have on hand, utterly destroy, obliterate, and wipe off the face of the earth, as were Sodom and Gomorrah, that sink of iniquity and hot-bed of aristocratic rebels." The Colonel means Charleston.
THE FIFTY-FIFTH REGIMENT. -Surgeon Brown, of the 55th regiment, reports that during the month of October, the total number of cases treated by him was 781; sent to the hospital, 7; died, 9; average number on sick (reports daily, 199. Lieut. L. C. Alden died Oct. 5. He had tendered his resignation, and was on his way home. Surgeon Brown states that there is a universal expression of regret in the regiment on account of Col. Hallowell having tendered his resignation.
A squad of twenty contrabands passed through here yesterday, on their way from Lexington to Wyandot, where they were going to join the volunteer service. They were all well armed, and were not molested on the road. The families of several were with them, and from conversation with them, they proved to be rather "intelligent contrabands." Kansas (Mo.) Journal of Commerce. 
LOYAL LEAGUE LECTURES. A course of six lectures, before the Women's Loyal League of New York, commenced by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, will be followed on successive Monday evenings by Horace Greeley, Judge Kelley, E. P. Whipple, George W. Curtis and Wendell Phillips, at the Cooper Institute.
<c05>
MISS. CHARLOTTE CUSHMAN'S DONATION. This distinguished lady has given to the Sanitary Commission to the proceeds of five dramatic representations, ,--amounting to $82678367.29.
FATAL RAILROAD ACCIDENT. Mr. Nehemiah Smith, a well-known citizen and carriage manufacturer in Palmer, was run over by the Boston express train in Springfield, Friday, and instantly killed. He was 67 years of age. 
Religion seems to be a bad thing for the slaves, or rather their masters. The Richmond Whig says that upon the last appearance of the Yankees at Fredericksburg, the only negroes who went off with them when they retired were those who belonged to, or were frequenters of, the African church there. 
The payments for all branches of the public service for the fiscal year ending with the last of June were $903,000,000, of which amount $600,000,000 were for the army, and 66,000,000 for the navy. A sufficiency of money has been placed in the hands of all the paymasters to pay our armies up to the first of the present month.
The friends of emancipation In the Legislature of Missouri are maturing a bill, calling a Convention for the purpose of recommending an alteration of the Constitution immediately abrogating slavery. Although opposition is expected in the Senate, it is thought the measure will pass, and that the State Convention will be held in April next.
Recent utterances of the President, and the instructions approved by him to recently commissioned representatives of the Government in districts of the South, now in our possession, leave no doubt that the policy of the Administration to permit none of the vagrant States to come back with a slave constitution is fixed. —Tribune.
Deserters from the rebel army at Charleston state that some of the shells recently thrown from the Federal batteries exploded in King street, killing an artillery officer and several soldiers, and setting some buildings on fire.
There are now seven correspondents of northern papers in the Richmond prisons. These persons, it is said, have been indulging themselves by composing a manuscript volume containing sketches of the noted rebels they have come across. 
It is said there will soon be enough colored troops on the Mississippi to guard the whole river and garrison the towns.
The original copy of the President's Emancipation Proclamation has been awarded to T. B. Bryon, of Chicago, for the sum of $3000.
The Philadelphia Daily News nominates for President in 1864, Abraham Lincoln; for Vice President, Andrew G. Curtin.
In the War of 1812, negro soldiers were paid the same wages as others, and the only question raised was to their right to the land bounty, which Attorney General William Wirt decided in their favor.
The remains of the musical composers, Beethoven and Schubert, have been exhumed, photographed and reburied. Photography is being run into the ground.
The Union men of Arkansas are radical. They accept negroes as soldiers, free men and citizens, if necessary, to crush rebellion.
Two regiments of Kansas negroes are now on duty at Fort Smith.
New Orleans is fast filling up with a Northern population.
Between 5000 and 6000 freedmen were vaccinated at Newbern, N. C., some days since.
Epos Sargent's new novel, "PECULIAR," just published, is an elegantly printed volume of 500 pages, and will make a sensation. It will help drive some additional nails into the coffin of slavery. Read it!

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
12 ARCH STREET, BOSTON, Nov. 18, 1863.
I have received, in aid of the 54th and 55th Regiments, not heretofore acknowledged, the following sums, viz:- 
From Miss Fox, $10; J. C. Haynes & Co., 25; Wendell Phillips, 50; C. W. Loring, 10; J. S. Warren, 25; Misses Beck, 1; Edward Whitney, 25; a Friend, 10; John G. King, 25; Cyrus Brewer, 5; R. C. Robley, 5; Mary G. Chapman, 10; Josiah Quincy, 25; Edward Wigglesworth, 50; A Friend, 50; Miss M. Wigglesworth, 25; David Sears, 50; R. E. Apthorp, 25; Rev. C. A. Bartol, 10; John C. Fernald, 5; Chas. G. Wood, 20; Mrs. Mary L. Shaw, 50; Miss M. Louise Shaw, 25; Samuel May, Jr., 3; C. 0O. Whitmore, 25; Edmund Jackson, 25; Wm. Win. B. Rogers, 15. J. H. STEPHENSON, 
Treasurer for the Committee.
A CARD.-The undersigned, in behalf of the Directors, would thank the noble and generous patrons of the John Quincy Adams National Farm Home for Invalid Soldiers, for past favors. No one any longer asks if this Home is needed. It is the only Farm Home in the United States. Every merchant says it is just what is needed to the resuscitate and recruit those who have gone out to protect our gold and silver, and our homes. Gentlemen of every shade of politics are becoming interested. This is no experiment-—it is a success. It is already in operation, feeding and employing all who go there. There are about the 400 acres of land; and if those who feel interested in this movement will call at 19 Charlestown Street, upon Samuel Poor, Jr., Vice President, they will get full particulars.
We beg ladies and gentlemen to help as us prepare to make those noble and brave men comfortable for the coming winter. Lieut. GEO. W. CALEFF is constantly laboring for them. While he was a prisoner in the hands of the rebels for more than a year, his mother was thrown into a decline, lingered along until the 16th ult., and died. It is supposed that her over-anxiety hastened her decease, while he was suffering hunger and nakedness, suffering for bread many a day for thirteen long months within the walls of Charleston jail and Libby prison. 
True, others are sufferers; many a brave woman is ebbing out her life-blood in prayer, as she did, for only-sons in the army. Many a heart has been made sad, many there are whose cheeks have paled as they went out to meet returning regiments, welcomed by cheering thousands, and who were answered, "He died upon the field," or, "He died a prisoner." Let those of us who remain at home do all the good we can to our brave returned soldiers. 
Sergeant NICHOLAS LAWLESS, minus a leg and some of his fingers shot off, is the gentlemanly Superintendent. The Farm is in Weston, three miles from Auburndale. JOHN MEADE, Jr., at the latter place, will direct all visitors to the Home. 
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President, 
19 Charlestown street.
BIBLICAL QUARTERLY of Religious and Moral Science, and the Reconstruction of Biblical Theories according to the principles of all Science. No. I. Daniel it its Apocryphal additions, newly arranged and translated, with a critical introduction, in which its age, authorship, character and interpretation are considered, and the principal questions concerning the book attempted to be finally resolved. By LEICESTER A. SAWYER. 
This Quarterly will endeavor to apply the principles of all science to the sciences of religion and morality, then of all history to sacred history, and then of all interpretation to Biblical interpretation. The second or third number will commence the critical examination of the New Testament. 
Terms, $2 a year; single numbers, 60GO cents. The first number is in the press, and will appear shortly. Orders and subscriptions are respectfully solicited through all the United States and Canada, and may be addressed to Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Boston.
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark's, School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS-The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled "The Right Way the Safe Way," can be had at the Liberator office, wholesale or retail. Price-$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of tile the book, both as to style and argument.
ANTI-SLAVARYSLAVERY ADVOCATE.-Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL. MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, -three dollars each. The work covers a period of more than ten years, ending with May, 1863. 4t.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office
office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
<c06>
HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
60, PLEASANT STREET,
The experiment of a Special Hospital for Lying-In Patients and the Diseases of Women has now been under trial, in Boston, for nearly two years. It has succeeded beyond the most sanguine expectations of those interested; the demand for admission having often exceeded the capacity of the building temporarily in use.
It has therefore been decided to establish the institution upon a permanent basis; and, as its benefits are for the community at large, to seek from that community cooperation and material aid, in the firm belief that the usefulness of the institution has now been fully proved, and the necessity for a building more appropriate to its purpose a purposes made evident.
The advantages of a separate hospital for the diseases of women are obvious. While these diseases are often of a character requiring the utmost skill in diagnosis and treatment, an essential element in the success of the treatment lies in the absence of all disturbing causes, mental and physical, foremost among which rank the varied anxieties and excitements of a large general Hospital, the necessary publicity attaching to its wards, and the inevitable diversity of cares and interests there obtaining.
It is the aim of this institution,-exclusively for women,-to obviate these and other objections,. hitherto made by patients against entering a general Hospital, and thus to do more than a general Hospital possibly can towards lessening the present high rate of female mortality. 
The Directors and Trustees therefore appeal to all benevolent persons for their aid in erecting a building especially adapted for the purposes required. Their call is made not upon women alone, who might seem more especially interested in the benefits to be conferred, but upon men, also, who cannot deny the claims upon them of mother, daughter, sister, and wife.
It is not intended or desired to erect a large and costly edifice, or to expend money upon outside show, but merely to provide safe and sufficient shelter for some fifty or one hundred beds, and to insure a purer and more favorable "hospital air" than has usually been obtained.
It is estimated that a building costing $35,000 will secure these ends. As much more will be necessary to establish thirty-five free beds upon a permanent foundation.
One lady has already paid three thousand dollars; another has paid one thousand; and several smaller sums. 
MISS LUCY GODDARD, President. 
MRS. EDNAH D. CHENEY, Secretary. 
FRED. W. G. MAY, Treasure. Treasurer.
GEO. WM. BOND, Auditor.
Directors,
Mrs. Mary C. E. Barnard, Miss Sarah P. Beck, 
Mrs. Louisa C. Bond, Miss Mary J. Ellis,
Mrs. Lucretia G. French, Miss Hannah E. Stevenson, 
Miss Anna H. Clarke, James Freeman Clarke,
Mrs. Mary A. S. Palmer, Thomas Russell,
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Samuel E. Sewall, 
Mrs. Penelope R. Walbach, James Tolman, 
Mrs. Joanna L. Meriam, John H. Stephenson. 
Dr. M. E. ZAKRZEWSKA, Attending Physician. 
Dr. HORATIO R. STORER, Attending Surgeons. .
Dr. LUCY E. SEWALL, Resident Physician. 
Dr. JOHN WARE, Consulting Physician. 
Dr. JOHN CABOT, Consulting Surgeon.
New England Hospital for Women and Children 60, Pleasant Street, Boston, Oct. 1, 1863.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-Those who want an easy, pleasant and profitable business should send for
"FIFTY METHODS OF MAKING MONEY";
a book containing over fifty valuable secrets. Sent, post paid, to any address on the receipt of 25 cents.
Address, F. A. FOSTER, Troy, N. Y.
Nov. 13. .-3t
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver an Address on the State of the Country, at Concert Hall, in Philadelphia, on Wednesday evening next, Dec. 2d.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Port Norfolk, (Dorchester,) next Sunday evening, Nov. 29th.
OBITUARY.
DEAR MR. GARRISON- Another of the elderly circle of Abolitionists has passed from this sphere of life. Mrs. PHEBE T. RICHMOND, wife of James Richmond, of Claverack, N. Y., died at her residence Oct. 31st. She was one of the number with whom the cause of the oppressed had a permanent claim. Though not widely known, she was a woman of rare conscientiousness, and fidelity to her convictions of duty. The Liberator was her favorite journal, and to live to see the final end of slavery was her most fervent desire.
As her life has been a help, so will her memory be a blessing to all who knew her.
Ghent, N. Y., Nov. 23, 1863. A. M. P.

BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50; People's edition, $1.
II. HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE: a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH'S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. $1.00.
V. HENRY WARD BEECHER'S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 15c15C.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown. $1.00. 
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications sent to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. R. F. WALLCUT.,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.

ROUND HILL
WATER-CURE.
DR. HALSTED, of Round Hill Water-Cure, Northampton, Mass., has so far perfected his "Motorpathic System" of treatment that many cases of incipient prolapsus uteri, kindred weaknesses and ulcerations, can be cured by one consultation, and the following of his instructions. The plan and remedies for self or home treatment are potent and restorative. They dispel pain and weakness in the back, strengthen the nerves, tone the stomach, and obviate indigestion and constipation.
Confirmed cases and bed-ridden patients can be so much relieved by one visit as to give them faith of ultimate recovery at his institution. Water treatment may be used to tone the system, or it may not; but supporters, caustic or harsh treatment, never. The organ, one only, motor-pathically adjusted, no ordinary exertion will displace; and after a short treatment, its healthy condition becomes fixed and permanent.
This method is so simple and reliable that it is working a revolution in the treatment of woman's diseases. Physicians are cordially invited to test its value. Their attention is also called to his treatment for neuralgic and spinal difficulties, by which the vital forces are renewed, strength. Strength and elasticity restored, and broken-down constitutions renovated. The names of thousands of invalids who have been cured at his institution are on record, with a history of their sufferings. Further information will be given, if desired.
Northampton, Mass., Nov. 25.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixture, s and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses. of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. 
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co. 
Oct. 30-ly
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10, Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between }
Oxford and Edinboro' Sts,
BOSTON .
Sept. 23. tf
BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET, 
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct. 23, 1863.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
THE PRESIDENT’S HYMN.
GIVE THANKS, ALL YE PEOPLE!
BY DR. MUHLENBERG,
Author of the well-known hymn, "I would not live alway.”
Give thanks, all ye people, give thanks to the Lord,
Alleluias, of freedom, with joyful accord!
Let the East and the West, North and South roll along,
Seas, mountain and prairie, one thanksgiving song.

Chorus after each verse:
Give thanks all ye people, give thanks to the Lord,
Alleluias of freedom, with joyful accord!
For the sunshine and rainfall, enriching again
Our acres in myriads, with treasures of grain;
For the Earth still unloading her manifold wealth,
For the Skies beaming vigor, the Winds breathing health:
Give thanks!
For the Nation’s wide table, o'erflowingly spread,
Where the many have feasted, and all have been fed,
With no bondage their God-given rights to enthrall,
But Liberty guarded by Justice for all:
Give thanks!
In the realms of the Anvil, the Loom, and the Plow,
Whose the mines and the fields, to Him gratefully bow:
His the flocks and the herds, sing ye hill-fidessides and vales;
On His Ocean domains chant His name with the gales.
Give thanks!
Of commerce and traffic, ye princes, behold
Your riches from Him, Whose the silver and gold;
Happier children of Labor, true lords of the soil,
Bless the Great Master-Workman, who blesseth your toil.
Give thanks!
Brave men of our forces, Life-guard of our <illegble>
To your Leader be loyal, Jehovah of Hosts:
Glow the Stripes and the Stars aye with victory bright,
Reflecting His glory, He crowneth the Right.
Give thanks!
Nor shall ye through our borders, ye stricken of heart,
Only wailing your dead, in the joy have no part:
God's solace be yours, and for you there shall flow
All that honor and sympathy’s gifts can bestow.
Give thanks!
In the domes of Messiah, ye worshipping throngs,
Solemn litanies mingle with jubilant songs;
The Ruler of nations beseeching to spare,
And our Empire still keep the Elect of His care.
Give thanks!
Our guilt and transgressions remember no more;
Peace, Lord! righteous Peace, of Thy gift we implore;
And the Banner of Union, restored by Thy hand,
Be the Banner of Freedom o'er all in the land. 
And the Banner of Union, &c. 
Give thanks! 

SUMTER!
I.
If 'tis true, and no sad blunder,
Silenced, shattered, crushed asunder! 
Sumter captured! Let it thunder
O'er the land and o'er the ocean! 
Let it sweep in grand commotion
Up the rivers to their fountains,
O'er the valleys, prairies, mountains,
O'er the plains and deserts glowing,
O'er sierras ever snowing, 
Down where tropic gales are blowing,
Down bright streams to sunset flowing, 
Till from ocean unto ocean
Sweeps the rapturous commotion
Sweeps the mighty acclamation
Of a great triumphant nation, 
And with twenty million voices
Half a continent rejoices 
O'er the sure and glorious token
That Rebellion's power is broken?

II. 
Sumter fallen! God is holy! 
God, who hears the poor and lowly
Hears and answers, soon or slowly
From his heavenly habitation,
Saw our sin and tribulation,
Heard our contrite supplication,
Sent us succor and salvation!
Blessed be God's name forever!
Let the golden gateways sever!
Let the swelling, bursting paean
Fill the open empyrean. 
Let the adamantine arches 
Tremble as the anthem marches
Up the everlasting river, 
Up to God, the glorious Giver, 
God, Almighty to deliver! 
Let the harp-strings leap and quiver! 
Let the crystal columns shiver! 
Let all earth, all heaven endeavor!
BLESSED BE GOD’S NAME FOREVER!! 

III
Blessed be God’s name forever! 
Never, never, never, never, 
Shall another slave dominion
Stretch o'er earth its midnight pinion!
Hear, O Earth, through all this battle,
Hear thy broken fetters rattle!
Shout, O Earth! Sing, child and mother!
Wife and husband, lover, brother,
Through this land and every other!
Shout and sing through all the nations,
Through all human habitations! 
For, though ours the tears and slaughter, 
Ours the brave blood poured like water, 
Ours the shame, the sin, the sorrow, 
Yours shall be the golden morrow!
Yours with us, though round us closing 
Banded tyrants stand opposing;
God's great hand, o'er all disposing.
Still all good shall save and cherish, 
Till all evil fall and perish.
 
THE YEAR GROWS OLD. 
BY M. D. SANDERSON.
Old Time moves on the Year grows old
The flush of Autumn bathes his brow;
Sweet flowers that bloomed in Summer's prime 
Around his path are withered now: 
The length'ning nights are growing cold-
And Time moves on-—the Year grows old. 
October Autumn's fruitful child-
Her golden sceptre o'er the land 
Extends to bless the farmers board
With Nature's wealth-—and forests grand
Are flushing with the hues of gold
While Time moves on-—the Year grows old.
His path has been through Winter's snows, 
The verdant Spring, and Summer's heat; 
Sweet buds and flowers have blushing laid
Their fairest off 'rings at his feet;
And new a voice from mead and wold
It sighing low-—the Year grows old.
And soon the mourning earth will wear 
A solemn garb of russet brown; 
And soon the Frost-King’s icy hand
Will touch with white the old Year's crown; 
And soon the voice of North-wind bold
Will tell the tale-—the Year grows old.
Bind laurels round the gray Year’s brow!
His step is still a kingly tread, 
And thrice the moon shall wax and wane
Ere we shall weep the old Year dead: 
Yet all too soon his story told
Old Time moves on- —the Year grows old.

TRIFLES.
The massive gates of circumstance
Are turned upon the smallest hinge,
And thus some seeming pettiest chance
Oft gives our life its after tinge.
The trifles of our daily lives,
The common things scarce worth recall,
Whereof so visible trace survives, 
These are the mainsprings, after all.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Franks's Household.”
CHAPTER VIII.
KING BROWNLEE.
One of the most interesting of Mr. Nelson’s friends was king Brownlee, of Mount Pleasant. He was some fifty-five years of age, of medium height, black eyes, and dark complexion,-of noble physiognomy, superior intellectual endowments, and high moral nature. 
He loved sincere, substantial qualities, and had great contempt for the hollow superficiality of fashionable society. He had much natural dignity of bearing, and was often wrapped in impenetrable reserve towards those whose peculiarities were repugnant to him, but was familiar as a child with those congenial in habits of thought and feeling. Hence, there were various opinions concerning him. Some, even of his equals, thought him offensively proud and austere, and styled him "king Brownlee"; and this, at length, came to be his common appellation. 
Mount Pleasant, his residence, was a lofty structure of stone, built in Colonial times. It stood on an elevated site, and, half overgrown with ivy, was a picturesque and interesting object. King Brownlee came in possession of the estate when quite young, on the death of his father; but, with a rare reverence, had abstained from making any changes in the building, or its ancient furniture. 
In fine, he might be termed, in the strictest sense, an old-fashioned man, so far as residence, dress, equipage and manners were concerned. And yet no one more fully appreciated modern discoveries, or the progress of the age. His religion, like his forefathers, was modelled after the English church, but was evangelical in its type. Eminently conscientious for the place, time and circumstances in which he lived, he was a remarkable exception to a general rule. His mind was cast in a large mould, and was of the independent stamp that must think for itself. He graduated at the University of Virginia in his youth, had pursued various sciences during his riper years, was a noted book-worm, and few had a nicer literary taste.
It was his purpose early in life to marry, but excessive diffidence and reserve in heart affairs raised an impassable barrier, and he was still single. The solitary man, having a variety of resources at command, for a time avoided misanthropy, but at length became morbidly alive to his loneliness.
"I'm monarch of all I survey, 
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea, 
I'm lord of the fowl and the brute. 
"O, solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face? 
Better dwell in the midst of alarms
Than reign in this horrible place!”
The Selkirk master, especially if unmarried, on a retired plantation, may find these lines not wholly inappropriate. Keeping aloof from his servants that they may the more fear him, he is indeed a solitary man. The human machines move about his house with the monotony, if not the regularity of the clock. One day is so like its fellow as to become a weariness. At long intervals the sameness is interrupted by a dinner party; that over, the days relapse into their chronic tediousness. 
But, alas, for king Brownlee! a bachelor in spite of the holiest instincts and largest needs of his nature, and cut off from sympathy with most of those with whom he came in contact, by his recluse and bookish habits, and by peculiarity of views and feeling, he was the last person in the world to be left to the charms of southern solitude. His mind had created a world of its own, and with its beings his thoughts held intercourse, as if they were actual realities of flesh and blood. His habits of reverie became so fixed, especially as his well-trained horse, with his bridle lyingly on his neck, paced off the long miles of silence,- that his visions of the day became as vivid, and for the time as delusive, as his dreams of the night. 
But no vision of the stern-browed man was so real, or so frequently repeated, as that of home happiness; and many and many were the chit-chats he held with the phantom queen of his heart and hearth. But day-dreams, like dreams of the night, have their waking; and every new waking deepened the lonely ness, enlarged the void, and rendered the reality more dull. His chief happiness, when out of his library, was in looking after the comfort of his plantation servant. He had one of the kindest and most genial of hearts, and the cabins on his estate were the prettiest homes of "farm people" in the South. His neighbors, while they allowed he was sufficiently aristocratic in his bearing towards his peers, were wont to complain that he was too democratic towards his servants. It was charged as one of his eccentricities, that he took tool sides with them in their complaints against their overseers, and that while he paid the latter generously, he turned them away for all harsh treatment of the former. Indeed, no overseer could long receive employment at his hands, unless he consented to modify himself with most perfect precision to his pattern. The king would insist that slaves need not be whipped: if perverse, they were to be imprisoned, instead. But he accomplished wonders with them by encouraging them to do well. He was sure to reward a certain time of well-doing by giving the slave his freedom, and such a thing as the running away of one of his people was seldom known.
The king is on his return from a visit to the quarters. His bridle lies loosely on the neck of his noble horse. His reverie is on him. The phantom lady rides by his side on her shadowy steed.
Don't you think we could make those cabins a little more comfortable? asks the king.
The pretty spoken presence replies in the affirmative.
"They are tolerably tight and warm,” pursued the king, "but they must be newly whitewashed within and without. This must be done once a year, at least.”
The amiable spouse gave a gracious approval.“
"Yes, once a year, at least, to make them neat and wholesome;” and the king smiled, as if his inseparable companion had echoed the remark.
"And each cabin must have a good floor laid at a once,” said the king.
“And our carpenter?” inquired Mrs. Brownlee,“ cannot they exercise their ingenuity in making bedsteads for the people? This sleeping on loose straw, on earthen floors, cannot be for the health of human beings.”
"Just so!” replied king Brownlee,“ that's a happy thought.”
"And chairs and tables?” added the spectator. 
"Chairs and tables, of course,” echoed the king.
"And with the bedsteads, there must be a reformation in the bedding?” suggested the lady.
"Yes, indeed!” was the whole-hearted rejoinder.
"Good tickings to begin with,” added the queenly presence, "filled with wheat straw and stripped husks. Then they must have sheets, and two new blankets a year to each cabin.”
"Well said! well said!" outspoke king Brownlee, "how well you ladies understand these matters!”
"And the best of the feathers of all the chickens, turkies and wild fowl killed, should be saved for pillows for the people.”
"Exactly! by giving them the comforts of civilized life, we take a step towards civilising them.”
"And one new suit of clothes a year for each is not enough,” pursued the queen; “they cannot change, and be neat and tidy; besides, their clothes will wear longer to be regularly changed and washed, and the people will be less likely to lose time by sickness. Then, too, the women ought not to work in the field more than half the time, but be encouraged to do something for the comfort of their families. Let
<c03>
them make their cabins look like home; let them feel that they have a home. And they ought to have time to make over the old clothes for their children, instead of letting them run naked; and braid mats to cover their floors. And, moreover, they ought to be encouraged to cook their food in a civilized way, and be sure and have a good warm, hearty breakfast before going to the field, instead of trying to work on a gnawing stomach until twelve o’clock.”
"Great room for reformation!" sighed the king, some what piqued that his lady should find so many matters to improve. “I acknowledge that I have conformed too much to the customs of my forefathers in restricting the comforts of my servants, and it seems I have allowed the example of the neighboring planters to influence me unduly.”
"If we would not have our servants brutes, we must not treat them as such,” said the lady.
"Exactly,” echoed the king,” there's a world of philosophy in that! But is there some plan by which my people will feel it a privilege to work for me, and become trustworthy? The want of confidence between servants and masters makes me at times detest the whole system.” 
"We are encompassed with difficulties in making any radical change,” said the presence. "I think, however, we may safely elevate our people by meliorating their social condition, even if we do not instruct them. Kind treatment and care for their wants will infallibly develop some excellencies in their affectionate natures, and attach them to us faithfully.”
"That's reasonable,” was the reply, "and it has been my aim to approximate as near as possible to giving them wages, by conferring an equivalent to their labor in substantial necessaries.” 
"Would n't it be a good plan to allow our field hands each a fertile piece of land to cultivate; and to stimulate them to raise the various kinds of vegetables, have a fair and premiums for the best stocked garden? This would add variety to their food, and conduce to health, cheerfulness, and long life.” 
"An excellent idea!” re-echoed the king, "it would help them lose sight of the depressing, demoralizing thought that they are slaves. It would, in a measure, help elevate them to the standing of European peasantry.” 
"Then they might keep a pig and some poultry, and ways be devised by which those industrious enough might earn the means of buying a cow. Then their children could be half raised on milk, and the family sometimes have a taste of butter, or, if they preferred, sell it, and provide themselves with groceries,” said the lady. 
"Ah, yes,” rejoined the king, with a look of delight, "how much a few such plans would add to their contentment! Let them feel that they have a pleasant home, which their efforts will make still more attractive, and, I'll venture them, they wont be in a hurry to run away. They are naturally a quiet, domestic people, strongly attached to the locality of their birth; and nothing but the most powerful motive can induce them to turn their back’s on scenes they would gladly have loved.” 
"So I think,” said Mrs. Brownlee,” but you know it is objected to our institution that it violates personal liberty, because it proceeds upon the principle that the master has a right to control the actions physical and intellectual, of the slave for his own, that is, the master’s individual benefit; and, of course, that the happiness of the master, when it comes in competition with the happiness of the slave, extinguishes in the latter the right to pursue it. It supposes, at best, that the relation between master and servant is not that which exists between man and man, but is a modification, at least, of that which exists between man and the brutes.”
“Well, well,” interrupted the king, uneasily, but pleasantly, “my fair priestess at the altar of conscience, what if it be so? what then? how am I to help the matter?”
"I have a plan that will help do away with this objection,” replied the good angel; "it is this:— as a master, let your happiness consist in making your servants happy."
"Ah, but,” said the king, “I'm afraid I cannot afford to go quite as for as that. Just reflect a moment, my dear; where would such a project end? In nothing less than the entire abolition of our system. For, meliorate the condition of our servants as far as we can, and still have them bondmen and bondwomen, they will in most cases want to be made free to be quite happy. After all, we must have some regard to the nature of our system. There is a limit at which we must arrest our sympathies, or else the more we do, the more we may.”
"But,” urged the fair pleader,” let us make their case our own, and remember the Bible laws,- Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself,—and, All things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them. Should we not claim as much of others if we were in their places? As has been remarked The:— application of these principles is universal. Our neighbor is every one whom we may benefit. The obligation respects all things whatsoever. The precept, then, manifestly, extends to men, as men, or men in every condition; and if to all things whatsoever, certainly to a thing so important as the right to personal liberty.’ What say you to this?”
"Oh, of course, it lays our domestic institution even with the dust. The moment we obey these injunctions to the full, that moment is slavery extinct. For, I am reminded, it is still farther justly argued under wing of the precept, that’ it is our duty to cherish as tender and delicate a respect for the right which the meanest individual possesses over the means of happiness, or as we desire any other individual to cherish for it.’ It is plain,” he continued, “that the spirit of the precept is the entire equality of right; but the spirit of slavery is the entire absorption of the rights of one in the rights of another.”
"Let us do as well as we can in the circumstances,” said the lady; "if we are not prepared to free all our slaves at once, let us at least practically forget that they are slaves, and deal with them as far as possible on the principle of equality of rights.”
"It is in my heart to do so," was the rejoinder. "God forbid that others sacrifice their happiness to mine! I shall set at liberty the most deserving of my people, as fast as I deem them prepared for so great a change; and, my dear, I will at once execute my Will, that every soul of them may be free at my death," and the king brightened up as if he had already done a good deed. "But, my dear," he added, after a moment of deeper reverie, " as it can form no part of my happiness to enjoy the misery or discomfort of others, if it is your wish that our servants all be freed at once, I can cheerfully acquiesce in your decision. I desire fully to promote your happiness "and the king turned to his companion. She had vanished! His horse was standing stock still by the bridle-post opposite the coach ring, before his mansion.
He was again alone in the world; how sadly alone, no man may know, save the solitary being who, like himself, has had the chambers of his imagery hung round with such an enchanting vision. An old servant mechanically came to help him dismount, and to take his horse; but there he sat for a half hour, recalling the charmed reverie with its beautiful presence.
“One thing is certain,” he at length exclaimed, "she must be mine! There is no living without her!”
The ancient stable boy started from poking his toes thoughtfully in the sand at the horse’s side; he thought his master was planning a purchase at an auction soon to come off in the vicinity.
The seeming counsel of the king’s fair adviser sank deeply into his heart. Slowly dismounting, and giving the reins to the servant, he sought his lonely parlor, to adjust his plans for the execution of his cherished purposes.
Perhaps no one of king Brownlee's associates better understood his peculiarities than Mr. Nelson. Formerly they had been much together, as the latter in his boyhood was accustomed to spend portions of his vacations at Mount Pleasant, and was much beloved by his senior friend. Of late years, however, since Mr.
<c04>
Nelson had become engrossed in public life, their intercourse had been less frequent, and their friendship more reserved.
The king abhorred office-seeking, and all the obsequious electioneering commonly pertaining thereto, and could scarcely forgive his quondam companion or getting fascinated with public honors.
Mr. Nelson, moved by his friendship for Mr. Brownlee, paid him a visit. He found him absorbed in planning for the comfort of his "people,” and the king at once proposed to his visitor to accompany him to "the quarters,” and see the improvements.
The king opened his heart to him, and expatiated on his plans with all the enthusiasm of the philanthropist, but met with no answering response. "Well," said the host, as they turned their horses' heads homeward, after the inspection of the comfortable cabins, "what do you think of that?”
"Think,” replied Mr. Nelson, involuntarily spurring his horse, "I think it would all do very well if they were not slaves!”
"And why is it not just the thing for them!” asked king Brownlee.
"They will dream that they are free.” 
“So much the better,” said the king, "let them dream on! Next to being free is to dream of being free.”
"But,” said the other, "the dream will not suffice them; you’ll find the illusion of freedom has not been quite real enough; they will forth with be flying for the North, like thistle-down before the south wind.”
The king was silent, and the legislator went on:-” 
"I will allow there may be cases where it may do to indulge house-servants, although these cases are extremely rare, and not always safe; but the strictest discipline is necessary to keep the field hand submissive. Give him privileges, and he will be sure to abuse them. He must be kept down, down, by the crushing weight of arbitrary power, or his inveterate will comes up to oppose your own.”
"And what a degradation is this! what sacrilege!” outspoke the king. "Crush the will, and you destroy all that individualizes the being; blight conscience; take away the moral sense; make the man a thing-— a soulless thing! God forbid that I should be guilty of thus desecrating his works!”
"Pardon me,” replied Mr. Nelson, "you take quite too one-sided a view of the matter-—altogether too ultra. Why, sir, our servants are not to be regarded as free moral agents in the largest sense. According to our laws and our social system, their highest duty and privilege is to do our will. In the cheerful discharge of this, too, their religion mainly consists. All responsibility has its limits; their condition limits theirs.”
"Worse and worse,” rejoined the king;“ change a man to a brute for our convenience, and then talk of the limits of human responsibility! Well will it be for us, if each inch abstracted from his responsibility don’t add cubits to our own.”
"But what would you do?” returned his visitor. "Push abstract principles as far as you please, I see no other practical alternative than to abide by our institutions and laws, and do the best we can under them. Indeed, I maintain this on the principle of common benevolence. They cannot take care of themselves; they are incapacitated physically, mentally and morally from doing so; and you would inflict on them a greater injury, by freeing them at once, than by keeping them in their present relation. Of the two evils, common benevolence would teach us to choose the least.”
"Well, well,” said king Brownlee, "admit them to be as helpless and degraded as you maintain, still, whose fault is it! They have not made themselves bondmen by their own voluntary choice; the act and the responsibility are their masters’, and they should set themselves about remedying this supposed incapacity for freedom.
 As one has said, ‘If a man have done injustice to his neighbor, and have also placed impediments in the way of remedying that injustice, he is as much under obligations to remove the impediments in the way of justice as he is to do justice.” 
"But,” replied Mr. Nelson, "you can remove the impediments only by retaining your slaves in bondage.” "Well,” rejoined king Brownlee,” in effect I suppose I am holding my servants on that very principle, and for that very purpose, that I may fit them to be free. In fact, you know it has been my custom, for years, to free the most intelligent and deserving among them.”
"And yet you are as really a holder of slave as any man among us.”
"Perhaps so,” replied the king; "and yet I do sincerely abhor the system, and, if I understand my own sentiments and position, I do not hold my slaves on the ground of my right to do so-—on the ground that I may innocently ‘absorb their rights,’ but of obligation to them; and of obligation to them for the purpose of accomplishing a particular and specified good.”
"In my estimation, then,” said, Mr. Nelson you are the greater slave of the two. You do not hold your slave for your own, but for his advantage.”
"Better so than otherwise-—a thousand fold better!” said the king.” "Supposing my servant in fact is not fitted to be free, I can hold him in bondage for the purpose of training him for self-government and the right use of liberty, and yet not in reality be guilty of withholding his rights from him.”
"But I must say,” remarked Mr. Nelson, "with all deference for your judgment and wisdom, that I think you are altogether too scrupulous on this question. Moreover, if your proceedings be right and necessary, you condemn the rest of us: we are decidedly wrong, and our laws are wrong. Now, I am not prepared to admit this. I cannot but look on your present course as a hazardous experiment, and one whose disastrous effects you may one day rue, when perhaps it is too late to remedy them.”
"Impossible!” replied the king; "evil does not follow the doing of right. But we shall see: thus far I have had great encouragement. My farm people hold up their heads more like men, with less of the fawning consciousness that they are slaves, and it refreshes me to see it—does indeed. There are now gleams of comfort, and peace, and joy, in those little cabins, which they never dreamed could beam there, and I am a thousand fold repaid for the little I have done to bring; it about. But I see you do not relish my enjoyment,” added he, with a disappointed air, "I will drop the subject.” 
Nor was Mr. Nelson disposed to renew it. As they reached Mount Pleasant, the first dinner-bell was ringing.
"We are in good time, then,” remarked the king, ushering his guest into the anciently furnished parlor; and, getting seated, relapsed into one of his besetting reveries, in which Mrs. Brownlee figured as the all -engaging personage.
Mr. Nelson, aware of his habit, for a time forebore remark, but at length said, "You seem depressed, sir. I fear that it is but a lonely life that you lead.” 
"Lonely, lonely,” repeated the king, as if awaking from a dream-—then in a moment more, speaking rather testily from being too soon disturbed, "Yes, I am lonely-—lonely enough; but older men than I have married.”
Mr. Nelson was amused, and said in his bland way:
"Exactly, sir! that is to the point. You are not too old to marry yet. Indeed, I think you are about the right age; though, to be sure, no time should be lost, and it would doubtless have been for your happiness had you married twenty years ago.” 
"I always planned to marry young,” said the king, with a confidential air, rising, pacing the floor, and regarding himself in an ample mirror which had the quality of reflecting its owner without wrinkles, a score of years younger than he really was.“ “I always planned to marry young; and, bless me! I don't feel so very old now!”
"Of course not; and why should you?" replied the politician; "you are yet in your prime.” 
"Then you really think it would be well for me to marry?” said the king.
<c05>
"I certainly do; and since you have confided so much to me, I will venture to suggest the name of a lady-—if you have no one in view. It has often struck me that she would be exactly to your taste.”
"Ah!" exclaimed the king, with animation, "and who may she be?”
"She is an accomplished, amiable, and intelligent lady, who would make Mount Pleasant a paradise, and yourself the happiest of men,” replied his guest, kindling with his subject.
"And who may she be? who may she be?" repeated king Brownlee; and his heart faltered a little, and misgave him, as if he were already proving untrue to the beautiful being who had for so many years made sunny his reveries.
"It is the gifted and cultivated Miss Forsythe,” replied Mr. Nelson, impressively; "she has resided for some time with me at Powhatan.”
"Ah, indeed! is it possible?" said king Brownlee, with some agitation; "is it possible? Why, I met the lady years ago, and once saw her at your place. Yes, I recollect her perfectly. She has a bewitching presence, that, to be frank with you, has followed me ever since. Indeed, so real has she become to me, that I often forget myself, and call her Mrs. Brownlee-—I do indeed and the king blushed confusedly at the extent of his disclosures. 
"I am not in the least surprised,” replied the other; she is every way worthy of the position she has unconsciously gained in your esteem.”
"Then she does not know of my regard for her?" asked the king, a little disappointed.
"Of course not; how should she? You have never given her any proof of your preference; you have never paid her any attention, I think.”
"Let me see,” said the king, retrospectively;" well, perhaps I have not-—though I always intended to do so. It, in fact, quite escaped me. I have, I fear, taken the will for the deed. It seems, with an abundance of resolutions to treat her with becoming attention, and seek to gain her affections, I have not even called at Powhatan purposely to see her. You see how infirm of purpose I am in this particular.”
"One thing is clear,” said his friend, laughing, “you will never get a wife at this rate. It is it as true now as ever, ‘Faint heart never won fair lady.’“
"Yes, yes, that's the trouble; and what am I to do? Pray advise me; how shall I proceed? What are the preliminary attempts to be taken in such a case?”
"I could wish,” replied Mr. Nelson, "that you had applied to a better adviser. This kind of advice does not come exactly under the profession of the law, you know; and as to experience of my own by which to help you, why, I confess that I have very little. I will, however, volunteer to prepare the lady for your addresses, if you so elect.”
“I wish you would, with all my heart,” said king Brownlee, trembling with diffidence, and at thought of the decided turn things were taking. "This is rather delicate business, I confess, and not often confided to the management of another.”
"You are aware that you can trust me wholly in this matter,” replied Mr. Nelson.
"Of course—of course," rejoined the king, "or I could never have presumed to confide it to you. There is plainly a necessity in the case. I have thus far made no progress in matrimonial affairs by my own efforts.”
"Let's see,” be added, “the lady is religions, I think.”
"O yes, quite decidedly so,” replied Mr. Nelson,” a very conscientious religionist. She is a Catholic!" "A Catholic! you don't say so? Why, how could a Catholic and a Protestant get along together!”
"O, the parties will find no difficulty in this case,”," said Mr. Nelson. “" In the first place, although a nominal Catholic, Mist Forsythe uses her own reason, and thinks for herself. She has a conscientious self-reliance and independence-—reads her Bible for herself, and, of course, is far from being bigoted or sectarian. So far as I can perceive, she would heartily join in the services of your church, without any scruple.”
"Ah, well,” replied the king,” if she freely reads the Bible, I can have no fears-—she must be an intelligent Christian; and it matters not so much by what name one is called, if the heart is right”
Mr. Nelson spent the night with his friend. The matter of such surpassing interest to him was still farther discussed, and a time fixed, not far distant, for his visit to Powhatan, for the purpose of an interview with the lady, unconscious of the plans formed concerning her.
On Mr. Nelson's return, he sought the first opportunity of introducing the subject to Miss Forsythe.
It was a lovely summer evening, and finding the lady alone in the colonnade, he seated himself near her. Lelia had stolen away to the governess' room, for her loved exercise with the harp, the tones of which, floating out on the still air, seemed to mingle with, the mellow rays of the moon as they filtered through the foliage of the multiflora, which gracefully flaunted its rose sprays on the trellis. A portion of the silver light fell full on Miss Forsythe's face, and Mr. Nelson thought she looked uncommonly well, and that light silk dress was certainly very becoming, and its wearer a remarkable woman.
He felt a strange fluttering at his heart as he essayed to arrange his thoughts to advocate the cause of the king, which he found far more difficult than to make a score of stump speeches.
Miss Forsythe, with a woman's perception, discovered that he was embarrassed; and, judging of the state of his heart by the beating of her own, concluded that his ardent emotions were struggling for expression.
Hoping this was true, made it all too easy to believe it so. It was certain that she had never seen Mr. Nelson thus disconcerted, ergo, he must be in love! ergo, herself the object!
"Ahem!” said Mr. Nelson several times, by way of preliminary,-but still the cobwebs hung in his throat.
"Ahem! ahem!" and at length he said, impressively-
"My dear Miss Forsythe! there is a subject which has deeply impressed my mind for some time "and here he came to a pause.
"It is even so,” she mused, and she blushed engagingly.
"The subject is no other, my dear Miss Forsythe, than the subject of matrimony.” 
"I am surely right,” thought the lady.
"Permit me to inquire, madam, if you could be persuaded to change your condition?”
"I'll not make a fool of myself, like a sentimental school girl,” thought she. So she frankly said, with a spicing of dignity, 
"Perhaps I might, sir.”
"Pardon my boldness,” said the legislator, "have you any one in view?”
"I have, sir,” replied Miss Forsythe, her English bluntness coming to the rescue. 
"May I be permitted to ask who the happy man is?" further inquired Mr. Nelson in his courtly manner.
The governess blushed deeply, was confused, and scarcely knowing what she did, took her Bible from her reticule-—turned to 2d Samuel. 12: 7, and passing the book to Mr. Nelson, he read-” Thou art the man!” 
It was now his turn to blush-—he found this courting for another dubious business. He was never no "dashed” in his life.
"Really, Miss Forsythe,” said he, when a little collected, "this is an unexpected honor. I am quite unprepared for it. I would be most happy to appropriate to myself so rich a treasure as your excellent and trusting heart; but, my dear madam. I have promised to seek your hand for another. My friend, king Brownlee, is dying for you.”
"I beg you will excuse me from hearing any thing further!” said Miss Forsythe with dignity, as she rose to go; then hastening to her room, and throwing herself on the sofa, she gave vent to her wounded pride and disappointment in gushing tears.
<c06>
JUST PUBLlSHED:
TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE:
A Biography and Autobiography.
1 Vol. 12mo. pp. 372. illustrated with an authentic portrait and autograph of Toussaint, and a colored outline map of Colonial St Domingo. Price $1,25. 
This volume contains two, distinct works-—a Biography and an Autography. The Biography is that of Dr. Beard, revised and improved, the only impartial, and complete record of the life of the great Negro in any language; while the autography is a translation, made expressly for this edition, of the naive and masterly review of his public career, which Toussaint addressed to the Emperor Napoleon where he was a prisoner in the fatal cell of the Chateau de Joux. This interesting Memoir was published by permission, from the original manuscript, in the General Archieves of France, for the first time about ten years since, by a Haytian exile. It has never been translated into English before. A collection of interesting essays is appended-—which embraces a Proclamation by King Christopher, in which he alludes to Toussaint's services and policy; an essay by Harriet Martineau, in which she describes a visit to the Chateau de Joux; a Smiliar but quite recent account of the same journey by John Bigelow, Esq., our Consurt Paris; the poems of Wordsworth and John G. Whittier on the hero of Hayti; while an extract from Wendell Phillips, great oration, appropriately closes the volume.
It is claimed that Toussaint L'Ouverture was not only the ablest Negro that has appeared in modern History, but the greatest military genius and statesman that the New World has produced, up to the present time. Hence, the appearance of this book, while we are still debating the military capacity or the Negro, is timely, and needed.

LAMARTINE ON TOUSSAINT.
"The Auroral Soul.”
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE ON TOUSSAINT.
"We take pleasure in recognizing the services which you have rendered to the French people. If the banner floats over St. 
Domingo it is to you and the brave blacks that we owe it. Called by your talents and the force of circumstances to the highest post, you have destroyed civil war, put reins on the persecution carried on by ferocious men, restored to honor religion and the worship of God.”

WENDELL PHILLIPS ON TOUSSAINT.
"I would call him Napoleon, but Napoleon made his way to Empire over broken oaths and through a sea of blood. This man never broke his word. ‘No retaliation' was his great motto and the rule of his life; and the last words he uttered to his son in France were these: 'My boy, you will one day to back to St. Domingo; forget that France murdered your father.’ I would call him Cromwell but Cromwell was only a soldier and the State be founded went down " with him into his grave. I would call him Washington, but the great Virginian held slaves. This man risked his empire rather than permit the slave trade in the humblest village of his dominions. You think me a fanatic tonight, for you read history, not with your eyes but with your prejudices. But, fifty year hence, when truth gets a hearing, the Muse of History will put Phocian for the Greek and Brutus for the Roman, Hampden for England, Fayette for France choose Washington as the bright, consummates flower of our earlier civilization, and John Brown the ripe fruit of our noonday-—then dipping her pen in the sunlight, will write in the clear blue, above them all, the name of the soldier, the statesman, the martyr, TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE."

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON ON TOUSSAINT.
This is no catch-penny affair, but a handsomely printed and profoundly interesting volume of one of the most remarkable men in the history of the world; whose case, indeed has no parallel for its strange vicissitudes from that of a chattel slave to leader, conqueror, statesman, ruler of a liberated race,-at last perfidiously betrayed and transported to France, under circumstances of downright barbarity, where he was torn from his family, and consigned to a dungeon by order of Napoleon I never to come forth alive. The subseqeunt imprisonment of Napoleon himself at St. Helena, seem to have been a fitting retribution for his infamous treatment of Toussoaint L'Ouverture. Prophetically did Whittier write, years ago, of the Negro champion-
"Sleep camly in thy dungeon tomb, 
Beneath Besancon's alien sky, 
Dark Haytian! for the time shall come, 
Yea, even now is night,
When every where thy name shall be 
Redeemed from colors infamy;
And men shall learn to speak of thee 
As one of earth's great spirits born
In servitude and nursed in scorn, 
Casting aside the weary weight 
And fetters of its low estate, 
In that strong majesty of soul
Which knows no color, tongue, nor clime, 
Which still hath spurned the base control
Of tyrants through all time!”
We bespeak for this work the attention and patronage of all who are interested in the redemption of the negro race. Even those who are as strongly as they are unreasonably prejudiced against the race may, on giving it a close perusal, find their prejudice giving place to sympathy, contrition, and even admiration. Every intelligent colored person should try to possess a copy of it, not only for his own gratification, but in order to make use of the facts embodied in it for the furthers of the cause of the millions of bondmen, complextonally identified with himself, who are yet waiting to be actually delived from their galling fetters. Thus shall the poet Wordsworth's prediction be realised, in his memorable sonnet upon Tonissaint L’Ouverture: 
“Though fallen thyself, never to rise again,
Live and take comfort! Thou hast left behind 
Powers that will work for thee: air, earth, and skies.
There's not a breathing of the common wind.
That will forget thee: thou has great allies:
Thy friends are exultations, agonies,
And love, and man’s unconquerable mind!” 

SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND 
LETTERS, 
BY 
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In One Volume, Crown Octaxo.pp.570.
Three editions of this classical work are issued. The Library Edition is printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich English green and maroon vellum-cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University press, it is presented as choice sample of American workmanship, and will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture. 
The Boston Post characterizes it as “" a luxurious style of book-making.” Price $225. This edition will be sold by Agents only, until the first of January next.
The Trade Edition is printed from the same type, but on ordinary paper, with the portrait in cheaper style, and bound in common cloth. Price $1 50.
The People’s edition is on thin paper, but without a portrait, and in paper covers. Price $1.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains about one-half of his published speeches that have been reported during the last ten years. It is the only collection of his speeches extant.

THE BLACK MAN:
His antecedents, his Genius, and his Achievements.
BY WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
Third edition. 1 vol., 12mo., pp.312. With a portrait on steel of president Geffrard, of Hayti. Price $1.
This work, by a colored man, gives biographical sketch of fifty-eight persons, wholly or in part of African descent, who have distinguished themselves in some profession or at some crisis.
J. B. Lippinecott & Co., Philadelphia; James Millar, D. G. Francis, and Walter Low, of New York; Lee & Shepard, and all the other Boston houses, are prepared to supply the trade with these Books.
Any of these publications will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, under 3000 miles, on receipt of the price, by
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher
221 Washington Street. 
BOSTON. 
