
<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
IF TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to by be directed,. (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square in<illegible > three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti<illegible slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz;-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Editor
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers 
VOL. XXX. NO. 34 BOSTON,FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 1860 WHOLE NUMBER, 1548
REFUGE OF 0PPRESSION. 

A MOST DIABOLICAL PLOT.
DALLAS, (Texas.) July 21, 
1860.
EDITOR TELEGRAPH—The burning of Dallas and several farm house in this country, has led to the discovery of a most diabolical plot to devastate the whole of Northern Texas. At first, it was believed that the fire was accidental, but the successive burning of farm-houses, and the firing of many other towns and stores in this section, caused reflecting men to adopt means to ferret out, if possible, the cause of such wholesale destruction. It seemed almost impossible that so many places should be fired simultaneously, and that that should be accidental. The out-houses, granaries, oats and grain of Mr. Crill Miller were destroyed a few days after the destruction of Dallas. This led to the arrest of some white men, whose innocence, however, was proved beyond a doubt. 
Several negroes, belonging to Mr. Miller, were then taken up and examined, and developments of the most startling character elicited. A plot to destroy the country was revaled, and every circumstance, even to the minutie, detailed. Nearly or quite a hundred negroes have been arrested, and upon a close examination, separate and apart from each other, they deposed to the existence of a plot or conspiracy to lay waste the country by fire and assassination—to impoverish the land by the destruction of the provisions, arms and ammunition, and then, when in a state of helplessness, a general revolt of the negroes was to begin on the 1st Monday in August, the day of election for State officers. This conspiracy is aided and abetted by Abolition emissaries from the North, and by those in our midst. The details of the plot, and its modus operandi, are these- Each county in Northern Texas has a supervisor in the person of a white man, whose name is not given; each county laid off into districts, under the sub-agents of this villain.who control the action of the negroes in said districts, by whom the firing was to be done. Many of our most prominent citizens were singled out for assassination whenever they made their escape from their burning homes.Negroes never before suspected are implicated, and the insurrectionary movement is wide-spread to an extent truly alarming. In some places, the plane was conceived in every form shocking to the mind, and frightful in its results. Poisoning was to be added, and the old females to be slaughtered along with the men,and the young and handsome women to be parceled out amongst these infamous scoundrels. They had even gone so far as to designate their choice, and certain ladies had already been selected as the victims of these misguided monsters.
Fortunately, the county has been saved from the accomplishment of these horrors; but then a fearful duty remains for us. The negroes have been incited to these infernal proceedings by Abolitionists, and the emissaries of certain preachers who were expelled from this county last year. Their agents have been busy amongst us, and many of them have been in our midst. Some of them have been identified, but have field from the country;others still remain, to receive a fearful accountability from an outraged and infuriated people.Nearly a hundred negroes have testified that a large reinforcement of  Abolitionists are expected on the first of August, and these to be aided by recruits from the Indian tribes, while the Rangers are several hundred miles to the north of us. It was desired to destroy Dallas, in order that the arms and ammunition of the artillery company might share the same fate. Our jail is filled with the villans, many of whom will be hung, and that very soon. A man was found hung at our neighboring city of Fort Worth, two days ago, believed to be one of those scoundrels who are engaged in this work. We learn that he had stored away a number of rifles, and the day after he was hung, a load of six-shooters passed on to him, but were intercepted. He was betrayed by one of the gang, and hence his plans were thwarted. Many others will share his fate. I have never witnessed such times. We are most profoundly excited. We go armed day and night, and know not what we shall be called upon to do. The circumstances are frightful, and I fear that the trouble is not confined to this State. It behooves every true man to buckle on his armor, and fight the good fight for his country’s good.—Houston Telegraph.

ANOTHER CONSPIRACY DISCOVERED.
From the Houston Telegraph of July 28th we gather some additional particulars of the disturbed state of affairs in Northern Texas. That journal says:-
‘From Waxahachie, we have seen a letter written by a merchant to his correspondent in this city, which gives some of the details of a conspiracy there to murder the people and destroy the town in a manner similar to that of Dallas. The plot was to have been carried out last Sunday. It was discovered, however, and two white men, whose names are not given, were hung on Sunday last, the 21st inst. Some twenty odd negroes were to be hung also next week. The danger was believed to be over., through the people were constantly watching, and were almost worn down with their vigilance. This letter is written in German, and we may not have got all the matters contained, but believe we have the principal facts.
The fact seems to be apparent that there has been a wide-spread conspiracy in the northern counties made up by wicked white men, abolitionists, by which it was intended to burn the houses, kill the people, and run the negroes off into Mexico. Fortunately, it has been discovered—not in time to prevent the destruction by fire of half a million of property, but in time to save the lives of the people, and, it is hoped, to bring the ringleaders, particularly the hellish inciters of the negroes, to condign punishment.
FURTHER PARTICULARS. Mr. Cruger, who is just down from the upper country, confirms the accounts we have received from Dr. Pryor. He says the vigilance committees are composed of the best men in the several counties; that they are acting with great coolness and deliberation, and that the people have the utmost confidence in them. He also states, that in Dallas they have some eight or ten negroes, who appeared to be the ringleaders, in confinement. They will probably be hung. They had whipped some seventy or eighty who knew of the conspiracy, but failed to inform on the conspirators. In Waxahachie, the discovery was made through the voluntary confession of a negro woman belonging to Mr. Marshbanks. Throughout the whole region, embracing Dallas, Ellis, Tarrants and Denton counties, the testimony of the negroes has been the same. They have all agreed in saying that they were to burn the houses and murder the woman on the first Monday in August. They were then to attack the people at the polls,.aided by the reinforcement of the expected Abolition band, and having got possession of arms, provisions, &c., fight their way to Mexico.
When Mr. Cruger left Waxahachie, last Monday, there was a rumor that there had been two men hung in Dallas, and he thinks those must be the men
<C02>
 alluded to in the letter from which the above items concerning the Waxahachie conspiracy were taken. The people in all parts of the country are thoroughly aroused, and will not stop until the whole plot is laid bare, and the offenders, so far as possible, are brought to justice. 
We hear reports from Grimes, but they want confirmation, and we will not report them. The people are, however, everywhere on the alert, and suspicious characters are being closely watched.' 

EXECUTION OF THE INCENDIARIES. 
We copy from the Austin (Texas) State Gazette the following notice of the action of the citizens of Dallas, in regard to the late conflagration ;-
The excitement consequent upon the revelations made by negroes, under examination, continues unabated.Already nearly a hundred blacks have been arrested and examined separately before a committee of vigilance appointed for that purpose. This committee consists of the most respectable and responsible gentlemen of this county, whose proceedings have been characterized by the utmost prudence and moderation. 
Crowds of men are in Dallas, anxious and eager to lend theis assistance, and ready to quell every disturbance that threatens the peace of the State. The developments are of the most startling character, unfolding the most diabolical plot that the wickedness of man could invent, to destroy this whole section of country.
At the town of Lancaster, the same general plot, was revealed—-to burn the town; to poison the inhabitants.:to assassinate the aged females, and to seize and appropriate the young and handsome for their villanous purposes.
MONDAY, July 23d.-An immense concourse of people from all parts of the country is here awaiting the action of the Committee of Vigilance. The stage came in from Waxahachie yesterday, bringing news of the high state of excitement in that town. The conspiracy and insurrectionary spirit extended to that place in all the horrid forms contemplated at this place. Throughout the country, so far as we can learn, the same thing exists. That town was destined to be burned, the people to be poisoned and slaughtered, and the remaining property to be distributed among the victorious blacks. On Red Oak Creek, the chief poisoner has been arrested and executed. Negroes at Waxahachie have been detected with the poison in their possession, and a runner in town yesterday reports that there have been several executions at that place. We have not yet received the particulars. 
The Committee of Vigilance have been in session all day, and this evening they announce that three of the ringleaders of the insurrection are to be hanged to-morrow. 
THE EXECUTION.
TUESDAY, July 24 -This evening at four o’clock, the three ringleaders, Sam, Cato and Patrick, were escorted from the jail, under a strong guard, to the place of execution. An immense concourse of citizens and negroes assembled. As they passed through the town, they surveyed with composure the ruins of the once flourishing town, that now lay a blackened mass before them. Patrick remained during the whole day, and betrayed no remorse of feeling whatever, in view of his approaching doom. He it was who fired the town, and the night after its destruction glorified himself for the deed, and pronounced it only the commencement of the good work. Sam Smith, so called from the name of his master, was an old negro preacher, who had imbibed most of his villanous principles from two Abolition preachers, Blunt and McKinney, who lived in the country a year before, and had much intercourse with him. Cato had always enjoyed a bad reputation. They met their fate with a composure worthy of a better cause. Patrick, with unparalleled nonchalance, died with a chew of tobacco in his mouth, and refused to make any statement whatever. 
They were hung on the bank of the river, above the town, and are buried beneath the gallows. 
Investigations are still going on throughout the country, all of which tend to confirm the facts elicited at this place. The evidence obtained before the committee will be published in due time. 

From the Augusta Gs.) Ditpatch.
INCENDIARISM AND INSURRECTION. 
We dislike to allude to the evidences of the insurrectionary tendency of things, because it fills the public mind with alarm, and perhaps does no good. But it is perfectly apparent that the emissaries of Republicanism are secretly operating in the South through gentlemen niggers and itinerating Northern preachers. In Texas the excitement has been widespread. In Floyd County, Georgia, a plot was lately discovered among the negroes, who were planning an insurrection between now and Christmas. A harness maker was detected in Pine Level, Montgomery County, Alabama, says the Mail, holding improper conversation with slaves. 
A company of men, the Mobile Mercury states, were detected in tampering with slaves at work on a railroad, in course of construction, near Verona. The leader of the company was seized, and, after a trial, had thirty-nine lashes given him by the negro, who informed against him. We hold that information like this should be universally known, in order that both negroes and strange loafing white men, and especially the one-horse invalid preachers from the North, may be looked after. The time has come when the South must stand square up to aggressors of every shade—and religious intermeddlers are ten fold more dangerous than freedom-shrieking politicians. We do not mean to counsel distrust of these noble and devoted servants of God from abroad, who are settled among us; far from it. We have no such sectional bigotry. But we would guard well against imposition from transient ‘candles of the Lord.’ lest we suffer them to light the fires of insurrection, instead of bearing aloft the light of the Gospel. 

TWENTY-TWO INSURRECTIONISTS HUNG 
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17. According to the Texas news in the New Orleans papers of Tuesday, the excitement in that State is on the increase. A young man had been hung for giving strychnine to slaves to put into the wells. A preacher was similarly treated for being an active abolitionist, while twenty others were hung for exciting the slaves to insurrection. These events took place in different; parts of the State. 
Frequent incendiary and poisoning attempts were reported. 
Although the town of Henderson had been nearly consumed by fire, the people seemed unwilling to put faith in the truth of the conspiracy.
The Gilmer Tribune reports the arrest of three negroes in that town on the 19th. They had in their possession passes, papers, and various documents, way-bills to the Indian Nation, pistols, powder, caps, and writing materials. They said they were from Henderson county. The house of Dr.W. W. Stell, of Lamar county, was fired by a negro on the 16th, and completely burned. 
<c03>
SELECTIONS 
From the New York Herald.
THE OVERWHELMING MORAL ISSUE OF THIS PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST.... THE SLAVERY QUESTION.
The political elements of the country opposed to the Republican party are in a state of chaos. In the North they are divided upon men and secondary abstractions into clashing factions, as hostile against each other as against the common enemy; in the South, where the exigency demands a united people, acting under a common impulse, that of self-preservation, the same factious discords prevail. Nor is this all. The South, like a strong man struck senseless by a heavy blow, seems to have lost the consciousness of its position, with the disruption of the Democratic party. There is a general apathy existing in the South, a confusion of ideas, a relaxation of the moral energies of her people, an imbecility of purpose, which may be likened to the despairing condition of a ship’s crew adrift upon the fragments of their broken vessel, with neither land nor sail in sight.
At this moment the anti-slavery Republican party of the North, representing hardly one-third of the popular vote of the country, is morally certain of electing its candidates for President and Vice President, by a majority of the electoral vote of the Union. The only party in the field limited to one section, in being rigidly excluded from the other, it is the only existing party which exhibits any thing of positive strength, unity, efficiency and confidence in its movements. This is a very extraordinary state of things, and is utterly beyond a satisfactory solution upon the ephemeral party organizations and party platforms of the day. We can reach an explanation only upon the basis of that great overwhelming moral issue of slavery, as an institution of good or evil, of right or wrong.
And this is the exact issue, which, though unrecognized or evaded by our parties, factions and politicians, has produced this formidable anti-slavery coalition in the North, and this important division of the political elements of both sections opposed to it. This underlying fundamental Northern idea, that the institution of Southern slavery is a sin, that it is founded in error and against right;.that its fruits are poisonous; that its pretensions are false and incompatible with our free institutions, and that it must be hunted out of the country, will account for this solid front of the Republican party;.so, too, the conflicting opinions of Democrats and Union men, North and South, upon this broad question of good or evil, of right or a mere usurpation of right, in reference to slavery, will account for the incurable divisions of the forces opposed to the.Republican party.
Before the invention of the cotton gin, slavery North and South was almost universally considered an evil. Its advocates rested their defence upon the plea that it was a necessary evil, under the circumstances which surrounded them, but that time would provide a remedy. Soon after the invention of the cotton gin, slavery began to assume, not only the features of a permanent establishment, but the form of a controlling agency in our political affairs. This was strikingly made manifest in the Missouri agitation of 1819-20. Some eight or ten years later, the first of our Northern Abolition societies were set in motion, including a newspaper organ in Boston, and another in this city, a daily paper, called the Journal of Commerce, started under the auspices of Arthur Tappan, David Hale, and Gerard Hallock;- that paper, with all its variations of thirty years, has stood fast to that primary idea to which it owes its origin, that slavery is an evil, and that emancipation is a duty.(l)
It was not, however, until 1844 that these Northern anti-slavery movements entered actively and decisively into the work of our Presidential elections, as a Northern political balance of power. In that year Mr. Clay, although in sentiment an anti-slavery man, was regarded by the Abolitionists as a Southern apologist of slavery, and upon this test some fifteen thousand Whig votes in this State were thrown for Birney, the anti-slavery candidate for President, whereby the election was decided in favor of Polk, the pro-slavery Democratic nominee. But,.upon the same general issue, the tables were turned in 1848 against the Democratic party by the independent Free Soil Buffalo organization, with Martin.Van Buren as their Presidential champion. Thus, by the division of the Democratic vote of this State,Gen. Cass was defeated, and Gen. Taylor was elected President. And it is not the least singular feature of that election, that the line which was then drawn by Van Buren through the centre of the Democratic party of New York has never been obliterated, but will account for the line drawn through the Democratic party of the Union at the late Charleston and Baltimore Conventions.
In 1852, upon the platform of Mr. Clay’s compromise measures of 1850, there was an overwhelming reaction, North and South, in favor of peace.upon the slavery question. Under this conservative reaction, the old Whig party was prostrated and dissolved, and the anti-slavery agitators, it was hoped, were rendered powerless for at least twenty years to come. But, in 1854, Messrs. Mason, Jefferson Davis, Atchison and Douglas, of the United States Senate, and poor Pierce, hit upon that desperate Presidential and new slave State experiment, the Kansas-Nebraska Bill; and from that day to this hour the aroused and five times multiplied antislavery legions of the North have been steadily advancing towards the White House, until their occupation of it on the 4th of March next appears to be an inevitable event.
The simple truth is, that this contest is between the anti-slavery sentiment of the North and the pro-slavery sentiment of the South. It is the’ irrepressible conflict'the ‘irrepressible conflict’ proclaimed by Wm. H. Seward; but it will not result, as he has proclaimed it, in making all the States free States or slave States. Far otherwise. The most probable result will be the withdrawal of the bulk of the slave States from the Union, sooner or later, peace or war. But it is possible that this conflict may be prolonged until there shall appear a party strong enough to maintain slavery within the Union, not only as recognized by the compacts of the Constitution, but upon that high moral ground that, as existing in the United States, negro slavery is right, is good and proper,a divinely ordained institution.
Upon this fundamental issue, the Republican party now have all the advantages on their side. Hence the solidity of their columns, and hence the distractions and divisions among the conservative and proslavery forces opposed to them. But under a popular government like ours, such a Southern institution as this of slavery can never be safe until public opinion in the North shall have been trained at least so far to recognize it right and good as to let it alone. Will that day ever come? We know not, but we know, for we see, that this Presidential contest, for good or evil, is the beginning of the end.
(1) This is a ridiculous averment against the Journal of Commerce; for a more venomous pro-slavery sheet, in its editorials, selected matter, and foreign and domestic contributors, does not exist.[Ed. Lib. 
<c04>
JOHN BROWN, JR., TO THE PRESIDENT OF HAYTI.......  AN INTERESTING LETTER.
We have received, says the New York Evening Post, the Moniteur Haitien of July 7th, containing the following letter, translated in French by M.De Doucet, Secretary of the Police of Hayti. In re-translating in English, we may not hit the exact language of the original as written by Mr. Brown: 
To His Excellency General Fabre Geffrard, President of the Republic of 
Hayli:
Words full of consolation have come to me, and these who in this country cherish liberty, equality and fraternity. They inform us that the good people of your republic have given us a unanimous manifestation of their grief on the occasion of the execution of my lamented father, Captain John Brown, and his companions in arms.
Allow me in behalf of the members of my family who are not yet fallen victims beneath the iron rod of the slaveholders in America, to say to you, and through you to all the good Haytians, that we entertain for you a most cordial sympathy. Although your country is far from ours, and though we speak.different languages, we nevertheless feel that hearts can meet, notwithstanding intervening distances; we remember that God has formed of one blood all the inhabitants of the earth.
Haytians, brothers and sisters, here, in this land of slaves, the warmest friends of your race are watching you to observe how you refute the defamation that the African is incapable of self-government. You have given proof of your ability as soldiers. Without other assistance than that you found in your own energy and valor, you have thrown off and broken the yoke of the tyrant, and obliged him to seek refuge on the ocean. Your enemies themselves call you brave; your friends know that you are humane and magnanimous. The entire world to-day beholds in you the sublime spectacle of a people who, knowing the value of the liberty they have conquered, have arrived at that stage of progress which permits them to extend a generous sympathy to their oppressed brethren in a foreign land.
In this you have proven that spirit of progress which is the omen of your future grandeur, and the guaranty of the accomplishment of our most brilliant hopes—the reign of universal emancipation.
We have heard how a slave power seized one of your most noble champions (Touissant L’Ouvertare) and cast him into a cold, damp dungeon, where he died of hunger. In our country, fines, imprisonment, hot iron, or the gibbet is the portion of these who will not prostrate themselves before the Moloch of slavery. Nevertheless, in spite of all these chastisements, we are not discouraged.
The mutilated body can disappear; but the soul survives it.
So it is then only the body of Touissant L’Ouverture which sleeps in the tomb; his soul visits the cabins of the slaves of the South when night is
 spread over the face of nature. The ears of our American slaves hear his voice in the wind-gusts which sweep over the prairies of Texas, of Arkansas and Missouri; his voice finds an echo in the immense valleys of Florida, among the pines of the Carolinas, in the Dismal Swamp and upon the mountain tops, proclaiming that the despots of America shall yet know the strength of the toiler’s  arm, and that he who would be free must himself strike the first blow.
Long live Fabre Geffrard! Long live the Republic!
Such is the aspiration of the sincere friend of both.
JOHN BROWN, JR.
Jefferson, Ashtabula Co., Ohio, April 16th, 1860.

From the Madison ( Wis.) Journal, 6th. 
PURSUIT OF SHERMAN M. BOOTH... THE MARSHALS RESISTED BY HIS FRIENDS —HIS SECOND ESCAPE. 
Sherman M. Booth has had new difficulties, and successes more exciting than the first. He addressed an immense audience on Saturday evening, 4th inst., at Ripon, Wisconsin. He showed his pistol now and then, and called it his ‘little habeas corpus.'.While he was pitching into the marshals pretty strong, and into one who had offered to arrest him for $1,000 with special vehemence, Frank McCarty, of Fond du Lac, stepped from the crowd on the side of the platform, and saying,‘ Mr. Booth, I have a writ for you,’.grasped his coat collar.Booth dashed his hand in his pocket for his’’ habeas corpus,'’ but before he could get it out, a dozen men jumped between them, and Frank was twenty feet off before he new what touched him.A cry of put him out,’‘kill him,’ arose from all parts of the house, and what with the shrieks of the women and the shouts of the men, and the upsetting of benches, and the rush of everybody to the centre, we had a perfect rush of Pandemonium for a few minutes. Frank looked down the barrels of a number of revolvers in a very short time. A stalwart person strode through the thick of the fight, and hustled poor Frank to the door, and thence to the street, some thirty feet. It was some time before matters got quiet inside; but when order was restored, the people organized a ‘league of freedom ‘ to protect Booth from the marshals. A committee of safety was appointed, and then the whole crowd started, Booth to Prof. Daniel’s house. They then selected a guard—armed them, and agreed to meet the next day, (Sunday,) at 3 P. M., and then dispersed. To-day, fresh arrivals of marshals added to the excitement. Booth was escorted Sunday by some twenty men, armed with rifles and an uncounted crowd. He made a speech, repeating the story of his persecutions. Resolutions pledging protection to him, and not very complimentary to the marshals, were passed. The City Hall was offered them, and they accepted it as their head quarters, and the people, in immense procession, adjourned thither. Sentinels and guards were distributed around and within it, and it was placed in a state of siege. After some deliberation, a committee was sent over to the marshals, McCarty, Henry, Striker, and Garlick, advising them to leave town. The marshals refused to receive any message unless it was in writing. A long discussion ensued between them. The committee finally reduced their proposition to writing, and the marshals gave a written answer, the substance of which was, that they were here to arrest Booth, and that they would go away when they had completed their business. The committee came back and reported, whereupon the people organized a club of minute men.The precise object is known only to its members—-whether to mob the marshals, or merely to protect Booth. These proceedings occurred about ten o’clock Sunday evening. On Monday morning, Booth had disappeared.
The Detroit Tribune has a letter dated 6th inst., giving further particulars of the events at Ripon. When Deputy Marshal McCarty had been driven from the hall, order was partially restored, and it was resolved that ‘Mr. Booth should not be arrested in Ripon,’ amidst deafening shouts and roan. Prof. Daniels immediately moved the organization of a League of Freedom, pledged to resist any attempt to 
<c05>
execute the Fugitive Slave Law, and the appointment of vigilance committees, to carry its purposes into effect. On Sunday, people came pouring in from the country, and a mass meeting was held in a grove. The streets were crowded with excited people, and Mr. Booth was strongly guarded by his .friends. On Monday morning, comparative order and quiet reigned; the City Hall was vacant, Mr.  Booth was gone, the public did not know whither. Report said he was on his way to Milwaukee, with the marshals in pursuit. 

From the Ashtabula, Sentinel. 
JOSHUA R.GIDDINGS TO WENDELL 
PHILLIPS. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.: Dear Sir,-I read your animadversion upon Mr. Lincoln with some interest. The idea which you tacitly advance, that members of Congress hold to and desire the adoption of all.the measures contained in bills which they present, involves the reputation of all who have served in Congress. I do not answer you on behalf of Mr. Lincoln. I speak for the truth of history. 
You state your charge as follows;-
‘ABRAHAM LINCOLN, THE SLAVE-HOUND OF ILLINOIS.—.We gibbet another hound to-day, side by side with the infamous Mason of Virginia. Mason slave bill is based on that clause of the United States Constitution which provides for the surrender of slaves escaping from one State into another State of the Union. The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the District of Columbia is not a State, within the meaning of the Constitution. (See Hepburn us. Ellzey. 2 Cranch, 445.] The District of Columbia is not, therefore, included in the terms of the Fugitive Slave clause. Whoever tries to extend the dominion of Hint that clause over the District of Columbia exhibits only his voluntary baseness, can have no pretence of constitutional obligation, out-Masons Mason, and stamps himself a hound of special “alacrity." 
This deed Abraham Lincoln, Republican candidate for President, has done’. Here are the facts :—
Extract from a bill suggested by Hon. Abraham Lincoln to the U. S. House of Representatives, January 10, 1849. [See Congressional Globe, appendix, 2d Session, 30th Congress, p. 212.] 
“Section 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and REQUIRED to “provide  and active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners ALL FUGITIVE SLAVES escaping into said District." 
Observe his proposition : it provides no safeguards, no jury trial; takes no care to prevent free men from being carried off as slaves. In these respects, it is worse than even Mason’s bill. The municipal authorities are to "provide ACTIVE and EFFICIENT means.” 
You speak of Abraham Lincoln as the candidate of the.Republican party for President. He holds that honor in consequence of having avowed his convictions,’  that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.'’ I presume you admit him to be honest; that when in power he will maintain this doctrine to the extent of his official authority. With this; profession of moral and political faith, he stands before the public. You go back twelve years, find that he then proposed to introduce a bill containing a clause to which you object, and represent that clause as expressing his opinion, not merely at that time, but at the present day, in direct contradiction of his own solemn avowal. 
I need not be told that you intended no misrepresentation. I know you were actuated by a desire to promote the cause of liberty and justice; that in your zeal you overlooked important historical facts, and adopted a course of argument unjust to Mr. Lincoln, and to the public. 
This remark is fully illustrated by the fact that, you speak of the fugitive law of that day as being the one now in force. But you could not have designed to charge Mr. Lincoln with an intention to extend to the District of Columbia, the provisions of a law which was not passed until sixteen months after he be ceased to be a member of Congress. 
Again: I know that you and every intelligent man will admit that, if Mr. Lincoln now holds the doctrines proclaimed by the Republican party, he should be judged by those doctrines, whatever may have been his previous views. Paul was an apostle at Corinth and at Rome, although he had been a persecutor at Damascus. The consciousness of every man compels him to judge those  around him by their present opinions, and not by those which they have discarded. 
But you have brought before the public an item of history which should be understood by the people. It is due to truth that those who have labored in the cause of humanity should understand the part which Mr. Lincoln performed in that closing session of the 30th Congress. To appreciate his action, we must take into view some of those surrounding circumstances and facts which give character to his doings. 
The Mexican war bad had closed by our obtaining  from Mexico a vast territory, over which the Administration was seeking to extend the cause of human bondage. The free-soil organization had been the means of defeating the election of Gen. Cass,’  and the Democratic party stood humbled before the country, but apparently more devoted to the cause of oppression "than it had previously been. The,  Whig party, though tacitly pledged against the extension of slavery, was not relied upon. Experienced members well understood that, when the : contest should become serious, and slaveholders should threaten, the conservative portion of that party would obey the behest of their Southern : masters. Mr. Adams, so long relied upon by the lovers of liberty, had passed to his reward, and no man of his experience was left to guide their councils. Democrats and Whigs united in their efforts to suppress discussion in regard to the crime of slavery and the slave trade. 
I speak not for Mr. Lincoln; I have no authority to do that; but I speak of him as he stands historically connected with that cause which is dear to you and me. And, so far as I have knowledge, he had not, up to January, 1849, given any .public evidence of his adherence to the doctrines which now constitute the basis of the Republican confession of faith,. He had been bred among slaveholders, educated in the belief that slavery was just, proper and necessary.  He was the only Whig representative from Illinois, and while at home was surrounded by a pro-slavery sentiment but little modified from that of Kentucky. His party was just coming into power, while be he was about to retire to private life, precisely at the time when he could have claimed the highest Executive favor that was due his State. He saw a few members standing aloof from the Democratic and Whig organizations, seeking by every honorable means to call the attention of the House and country to the Crimes crimes of slavery. They were called’agitators, and the line k of demarkation, which separated them from other members, was well defined. These men were seek- 
<C06>
ing to inform the country that, in the District of Colombia, Columbia, a Fugitive Slave Law, far more barbarous than any that has ever been in force in our free States, was maintained an enactment by which free persons were seized and imprisoned, and, after proving their freedom, were compelled to pay expenses or be he sold into slavery. The Fugitive Slave Law of 1793 had become a dead letter upon our statute book, perfectly useless to the slaveholder; and I, would that Mr. Lincoln, or any other man, had been able to repeal tho the heathenish enactment in force within the District of Columbia, even by extending the act of “93 over it. And permit me also to say that Congress had as much power to legislate for catching slaves in the District of Columbia as within the States. The power to do either was an usurpation; and the small band to whom I refer were endeavoring to call public attention to the fact that our government had, by Congressional enactments, authorized authorized the commission of revolting crimes in the District of Columbia, in our Territories, and upon the high seas.
To effect this object,. Mr. Palfrey, of your State,;, asked leave to introduce’ a bill repealing all such acts and parts of any and all acts of Congress that sustain slavery or the slave trade in the District of Columbia.’ The bill, if a law, would have left every slaveholder in possession of his slaves, and every slave-dealer at liberty to pursue his vocation, according to that popular sovereignty which our Democratic friends now advocate. But I trust that you nor any other man will charge Mr. Palfrey with such intent. His motion (not the bill) was a blow aimed at that despotism which had held him and his friends in abject silence. He intended the country should understand that the slave trade and slavery in the District of Columbia were to be attacked, exposed, held up to the disgust of mankind; that member members of Congress could and ought to speak out, to place the subject before the country, and to act against it. 
On the 18th of December, your humble servant went further than Mr. Palfrey or Mr. Lincoln. I asked and obtained Wave leave to introduce a bill, granting to the people of the District of Columbia the privilege to express by vote their desire to maintain or abolish slavery and the slave trade within said District. In presenting this bill, I had not the must distant idea of passing a law that should leave the slaveholder to determine whether he would hold slaves, or the slave-dealer to say whether he would follow his accursed vocation or not. My object was the same which I attributed to Mr. Palfrey, and I determined to make my bill so acceptable upon its face, that members would not object to its introduction. In this I succeeded. 
I obtained leave- to introduce it. It was formally read a first and second time, and stood upon the question of engrossment, when a member from Mississippi discovered that it gave the slaves the same right to vote that it gave the masters. This fact was announced, and there was a sensation among slaveholders and conservatives, and my poor bill was laid upon the table in double quick time. But my object was obtained. 
Now, sir, when you or others shall judge me in’ the present, or in the future, let your opinions be formed by the whole record, by the surrounding facts and circumstances, by my words, my acts, my votes: but I pray you not to take the bill I then introduced as expressing my opinions. This is the rule which in past time has been applied to statesmen of all parties, and I desire to be judged by it. Mr. Lincoln has a right to be judged by it. 
The next movement on this subject was by our : excellent friend, Daniel Gott of New York. It was; directed against the slave trade in the District of’ Columbia. He was more fortunate than Mr. Palfrey or myself. The slaveholders had bad become nervous under the repeated blows given the institution, and some of them appeared desperate. Mr. Gott on introducing his resolution demanded the previous question, that being the only mode by which he could get a vote upon it. To avoid such vote, a motion was made to lay the resolution on the table, when Mr. Venable, of North Carolina, addressing Southern members in an undertone, called on them to vote against laying it upon the table, land to’ to vote in favor of the previous question,’  ‘so as to make every man North and South show his hand.'.’ If this article should meet the eye of that gentleman, I would assure him that, to this day, I feel grateful for the proposition be made. By the aid of Southern men. we obtained a direct vote upon adopting Mr.Gott’s resolution, and it was carried. It was an unexpected victory for the time being, but a motion to reconsider was made, and the discussion postponed until the 10th of January.  On that day, Mr. Lincoln had his bill read to the : House, and declared his intention to introduce it as an amendment to Mr. Gott's resolution, if the motion to reconsider should succeed. He stated that’ that he had conversed with fifteen of the principal citizens of Washington city, who thought that such a proposition would meet with the approval of the people of the District. He did not represent that; the bill was satisfactory to those fifteen citizens, much lees did he represent it as satisfactory to himself, but he did express the hope that it would meet : the approval of the people of the District, and that was the apparent object of the bill. 
But his conversing with the people of the District, the preparation of his bill, the avowal of his’ his intention to present it, were important. By these acts he took his position with those who were laboring in the cause of humanity. He avowed his intention to strike down slavery and the slave trade ! in the District; to strike from our statute book the; act by which freemen were transformed into slaves; to speak, and act, and vote for the right. He cast aside the shackles of party, and took his stand upon principle. You speak of that act with great severity of condemnation. I view it as one of high moral excellence, marking the heroism of the man. He was the only member among the Whigs proper of that session, who broke the silence on the subject of those crimes, which, through Congressional enactments, still continue to disgrace our nation and mankind. 
I repeat, I am not vindicating Mr. Lincoln. I know not that I speak his views. I only speak of, those these acts which have given the lovers of liberty : confidence in him. 
But those acts were ancillary to the exclusion of slavery from California. They were intended to prepare the popular mind for that event. At the period of which I am writing, (1849.) those friends of freedom who held seats in the House of Representatives were marshalling their forces preparatory to that conflict which was rapidly gathering around them. Our worthy friend, J. M. Root, had introduced his celebrated resolution, directing the Committee on Territories to report bills organizing governments in California and New Mexico, excluding slavery therefrom. On that resolution, Mr. Lincoln voted for freedom. The question was of absorbing interest. The advocates of free soil and free men felt their responsibility. The Democratic parts were anxious to carry out the design of extending slavery, for which Texas had been annexed, and the Mexican war had been waged. The Slave Power had never been defeated on any important measure Slaveholders were threatening a dissolution of the 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United States Constitution is’a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.' 
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.... There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind as long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and christian resolution..... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures;nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Union; timid men hesitated, conservatives begged and prayed the advocates of freedom not 'to sever; the Union': the radical Abolitionists cried, 'Down; with the Union,' while wickedness and stupidity combined to charge members of Congress with the alleged political heresies entertained by the friends of Mr. Garrison. Amid these scenes, the friends of the-slave in Congress were constrained to keep their eyes upon the battle-field, to see that their ranks were serried and firm. In that hour of Freedom's danger, Abraham Lincoln was with them. On every call of the yeas and nays, the official records show him at his post. Firm, cheerful, and true to his own convictions, he faltered not, but carried out in practice the doctrines which he enunciated, by presenting the bill of which you complain. And even when Gen. Taylor and his cabinet surrendered to what they supposed a necessity and exerted their influence to induce members of Congress to give way, and accept an amendment to the civil and diplomatic bill organizing a government in California without excluding slavery. Lincoln maintained his position, and with his associates on the last night of the 30th Congress, amid excitement and violence, resisted the influence of the out-going, as well as of the in-coming administration, and saved an empire from bondage.
Eleven years of subsequent study, thought and observation have brought Mr. Lincoln to the satisfactory conclusion that life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are gifts of God, constituting the rights of man, for the protection of which governments are instituted.
In our Territories, in the District of Columbia, and upon the high seas, our Federal Government holds exclusive jurisdiction. There Mr. Lincoln stands pledged, by every obligation that can rest upon him, to maintain, to the full extent of his moral and official powers, these rights which pertain to the human soul. To the fugitive slaves, to the slaves in our Southern States, to the serfs of Russia, to the oppressed throughout the world, he stands pledged, to the extent of his moral and political influence, to support the rights which God has given them. I am not aware that any man, of any age, has based his political faith upon truths more essential. They are the truths which all good men would gladly maintain.
Your friend,
J. R. GIDDINGS.
Jefferson, July 30, 1860. 

MR. LINCOLN AND THE COLORED FOLKS.
The views of Abraham Lincoln on the subject of human equality may be found in the following extracts from his speeches, as contained in the volume of 'Joint Debates of Douglas and Lincoln,' sold by A. Williams & Co., Boston:-
'I have said that I do not understand the Declaration to mean that all men are created equal in all respects. Certainly, the negro is not our equal in color-perhaps not in many other respects.'-p. 63. 
'What next? Free them, and make them socially and politically our equals? My own feelings will not admit of this. We cannot make them equals.'-p. 74. 
'Our opinion is, that it would be best for all concerned to have the colored population all in a State by themselves. In this I agree.'-p. 125. 
'I will say, then, I am not and never have been in favor of making voters or jurors of negroes; nor of qualifying them to hold office, nor to intermarry with whites: and I will say farther, in addition to this, that there is a physical difference between the black and white races, which I believe will forever forbid the two races living together on terms of social and political equality.'-pp. 136, 193. 
'I agree with Judge Douglas, that he (the negro) is not my equal in many respects, certainly not in color-perhaps not in intellectual and moral endowments.'-p. 75. 
'In that contest, I did not at any time say I was in favor of negro suffrage. Twice-once substantially, and once expressly-I declared against it.' 
 
'I have no purpose to introduce political and social equality between the white and black races.'-p. 194. 
ï¿½I tell them very frankly, I am not in favor of negro citizenship.'-p. 157. 
QUESTION.-What do Messrs. Wilson, Burlingame, John B. Alley, Elizur Wright, Francis W. Bird, Charles Sumner, John A. Andrew, editor of the New Bedford Standard, John Milton Earle, Peter B. Brigham, and C. F. Adams, think of these SENTIMENTS of 'honest old Abe'?

A SOUTHERN CONFAB ABOUT LINCOLN.
At one of our hotels very recently, a Southern gentleman-one of the largest slaveholders of the South-was quietly wending his way to bed, when some half dozen of his acquaintances from the same State demanded his presence while they counselled upon the necessity of taking immediate measures for organizing a Southern Confederacy upon the election of Lincoln. He combatted their folly, and insisted that Lincoln's election would be the most fortunate event for the South that could possibly occur, because in his judgment the success of any Republican candidate would, within six months after his inauguration, forever put an end to slavery agitation.
The rights of the South, he insisted, would be far safer in the hands of such men as Seward or Lincoln, than they ever had been under Democratic rule; because, while they would necessarily prevent the extension of slavery into free Territory, they would scrupulously stand by all the constitutional rights of the slave States, and exercise a moral influence at the North favorable to a faithful execution of the Fugitive Slave Law, and adverse to the interference of a handful of troublesome Abolitionists, whose incendiary conduct was disgusting Republicans, at the same time that scheming Democratic leaders privately encouraged their interference with the South in order to foster slavery excitement. He, insisted, therefore, that Lincoln's election would be a great national blessing, and peculiarly beneficial to the South, as the harbinger of the return of peace and harmony in its relations with the North, and as-calculated to terminate forever all sectional controversies, by getting rid of corrupt and selfish political leaders, who find their interest in fostering sectional feeling at the South, by deceiving the people in regard to the intentions and purposes of the Republican party.-N. Y. Courier & Enquirer.
In giving an account of a recent interview with Mr. Lincoln at his own home, a correspondent of the New York Herald says:-
'He said that many people in the South were obliged to sustain slavery, although they secretly abhorred the institution. He would protect the South in its institutions as they exist, and said that Southerners did not comprehend the position of the Republicans in regard to slavery. The Southern mind, he said, was laboring under the delusion that the Republicans were to liberate the slaves, who were to apply firebrands to the fields and dwellings of their masters, massacre old and young, and produce a state of general anarchy and bloodshed in the South. He swept this assumption away by a decisive denial of its correctness. He said he would like to go South, and talk to the Southerners on this topic, were it not that the minds of some were so inflamed against him that they would not listen to his reasoning, but, on the other hand, might be inclined to inflict Lynch law upon his person, should he appear among them.'
Hon. J. M. Harris, M. C., from Maryland, at a Bell and Everett meeting at New Brunswick, New Jersey, said, concerning Mr. Lincoln:-
'When Abraham Lincoln is elected, what practical thing is he to do in connection with slavery? I believe the first act of his administration will be to nationalize the party. He will endeavor to strengthen it South, and make it acceptable there. (Great applause from Republicans.) Is there a Republican who would vote for him, if he didn't believe he would make his administration a national one? Why, then, don't you make it the party of the country before the election? I have no fears of the Republican party. I have mingled in Congress for years with Republicans, and I haven't heard the first man of them say that they were going to interfere with the institution of slavery.' 
Hon. Richard W. Thompson, a leading Fillmore man in 1856, has been addressing the citizens of Vigo, Indiana, in a four hours' speech. In the course of his remarks, he said:-
'If Mr. Lincoln is elected to the Presidency, he will be entitled to the respect of every man in the United States. His strength consists in his conservatism. His own principles are conservative. I know him well. I served in Congress with him. This slavery question was then up. I was upon very intimate terms with him, and I know just how he felt about this question of slavery. I must say that I feel sometimes a good deal indignant when I hear his votes complained of which he gave along with me and others in support of Whig principles.' 
<c02>
SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY. 
At First of August Celebration at Milford, Mass.
MR. CHAIRMAN-I have often said that there was no American association or institution based on principle, except the association of abolitionists,-perhaps better known as Garrisonian abolitionists. It has often been charged that this was a false representation; and I have repeatedly had the cause of Temperance cited as an instance of exception.
We have just now seen at least one demonstration as to the fidelity of the cause of Temperance to the principles of humanity. I have long known that that cause, including its secret associations, and also the order of Odd-Fellows, as it used to be called, and is perhaps called still, were liable to this same charge; and I have sometimes endeavored to bring that charge before the community and before the public. For it seemed to me a matter of too serious moment to pass unnoticed. I never found in my own mind but one apology for it; and that is, that we perhaps do wrong to expect a higher code, or tone of moral sentiment in those philanthropic associations, so called, than we find in the churches of the country; and, inasmuch as the churches and pulpits set the example, it is not remarkable that institutions and associations, claiming far less in the scale of righteousness and religion, should pursue the course they do. I believe, however, it is still true, and has been true ever since the Anti-Slavery movement began, that there is no institution in these United States, founded on principle, except the Anti-Slavery cause.
Nobody seems to understand the word Principle, at this time; and that is not the only word of which we have lost the meaning. I should make a very different dictionary for this country from Webster's or Worchester's-and I take no interest in this battle of dictionaries, for I think they are both wrong; at least, I think they both fail to represent truly the American idea of a good many words. We talk of principle. We hear the word from the months of politicians. I hear men speak it in the pulpits,-though not very often, for I don't believe in going there. It is said, 'Evil communications corrupt good manners,' so I stay away. But sometimes in the pulpit I hear the minister announce his text, and then begin to say, 'In the discussion of this principle, I shall first inquire what this means, then what that means, and, thirdly, what the other means.' I don't believe, in the first place, that generally he knows what is meant by discussion-for I know of no pulpit that will discuss any question. And then, when you come to the word principle, it is always, in the pulpit as well as on the political rostrum, merely a thing of compromise, never of principle. With me, the word principle is one of mighty meaning. It is rule and law, sweeping round the universe, like parallels of latitude and longitude, circumscribing the globe. And there should be no deviations. Really, there are and can be none.
The other day, there was an eclipse of the sun; a most remarkable phenomenon, which everybody; witnessed with interest and delight. We know that that eclipse has been calculated for many years, perhaps for many ages. For such is the unerring accuracy in the march of the heavenly bodies, it is easy to calculate an eclipse ages before it takes place. So the laws that govern the moral universe are equally sure. I talk of something by which the eclipses might be calculated in the moral universe as well as those of the planets in the solar system. But no such meaning is usually attached to the word. So you find these 'Sons of Temperance' talking about 'adherence to principle.' I am glad they are called 'Sons of Temperance.' God forbid they should be called Fathers, until they learn language better! The politicians, too, talk of principle, all of them. But, is there any principle in any political party? Is there any political party that really believes in the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence? I see all through your streets flags consecrated to the cause of Republicanism-and then there is the 'Old Gentlemen's' flag, with Bell and Everett; and then we have, dear me! how many others? I don't know the names of all of them-I am very glad to say that with truth. They are each of them talking about principle. Is there any principle in any political party? Is there any political party that will treat the colored man better than the 'Sons of Temperance' do? Most emphatically is it true that the Republican party stands among the foremost in hatred to the African race. Lincoln has said, he 'never saw a man, woman or child that believed in the equal rights of the colored race! Lincoln has lived long in Illinois-a portion of Illinois is called 'Egypt.' I think it all might well be called Egypt, for his sake. I say, when we talk about principle in this country, we talk about that which is but little known. 
We heard something, just now, on the results of West India Emancipation. There again the same philosophy appears. We have to meet the question on this low ground, to suit the grovelling cupidity of the times. But when we reason in that way, we seem almost to concede that if Emancipation has resulted unfavorably to commerce and to trade, why then Emancipation is to be proscribed, and there is good ground for returning to the system of slavery. Men count up the bags of coffee, the boxes of sugar, the hogsheads of molasses, and the puncheons of rum, that were produced and exported under the slave system; and then they count again those same commodities under the other system, with the idea prominent, that if the commercial balance be in favor of slavery, then let us have slavery; if otherwise, we will consent to consider if we shall not, in some future time, or in eternity, it may be, emancipate the slaves. Mr. Chairman, I hate that morality, and set it down in the same category with the kind of principle and discussion that is so prevalent. I will never assent to the doctrine that the right is to be estimated by its commercial results. Right can never result badly, wrong certainly can never result otherwise. Any other doctrine is atheism itself.
Now, then, what matter is it, how many bags of coffee, or how many boxes of sugar, or how many hogsheads of molasses were exported from the British West Indies under freedom, or under slavery? We are not here to estimate the question of Liberty in any such way; nor to weigh manhood, freedom, justice and righteousness in any such balances. I care not, so far as commercial interests are concerned, what are the results of emancipation. Be it that there was a failure in a merely mercantile point of view-what then? Be it, that there should be a total suspension of commerce;-be it, that there should be an extermination of the tyrants themselves, and all their households;-be it, that the very isles themselves, smitten with horror, should hasten to sink back again to the womb of the ocean, from whence they were born-why, this would be no more than the morality of heathenism, two thousand years ago; for the doctrine then was, ' Fiat justitia, ruat coclumn'-Be justice done, though the very heavens fall! Shall we say leas, in calculating the value of human freedom, or in making up our account of the value of emancipation? No; I will not consent to consider the subject in any lower-law light, lest I seem to surrender the principle of universal justice and righteousness.
Fortunately, however, as indicated in the letter which was read from Mr. Garrison, and which I hope will be published with the proceedings of this meeting, there were no disastrous results attending that glorious movement; for, from that period to the present, there has been a constant, steady, uniform growth of material prosperity, as well as of mental and moral improvement, throughout those islands. And it is too late for objections to be made on that ground; the men who raise them are not worthy of consideration. Either they are too blind to see, though all the light of heaven shines into their paralyzed eye-balls, or they are too base to admit the facts,
<c03>
though written in sunbeams, and spoken in inspirations all divine.
Then, again, the same historical fact holds true in other instances of emancipation. The French Revolution, bloody as it is represented to be, fearful in many of its features as it actually was, the French Revolution began by an act of beneficence and humanity surrounding it almost with a halo of glory. Six hundred thousand slaves were emancipated by a single stroke of the pen. Talk of the bloody spirit of Robespierre, and the fierce malice of Marat and of Danton, and horrible, as is their history before the world, they performed at least one act of justice and humanity sufficient to eclipse almost the glories of your own Washington and the founders of the American Republic. For, whereas they began by decreeing chattel slavery, and fastening it with bolt and chain upon the American system, the French Revolutionists baptized their movement with the grandest event which honors the close of the eighteenth century. And six hundred thousand emancipated slaves sung the advent of the French Revolution with an accent as pure and holy as the angels on the plains of Judea hymned the song of triumph at the birth of the Babe of Bethlehem. (Cheers.) Then, again, ten years prior to this event, Gen. Lafayette-a name well known in American history-Gen. Lafayette gave to the world one of the most remarkable, one of the most striking demonstrations of the safety of justice and righteousness, on the grand as well as on the smaller scale. He purchased of the French crown the beautiful possessions of Cayenne. Thirty thousand dollars was the price; and thousands of slaves had long bedewed the soil with their tears and blood. The first act of the noble hero, after the purchase, was to emancipate every slave. They gathered together the whips, manacles, and the whole bloody paraphernalia of the system, and made a burnt offering in one of the public places. All the victims stood around, and before that altar thus flaming with such a sacrifice, their liberty was proclaimed; and their songs of rejoicing, swelled up to heaven, mingling with the incense that ascended from the altar.
Then, again, from 1816 to 1829, in the South American Republics, and in Mexico, there were witnessed demonstrations of a similar character. In those years, the South American Republics threw off the Spanish yoke, under which they had been long suffering, and signalized their own glorious! emancipation by the emancipation of their slaves-until Brazil was the only one remaining where the curse still lingered.
In 1821, Mexico threw off the Spanish yoke. On the 15th of September of that year, she proclaimed herself free; the nations acknowledged her independence, and from that time she was no more under a foreign yoke. Slavery still continued. The religion was Roman Catholic. The adherence of the people to their own religion was deep and strong. 'Seven years after their own emancipation from a foreign yoke, they celebrated their national birth-day-their 'Fourth of July'-by an act worthy of that day; by an act which should hallow that day in history, forever and ever,-an act which will be ever memorable in Mexican history; for on that day, the 15th of September, 1829, they 'proclaimed liberty throughout all their land, to all the inhabitants thereof.' At that time, their land included Texas. It was peopled largely by planters from our own slaveholding States. They refused to acknowledge the righteous mandate, and there was Southern malignity manifested in precisely the same degree and kind as we afterwards saw in Kansas. The United States Government could render no open sympathy or aid. But the final result was, Texas was able, by our indirect interference, to resist the Mexican authorities, and threw herself into the possession of the United States. The slave system still exists, which Roman Catholic Mexico had endeavored to abolish, forever. Now, I suppose I need not speak of the results of that act, on the part of the United States. Events transpired and deeds were done, which men in their blindness, or in their depravity, signalized by the good name of tear-and hence, we have, as a part of our history, the Mexican War. I deny to it any such name. Much as I hate war, and all its bloody! deeds and scenes, I deny that the Mexican Massacre deserves any such honorable name. The Mexican Butchery I would call it, for seventy-five thousand innocent men, women and children were sacrificed on! the bloody altars of slavery, to appease the wrath of the god for daring to resist his reign, so far as to strike off the chains from the limbs of so many slaves. Such was the sad doom visited upon Mexico by the demon-divinity of slavery. And this Protestant country, self-decreed as the executioner, stands guilty in history, and will in judgment, of the blood of those murdered thousands.
But emancipation in Mexico has not proved a failure. Slavery in Texas has proved a failure, as everybody knows who knows anything of its character-not to speak of its present bloody prospects. I might go farther, and cite other instances where the act of emancipation, performed in the abruptest manner, without the slightest preparation, has been crowned with the Divine favor, as it always is, performed in obedience to the Divine command.
Now, Mr. Chairman, as I said, there is no need of argument; and I do not, while I thus speak, mean that we are under obligation to prove whether emancipation is right or otherwise. The truth is, what God commands, God expects will be obeyed, and He will take care of the consequences. Our morality is like our view of discussion, and like our view of principle-it is a matter of habit, a matter of convenience, of conventionalism, or of constitutions. Men are righteous, or what we call righteous, not because it is right, but only because hell is threatened as a consequence of unrighteousness. If by some mighty hydraulic principle or power, I could condense all the floods of heaven, and pour them in one mighty deluge upon the fires of hell, and extinguish them forever, how many of you would be willing to assert that the doctrine of the 'Perseverance of the saints' would be popular another year longer? (Applause.) Men are righteous-what they call righteous-because they dare be nothing else. They would, if they dare. The language of everybody is, almost, to the sinner, as we call him, 'You are having your good time now-by-and-bye, we will have ours. We have to bear the cross now; we are in the wilderness, away from home; we are in bondage, but you are in a glorious liberty. By-and-bye, we shall get the liberty, and then where will you be?'
Mr. Chairman, I say that religion is all falsehood. A man who is righteous only because he dare be nothing else, is a slave; and there is a mighty difference, in my estimation, between the word saint and slave. To wear the yoke easily, gracefully and joyfully, how few there are who know anything about it! Instead, we are called upon, in becoming Christians, to renounce the world and its pleasures; and hell is threatened if we don't, and heaven is! promised if we do. Now, I don't believe God has made this beautiful world to be 'renounced,' nor do I believe that God looks with displeasure upon any innocent and proper amusement and pleasure. I don't believe in that disfigured-faced religion, that puts on sackcloth, and goes mourning and mumbling through the world, hoping that the more misery it may make for itself here, the more heaven it will find hereafter. 
But that is the religion out of which comes this doctrine of calculating the consequences of emancipation. And so we have rewards and punishments applied to everything. The question is, 'Will it pay?'-and the conclusion thus determined, that torments through eternity in hell wont pay, and the joys and glories of heaven will pay, each sets about seeking heaven in his own way. The rich man believes what is told him-what I heard a minister, a very popular preacher and Theological Professor, say 
<c04>
once, ï¿½Is it wealth you seek? Why, heaven's streets are paved with gold'! What miser would n't accept heaven on such terms? But who of you would be willing to be commissioner of streets there, if many such men were admitted within the portals? They would dig up the very pavements, and coin them into doubloons, to fill their celestial coffers.
It is time we had another doctrine preached than this, and men should be taught that righteousness and justice and humanity are not to be considered merely in connection with the 'recompense of future reward.' Righteousness is right, heaven or no heaven; injustice and tyranny are wrong, hell or no hell, in the great hereafter.
What care I, whether this book (the Bible on the desk) teach the one or the other doctrine? I know that justice and virtue and liberty are heaven here, and I will not concern myself about the hereafter. If this book teach injustice and then, that there is no heaven and no hell, or that there are both, what is that to me? I know that injustice is wrong; I know that its results must be fatal to human peace and human happiness; and, consequently, I will not ask whether heaven be at the end of one course, or hell, at the termination of the other. I stand here surrounded with an entire atmosphere of the spirit and nature of God, and I will proclaim righteousness to ' be right, and true freedom to be heaven and happiness, without regard to future consequences-(great applause)-though I know, by so doing, I am compelled to tread all the high places of the Church under my feet.
But, Mr. Chairman, I am perhaps speaking too long. I was suddenly and unexpectedly called to this platform, and I complied, because my friends had not then arrived. Since they have arrived, and our minds are relieved of all apprehension on their account, and since the morning is so far spent, I will, perhaps, occupy a few moments longer, and give them more uninterrupted opportunities at the other sessions of the meeting.
I have been referring only to the results of emancipation in those countries wherein it has been practised. There is one other general fact, to which I wish to call your attention, in connection with our country. From 1770, when the battles of the American Revolution actually began-(for, be it known to you, that the first blood of the American Revolution was not shed at Lexington, nor was it the blood of your revolutionary sires; but the first blood of the American Revolution was the blood of a colored man, and was shed five years before the scenes at Lexington were enacted)-from that day, down to the present period, there has been one general fact, of a most appalling character, undeniably true, and that is this: That while the revolutionary struggle in this country seemed to give an impetus to the cause of liberty elsewhere, throughout the world, there was a terrible reactionary shock in our own nation. While every civilized nation of the globe has, in that time, been advancing in the scale of human elevation and disenthralment, our course and career have been one ' of constant, uniform retrogression, until, from Washington in the Presidential chair, we have now a James Buchanan, not to speak of his late ' illustrious predecessors;' and instead of John Jay at the head of the Supreme Bench of the United States, we have that last refuse and dregs of humanity, in the half putrified body and Jesuit soul of Roger B. Taney! Such has been the decline in officers, such has been the decline in the popular sentiment of the country. You know it says, somewhere, 'like people, like priests.' This is as true in politics as in religion. Why has the French nation at this moment a Napoleon? Because it is fit for no other. And yet, France is rapidly advancing in the scale of mental and moral culture and elevation. Why have we such rulers, bastard and bloody as we have? Why, they are the legitimate growth of the moral sentiment of the country. Why do your beautifully cultivated and verdant fields produce the luxuriant corn? Because the soil, by your culture, is suited for its growth. Why are the poisonous miasma and deathly vegetation from your swamps and morasses? For the reason that the soil produces that which is in itself, and that which produces death has death as its own element and in its composition. It is death, of death begotten and born. So in the moral and spiritual world. In the ancient Hebrew stories of our first parentage, Adam begat a son in his own image. And James, Buchanan is the youngest begotten of the American Conscience and Character. Who does not see that the parentage is unquestionable, beyond dispute? 
It is not so in other lands. While we have been thus retrograding, in every other civilized country, nay, in many of the half-civilized countries, for the last half century, the march of progress, of human elevation, has been steady, if not rapidly onward. Why, even the barbarians on the African coast, more than twenty years ago, proclaimed liberty to their captives. The present year is signalized by the breaking of the chains of serfdom, on the necks and limbs of the subjects of the Czar. Garibaldi is now laboring in behalf of Italian freedom. The fires of liberty are kindled, and throughout Europe the genius of liberty is flying, beautiful as a bird of Paradise, proclaiming human elevation and deliverance to the myriads that dwell between the Mediterranean and Arctic seas. And where are we, as a people, at this time? Echo answers, where?
Four political candidates for the Presidency are in the field. The telegraph brings tidings to-day that a fifth has already presented his claims, and insists on running, as it is called. He is a candidate from Texas, of which I have spoken. Texas, that valley of all conceivable villainies; Texas, wrung from her just rights by American bayonets-she puts in her claims with the other States, and Sam Houston, famous for his deeds in the Mexican massacre, stands this morning before the nation as a fifth candidate for presidential distinctions. The more of them the better.
But there is one other cheering consideration. The telegraph brings us glad news, which I had the pleasure of reading at the opening of the meeting. You are aware, I suppose, of the long imprisonment in Milwaukee of Sherman M. Booth, for just that kind of action which this Book says heaven is to be the reward for committing. For his zeal in emancipating, or in preventing the return of a slave to bondage, Sherman M. Booth had fallen into the jaws of the government. For months he has lingered in a Wisconsin prison. The last effort and power on the part of the people had been exhausted, and still he lay there. The 'Fourth of July' came-he wished to address the people from the grates of his prison; but this was refused him. His father, an old man over seventy, had come hundreds of miles to visit him; they would not permit him to enter the prison; His wife has been permitted to see him once a week only. A friend sent him a box of strawberries, but he was not allowed to receive it. The sight of newspapers has been kept from him, except those approved of by the Marshal under whose charge he has been; and so, cut off from all sympathy, what was there remaining? Tell me, you who have read of the Revolution of 1776, in the name of God, I ask, what aggravations had your fathers like these?
His friends could bear this state of things no longer, and they resorted to force. Who does not rejoice? Sherman M. Booth, last night, was liberated by violence, and to-day is free! (Cheers.) An armed force entered, while his keepers were out at dinner, and as only one remained in charge, they overcame him, seized his victim, and bore him off in triumph. If that was treason, let the Government make the most of it. Would that I might have been there! If there be guilt, let me be implicated in the guilt; let me be held responsible with others for whatever consequences may follow that brave deed. The spirit of revolution is not wholly dead in our own country. Let us take the cause of Freedom into our hands, 
<c05>
and the First of August shall not be an imported festival, but we will have one of domestic manufacture, and observe it at pleasure. 

LONDON EMANCIPATION COMMITTEE'S 
ADDRESS TO DR. CHEEVER.
On Wednesday afternoon, the 1st of August, prior to the great public meeting in the evening at Spafields chapel, a Soiree was given by the respected Treasurer of the Committee, Dennis McDonnell, Esq., at his residence, No. 65 Pentonville Road. Amongst the ladies and gentlemen assembled on the occasion were the following: Mr. George Thompson, Chairman, and Mr. F. W. Chesson, Honorary Secretary of the Committee; the Rev. J. Stoughton, Editor of the Evangelical Magazine, and Minister of the Congregational Chapel, Kensington; the Rev. Daniel Ace, B. A. Curate of St. Stephens, Bow;; the Rev. T. Chapman, M. A., Incumbent of the parish of Aldgate; Rev. D'Arcy Irvine, M. A., Incumbent of Wandsworth; Rev. T. James, (brother of the late John Angell James) Secretary of the Colonial Missionary Society; Rev. J. C. Gallaway, M. A., Minister of the Congregational Church, Kilburn;; Rev. W. O'Neill, M. A., Minister of Broad Street Chapel, City of London,' (formerly the chapel of Dr. Isaac Watts); Rev. W. H. Bonner, pastor of Trinity Chapel, Southwark; Rev. T. Jones, Blackheath; Rev. W. Jones, Islington; Capt. Maclaen; Capt. Kennedy, of Canada, Commander of Lady Franklin's Expedition to the Arctic regions, and discoverer of Bellot's Straits; Mr. Washburn, of Abergavenny, and Mrs. Washburn (sister of Dr. Cheever); (Mr. and Mrs. McDonnell; Mrs. Thompson, and Mrs. Norworthy and Mrs. Chesson (daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Thompson); Mr. Angus Jenning, Mrs. R. D. Webb, of Dublin, and Mrs. Harvey; Mr. R. L. Corkran, Superintendent of the Spicer Street Mission; Mr. and Mrs. William Craft; Mr. A. R. Isbister, M. A., of the College of Preceptors, and Professor in the London University; Mr. Clark, of the Christian World; Mr. Farmer, editor of the Clerkenwell News; Mr. Whittaker, of Black-heath, and Mr. Washburn, Jr., &c.
After the repast, and when every guest had been introduced to Dr. Cheever, the company assembled in the spacious drawing-room, when Mr. George Thompson took the chair, with Dr. Cheever stated at his right hand.
The Chairman rose and said:: The members of the London Emancipation Committee, formed in this metropolis for the promotion of the abolition of slavery and the slave trade throughout the world, but more especially with a view to cooperation with the friends of emancipation in the United States, have met and unanimously adopted an Address to our distinguished guest, now present, the Rev. Dr. Cheever, who is accompanied by his estimable wife, also amongst us, who nobly shares (and joyfully, too) all his persecutions, his labors, and his glory. (Cheers.) It would be inconvenient, and indeed undesirable, on this occasion, to present our address apart from the grand body of the guests now assembled under this roof, and it will therefore be presented in your presence. Let, it be distinctly understood, however, that none are committed to the sentiments contained in this document but the members of the Committee. We alone are responsible for the language we have employed, the introduction of the names which have been mentioned, and for the principles which are herein commended. If, however, ladies and gentlemen, when you shall have heard it, you should feel disposed to confirm it by your approval, its value will be enhanced in the eyes of its recipient, and the Committee will rejoice in your confirmation of the views and feelings we have expressed in the address to our honored and beloved friend, which Mr. Chesson will now read. (Loud cheers.) Mr. Chesson then read the address, which was listened to with profound attention, and at its close the satisfaction of the assembly was evinced by loud applause:ï¿½
REVEREND AND MUCH ESTEEMED SIR:: We gladly embrace the opportunity which your arrival and temporary sojourn in this city affords us, of making known to you, personally and officially, the sentiments of high regard with which your character has inspired us, and our sincere admiration of the exalted and humane purposes to which you have devoted the rare abilities with which it has pleased the Master whom you serve to endow you.
Your name-familiar to us all as that of a ripe scholar, an eloquent divine, and an accomplished author-has been long cherished as an ornament of English literature, and an honor to the Christian Church. But as a Committee for the promotion of the cause of Negro Emancipation, we are prompted to offer you this tribute of our respect and esteem, less on account of your reputation in the world of letters, and your distinction as a pulpit orator, than because of the fidelity, moral courage and disinterested devotion you have manifested, in defence of the moral character and government of God, in the interest of four millions of the American people held in bondage, the cry of whose wrongs pierces the ear of the civilized world.
Your attachment to the cause of the slave is of no recent growth or development. The Chairman of this Committee has borne public and grateful testimony to your heroic conduct in the year 1835 (a year which will be ever memorable in the annals of the American Abolition Movement)-a year of fiery persecution, gag law and mob violence, when you spontaneously opened the place of worship in which you then ministered, to the British advocate of immediate emancipation, and stood by him unfalteringly, till the fury of the storm led him to seek the preservation of his life by departing from your city. This fact in your anti-slavery history would, we venture to think, alone be sufficient to secure for you the confidence of British Abolitionists. But your claim upon their confidence and gratitude rests also upon more recent acts, which have demonstrated how deep and unchangeable were the principles you espoused a quarter of a century ago.
Ten years ago, you occupied the position of minister over one of the most numerous, wealthy and influential congregations in the city of New York, and nothing was required of you but that your views on the subject of slavery should be in harmony with those of the ministers of religion generally in the United States; or that you should utter but occasional and qualified expressions of your anti-slavery convictions. A crisis came, and, true to your antecedents, you 'conferred not with flesh and blood' but stood forth, 'faithful amongst the faithless found,' the inflexible vindicator of the immutable obligations of the Divine law, in opposition to a nation that, for a time, allowed a human statute to supersede the positive mandates of the Most High God.
On the passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill in 1850, when the majority of the clergymen of the United States supported that most infamous enactment, and preached obedience to its diabolical provisions, you, faithful to your high office, did not cease to cry aloud,' denouncing it from the Word of God as an outrage upon natural rights, and subversive of the fundamental principles of morality and religion.
Again, in 1855, when the Government, the Congress and the Slave Power combined, had trampled upon a solemn national compact, and had thrown down the barrier to the extension of slavery over the vast unpeopled territories of the West-a measure which led to the horrors and bloodshed perpetrated by 'Border Ruffianism' in Kansas, you came forth as the exposer of a perfidious breach of faith, as the defender of God's violated law, and as the denouncer of the machinations of a guilty confederacy. We have present to our minds, also, your equally unflinching condemnation of the barbarous Dred Scott decision; your powerful efforts to convince the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions of their complicity in the crime of slavery; your enlightened, just and generous defense of the memory of that worthy descendant from the Puritans, the Martyr-Abolitionist. John Brown; and, lastly, your appearance, without compromise of your own peculiar views, upon the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in harmonious action against the common enemy of the rights of God and man, with the illustrious pioneer and champion of the Anti-Slavery movement, William Lloyd Garrison.
In this career of holy obedience to, and earnest zeal for, the honor of our common Savior, and the freedom from personal bonds of those for whom He died, you have been required to 'endure hardship
<c06>
as a good soldier of Jesus Christ,' and you have approved yourself as one.
You have been called to witness disagreements and divisions in your Church, and divisions in your Church, and to suffer grievously from defection, desertion misrepresentation, calumny and conspiracy. You have stood unmoved and now, with a diminished, but united, <illegible> and devoted people, who, for a time have consented to part with you, you come amongst us, accompanied by their prayers, and heralded by commendations to our hearts from the best and truest friends of the down-trodden slave, by whatever name they may be known. We hail your advent on our shore with joy. We receive you to our confidence, and offer you our earnest co-operation in the prosecution of any mission you may have in connection with the downfall of slavery. You may render a much needed service to that cause in this country. It is required that the eyes of the Christian public of Great Britain should he opened to the extent and guilt of the connection of the American Churches with slavery: to the terrible corruption of the Word of God, and prostitution of the precepts of Christianity, which have resulted from the growth and prevalence of slavery: and to the solemn duty of the Christian bodies of this country to cease from communion with those in America who, in any relation, are accomplices with 'men-stealers.'
Accept this imperfect expression of our unfeigned gratitude for the labors you have accomplished in the cause of truth and justice. Be assured we shall follow you in all your future steps with the deepest solicitude for your welfare and success, and with devout wishes that, after a period at once of recreation and usefulness, you, and the endeared partner of your benevolent labors, may be safely restored to that city in which you have so long and so faithfully declared 'the whole counsel of God,' and which when slavery shall be known no more <illegible> and consecrate the name of George B. Cheever.
Mr. Thompson again rose and said: Dr. Cheever with emotions which impair my power of attendance I now place this address in your hands. At present our thoughts are expressed upon paper, but should you value it in any degree proportionate to the esteem we cherish towards yourself, and should you wish to possess it in a form more durable, we will take care that before you quit our shores, it shall assume a form in which you may transmit it to those who shall come after you, that they may know the feelings which your labors, for the oppressed, and for the vindication of God's, truth, have inspired in the hearts of the members of the London Emancipation Committee , of which I have the honor to be chairman. <illegible> For myself, allow me to say that the sentiments contained in this address are no mere ebullition of recently awakened admiration of your character. My knowledge of the steadfastness, with which you adhere to the principles which you early derived from the Word of God, is founded upon the uniform career you have pursued for five and twenty years. In 1835, when you were a minister of the gospel in Salem, Massachusetts, and I was a missionary in the cause of negro emancipation in the United States, in that year of darkness and of danger, when he who avowed himself the friend of 'the abolition incendiary, George Thompson,' was exposed to the fury of pro-slavery mobs-in that year of riotings, and burnings, and lynch law, you, already an intrepid champion of free speech, received me to your home, your pulpit and your heart, and 'made yourself of no reputation,' nay, risked life itself, rather than yield to the behest of an infuriated multitude. (Loud cheers) The foreigner whom you befriended then, welcomes you with joy and gratitude to the metropolis of his native land-the more so, that you have given me the crowning proof of your anti-slavery sincerity and nobleness of character, by appearing on the same platform in the city of New York, and again in Boston. with my cherished friends, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and their devoted coadjutors. I might enumerate many claims which you possess to the respect, admiration, gratitude, love and support of the Protestant community in these islands, besides that which is founded upon your anti-slavery fidelity; but, as an Emancipation Committee, we have confined our-selves to your merits in connection with the cause in which we are engaged, not doubting that your other services in the cause of humanity and truth will be duly and gratefully recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel assured I may convey to Dr. Cheever, and to Mrs. Cheever, a warm congratulation on your behalf, on their arrival on our shores, and express for you, as well as for ourselves, a fervent hope that their visit may prove to them full of comfort and encouragement, and that the gracious Providence that has brought them in safety to our shores may conduct them in health and strength, when their <illegible> amongst us shall terminate, in like safety to their native country, and crown their future lives with the richest blessings and the most abundant success. (Loud applause.) 
Dr. CHEEVER, who, on rising, appeared much affected by the warmth of the sympathy which had been displayed, said:: May God bless you, my dear friends, and also this kind Committee, for your and their great goodness to me; not for my sake only, but for the sake of that great cause which we are all endeavoring to keep near our hearts. Sir, this address to me recalls the most deeply interesting and thrilling period of my life-the scenes and dangers through which we mutually passed, when you were in heartily peril of your life, and when there were but few friends of the slave to gather around you. I thank God now, that I had the privilege, to the best of my ability, to stand by you at that time. And now, I cannot express the emotions of my heart in reference to this very kind reception, or respecting the value of <illegible> connection with the Church of which I am the <illegible> Most highly do we appreciate such acts of sympathy as those we have received from the Churches of the Great Britain. Our Church, I trust, will, by the blessing of God, be maintained in its present position. Be assured we shall do nothing to forfeit your respect. Heed not the calumnies which have been put in print even on the very eve of our departure for these shares, so that I could not answer them on the spot. They have been sent forth to forestall and injure my reception of amongst you, and prevent the accomplishment of the objects for which it is known I left my native land. Once more, dear brethren and beloved friends, members of the Committee, accept my heartfelt thanks for this your great kindness to me. (Cheers) 
The company soon after adjourned to the great meeting in Spafields Chapel.
The British Standard, of August 3d, says:-
'Dr. Cheever has made a noble commencement of his Christ-like mission. The assembly at Spatfields Chapel, which was both large and respectable, manifested an intelligence equal to the full comprehension of the great subject in all its length, breadth and <illegible> The meeting was one of a deeply interesting character. Dr. Cheever was of course the great centre of attraction, and, as such, it became him to occupy most of the evening, which he did in a manner highly satisfactory to all present. The address, which we publish verbatim, was less an oration than a dissertation, which, for point, force and brilliancy, we believe has never been surpassed on the anti-slavery platform.ï¿½
At a public meeting convened by the London Emancipation Committee, to celebrate the twenty-sixth anniversary of the abolition of Colonial slavery, held in Spafields Chapel, Wednesday evening, August 1st, in 1860, the Rev. Thomas E. Thoresby, in the unavoidable absence of Sir Samuel Morton Peto, Bart, presiding, the following resolution was moved by the Rev. George Smith, (one of the Secretaries of the Congregational Union of England and Wales,) seconded by the<illegible> Rev. J. Stoughton, of Kensington (editor of the Evangelical Magazine,) and supports by the Rev. John. Campbell, D. D., and passed <illegible> with great applause:-
Resolved, That the words following express the feeling of this meeting:-
We welcome to the metropolis of England the Rev. GEORGE B. CHEEVER, D.D., pastor of the Church of the Puritans, in the City of New York, who for the
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
last twenty-five years has been an avowed Abolitionist, and, since the year 1850, has sustained a signal conflict with the deadly sin of Slavery in the United States:-
We tender him the assurance of our entire and hearty concurrence in the uncompromising principles upon which he has conducted his protracted controversy with the defenders and apologists of Slavery in Church and State in America:-
We record our admiration of the fidelity, learning, and eloquence he has displayed in his vindication of the Holy Scriptures from the impious charge of containing a divine warrant for the holding of 'property in man':-
We honor him for the spirit of self-sacrifice he has evinced in the midst of defection, misrepresentation, and calumny-continued down to the hour of his departure for these shores-and pledge ourselves to uphold him against the attacks of his enemies, whether those enemies be his countrymen or ours:-
We wish him God speed in the efforts he may make to arouse the attention of the Churches of Great Britain to the enervating, corrupting, and desolating influences of Slavery upon the religious bodies of the United States:-
We commend him to the hospitality, sympathy, support, and earnest co-operation of all faithful Abolitionists
throughout the United Kingdom:-
Finally-We implore Almighty God, who 'hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all the face of the earth,' to give His blessing to His devoted servant now amongst us, and to vouchsafe success to all righteous instrumentalities wherever employed, to hasten the day when the people of America, 'bond and free, 'may be able to celebrate an event in their own history, similar to that glorious achievement of justice and beneficence which we this day joyfully commemorate.

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON. AUGUST 24, 1860.
ANSWER TO MR. GIDDINGS.
I thank Mr. Giddings for his Letter. He states his case with characteristic fairness. Familiar with Moral Law, Common Law and Parliamentary Law, he sees that Mr. Lincoln's position in 1849 needs explanation, and he frankly offers it. With such a man, discussion is a pleasure.
I beg him to believe, that I do not forget the necessity every statesman is under of waiving, at any given time, one-half his wishes in order to obtain the other half. Compromises are not bad things in themselves: they are often necessary. But that does not prevent some compromises from being infamous. The Scotch compromise with England, which sold Charles <illegible> to the English for so many thousand pounds, was surely base. We do not despise Claudio for wishing to save his life-but for being willing to purchase it by sacrificing his sister to Lord Angelo. If Las Casas saved the Spaniards from enslaving Indians by importing negro slaves instead, I do not call it humanity. It is not because Lincoln compromised in 1849 that I blame him; it is the nature of the compromise with which I find fault. Compromise is only trading. We give so much for so much. No honest man will trade in infamy; will consent to buy what seems progress by abolishing marriage, stealing men's property, or granting to one man the right to hold or hunt others. No knave having traded in such infamy is to be allowed to shelter himself by calling it 'practical statesmanship.' The life, liberty and happiness of ourselves, or of others, are never to be compromised away for any seeming good. No man has anywhere, or at any time, the right to consent to such compromise. Some things are too sacred to be made counters of, to be traded in or compromised away. My charge is, that in 1849 Mr. Lincoln did not know that slave-hunting was one of these. Our Fathers had no right to make a slave-hunting compromise in 1789. Mr. Lincoln had a thousand times less to make one in 1849.
Language toils in vain to describe the disgust and loathing which every true man feels for slave-hunting. Remembering that Law is at once the sign and the cause of a wicked people; that it moulds, as well as expresses, the moral sense of a nation; I lack words to utter my loathing for the man who, in this century, consents, for any reason, to ask the American people to institute slave-hunting, and legalize it where it does not legally exist. Yet this, Mr. Lincoln's friends confess he did; and their defence is, that he did it in order to purchase certain advantages. Had he offered to sell his wife or his daughter for the same purpose, he would have been no more infamous or dishonored in my view.
2nd. Mr. Giddings says I do not sufficiently consider the 'circumstances' of 1849. Those considered, Mr. Giddings thinks Lincoln's part in that movement 'heroic'-one of 'high moral excellence,' and one calculated to 'give the lovers of liberty confidence in him.' If it be so, how came it that Greeley and Mann, Wentworth and Wilmot, Palfrey and GIDDINGS, voted against this very proposition of Mr. Lincoln: On the spot, at the time, amid the 'circumstances,' they all voted, in solid column, against this 'heroic,' 'excellent' and worthy person's wishes!
But Mr. Giddings thinks I do Mr. Lincoln injustice because now, lately, he has ' avowed his conviction "that all men are created equal,"' &c., and professes his belief in the Declaration of Independence. Mr. Edward Everett avows the same. Does that lead MR. Giddings to trust him? I suppose Mr. Lincoln believed that Declaration in 1849. Such belief did not then prevent his consenting to allow and establish slave-hunting where the Constitution does not carry it. Why will it prevent him now? Mr. Giddings thinks Lincoln 'honest,' and is quite 'he will, when in power, maintain the doctrine (of the Declaration) to the extent of his official authority.' No doubt of it. He will maintain the doctrines of that Declaration, as Edward Everest will, in the sense in which he understands them. Wishing to find out what that 'sense' would be, and learning from the New York Tribune that Mr. Lincoln stood 'on his record,' I sought out that record, and found that in 1849 he was a volunteer slavehound; such a one as I distrust, loathe and despise. Is that one of his 'doctrines' of the Declaration of Independence? But Mr. Giddings says that when I represent 'that clause as expressing his (Lincoln's) opinion at the present day,' I do so 'in direct contradiction of his own solemn avowal.' When and where was any such 'avowal' made? When and where has Mr. Lincoln disavowed this clause in the act of 1849? When and where has he avowed any such principles as necessarily amount to a disavowal of that clause? I shall be glad to have these questions answered. All I know is that in 1858, replying to Mr. Douglas, he said he would not now agitate for any modification of the Fugitive Slave Bill, and asked no changes that would 'lessen its efficiency.' Is this Mr. Giddings's 'solemn avowal'? Under the Constitution, I know every honest man is bound to allow an 'efficient' Slave Law; and in that Mr. Lincoln is consistent. But those who support the Constitution, and accept office under it, must not go whining about the country, begging us not to think them base men, although they do base things, considering-seeing-because and whereas-the Constitution requires it! If they take the honors (?) they must consent that we outsiders shall call things by their right names,-call a Republican President who, for any reasons, consents to slave-hunting, a Hound. If his friends prefer, I will try always to call him a Constitutional Hound. But he who in Person, or by deputy, hunts slaves, in a hound; no matter what his motive be, whether to save his party
<c02>
get an office, or preserve the Union. Good motives do not change evil acts-unless my friend Giddings thinks one should 'do evil that good may come'-a class which St. Paul, whom he quotes, does not recommend for Bishops or Presidents, but is of opinion that 'their damnation is just.'
When Knapp hired Crowninshield to murder White, Crowninshield was still a 'murderer,' though he did it for a 'consideration.' When this Nation hires Washington, Adams or Lincoln to hunt slaves by the bribe of the Presidency, each one is a slavehound, no matter how tempting the bribe, how specious the motive, or how gorgeous the collar. And I consider Northerners very ungrateful and disrespectful to their Southern partners when, having been paid for doing the infamous work, they object to the infamous name.
If Mr. Giddings will reflect a moment, he will, I think, confess that Mr. Lincoln has never disavowed any part of his bill of 1849. Further, Mr. Giddings well knows that if Lincoln should, to-day, disavow the clause I have mentioned, such disavowal would lose him two or three hundred thousand votes, and perhaps destroy all chance of his election. We cannot have any but slavehounds for Presidents.
I make the charge distinctly-Mr. Lincoln's friends would not 1et him disavow to-day his action on this point in 1849. They rejoice that he can ride on two horses; beguiling Republicans by his ostentatious and superfluous endorsement of the Declaration of Independence, and winning conservatives by his 'alacrity' in the slave-hunting service of 1849. This state of his 'record' was what gained him the nomination. His opponents at the South would not republish that bill: it would help him there. His opponents at the North would not publish it: it would strengthen him among their readers, the conservative class. Let not my honored friend, Mr. Giddings, drug himself with hope, or fool his friends with words. I think it probable that the Washington correspondent is right, who tells us that 'the friends of Lincoln in Washington are earnest in declaring that if he should be elevated to the Presidency, his administration would be so conservative that in six months after his inauguration, no man would be found objecting to it on account of the slavery issue.' Mr. Lincoln, judged by his past, believes in slave-hunting. Judged by his constitutional oath, he would be perjured if he did not. The 'Alacrity' which volunteers to do a base act, and wins office thereby, has no right to turn into Indignation when spectators bestow on it the name it has earned. Mr. Lincoln is a willing Constitutional Hound, ready to hunt slaves so long as the Union, the Party, and the White race seem to need it; and he is therefore just the wood out of which Washington Presidents are carved. If any think such characters useful and necessary now-a-days, let them. But that is no reason why I should call such persons honest men, any more than I should call geese eagles, because a goose once saved Rome. I wish I could say of Mr. Lincoln, as I can of Giddings or Sumner, when I see him swearing to support the Constitution of the United States-'I respect him so much, that I do not believe he will do what he promises.'
Will Mr. Giddings please point out when or where Mr. Lincoln disavowed or 'discarded' any part of his bill of 1849?
Will the Ashtabula Sentinel, and those journals which published Mr. Giddings's Letter, put this reply also into their columns?
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
DR. CHEEVER IN ENGLAND. Dr. Cheever has safely arrived in England, and been received in a very enthusiastic manner. The British Standard of Aug. 3d occupies one entire page, in small type and solid columns, with the proceedings of a public meeting held on the 1st inst. in Spafields Chapel, Exmouth street, Clerkenwell, at which a most flattering reception was given to Dr. Cheever, whose speech on the occasion was one of great power. A distinguished friend of the Anti-Slavery cause in London writes as follows:
'This sheet, and the British Standard accompanying it, will shew you what we have done in the way of doing deserved honor to the apostolical zeal and splendid talent displayed by Dr. Cheever in the cause of the slave. Our meeting, attended by so many of the Orthodox clergy, (about twenty-five Episcopalian, Baptist, Congregational and Methodist.) has given him a great triumph over his mean and dastardly enemies in New York. His address was a magnificent effort of oratory and rhetoric, and produced an extraordinary effect, creating a profound impression of his almost unequalled powers of language, the fertility of his imagination, the depth of his learning, the breadth of his intellect, and the entire absorption of his soul in the great work of demolishing, down to its nethermost foundations, the hellish fabric of oppression which practical, atheism and lust of power and wealth, have reared in the United States.'
A BUST OF THEODORE PARKER. Miss M. F. Foley, of Boston, has recently executed an admirable bust of the late Rev. Theodore Parker. It is a most accurate delineation of the outlines of his head, and the expression of the face is very marked. Those who knew Mr. Parker cannot fail to be pleased with this bust for its faithfulness to the casket that contained such an immense working brain. And those who did not know Mr. Parker, personally, can nowhere find a more reliable representation of him. By this work, Miss Foley has shown that she possesses a skill and genius in the difficult art of sculpturing that may lead her to a high rank among the artists of our country. A bust may be seen for a few days at E. C. Eastman's Bookstore, where orders will be received and promptly attended to.-Independent (N. H.) Democrat.
We give our hearty commendation to the life like accuracy and artistic excellence of Miss Foley's miniature bust of Mr. Parker, which, doubtless, will find many purchasers. Its expression is a happy combination of the philosophic and saint-like, and its 'dome of thought and palace of the soul' faithfully and beautifully constructed. We trust Miss Foley will be employed to make another bust, LIFE-SIZE, and in enduring marble. Her genius and enthusiasm deserve such a compliment.
POLITICAL DEMONSTRATIONS. Extract of a letter from a friend in Bangor:
'Bangor was quite lively on Wednesday and Thursday last. On the first day, the Democrats held a State Convention in the city, and endeavored,-by making the steamers free, by importations, and other means, including a visit from Douglas,-to make a great parade and turn-out. But their numbers were small, and their procession insignificant. The next day, however, the Republicans held a County Convention in the city, and of course aimed to eclipse their antagonists. They did so successfully, by a long procession of "wide-awakes," &c., &c., in the day time, and a fine torch-light procession at night. The devices bore reference both to the Gubernatorial and Presidential contests. The best motto I saw was this:
"We'll subdue you."-Douglas.
You're here. TRY IT!
Gen. Nye, of New York, John P. Hale, and Gen. Wilson addressed the people in the afternoon. I heard the first two. But, oh! What shallowness there is in political speaking! Never before did I realize how much the people stand in need of light-more light! Hale said, that it Divine Providence had guided the Republicans in their choice of President, they could have fallen upon no better man than Lincoln!'
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for September, 1860, is uncommonly brilliant and entertaining, among its contributors being Longfellow, Emerson, Holmes, and Fanny Kemble. The following is its table of contents:-
Among the Trees; Victor and Jacqueline; on a Magnolia Flower; Some Notes on Shakspeare; The Great Arm-Chair; The Song of Fatima; Something about History; My Neighbor, the Prophet; The Pilot's Story; A Day with the Dead; Culture; The Children's Hour; Three-Mile Cross; The Professor's Story. Reviews and Literary Notices. July reviewed by September. Recent American Publications.
<c03>
DARING ATTEMPT AT SLAVE-CATCHING.
PHILADELPHIA, July 29, 1860.
MR. EDITOR-Whenever a Fugitive Slave Case has occurred here within the last three or four years, we have tried to console ourselves with the reflection that, in all probability, it would be the last. Criminally patient and slavishly submissive as the people of Pennsylvania have always been to the impudent and despotic demands of the Slave Power, we have nevertheless hoped, even against hope, that the day of our deliverance was drawing nigh. We have tried to believe, that not always would the insolent assumptions of the lords of the lash be flaunted in our faces, but that a spirit of resistance would be aroused in the hearts of the people, that would rid them at once, and forever, of these offensive and degrading services which we would have fain thought were submitted to, not so much from sympathy with the oppressor, as from an inability on the part of the people to see their way out of the pro slavery meshes in which they have been involved. But time and again has the earnest desire of the Abolitionists to do justice to the native instincts of the people in favor of Freedom and Humanity been repressed, in view of the evident fact, that they have been, in this State, if not active participants, at least tame and quiescent spectators of all the outrages which have disgraced our soil since the passage of the Fugitive Bill of 1850.
Whether with each successive case the Abolitionists become more sensitive, I know not; but it is certain that each new outrage appears more lawless, more insulting and flagrant, than any preceding one. So it seems to me that the attempt to execute the Fugitive Slave Law in our streets, yesterday morning, was made with the most impudent disregard of all decency and justice that has yet been manifested. Here are the facts. They speak for themselves.
On Friday afternoon, a warrant, issued by Judge Cadwallader of the U. S. District Court, on the affidavit of one Bateman, of Georgetown, D. C., for the arrest of his alleged slave 'Ben Herd,' was placed in the hands of U. S. Marshals Jenkins and Sharkey, two men who have achieved notoriety, if not greatness, in this line of business. Accompanied by three men from the South, who were to identify the victim, they started on the hunt, expecting to find him a waiter in one of our hotels. Not succeeding in finding their man in that capacity, they determined to look in a different direction; doubtless intending to lay their hands on the first likely person they should meet. Accordingly, the next morning, (Saturday,) about 9 o'clock, as they were passing Fifth and Market streets, within a square of the Marshal's office, ('thoughts black, hands apt, and place agreeing,') they met a colored man driving a dray. With instinctive promptness, the Southerners exclaimed, 'That's him!' Instantly the whole dastardly crew pounced upon their victim, hauling him in the most brutal manner from his dray, tearing off his clothes in the struggle, and placing nippers upon his wrists, dragged him to the Marshal's office before any one had time to interpose, except to ask the cause of his arrest. To which the kidnappers lyingly replied, that he had been committing a robbery. After they reached the office, so many persons were ready to testify to their knowledge of the man, the kidnappers were forced to admit that they had made a mistake. Of course, he was instantly discharged. But what redress remains to the man for this cowardly violation of his rights, or to the community at large for a hit-or-miss seizure of any of its members whom the cupidity or caprice of a slave-hound may select as likely to serve his purposes? None at all. It is true, the victim of this outrage intends bringing suit for false arrest, and assault and battery. But, in the present state of feeling, it is doubtful whether he can accomplish anything.
Is n't our fall trade just commencing? And have we not a President to elect? Surely, these mighty interests are not to be set aside or endangered, for such paltry considerations as the personal rights of an individual, or the self-respect of a whole community!
While it does not deepen the guilt, it certainly increases the insolence and presumption of the act, to know that there was not the shadow of a pretext upon which this man could be arrested. No man of his condition was probably better known on Market street than James Valentine. He was born in Salem, New Jersey, came to this city in 1826, and has lived here ever since. It may make his case a little stronger in the eyes of some to say, that he has accumulated some property in that time.
It seems to me that, after this attempt, we cannot say, with any degree of probability, much less certainty, that Pennsylvania soil will no longer be a hunting-ground for slave-hounds. Certainly, so far as the Fugitive Slave Law is concerned, we have nothing to expect from the Republicans. Their Presidential candidate says he is not in favor of either a modification or repeal of the infamous statute, while his partisans everywhere state that he correctly represents their opinions. Those members of the Republican party, who cannot stultify themselves to the infamy of the law, apologize for the discreditable position which their party occupies on the subject, by asserting that the law is practically a dead letter. This is a cowardly and contemptible subterfuge. The fact is, and they know it as well as any one else, that the law is not, and will not be, a dead letter, so long as it remains on the statute book, and pro-slavery villany and baseness fill the hearts of the people to the extent they now do. We have the consolation of knowing, however, in spite of appearances to the contrary, that neither the Democratic nor the Republican organization can effectually retard or corrupt that sentiment, which is growing stronger and stronger in favor of freedom for all men, whether in Kansas, Pennsylvania, or South Carolina, and which will achieve its purpose, if not in the Union, out of it.
R.
RUNAWAY NEGROES.-On the morning of the 3d inst. four runaway negroes, coming down the Missouri river in a skiff, were intercepted about three miles above this city, by persons who were on the watch for them, and two of them were captured. The negroes finding that they could not escape, and following the instructions of the two white men who were aiding them in their flight, fired on the intercepting party. When the boats came together, three of the negroes jumped overboard, and two were drowned. Their white pilots were in another skiff, and kept about a mile ahead, and made good their escape before the captured negroes made known the part they were playing in the affair. Three of the negroes belonged to Mr. Jno. Walker, of Howard county, but we did not learn the name of the owner of the other. We notice in the Missouri Republican of yesterday, the report of an inquest held on the body of a negro found in the river, and from the description given of clothing and arms found on him, suppose it was one of the two drowned.-St. Charles (Mo.) Reveille, 10th.
A DEAD NEGRO.-Inquest was held Wednesday afternoon at Bissel's Point, on the body of a dead negro, who was found in the river, having been caught in a raft of drift wood. He had in one pocket a pistol cocked and primed, and two musket bullets in the other pocket-was prepared, it appeared, for any emergency. Dress-hickory shirt, grey jean trowsers, coarse shoes. The letters W. M. were engraved on the butt of the pistol. Appeared to have been in the water a week or ten days.-St. Louis Bulletin, 11th.
THE SLAVE TRADE BY STEAM. The charge that the steamer City of Norfolk, which recently left New York for an uncertain port, was bound on a voyage to the African coast, is confirmed by the Diaria de Avisas, of July 21, published at Caraccas. The Diaria says she came from St. Thomas to Barcelona, whence, after being painted, she sailed for Africa.
THE LATEST FROM DAMASCUS. A letter from Beirut, of July 19, says that 'not a single house belonging to a Christian has been left in Damascus. Four thousand Christians there have been mercilessly butchered. Rev. Mr. Graham, an Irish missionary in Damascus, was among the number of the killed, together with all the Franciscan monks, and thirty-six of the native clergy.'
<c04>
LONDON ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE.
THE (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE for August is, again, a very interesting number. It opens with a letter from F. W. Chesson, Esq., Secretary of the London Emancipation Committee, announcing Dr. Cheever's visit to England, and urging the Anti-Slavery people of Great Britain to co-operate in making it 'the means of reviving the Anti-Slavery cause, especially among those bodies which, owing to the sinister influence exercised by pro-slavery and half-hearted ministers on the other side of the Atlantic, so greatly need the enlightenment which Dr. Cheever is pre-eminently qualified to bestow.' The 'Anticipated Visit of Rev. Gardner Spring [of New York] to England,' is the subject of the second article, which, by recounting the facts of Dr. Spring's pro-slavery ministry, enables the anti-slavery mind of England to act understandingly with regard to him whenever he may appear among them. Then follows an important letter to the Earl of Shafteshury, from Mr. Horner, Secretary of the Wakefield Anti-Slavery Association, respecting the American Bible Society. Next it copies the New York Independent's base attack upon Mr. Chamerovzow, (Secretary of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Committee,) because of his exposure of Dr. Murray's (of New Jersey) pro-slavery character, and administers a needful and fitting rebuke to that recreant journal, whose name-Independent-has become a ludicrous misnomer. Col. Perronet Thompson's eloquent and sarcastic letter to the Bradford (Eng.) Observer, on Antipathy to Color, is given, the first sentence of which, as the text of the whole, we copy: :'There is no denying that the prejudice which a vulgar man of any color bears against all men of any other color is at the bottom, or at all events deeply entwined, with all the mischief that is going on in the world.' Other articles follow on the pro-slavery action of the Connecticut General Association of Ministers; the Republican Platform; the Cunard Steamship Company, and its course toward colored passengers; Senator Sumner's Great Speech; A Man burned at the Stake in Texas; &c. &c. The arrival of Miss Mattie Griffith in England is announced. The Advocate is not, as our readers know, of bulky dimensions, but we rejoice to know that our good cause has an organ in Great Britain so large-hearted, vigilant, manly and able. Its monthly appearance cannot fail to do much to give a right and intelligent direction to the anti-slavery conscience and heart of the British nation. Should any of our readers see fit to become subscribers to the Advocate, (and we can assure them of a full equivalent for their time and money,) they can do so by sending name, address, and Half a Dollar, to R. F. Wallcut, at this office-thus securing the paper for twelve months.-M.
KIDNAPPING IN MINNESOTA-PROCLAMATION BY THE GOVERNOR.
Whereas, it has been represented to me by many of our good and trustworthy citizens, that on the 20th day of July, 1860, at Saint Paul, in the County of Ramsey, an inhabitant of this State by the name of HENRY SPARKS, was, without lawful authority, either of the United States or of the State of Minnesota, forcibly seized and against his will carried beyond the jurisdiction of the State, and the protection of her laws guaranteed to all upon her soil.
And it is further represented that the diligent efforts of the civil authorities to apprehend the parties engaged in this violation of law have hitherto been unsuccessful:
Now, therefore, in the discharge of my official duty to see that the laws are faithfully executed, and in order to bring to condign punishment all who participated in the outrage,
I, ALEXANDER RAMSEY. Governor of the State of Minnesota, do hereby offer a reward of TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS for the apprehension and conviction of the perpetrator or perpetrators of the offence aforesaid,
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the Great Seal of the State of Minnesota to be at the Capitol, in St. Paul,
[SEAL.] this twenty-eighth day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and sixty.
ALEX. RAMSEY.
By the Governor,
J. H. BAKER, Secretary of State.
A COMMENDABLE ACT!-Two HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD OFFERED BY THE GOVERNOR FOR THE KIDNAPPERS OF HENRY SPARKS.-We most cordially endorse the act of Gov. Ramsey, in offering the above reward for the bloodhounds who followed the track of Henry Sparks, the fugitive from slavery, and finally arrested him at the muzzle of the pistol. We now know that the rights of a free people are not to be outraged with impunity, and we hope most sincerely that this reward will have the effect of bringing to the gaze of an indignant people, those white men who were mean enough to hunt a man flying for freedom, for the paltry sum of $250, as we have good authority for saying that such was the sum paid for the unmanly and ignoble act. Gov. Ramsey has done his duty, and the people will applaud him for it, notwithstanding the hue and cry raised by the doughfaces who dog the footsteps of Southern men.-St. Paul (Minnesota) Daily Times, July 29th.
POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN THE CITY OF WORCESTER, MASS.
An adjourned meeting of the Political Anti-Slavery Convention, which met in the city of Boston, on the 29th day of May last, will be held in the city of Worcester, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 19th and 20th days of September next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
The object of this Convention is to consider the propriety of organizing a Political Party upon an Anti-Slavery interpretation of the U. S. Constitution, with the avowed purpose of abolishing slavery in the States, as well as Territories of the Union. At its former meeting, resolutions setting forth the great principles of liberty and equality which must underlie and permeate a political movement, to entitle it to the confidence and support of the friends of freedom, were introduced and discussed, but without taking action upon them, the Convention adjourned to meet in the city of Worcester, at the call of the President and Chairman of the Business Committee.
In discharging the duty thus devolved upon us, we now make an appeal to you, fellow-citizens, lovers of freedom of both sexes, in behalf of four millions of enslaved countrymen, who, in the name of justice and a common brotherhood, demand their liberty at your hands.
Nearly an entire generation has passed away since the commencement of the present Anti-Slavery agitation, and yet slavery is still triumphant over our whole land! There is not yet a single foot of soil, in all this broad Republic, on which the escaping slave can stand, and feel that he is free!
There is not yet in existence a political party, (if we except a meagre local organization in a single State,) which does not shamelessly avow the purpose to wield the National sword in defence of the bloody slave system, wherever it exists under State jurisdiction! The Church is still in league with the tyrant, with both her heels upon the necks of his helpless victims! We have had discussions upon the character of slavery and the sources of its power, till the whole subject is thoroughly understood by all who have any disposition to investigate. What now remains for us, therefore, is ACTION. Our only hope of success is in translating our sentiments into statutes, and coining our word into deeds!
What the slave demands of us is protection. It is not enough that we stand aloof from his oppressors- that we have 'No union with slaveholders.' We can only make good our claim to be regarded as his friends, by throwing around his liberty and rights the legal safeguards on which we depend for the protection of our own.
For this purpose, we invite to this Convention all who desire to see the principles of the Declaration of Independence incorporated into the administration of our National Government, and our country thus purged of the hypocrisy which has made its very name a reproach to the cause of freedom, in all lands!
We especially desire the presence and co-operation of those who are not content with mere words, but prefer to prove their faith by their works. Here is a field in which the largest powers will find ample scope.
Come! you who have hitherto stood aloof from this holy enterprise, because its leaders presented no 'plan'! Here you will see presented a plan which is at once morally just, politically consistent, and practically efficient.
Come! you who minister at the altars of our religion, and aid us in erecting a political platform on which you can stand, and act for the protection of your own rights, without thereby becoming accomplices and abettors in the crime of enslaving millions of your countrymen. Come, and help as wipe out the deep infamy which now covers your churches, for their support of a government which legalizes the
<c05>
sale of American Women in its Capital, and protects the infamous practice in half the States of the Union!
Come! you who profess to take the Christian Scriptures as the rule of your faith and practice, and no longer stand before the world identified with parties which openly contemn the divine command, 'Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee.'
Come! you who, on account of your sex, are excluded by all existing parties from your God-given right to participate in the management of political affairs. We greatly need the aid of your superior moral instincts in the difficult experiment of laying the foundations of a party in which not sex, nor color, but superior merit shall be the passport to preferment.
Come! especially, you whose hearts are yet warm with the generous impulses of uncorrupted youth. Aid us, by your inspiring presence and ardent zeal, in this sublime effort to re-construct the rotten fabric of our Republic, that we may have the happiness of bequeathing to you, our children, a National Patrimony, which you will not blush to accept at our hands as evidence of a noble ancestry!
To all who desire to see slavery speedily and peacefully abolished, and our beloved country free, united and happy,-young and old, men and women, clergy and laity,-again we say, Come up to this Convention! Unite your efforts with ours in this divine attempt to outlaw the Slave Power, and place Justice on the throne. God has given us the power; we only lack the wisdom and the will! The bloody institution holds its lease of life, to-day, only from the divisions in the ranks of its enemies.
We aim at UNION! Our purpose is to present to the public a Platform on which all the genuine friends of freedom can stand, side by side, without the sacrifice of principle, or of honor, each contending with the weapon of his choice, and thus to gather up that vast harvest of scattered and dormant anti-slavery feeling which more than a quarter of a century of seed-growing has produced, and concentrate in one grand, continuous, systematic assault upon the citadel of slavery, until its walls shall crumble, and its destruction shall be as signal and complete, as its triumph has hitherto been haughty and irresistible.
Friends of the oppressed! let our fondest hopes be more than realized in your hearty response to this summons to a new and untried field of conflict with the Slave Power.
In behalf of the Convention,
JOHN PIERPONT, President.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, C. B.Com.
Worcester, August 10, 1860.
MICHIGAN YEARLY MEETING OF 'FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.'-At Sturgis, (Mich.) Saturday and Sunday, August 25th and 26th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
S. J. Finney of Ohio, J. M. Prebles of Battle Creek, T. L. H. Willis of Coldwater, G. B. Stebbins of Ann Arbor, and other speakers, will he present to take part. The people of Sturgis will hold open doors for strangers.
CUMMINGTON CONVENTION.-The annual Convention of the friends of impartial liberty in Cummington and vicinity will be held in the Free Church, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 1st and 2d, opening at 10 o'clock, A. M., Saturday, and continuing day and evening, six sessions. C. C. BURLEIGH, PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will be present as speakers. All friends of the cause and the public generally are cordially invited. Per order.
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.-The annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Barnstable County will be held at Harwich, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 22d and 23d, commencing on Saturday, at 2, P. M. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES L. REMOND, E. H. HEYWOOD and other speakers will be present. The friends of impartial liberty and the public generally are cordially invited to attend.
Z. H. SMALL,
J. H. ROBBINS,
ELKANAH NICKERSON,
Committee of Arrangements.
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.-
The next quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at NEWBURY-PORT, Sunday, August 26, day and evening.
CHAS. L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS and others will address the meeting.
CHAS. LENOX REMOND, President. LYDIA M. TENNBY, Sec'y.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Burlington, Vt., the second and third Sundays in August, 12th and 19th; and, August 24th, 25th and 26th, will attend a Convention in South Royalton, Vt.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on the subject of Slavery at SHELDONVILLE, on Sunday, Sept. 15th, at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M.; and at WEST WRENTHAM, on Peace, at half-past 1 o'clock, P. M., on the same day.
GEORGETOWN.-WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on Slavery in the Town Hall, GEORGETOWN, (Mass.) on Saturday evening, Sept. 1st, and twice on Sunday, Sept. 2d, on Reformatory subjects.
SPRINGFIELD.-H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Springfield, Wednesday and Thursday evenings, Aug. 29 and 30.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.-A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker's sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
HENRY C. WRIGHT'S BOOKS.
MARRIAGE AND PARENTAGE: Fifth Edition. Price $1.00 per copy.
THE UNWELCOME CHILD; or, the crime of an undesired and unwelcome Maternity: Third Edition. Price 25 cents.
A KISS FOR A BLOW: A valuable work for children. Price 38 cents. The same work, handsomely Illustrated by Billings. Price 62 cents.
Published and for sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.
THE ERRORS OF THE BIBLE
DEMONSTRATED by the Truths of Nature; or, Man's only Infallible Rule of Faith and Practice. By Henry C. Wright. [Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.-PAUL.] Price 25 ets.
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.

THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 5, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals.
WM. S. HAY WOOD,
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD,
Principals.
WANTED,
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to have the superintendence of the Domestic Department. An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or
J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., July 23, 1860.
WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE Fall Term will begin Wednesday September 5th.
It is intended that, in this School, youth of both sexes shall be, not only well instructed in the branches usually taught in our best schools and academies, but they shall be trained both in the school-room and in the family, on principles strictly Physiological and Moral, where the formation of character, of habits and manners, will have equal consideration with the acquisition of literature and science. Teachers of the highest reputation are employed.
The Principal and associate teachers receive pupils into their families at $250 per annum, including board and tuition in the common branches; for those over fifteen years of age, $300.
The location is healthful and pleasant, and easy of access, on the Worcester railroad, nine miles from Boston.
References-Wm. L. Garrison; John Ayres, Esq., West Newton; Rev. George Ellis, D. D., Charles-town; Wm. Brigham, Esq., Boston; Rev. S. J. May, Syracuse, N. Y.; Rev. James Walker, D. D., Cambridge; Mr. Richard Edwards, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. John Prentiss, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. Louis Agassiz, Cambridge.
For further particulars, address
N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass.
Aug. 17. 4w.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all other.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative!'
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.'
St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N. Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N. Y. Independent.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN.'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to he assured that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.'
Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.'
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable <illegible> is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S AIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.'
Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine issigned, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circular.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
A REVERIE.
The spring-day sun, with genial warmth,.
Makes life and nature gay and fair,
And balmy breezes from the south
Have mollified the ambient air.
I leave the din t' enjoy the day,
Sweet earnest of the Father’s care;
Beside the river banks I stray,
And sink in meditation there.
I muse,—, transported far away
To Afric’s torrid, woeful clime;—
I see Americans essay,
And perpetrate a horrid crime.
To seize, to sell, to best, to bruise
The swarthy sons of Libya’s soil;
To steal for Christians’ use, who live
Upon their unrequited toil.
I see the mother forced away.
Perchance from kindred dear to part;
I see the father chained below;
I see—and soon grow sick at heart.
For these are 'Christians,’ who profess
To obey the Savior’s sacred word;
These are my countrymen, who fought
To free us from th' oppressor's rod.
Famished and sad, a piteous sight!
Packed in the horrid middle deck,
While foul disease infects the ship,
And howling storms presage a wreck.
Thus torn from home, thus forced away,
They’re brought to us— a legal load—
Here forced, for strangers’ ease, to pay
A service which they never owed.
Another vision follows quick:
It is the mighty arm of God!
He hurls th’ oppressor from his seat,
And o’er him holds th’ avenging rod.
O tyrants! ye who thus defy
The law, and power, and wrathful rod,
He will arise to avenge his poor:—
Be just, O man! nor tempt thy God!
C. H. G.

For the Liberator.
PEACE.
Rest is not in the downy bed—
Not in sleep, for the morn will break;
The golden lily-flower bends its head,
Crushed to earth when the North winds wake.
When you have gained, on the tideless shore,
You still bark that allures your sight,
Think you the search and longing are o'er?
In the dead calm and dreamless night,
Crave you the rest of that stagnant life?
Better the hurricane—better the strife!
You will tire—you will faint—the soul grows weak;
It is labor that strengthens the form;
The glorious heavenly peace you seek
May be found in the raging storm!
Look at the tree by the sheltering well,
How tender and puny it grows!
Look at the mighty oak, grand and tall,
That stands where the storm-wind blows!
There in peace in its strength, in its health;
There is rest for the soul that is strong,
With God—in the power of its wealth,
Grand is its calm—its rest deep and long—
Soul, there, in the heaven of life;
In that glory sublimer than thought;
Thanksgiving, not sleep, for the strife—
For the deep, rich life it hath wrought.
KATE.

For the Liberator.
NOT SLAVES FOREVER.
BY R. HINCHCLIFFE.
Tyrants, throned in pride and power,
Think not thrones shall crumble never;
Those who are your slaves this hour,
Shall not be your slaves forever!
Strive to chain the ocean’s deep—
Dam the flood of yonder river;
Soon it overflows the steep,
Rushes onward—free forever!
Bigotry may chain the mind—
The hour comes when the links shall sever;
The heart’s sweet fountains it may bind
For a time; but not forever!
The heart’s rich fountains shall burst forth
Warm with life—like God, the giver—
Scattering blessings o’er the earth,
Sowing seeds of joy forever!
Human limbs and human soul
Yet the strongest chains shall sever;
Man shall be, while ages roll,
Still progressing—free forever!
Andover, Mass.

UNNOTICED HEROES.
Woods have their blossoms which we ne’er behold,
And skies their worlds whose light is never known;
Ocean its treasures has of untold gold,
And earth her heroes that are all unknown.
You meet them as you pass, and heed them not;
You may not know what hosts before them fell; 
You may not count the battles they have fought— 
The wreaths that crown them are invisible.
Yet they have fought and conquered; they have bent 
Night after night beside the couch of pain; 
They have confronted scorn and death, and lent 
Their blood to make the stricken whole again.
They have been pilgrims to that desert shrine 
Which sorrow rears in the black realm, Despair; 
Oft have they struggled in that gloomy mine, 
Where only dust is made the toiler’s share.
They have beheld their sweetest hopes decay;
Oft have they seen their brightest dreams depart;
Have seen their golden idols turn to clay,
And many bear within a broken heart!
Their veiled and mighty scars they ever bear— 
Those scars that lie deep-burned into the soul— 
Won where the flaming eyes of vengeance glare, 
And the tumultuous fires of passion roll.
They have been victors! they have conquered fields 
Earth’s dreaded Hannibals could never win; 
They have struck down the sword Ambition wields, 
And trampled Lust, and chained the hand of Sin.
They have won captives! their sweet tones have brought 
The erring back to Virtue’s flowery path; 
Their own and others’ hearts submission taught 
To God’s high will, and smoothed the brow of wrath.
They drink the dregs of trembling; but their moans
And anguished wails they stifle in the breast;
They say there is an ear that hears their groans,
And in His house the weary will find rest.
Want, grief, the scorn of man on them descend-
They only say it is His righteous will;
With chastened spirits to that will they bend,
Believing, striving, hoping, loving still.
O! there are daily martyrdoms that we
Heed not—the sufferers are to us unknown;
But angels from the walls of Eden see
How glorious the laurels they have won! 

GOOD AND ILL.
O, Nature! shall it ever be thy will
Ill things with good to mingle, good with ill?
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
TRIBUTE TO THEODORE PARKER.
ATHOL, August 8th, 1860. 
REV. JOHN PIERPONT:
MY DEAR SIR,-Some months ago, I had something to say of the heroic character of John Brown, and of ‘irrepressible conflict’ in which it was developed.
To-day I write of Theodore Parker, a hero too, though of a different order. And I rejoice that I am permitted to address you, sir, (for there seems to me a peculiar fitness in it,) while I attempt to write, or even to touch upon a subject of so much interest, and such moment too, viz., the bearings of his life and labors upon the destinies of our race.
In the person of Theodore Parker, a great light has been withdrawn. He has gone—gone in his prime, ‘and hath not left his peer.' But he has left a luminous track in the religious atmosphere and moral firmament, under which we live and move, which cannot be effaced. If the age of miracles is passed, that of wonder-working is not.
The man, who, moved by the instincts of a noble nature, impelled by the action of a great soul, to become a teacher of truth and a worker of righteousness; who voluntarily devotes himself and all his powers to the welfare of the human family, or of any portion thereof; or who makes it the unswerving purpose of his life to awaken anew the spirit of liberty— to restore lost rights—to provide for, and secure the governmental and educational means of future development and growth; or, whose life-work it is to transform a nation of tyrants, with millions of slaves, into a nation of ‘men, high-minded men’; is a minister of God, a co-worker with the Deity; is a living, active force in the moral universe; skin to, and working, as much as in him lies, in aid of, and parallel with the great Exemplar of our race, in the restoration and salvation of the world. An earnest and intelligent spirit, animated and guided by ' ‘good will to men,'’ does not toil in vain. Toiling by the 'light' of Jesus' 'life,' he can not greatly miss the 'way’. For, to him who, in the love of truth, fulfills the righteousness he knows, ever the way opens before him, and light breaks in upon his path at each advancing step.
Such a man was Theodore Parker. He was a Protestant of the Protestants; the Luther of our times. He stood forth, the champion of freedom and of human rights; freedom of thought and freedom of speech; the asserter of the right of private judgment, and of the supreme authority of the individual conscience in all matters of duty. Having burst the bonds, and escaped the thraldom of the sect in which he was brought up, his whole professional life was in consonance with the faith which he professed, and the doctrines he proclaimed. 
Rejecting the belief, then commonly entertained, not only among Catholics, and the, so called, Evangelical sects, but among Unitarians also, of low and high degree; rejecting the belief in the supernatural birth and superhuman endowments of Jesus; rejecting the belief in supernatural events, miracles, as they are called, which, according to Dr. Paley, were brought about, not by the operation of natural laws, but by the intervention of supernatural causes, accompanied with, and giving assurance of, a supernatural revelation of God’s will to men; rejecting utterly the idea of a suspension of natural laws, he looked upon Jesus as the model man, our nobler brother, who, in his brief sojourn upon earth, showed us the Father; showed us that human nature is itself divine; and that to the God-like qualities which he exhibited, we may ourselves aspire; that if we work earnestly and; suffer patiently, we shall be developed more and more; shall be more and more like him; attaining to like excellence; partakers of his holiness; sharing with him the growing life and light, the blessedness and joy unspeakable, which become broader and deeper, and higher and more intense, the nearer we approach to the greatness and goodness of the All-perfect and Supreme. 
Though not peculiar in this, he boldly denied the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, discriminating between those of transient and those of permanent authority. He denied that they breathed the same spirit throughout; or, that they are equally binding upon the consciences of men; and, of course, ‘that they are an infallible guide to faith and practice.' Books, and the Bible among them, were his instruments, reservoirs of means. Reverencing it himself beyond all other books, he did much to shatter and to dissipate a prevailing and superstitious reverence for its literal text. 
Of course he was hated, disowned, denounced as an infidel and a heretic, and persecuted as such, with more or less vehemence, by the body he had left, and whose opinions he assailed. But, true to himself, he endured unto the end, restating, elucidating and confirming his views of the character of God, as manifested in his works; but chiefly in his dealings with the children of men, of Jesus and his teachings, and of the Scriptures generally, not only in the presence of his own stated society, who engaged his services, and to whom he especially looked for sympathy and support; but, pouring them in the ears of the multitudes of strangers and others from all parts of the country, who, from Sunday to Sunday, thronged Music Hall, and hung upon his lips, that they might know what those new doctrines, whereof he was in a habit of speaking, were. 
Believing that men were, ‘in all things, too superstitious’; that they were, ‘all their life-time, subject to bondage through fear’; he labored, first of all, to deliver them from that bondage. And this he did, by proclaiming and defending what he regarded as higher and truer and worthier views of God, of Jesus, of the Bible, of Humanity; and of their mutual relations to each other. With a physical constitution compact and vigorous, with strong impulses, an ardent temperament, and an exceedingly active brain, ‘whatsoever he found to do, he did it with his might.' Strong in the intellectual, moral and religious elements of his nature, feeling that men were undeveloped; alienate from God; sunk in ignorance, wickedness and woe; if he preached, it was because he must. For, with him, the dictates of conscience were equivalent to a 'thus saith the Lord.' They were authoritative, and he must speak. He could not hold his peace, and live. In himself was his commission; he was impelled to preach, and, like Socrates, he did it in the service of his fellow men, and in conscious obedience to the command of his God. 
Seldom indulging in merely selfish gratification or pleasure, or even in sleep, except for rest and recreation, he lived for work, incessant, earnest work. And the life-long labor of his thoughts was, to discover and proclaim the truth, and to illustrate and enforce the right. In short, he felt that his mission was, to teach and to preach. 
Like other great spirits, whose lives and labors have marked the epochs of human history, working on, and out of, and upon, the deepest and strongest elements of our nature—viz., the moral and religious sentiments—he produced, and is producing, a tide in the affairs of men, which must sensibly sway their destines, (and I think for good,) in all coming time. 
With him, humanity was sacred,-the crowning glory of the Creator’s works,-in its elements divine, and therefore worthy to be lifted heavenward; and, God helping him, he labored for this end. He viewed every thing, and rightly too, in an educational light. By this central idea, every thing pertaining to humanity was to be tested; and all existing customs, all institutions, whether social, civil, ecclesiastical, or literary, were to be approved or condemned, according to their educational influences, according to their natural and legitimate tendencies to hinder or to help, to retard or promote, the growth and elevation of the individual human beings, who were or should be brought within the sphere of their influence.
<c03>
If, therefore, he advocated the cause of Temperance, it was because a strict observance of the ‘rule of not too much,’ is an indispensable condition to the highest and healthiest intellectual and moral growth.
If he pleaded earnestly for the enfranchisement of woman, it was because justice, as well as the public good, demanded it,—demanded for her the right of property, the right of a direct voice in matters of legislation, the right to a thorough and systematic education, and what is dearer still, the right to chose and to follow that vocation, which her own conscious ability and tastes might dictate; it was because freedom is an essential condition to the symmetrical development of her nature; and, of course, to fit her for the worthy and honorable discharge of the duties of life, as a wife, a mother, an educator, a citizen.
If, with all the energy of his soul, he loved liberty and hated oppression; if, with heart and hand, he espoused the Anti-Slavery cause, and joined the glorious company of the unflinching and uncompromising Abolitionists; if he was ready to assume the post of danger, even the forefront of the hottest battle, in Liberty’s defence, or would expose his life, to rescue the flying bondman from the grasp of his pursuer, it was that he might put him in a condition to rise, to use his own God-given faculties in the way that pleased him best, and so grow up ‘to the stature of a perfect man.’ Emancipation is the door, the first step in the career of a generous culture and a manly life. Whatever efforts he may have made, or whatever services he may have rendered, in the specific reforms of the age in which he lived, they sprung always from the same generous and unfailing source. They were always the outgrowth of a distinct, intelligent, magnanimous purpose, to emancipate and elevate his sisters, as well as his brethren, of the great family of man.
To him all places, too, were sacred, and all times consecrated alike to the service of man. And whether he addressed a Senate or a mob, in '‘ the piping times of peace,'’ or amid the storms of war; whether he discoursed by the fire-side, or in the forum; from the pulpit or the platform, — a sermon or a lecture; whether he spoke in Music or in Faneuil Hall; ‘in temples made with hands,'’ or under the broad crystal-line dome of sky, in shady groves; mindful of the ‘talent, which it were death to hide,’ he was the teacher and the preacher still, ever faithful to his sacred trust. 
Although I have not said all which I wished to say upon so exhaustless a theme, I must bring my remarks to a close, simply adding what the theme so naturally suggests:—
‘Who noble ends by noble means attains, 
Like good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed 
Like Socrates, that man is great indeed.'’
Very respectfully, your friend and servant,
H. W. CARTER. 

THEOLOGY AND PRACTICAL LIFE.
[The following is a report of the remarks of CHAS.. D. B. MILLS, of Syracuse, offered in the Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress, at Waterloo, N. Y., in June last. The theme under consideration, at the time, was, ‘The Relation of the Ethics and Theology of this Country to Practical Life.']
Great surprise is sometimes expressed, and still more frequently felt, that amid all the respect paid, apparently, to religion among us, the whole land covered with its monuments, and its temples everywhere full of eager worshippers, there is yet such lack of genuine manhood, such wide-spread practical falseness, and infidelity to obligation. The surprise in this connection is not well-grounded. The exception is not here to be taken. There is no power in the prevailing, popular religion, to enfranchise and quicken, to lift to genuine manhood, or earnest, great-souled loyalty. Starting upon a false basis, it can come to no true result. 
A carnal conception of God can never conduct, in any relation, beyond the carnal and the sensuous. Making Him not the Supreme Excellence, the Infinite Truth, Justice and Love, realization absolute of the at most ideal of the Perfect that ever beams in the human soul, but rather the impersonation of mere arbitrary Will and resistless brute Force, it degrades all life, and fashions the universe correspondent to Him. The creation is like the Creator, the expansion of himself, his expression and image; heaven is conceived the home of uninterrupted sensuous delights forever, and hell the place of utter privation, of untold physical infliction and torture. And men are admitted to the one, or consigned to the other, not according to their inner character, but as they may be adjudged to have complied or not complied with the prescribed terms, arbitrary and capricious as wantonness and whimsey can make them. 
No man will seek to attain a character higher than the God he worships; none will attempt to realize on earth a world better than the heaven he prays for. Why should he be expected to hold his ‘secular’ higher than his ' ‘sacred‘? In his holiest thoughts and aspirations', he has not risen essentially beyond the plane of the senses, an animal God, and a carnal heaven. How, in his ' ‘worldly’ relations and pursuits, should he feel bound to seek anything nobler: than animal gratification and carnal possession? On his knees he has been communing in prayer, but amid all his rapturous emotions and experiences of the spiritual, he has caught no vision of the Infinite Excellence, the permanence of Truth and Justice, or the majesty of great Character. What wonder that thus mocked and filled with wind, where he ought to have sought and received his soul’s best food, he has no strength?—that, unfurnished and unarmed for trial, he is insufficient to any temptation, and at its first breath falls away? Hence the sad results which we everywhere witness, and have occasion this day anew to deplore. The religion is an imbecility, and can yield no strengthen idolatry, and it cannot enfranchise and bless—an incantation, and it bewitches, and debauches, and maddens. 
Its restraints, poor as they are, are partial and fitful enough. No enduring reverence comes of fear, and faith grows not in the soil of frights and marvels. The influence is soon spent, and the yoke thrown off at the first opportunity. Its god is a local, temporary affair, having much more to do with the dead than with the living, with the other world than with this, and is to be respected and served only in special times and places. He is sovereign on the Sunday, but not on the week-day, present in the sanctuary, but not at the hustings, to be recognized and worshipped in the sacraments of religion, but not in the sacraments of life, the dear privileges and fellowships that enrich and hallow every hour of human existence. What a strange, pie-bald morality springs up from such views of the divine! Setting up in the place of the Most High a wretched idol, a god who in his own heaven of heavens is but a monster, in his own special province in human life a petty tyrant, but for the most part in the world a non-entity, a sham. And so the worship is an idolatry, the living a sensuality, a profligacy, baptized or unbaprized. And any attempt to engraft a sound morality upon such a false and malevolent theology must be utterly futile, ever mocking him that essays to make it. 
There is great sorcery in this juggle. As being animal, it deals in passion and unreason. It flouts and scoffs at the inner convictions of the soul. In the name of the sacred, it tramples upon holy nature; in the name of the divine authority, it decries and vilifies reason; in the name of the revealed word of God, it renounces and blasphemes those truths of God that stand written forever in the being of man. Nothing so blights the soul, debauching and perverting its very nature, and quenching the inmost light of its life. It ripens men for subjugation and slavery, rendering them easy subjects for fraud, oppression and tyranny of every type and grade. The
<c04>
timate relations of friendship subsisting between priestcraft and kingcraft, through all the ages, are by no means accidental. Politician is twin brother of the priest. They play into each other’s hands, and the creature of the one becomes easily enough the victim and the tool of the other. The man who has once been stultified and debauched into the admission of absurdity as revealed truth, may, without difficulty, be made to accept and respect injustice as law. Not without occasion are the profligate, slavery devoted officials who preside over this government uniformly the zealous advocates and supporters of the popular religion of the land. There is a family relationship between Church and State, between worship of Bible and worship of Constitution and Statute, too strong to be overlooked. 
Men fall where most expected to stand; men of large proportions, and upon whom the highest hopes were set. Henry Ward Beecher, America’s most popular preacher, full, naturally, of genial impulses and humane tendencies, moved not seldom to some brilliant utterance for truth and freedom, that has stirred afresh the heart of the nation, and turned all eyes in expectancy to him, has proved insufficient to the hour of his trial. Standing in full presence of the scenes of Harper’s Ferry and Charlestown, witnessing those transcendant heroisms that have brought back before the eyes of this generation the very face of Jesus and the glories of Calvary, and poured undying luster upon this century for all time to come, he yet ‘knew not the man.’ Fresh from prayer, the memory of the crucified called anew to his mind, and the unctions of grace warm upon his lips, he comes forward to denounce John Brown as ‘mad,’ and his work as a futility and a crime. The same wanton, flippant lips can name Theodore Parker 'infidel,' and the American Board, venal, profligate and blood-thirsty as it is, 'Christian’-nay, can make haste to play the seducer shamelessly ,to draw and hold the conscience-visited and hesitant to its support. His religion taught him no better: aye, it taught him this. As a religionist, through ecclesiastical perversion, he can attain to a pitch of obloquy and bigotry that had been impossible to Ward Beecher as a man.
William H. Seward, the foremost statesman of our country, signally gifted, highly cultured, and eminently capable in utterance, holding the multitudes enchanted by the magnetism of his speech, widely venerated and looked up to as the fast friend of justice and of human nature—the appointed champion of freedom in our land—he also worships at the idolater’s shrine, and has laid himself prostrate at the feet of slavery. On the Senate floor of the United States, not long since, he deliberately forswore and debauched himself, in the presence of the nation, trampling upon the sacred convictions of his being, burning incense to slavery and the ‘glorious Union,’ lauded the infamous authors and abettors of the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850, flouted the sacred memory of the martyred heroes of liberty and the rights of man, and uttered, with solemn emphasis, his benediction upon their murderers. 
Alas! the lesson he recited here, he had learned early. The atrocious falsehoods and malignities of that speech are all in the dogmas of that religion under which he had his rearing, in the inculcations of that priesthood to whom he has given so long his ear and support. Heaven is opened to men by a bargain; salvation is wrought out through a ‘scheme,’ and the great atonement, with all its provisions of grace, the kingdom of God on earth, and the church of the saved in heaven, the achievements and glories of redemption-all rest in a stupendous compromise. The cross was erected on that ground; Jesus was put forth as a propitiation, and slain, the just for the unjust, innocence for guilt, that the divine wrath might be appeased, and man might be saved. 
If the kingdom of heaven is thus built up, and its walls verily laid in the richest blood of innocence; if compromise is a pillar of the divine throne, a leading principle of the divine government, the very soul of its wisdom, stability, success, why is it not good in the construction of a civil State? Why not offer up the few for the sake of the many, and attain national existence and political freedom at the price of the rights at least of the ‘servile’ population? What wonder that those who extol and confide in this ‘great scheme of salvation, ’this coup d'etat of the Almighty, which outwits the devil, replenishes heaven, and swells immeasurably his own glory forever, should shout for the compromises of the Constitution, and exult in the stability of this 
‘divine Union,’ built up and compacted together in the blood of the American slave? 
Friends, the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. Those sorceries that have so long debauched and bewildered the soul, least suspected because holiest named, but poisoning the very fountains of life, must be broken up. Men must be taught to distinguish between God and an idol, between true religion and jugglery. All worship of name, prestige and pretence must be exposed and swept away. The truths that shine upon the reason, untouched of circumstance, and greater than death; the ideals that anon do pervade and quicken the inmost being, beckoning ever on to a. higher, serene, holy and quenchless forever, must be recognized and adored as the very shekinah of God, His voice, presence, breath in the soul of man. 
Then, as never before, will there be worship and blessedness. Then, as never before, shall men drink, day by day, divine inspirations, and, receiving fresh accessions of life and strength continually, aspire, and work, and achieve, joyous and without end.
Spiritualism as a Practical Principle...Abby K. Foster applying it to the Pollutions of Slavery.
PRATT'S HALL, PROVIDENCE, R. I. Thursday, 12 1/2, noon, Aug. 2, 1860.
DEAR GARRISON: I am at my writing, by the platform of a Convention called by the Spiritualists of this city. A resolution came before the Convention, expressive of sympathy with a movement made by Emma Hardinge in behalf of women who have been tempted, betrayed and ruined by sensual men. Several had alluded to this resolution. It was decided by the Convention, yesterday, that every subject pertaining to the elevation and perfection of man’s spiritual nature was in order on the platform of a Spiritual Convention. Slavery, war, drunkenness, prostitution, (legal and illegal,) marriage and parentage, were subjects specified as appropriate in a Convention called to consider Spiritualism. 
ABBY K. FOSTER took the platform, to speak to the resolution of sympathy with Miss Hardinge in her efforts to save woman from prostitution. She is now speaking, and with power. Abby has often spoken. How often and how efficiently, the entire Northern States can attest for the last twenty-five years—in behalf of woman prostituted by slavery in the United States; but I never heard her speak with more power than at present. She is saying, in substance, as follows:—
I would present to Miss Hardinge and to this Convention two millions of American women who are compelled by the law and religion of the nation to live in prostitution, without any protection from the Government, from the Church, from the politics or religion of the land. These are the tempted, the outraged, the crushed, the broken-hearted. By law and religion they are handed over to the lusts of any priest, deacon, slave-breeder, slave-trader, and slaveholder, who shall wish to outrage them. Resistance to those brutal rapes is punishable with death as treason against the rights of all white men. These hapless victims of the white man's rape and rapine appeal to Miss Hardinge and to all Spiritualists. If Spiritualism cannot help these women, prostituted by law, and stripped of all personal rights, what is it good for? In vain do Miss Hardinge and the Spiritualists seek to save the white women of the land from prostitution and its dire results, while they studiously and
<c05>
purposely ignore the condition of those two millions among us who may have a skin of darker hue. They are compelled to bear children, and these, as soon as born, are registered as chattels, and in due time sold as brutes. They, and their daughters by white Christians(?) and politicians, are consigned to hopeless, helpless prostitution.
No effort to elevate woman, whether made by the advocates of Woman’s Rights, by Spiritualists, by Christians or politicians, can be of any avail, while the condition of these two millions of prostituted women and sisters is overlooked. The purity, the virtue of the white woman and that of the black woman must rise or fall together. So long as the white man despises and tramples upon the chastity and personal rights of the black woman, he will outrage and despise the person of the white woman. The Democrats and the Republicans of the North hold these helpless two millions of women, while their Southern coadjutors in politics outrage their persons. 
Mrs. Foster’s ten minutes were up. A motion was made to extend her time ten minutes more. One man arose, in much excitement, and said, '‘ I am opposed to that. Mrs. Foster is introducing politics. This is a side issue. Spiritualists have nothing to do with politics in their Conventions. Better stick to their own text.'
The question—Shall Mrs. Foster’s time be extended ten minutes more?'— was then put by Dr. Gardner of Boston, the President, and declared to be adopted by ten to one.
Mrs. Foster then proceeded to show how the Republicans, Democrats, and all voters under the Federal Government, were responsible for the prostitution and outrages practiced upon these two millions of helpless women. Her remarks were listened to with profound attention, and cheered with more enthusiasm than anything said in the Convention. 
I have often heard Abby plead the cause of these two millions of her outraged sisters—outraged in the most sacred and holy right and function of their womanhood—but I never heard her speak more eloquently, or more to the purpose. A great portion of the audience thanked her in their hearts for her remarks in behalf of enslaved woman. One man, the one who was opposed to extending her time, and to introducing side issues, said, when he saw how enthusiastic was the audience in favor of Abby’s remarks— ‘The Convention might go to hell for all him.' He was told that a hell so deep, dark and desolating, and so boiling over with hot wrath, and so full of howlings and gnashings, was in no bosom as in his own. 
It was the feeling of the Convention that Spiritualism had much to do with the abolition of slavery, and of all slave-trading religions and politics, as well as with all other reforms.
It was voted by the Convention, that Spiritualism is to aid in securing to the men and women of the future, healthier organic conditions of body and soul. In discussing this resolution, it was shown that parents, not God, are responsible for the existence and organic conditions of children, and that children have a right to demand of their parents—(1,) Healthy bodies—(2)) Healthy souls—(3.) A love origin—(4.) A designed existence—(5.) A welcome into life. Spiritualists seem to think, and justly, more of the law of generation than of regeneration, as a means to elevate and perfect human nature, and to save the race— more of the blood of woman, as a mother, than the blood of Christ, as an atoning sacrifice. Thus will all wise and earnest practical philanthropists think, at no distant day.
During the afternoon service yesterday, Douglas arrived in town. Our hall is near the station. A great throng gathered and shouted a welcome to him. Guns firing, drums beating, and music playing. They all marched by the hall, making hideous noise and confusion. But the Convention, and the person speaking at the time, (Miss Sprague,) did themselves very great credit— Miss Sprague continuing her; speech in perfect calmness and self-possession, and to great effect; and the Convention sitting, for most part, in perfect quiet, and attentive to her remarks— not above a score leaving to follow in the wake of the '‘ little giant' and his Lilliputian sattelites.
It has been a Convention of great interest, and will do more to educate the city and State into higher and progressive views of a pure and noble life, than all the churches, schools, papers and political speeches can do for a whole year. 
Yours,
HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
P. S. Thursday night.—The Convention has adjourned, sine die. A resolution was introduced at the close, congratulating the Convention that no 'fanatical radicalism ‘fanatical radicalism’ had, been introduced into it. A man moved to strike this out, saying there had been 'fanatical radicalism ' introduced. ‘Will the gentleman point cut what he considers fanatical radicalism' asked one. ‘What has been said about the two million slave women, and the corruptions and prostitutions of the South— and about Northern people and politicians sustaining such—pollutions’ alluding to the remarks of Mrs. Foster. ’This, I think, is fanatical radicalism.'’ The Convention voted, ten to one, not to strike it out. 
Be assured, that Spiritualists are becoming more and more disposed to apply their principles to a removal of the evils that individuals, churches and governments are practising upon men and women. This Convention, thus co-operating with the Anti-slavery movement, has done more to interpret the spirit and teachings of Jesus than the forty thousand Christian (!) priests will do for ten years to come. It will do much to teach the people to see and worship God in living men and women, subjected to wrong and outrage, rather than in Jesus of Nazareth, who has no wants that we can supply, and to whom our love and worship can be of no practical use. 
H. C. W.

From the Dover Morning Star. 
HEENAN-PRIZE FIGHTING-THE PROSPECT.
 It appears that Heenan, the pugilist, or prizefighter, is engaged to take the tour of the United States cities for twelve weeks, at a thousand dollars per week, to give sparring exhibitions in the presence of audiences, who are willing to pay so much a head to see how easily this champion of the ring might stave in and demolish the ‘human face divine,’ it disposed to do so. This Heenan has struggled hard to make and prove himself a brute, and having succeeded, it is not strange that he should be taken round the country for a show, by some sharp, speculating proprietor, akin to Barnum. The simple fact that such an exhibition is to be made of a being calling himself a MAN, together with the consideration of the prospect that the managers, after paying Heenan one thousand dollars per week and other large expenses, will find themselves the recipients of large dividends, is full of humiliation and offence. And yet this goes for nothing in the presence of the anticipated moral results of such exhibitions. A whole crop of pugilists will [spring from the sowing of such seeds, and prize-fighting, in spite of law and police regulations, will become as common as horse-racing. 
Since the brutal ‘set to’ of this same Heenan with Morrissey, and especially since his disgusting fight with Sayers, the English champion, prize fights have been multiplied ten-fold. The minds of our youth, especially such of them as are given to vulgar tendencies, are fast catching the inspiration of the demon spirit of the ring, and even the long and circumstantial details of the above named encounters, which have been paraded in some of our popular papers, have not failed in their damning influences on our people. And yet these men are the petted and lionized of the passing hour, generally by the fancy men, and those who are found in the lower strata of society, to be sure, but not always. 
English lords, shame on them! paid money and made presents to the notorious Sayers for barely proving himself to have the temper of a she-bear, and the skin of a he-rhinoceros! These coming exhibitions will to some extent be witnessed, and consequently countenanced, by men of acknowledged respectability, and doubtless accounts of them, in
<c06>
sickening details, will grace, or rather disgrace, the vehicles of our popular intelligence and literature. We are disgusted and scandalized by these things! If prize fighting be forbidden by law, then should sparring exhibitions, which lead directly to it. Next we shall have fistorial, as formely there were gladiatorial schools, and far more disreputable and pernicious will they be. To wield skillfully a polished blade has a show, at least, of civilization about it, but to maul with naked first, to tear and rend with tooth and nail,. is wholly barbarous and brutish! We hope every community immediately interested in this growing vice will cry out against it, every pulpit thunder, and every press lighten! and God grant its abatement, and stay our downward course to absolute and unmitigated barbarism!

CARPETING
‘All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, ,Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN 
CARPRTING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept16 tf

PROUTY & MEARS’S
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing, more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the 
PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR 
GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the 'Clipper Improved,' ’Mount Vernon, ‘and ‘Gold Medal.'
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron ‘Parlor Oven Stove’ ever introduced into this market.
—ALSO—
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; castings for the PROUTY & MEARS’S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL'
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS,
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf

A Military Catechism.
QUESTION 1ST.-Who among all the great Generals of the World has caused the greatest destruction of human life?
ANSWER.-GENERAL DEBILITY.
QUESTION 2D.-Please name the principal officers in the General’s Staff.
ANSWER.-Gens. DYSPEPSIA, DROPSY,PILES, LIVER COMPLAINT,
&c., and 
Cols. BRONCHITIS, NEURALGIA, NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, BOILS, &c.
QUESTION 3D.-Who is destined to become his most formidable antagonist:
ANSWER.-IRON, as developed in the famous
PERUVIAN SYRUP.
The Hosts are Marshalling for the Conflict. Aug.3. 3t
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal pat rons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.,; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residence, either in or out of town. 
Boston, May 1, 1860.

THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Meh16 tf BOSTON, MASS.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11thllth, 1860, 100pp, large octave. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON, Mrs. E. I. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL., Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. ‘A word to the wise.' &c.
Price, 25 cents: by mail. 30 cents.
 Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
NOS. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
 BROOKYLYN. L.L.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings, to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ‘Water Cure’ Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements,. as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO.F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. physician and sole Proprietor.

J. B. YERRINTON & SON.
PRINTERS,
221 WASHINGTON STRRET, BOSTON.
