THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters existing to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to a directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 45. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1559.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SOUTH CAROLINA PETITION TO CONGRESS AGAINST WHITE SLAVERY.
CHARLESTON, Oct. 8, 1860.
To the Editor of the New York Herald:
We send you the copy of a petition which will he presented by the people of the cotton States to Congress, should Mr. Lincoln be elected. The original is in this city, and will be signed, we believe, by every right-thinking man, without exception, When the time comes. Its insertion in your excellent paper will, no doubt, secure for it many warm friends at the North:-
PETITION.
The undersigned, citizens of the cotton States, respectfully show to your honorable body that, at the present time, there exists in the States of Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and New York-but more especially in the city of New York-a great and growing evil, for which, as citizens of this vast consolidated Government, they fear that they, too, must be held responsible to God as well as to man, and for the eradication of which, at every hazard, they are bound, as good Christians, to strive. Your petitioners mean the institution of 'white slavery,' in its most shocking and repulsive form. Your petitioners have been credibly informed that, in the above-named places, there are now hundreds of thousands of the outpourings of the workshops, lazarettos and prisons of Europe, besides their own native paupers, many of whom work from morning until night, and frequently during a part of each right, for from eighteen to thirty cents, while others unwilling to work for so little or to work at all, support themselves by begging and stealing, and miserably perish, some for want of bread or sufficient clothing, in the public streets, even in the presence of the luxurious and wealthy, others in the prisons or on the scaffold; that most of these unhappy people arc profoundly ignorant of their civil and political rights, and are even encouraged, from infancy to the grave, to repudiate the Bible and deny the existence of Almighty God. Of this condition of things, your petitioners cannot well conceive; for, though they die slaveholders themselves, and have always lived among slaves, yet their slaves are by nature of a different and inferior race of men, for whose liven, health, careful and religious instruction it is and ever has been your petitioners' interest, as it is your petitioners' duty, to care to the utmost, besides which they never can become citizens of this great democratic nation, as well as on account of their color as their inferiority; and they never perish for want of food, clothing, shelter or protection. But the white slaves' of the North are not only not of an inferior caste, but many of them were born citizens, and all of them may become citizens of this great nation, and in every respect the equals of their masters. Your petitioners, firmly persuaded that no people who will permit so much wrong and injustice to continue can expect the favor of God, and that in this consolidated government your petitioners, as well as the people among whom it exists, must answer for this crying sin, have resolved most respectfully to suggest to your honorable body the propriety of erasing this dark page from the history of our nation.
Your petitioners further show that one William H. Seward, lately a Senator from the said State of New York, has been holding forth to the aforesaid white slaves, and sometimes to their masters, that there is, and must always be,' an irrepressible conflict between African slave labor and white labor, until the former shall be, as it ought to be, extinguished in blood;' but he has falsely assumed that all white labor is free labor-though he well knows that in no form is African slavery as abject and degraded as is the pauper labor of his own State; and he has artfully concealed from the aforesaid masters, while he has made it plain to their white slaves,' that his irrepressible conflict is, in truth, the conflict between poverty on the one side and wealth on the other, and that to this conflict the Red Republicans of France and the Black Republicans of America owe their existence; but, your petitioners are willing that he who planted the seed of this agrarian doctrine in our soil, and the people who have watched the tree in its growth, should be the first to taste of its fruit. They therefore humbly pray your honorable body to cause a fair and equal division of all the property, real and personal, gold and silver, goods and chattels of all kinds, held and owned by the people of the above named States, to be made among them all, so that hereafter there may be no poor man, woman or child to be found among them, and the reproach of 'white slavery' be removed forever from the skirts of your petitioners. About your right to illustrate, by this equal distribution of property, the excellence and beauty of Mr. Seward's doctrine, there can be no doubt, now that we live under a consolidated government, wherein the will of the majority in Congress is the Constitution. Until with your aid we shall have removed this dark and damning sin from the consciences, as well of ourselves as of our distant brethren of the North, it will nut be either meet or proper, perhaps hardly decent, for us to begin to think of our own offences (if any we have committed) against morals or religion.
Grant us our prayer, which is designed to promote the very best interest of Northern society, and we will, as in duty bound, ever pray. &c.
Signed already by tens of thousands in anticipation.

SOUTHERN DECENCY.
On Wednesday evening, General Leslie Coombs, of Kentucky, addressed a large audience in New York. As he was advocating fusion with his lifelong enemies, he could not find much to say, but we cull from his harangue the following choice bit:-
'Then there is Doctor Seward-(laughter and signs of derision)-he has his remedy, He and I once stood upon the same platform. We used to stand side by side. But he has now got off the platform. Once he supported Gen. Taylor, who owned hundreds of negroes-so many that he could have had a young negro for breakfast every morning. (Laughter) Now he can risk the happiness of twenty million white men for the sake of three million blacks. Then he could not think of anything of the sort. Then we went into Ohio to stump it, but as I thought his speeches a little too rank, I told him he had better go over to Giddings's district, where he could talk as black as he pleased. (Laughter) And so we gave him a bottle of brandy, and started him up to that district. (Roars of laughter) I never saw him of bat one color in my life-always pale. And I tell you, gentlemen, never attempt to drink dawn a pale man. (Great laughter) Take a fellow that shows it like a gentleman, in the nose, and then you know you have got him. (Boisterous laughter).'
At this point, says another report, Gen. Coombs gave a practical illustration of his remarks, by drinking from a tumbler half filled with a suspicious looking purple liquid, which act caused immense laughter.
<c02>
THE MADCAP HENRY A WISE.
Bombastes Furioso, alias Ex-Governor Wise, has recently made a renting, blustering, disunion speech at Norfolk, Virginia, of which the following is a sample:-
So soon as the war, already declared against my State and my section, shall be actually commenced by the election of a Black Republican President, I stand ready to draw the sword of defence I will wage no private war. I will take part in no unauthorized foray. I shall first await the action of my own sovereign State. In torturing suspense, I shall wait upon her resolves, and pray God they may be worthy of her example of'98 and'99. And, although I folly recognize the right of a sovereign State to select secession as her mode and measure of redress for the infraction of the Federal compact, secession is not the mode which I would desire or recommend. I am unwilling to yield one right for the sake of the privilege of maintaining another right. I would make no such bargain-no such compromise. I would not yield my right to the Union any more than I would yield my right to my negro property. No! I would keep both the Union and the negro, and fight to the last to preserve and maintain all my rights to both.
As I have said, I will first appeal to Virginia for authority to fight under her banner. But if Virginia shall not meet the issue, and come up to the mark of self-defense and self-respect, I will look to North Carolina, I will look to South Carolina, to Georgia, to each Southern State in succession, and appeal to each for permission to fight under the aegis of her sovereignty. And 1 will advise each State not to wait for the example or co-operation of other States. Such waiting will only produce faltering, and all the delay and confusion of uncertainty. No! Let each State leap at once, for herself and by herself, into the contest, and struggle for precedence and pre-eminence in the work of defence.
Any one State, even the smallest, can make the battle and win the victory. And if the unaided-if the gallant little Florida will alone take up the gauntlet of war, and levy an army, I will enlist in that army, wherever it shall be raised, and we will see then, whether the Black Douglas' can execute his threat of coercion. If ever the issue comes, I hope to meet him in the field where the ultimo ratio of States is to be fried. And even fighting under the banner of one little State, I will remember that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. I will remember, too, that Patrick Henry had every loyalist to cry out treason' against him in the House of Burgesses; but the seized the old powder magazine at Williamsburg, and dragged even loyalists themselves into the tide of resistance and revolution along with him. I will remember, too, when told that eighteen millions are pressing against our eight millions, that there was a time when five millions of American patriots stood secure, and won the contest against more than fifty-more than a hundred millions!
And when the hour of battle comes, we shall find that it will not cross swords over a sectional line. No. Our enemies at the North will find our friends there, too; the true friends of justice and right-Northern defenders of Southern rights-and enough in numbers to keep both heads of Northern fanaticism busied with strife at home; while we, at the South, will have active work to do in waging the war against the Southern traitors in our midst, and at our doors. It will be a neighborhood war, at both ends, and in the centre of the continent. At the North and at the South, it will be a war which will array all the forces of conservatism, all the friends of equal rights, against the fanaticism and the fraud of Black Republicanism at the North. It will not be a war of sectionalism or of dissolution, and, once commenced, it must result, sooner or later, in the re-establishment of the integrity of the Union and the purity of the Constitution.
In such a strife, and for such a holy purpose, I will join the ranks of war, and fight alike against those who would oppress me, and those who would coerce my submission to oppression. I will fight-
'To combat violence, fraud and usurpation,
To pluck the spoil from the oppressor's jaws,
And keep my country, as I found it-FREE!'

JOHN BROWN EXCITEMENT IN SOUTH CAROLINA-LYNCH LAW THREATENED.
At Clio, S. C., on the 10th ult., two men, named Hitchings, were arrested under circumstances that led to the belief that they were Abolition incendiaries, and a Vigilant Committee had been organized to investigate the matter. Early the next day, a large crowd assembled at Bennettsville, anxiously anticipating the result. Between ten and eleven o'clock, the committee from Clio, with the suspected parties, arrived in the Court House Square. The Court was in session. The crowd eagerly passed around to bear the report, which was to the effect that ample proof had been elicited to convict the accused. Upon this announcement, the wildest excitement ensued. The cry arose, 'Hang them! to the nearest tree!' But moderate councils finally prevailed, and a further and fuller examination was determined upon. Among the papers and correspondence of the prisoners were found invoices of double and single-barrel guns, pistols, revolvers, bowie-knives, balls, cartridges, caps, powder, shot, &c., to the amount of a little over $1200, bought by Hitchings from J. Marin, agent of the Hartford Fire Arms Manufacturing Company, in New York, on the 30th of July last. Every item was priced, the sums extended, and the column added up; but there was no receipt at the bottom, or indications whether the articles were paid for by note or cash. There were also among the papers, letters of introduction and recommendation to railroad companies, setting forth that Hitchings was an experienced railroad contractor that he had had various extensive contracts, all of which he had faithfully and satisfactorily performed. These letters purported to be signed by Railroad Presidents in New York and elsewhere. One was signed by a Mr. Hunt, of New York, a president of some railroad company.
The two Hitchings are father and son-the former between fifty and sixty years of age-the latter, perhaps, about twenty. The elder Hitchings is an Englishman, was naturalized in 1838, and has lived, mostly in the State of New York. He came to Pekin, Montgomery county, N. C., about 1856, where he has resided since. He was there at and before the date of some of the above letters; and it is known that when he first came, and ever since, he has lived in great poverty. His conduct was so bad at Pekin, as a negro-trader, that he was severely whipped by the citizens of that place some eighteen months or two years ago. After that he left his family at that place, and put up a small wagon-maker's shop at Floral College; and at the time of his arrest, was about putting up another little shop of the same kind, at Clio, in Marlboro' District. It is well known, both at Pekin and Floral College, that he had no ostensible means to pay for any part of these invoices.
The only explanation Hitchings offers is, that he has a son whose occupation is to escort emigrants from St. Louis, or some other point in Missouri,
<c03>
across the Plains to Santa Fe, New Mexico, &c., and that the arms and ammunition were intended for him.
The old man assumes to be as deaf and stoical as old John Brown, but his son shows great concern, and appears to be in great trepidation.
Clio is near the spot marked in Marlboro' district on old John Brown's maps. This is a significant fact.
Fortunately, on subsequent examination, the prisoners were liberated, their innocence being clearly established,
THE MINUTE MEN'S PLEDGE. A letter from Columbia, S. C., gives the following as the pledge of the minute men organized there:-'We, the undersigned, citizens of South Carolina, in view of the impending crisis, necessarily incident upon the election of a Black Republican to the Presidency of these United States, and in view of our duties to our section, ourselves, and our best interests, which must come in the event of the triumph of Northern fanaticism, hereby form ourselves into an association, under the name and style of" the minute men;" and do further solemnly pledge our lives, our fortunes and sacred honor, to sustain Southern constitutional equality in the Union, or, failing in that, to establish our independence out of it.' The numbers are requested to wear a blue cockade on the left side of the hat, and procure a Colt's revolver, a rifle, or other approved fire-arms.
GOVERNOR PETTUS ON BUNKER HILL MONUMENTS AND FOURTH OF JULYS. The Breckinridge States Rights men of Mississippi had a rousing time at Columbus this week, and Governor Pettus made a rousing Southern Rights speech. The tenor of his remarks led some one to ask him if the Union should be divided, what disposition he would make of the interest he had in the Bunker Hill Monument? 
He said' he would give up his interest to the North.'
'And what,' said his interrogator, 'with the South's interest in the Fourth of July?
'WE WILL MAKE A NEW ONE,' was the prompt reply.
A noble sentiment. Southern Rights men, inscribe it on your banners, and let the rallying cry he,' We will make a new Fourth of July.'-Mobile Mercury.
ALABAMA ARMING FOR THE CONTEST. The Atalanta (Ga.) Confederacy of the 10th ult. says:-'We are credibly informed that the Governor of Alabama, in compliance with an act passed by the Legislature, has ordered from Belgium two hundred thousand stand of arms, to be used, if necessary, in the event of Lincoln's election. Alabama will, un-questionably, secede from the Union, before she will submit to the rule of a Black Republican President, especially when it is well known that that President was one of the indorses of Helper's Impending Crisis, and is elected for the express purpose of destroying the institution of slavery.'
The time for debate is past. The South awaits the pending election with concern and anxiety indeed, but with calm determination not to surrender a single one of her rights, or bow the knee to a tyrant majority. The election of Mr. Douglas is, of course, impossible, and so we hope and believe is that of Mr. Lincoln; but be assured that in the event of the success of the latter gentleman, the Union cannot last.-St. Louis Bulletin.

SELECTIONS.
SOUTHERN SECESSION.
Republicans have to deal very tenderly with the hot spirits of South Carolina and the neighboring States, but we suppose there is no harm in printing the following, which we find quoted from the Frankfort (Ky.) Commonwealth, a good Bell and Everett paper:-
If the people of South Carolina, Alabama, or Georgia desire to secede from the Union, in the name of the Constitution, let them do so. Let the m form a republic, an empire, or anything else they may fancy. Let them in close themselves within a Chinese wall, if they want to, and here is one who will contribute his mite toward furnishing the requisite rocks. Let them do what they please. Let them do it as they please, and when they please, with one solitary condition, viz.: that their separation shall be final. Their absence would be an incalculable and invaluable relief to the balance of the people of these United States. We should escape large quantities of quadrennial gas, and noise, and confusion, and stuff.
At every Presidential election, these political filibusters remind us of the poor Frenchman who locked himself in a room with a rich ditto, and threatened to blow his own brains out, and charge the rich one with the murder, unless the latter gave him, then and there, five hundred dollars. Every four years, these Southern Quixote’s swell up with bad whiskey and worse logic, and tell the balance of the people if they don't do so and so, that they (the Quixote’s) will secede. Let them secede, and be blessed. We are tired of their gasconade, their terrific threats, and of their bloody prophecies. They were never calculated for any higher destiny than that of frightening old women and young children. They have been revived and repeated until-to use an expressive vulgarism-they are played out. Their bombast is absolutely sickening.'

A SOUTHERN VIEW OF DISUNION.
That able journal, the New Orleans Bee, has a conclusive review of the present disunion panic, from which we extract the following:-
'Talk about the ruin of the South! Will the State Rights Solons please inform us at what period of our national existence the South enjoyed so much of positive prosperity as now? When were the comforts of life more generally diffused? When was it easier for the humblest classes at the South to torn their livelihood? When were the agricultural resources of the South more universally developed? When did the great staple of our section furnish a more prolific yield, command more remunerative prices, and enrich our planters more speedily? Is it when cotton is selling at a profit of more thin a hundred per cent, upon the cost value of the production, or when field hands are sold at fifteen hundred to two thousand dollars apiece, that we are to be deafened by dismal outcries of poverty and distress, by stories of Northern monopoly and Southern subjection, and that the gaunt and hideous specter of Disunion is invoked as our guide to an imaginary Utopia of independence, opulence and honor? Is any thing more needed as a practical and unanswerable refutation of the false and silly view of the oppression of the South, than the story of her constantly progressive increase in the elements of material greatness? Really, we think the Jeremiahs of Disunion, who are perpetually bemoaning our sad fate, might discover abundant elements of consolation, if they would only take the trouble to use their eyes, and look about them.'
<c04>
The Louisville Journal says:-
'The scheme of the Disunionists is cunningly devised, but we beg leave to suggest that the imposture attempted upon the people is altogether too open and impudent. It pre-supposes an amount of ignorance and gullibility which cannot exist in any intelligent community.'
The New Orleans Picayune of the 8th ult. says:-
If Lincoln is successful in the electoral college which can scarcely be possible-will he not be elected President by the voice of the people constitutionally expressed-elected, too, according to the ordinary modes of party action and popular voting-peacefully and regularly honored with the office which Washington, Jefferson, and their long line of successors have honored? Is it for this reason that any man at the South proposes to resist? Are we prepared to disown allegiance to a Government whose ministrations hitherto have been followed by a series of uninterrupted blessings, because at some future time an act may be committed hostile to the spirit of the Constitution? Will such an issue be one that can secure for any movement we may commence not only the favorable moral influence of the world, but what is far more important, the union of the South itself?
'There is a public sentiment at the South that will forbid success to any movement of this character for this cause, no matter by whom it be originated and favored. The more violent such a movement may be, the less favor would it receive. It would have no foundation in law, it would appeal to no public sense of necessity. It would have no stimulus in the public feeling of positive wrong done, or the sense, by individuals, of actual distress inflicted.
'It is time that the men of the South began to speak plainly on this subject. The Southern masses are not yet ready to imitate Mexico, nor will they, like that distracted people, be put in hostility to the legal government by the pronouncements of any popular leader.'

THE YANKEE IN THE SOUTH.
The Baltimore American makes the following well-aimed shot at these Southerners who, dependent on the North for a thousand comforts, are constantly heaping unmeasured abuse on its inhabitants:-
'Probably no animal known to natural history is regarded with such aversion as the Yankee in some portions of the South. The phrase is rarely employed in a complimentary sense, or without the addition of an adjective more emphatic than refined. He is supposed to have been born in a bed of Wethersfield onions, raised on catfish, trained to sing through his nose, by which he is distinguished from his carnal fellow-men, and taught to amuse his juvenile hours with wooden nutmegs, which are universally conceded to be the chief staple of the New England States. No good thing can come out of this land; no generosity, no chivalry, no honesty, no frankness. He is habitually mean, calculating, avaricious, and inhospitable.
'Now, it is very remarkable that these portions of the South, where the Yankee is thus regarded, are conspicuous in bestowing upon the despised Yankee nation what would generally be considered the most solid testimonials of good will. They are the chief patrons of the Yankee race; they fill their law, medical, and theological institutions; they pass by Southern cities to give to the hated Yankees their trade; they are the first to go to Yankee springs, and the last to come away; they eat with Yankee forks, dig with Yankee spades, wear Yankee shoes, sit in Yankee chairs, and are often buried in Yankee coffins. As Brother Jonathan looks more to substance than to ceremony, he probably regards the actions of the Yankee haters as a better index of their feelings than their words. At any rate, we see that he is multiplying his steam connections with them, and drawing them closer to his forgiving heart.'

ALWAYS TREACHEROUS AND FACTIOUS.
It is worth remembering, that South Carolina has never been loyal to the Union. Even before the Union was formed, under the present Constitution, and in the very crisis of the Revolution, South Carolina placed her self-interest before the common interests of the country. When Charleston was threatened by the British, under Provost, her own officers proposed to capitulate to the British upon most ignominious terms. These terms are stated as follows in Game's Mercury for July 12, 1779: and after all abatement for the prejudice of the time, it must be admitted that they are most discreditable to Southern chivalry:-
'The following is the proposition made by Colonels Smith and McIntosh to Col. Provost and Capt. Moncrief, at a Conference at Charleston. May 12, 1779: That Carolina should remain in a state of neutrality during the war, and the question whether Carolina should remain an independent State, or be subject to Great Britain, be determined by the fate of the war."
‘This proposition shows, in a clear point of view, with what ease the people of Carolina can throw off and break their most solemn engagement with the Continental Congress and France, on the approach of real danger, or whenever they think it will suit their private views. Such is the much-boasted virtue and honor of the inhabitants of South Carolina.' -Quoted in Frank Moore's Diary of the Revolution, vol. 2, p. 162.

From the Chicago Daily Democrat.
HOSSACK AND STOUT LIBERATED.
THE PRISON DOORS OPENED!
Owing to the kindness of Mr. E. S. Wells, the contributors to the Stout and Hossack Relief Fund were allowed the free use of Metropolitan Hall last evening. The Hall was crowded with men and women of all classes and conditions, but principally with persons who are not politicians. It is astonishing what cowards our leading politicians ore becoming upon the only question of importance before the people.
Mayor Wentworth made a full report of the money that had been collected, and the means by which it had been raised. He said he had done nothing from personal friendship or acquaintance with Messrs. Hossack and Stout, as be bad never seen these gentlemen before their imprisonment, and did not know as he should ever see them again. He had only done for them what be would have done for any one else under the same circumstances. He said that Judge Drummond and the Marshal, and the other officers, had only done their duty in the premises, and just exactly so they were bound to do, so long as the Fugitive Slave Law remained the law of the land. He said he would never justify nullification or mob law. It was the duty of all good citizens to obey the law, and he should obey even the Fugitive Slave Law, while it continued to be the law. Were be the President, be would enforce that law and every other law to the letter, but he would use all the influence of the government to repeal all its obnoxious provisions. There are many obnoxious laws upon our statute books, both State and National, that ought to be immediately repealed, and he relied
<c05>
upon the influence of oar Churches and our Common Schools to hare them so repealed in good time. 
He said the great obstacle to Republican measures was the bonus held oat by high salaries and high fees to office hunters to clog the wheels of Reform. He said the Slave Power had existed for years upon the patronage of the general government in the same manner that the corruptions in Cook county had been nourished by the high fees of the Cook county officers. He exhorted all true friends of human liberty, all true anti-slavery men, to join him in his efforts to cut down the salaries of all officers so low, that there should be no office lucrative enough to induce a man to betray his own conscience.
But we are getting ahead of our story. The remarks of the Mayor were principally made while the committee were gone out after the prisoners. 
The Mayor reported that the amount necessary to be raised for fines and costs was $1,600 47. But the amount had to be paid in specie, which cost one per cent, premium, and made the amount to be raised $1,616 47.
The Mayor reported that there had been collected $1,794 16.
This announcement was received with deafening applause. We never heard old Metropolitan Hall ring so loudly before. All sorts of quaint remarks were made-such as the following: 'The party is crushed! Lincoln is defeated! Long John is playing thunder with us! Long John has gone over to Douglas! The Press and Tribune will abuse him worse? than ever now!' etc., etc. It was voted that the Mayor appoint a committee to tender the money to the Sheriff, and bring the prisoners into the room. The Sheriff was present, and the Mayor appointed him and Comptroller Ward to adjust the matter. The money was paid and the prisoners sent for. The Mayor entertained the audience meanwhile, with one of his usual lectures as above upon Liberty and Economy, in which he dwelt upon the large number of persons who had contributed to make up the money amid the opposition of the Republican leaders, as exemplifying the fact that the masses of the people were always ahead of the politicians in measures of Reform.
The Mayor stated that he had received notice that there were sums of money on the way from various towns in the county-about two hundred and fifty dollars of which was from Ottawa, the residence of the prisoners. He also stated that the prisoners had been also prosecuted for the price of the Negro, and that what was left, after releasing them, would be placed in the hands of a committee to assist in paying for the Negro, should judgment be obtained against the prisoners for his value. Should the money not be wanted for this purpose, it would be impossible to refund it. He would endeavor to appoint such a committee as he believed would carry out the intentions of the contributors, by aiding in other anti-slavery enterprises.
The prisoners were then brought upon the stage, stated that they were not public speakers, and that they considered themselves powerless to convey to the house the great obligations they were under to the citizens of Chicago for their liberality. We learn that they leave for their homes to-day.
The Mayor appointed S. D. Ward, W. V. Coe, and Philo Carpenter the committee to take charge of the balance of the funds.
Deacon Coe entertained the audience with some excellent and well-timed remarks. Dr. Doy, of Kansas, being present, was called upon the stand, and consumed the balance of the evening in a very interesting review of the difficulties in Kansas which finally led to its freedom.
The raising of this money, with the opposition of so many Republicans who were afraid it would hurt the party, has surprised many, and shows that the heart of our Chicago people is right. Hossack and Stout were sentenced to pay a fine and the costs. Their fine and costs have been paid. The law has been complied with-they are free. The Mayor said he was willing to take all the responsibility of the matter-so far as hurting the party was concerned. He did not believe that Mr. Lincoln would get one vote the less for what had been done-nor one vote the more for the cause of Republican doughfaces. He believed Mr. Lincoln would be elected-and that he would be indebted to the anti slavery element entirely for his success. He thought that the timidity, servility and doughfacism of certain professed Republican leaders, unless rebuked, would in the end defeat the mission of the Republican party.

EDWARD EVERETT ON THE AFRICAN RACE.
At the anniversary of the American Colonization Society at Washington, in 1853, Hon. Edward Everett delivered an eloquent address, in the course of which he said:-
'Man alone in this unhappy continent, [Africa,] has dropped so far into arrears in the great march of humanity, behind the other portions of the human family, that the question has at length been started whether he does not labor under some incurable, natural inferiority. In this, for myself, I have me belief whatever.
I do not deny that, among the numerous races in the African continent, as among the numerous races in all the other continents, there are great diversities, from the politic and warlike tribes upon the central plateau, to the broken-down hordes on the slave coast, and on the banks of the Congo, and the squalid, half-human Hottentot. Bat do you think the difference is any greater between them than it is between the Laplander, the Gipsy, the Calmuc, and the proudest and brightest specimens of humanity in Europe or America? 1 think not.'
Again, in regard to the colored population of this country and the West Indies, he says:-
'I think, upon the whole, all things considered, that they have done quite as well as could be exacted; that they have done as well as persons of European or Anglo-American origin would have done after three centuries of similar depression and hardship.' And then, after remarking that it was but a very few years, if the time had then ceased, when we Anglo-Americans were spoken of by our brethren beyond the water as a poor, degenerate, almost semi-barbarous race,' he emphatically adds:
'It seems to me, in view of facts like this, we ought to be a little cautious how we leap to the conclusion that the free colored African race is necessarily in a condition of hopeless inferiority.'
Then, in reference to the alleged unimprovability of the African, Mr. Everett institutes a comparison between the Europeans and the Africans, in which he declares the conclusion to be, that this supposed. Inbred essential superiority of the European races does not really exist.' He adds:-
'It is said that the Africans have persisted in their barbarism for four or five thousand years. Europe persisted in her barbarism for three or four thousand years, and in the great chronology of Divine Providence, we are taught that a thousand years are but as one day. Sir, it is only tea centuries since the Anglo-Saxons, to whose race we are so fond of claiming kindred, were as barbarous and uncivilized as many of the African tribes. They were a savage, ferocious, warlike people; pirates at
<c06>
sea, bandits on shore, slaves of the most detestable superstitions; worshipping idols as cruel and ferocious as themselves. And, as to the foreign slave trade, it is but eight centuries, and perhaps less, since there was as much slave trade in proportion, upon the coast of Great Britain as in the Bight of Benin at the present day. The natives of England, eight centuries ago, were bought and sent to the slave marts in the south and west of Europe. At length the light of Christianity shone in; refinement, civilization, letters, arts, and by degrees all the delights, all the improvements of life followed in their train, and now we talk with the utmost self-complacency of the essential superiority of the Anglo-Saxon race, and look down with disdain upon these portions of the human family who have lagged a little behind us in the march of civilization.'
He also reminds the President that, 'twenty-one years ago, you and I saw, in one of the committee rooms of yonder Capitol, a native African, who had been forty years a field slave in the West Indies and in this country, and wrote, at the age of seventy, the Arabic characters with the fluency and the elegance of a scribe.'
The following passage, however, is a clincher:-
'But the question seems to me to be put at rest, by what we all must have witnessed of what has been achieved by the colored race in this country and on the coast of Africa. Unfavorable as their position has been for any intellectual progress, we still all of us know that they are competent to the common arts and business of life, to the ingenious and mechanical arts, to keeping accounts, to the common branches of academical and professional culture. Paul Cuffee's name is familiar to everybody in my part of the country, and I am sure you have heard of him. He was a man of uncommon energy and force of character. He navigated to Liverpool his own vessel, manned by a colored crew. His father was a native African slave; his mother was a member of one of the broken-down Indian tribes, some fragments of which still linger in the corners of Massachusetts. I have already alluded to the extraordinary attainments of that native African Prince, Abdul Rahhaman. If there was ever a native-born gentleman on earth, he was one. He had the port and the air of a prince, and the literary culture of a scholar. The learned Blacksmith of Alabama, now in Liberia, has attained a celebrity scarcely inferior to his white brother, who is known by the same designation. When I lived in Cambridge a few years ago, I used to attend, as one of the Board of Visitors, the examinations of a classical school, in which was a colored boy, the son of a slave in Mississippi, I think. He appeared to me to be of pure African blood. There were, at the same time, two youths from Georgia and one of my own sons attending the same school. I most say that this poor negro boy, Beverly Williams, was one of the best scholars at the school, and in the Latin language he was the best scholar in his class. These are instances that have fallen under my own observation. There are others, I am told, which show still more conclusively the aptitude of the colored race for every kind of intellectual culture.'

THE CAPACITY OF THE NEGRO.
The annexed extracts from the editorial columns of the Anglo-African, edited and published by Thomas Hamilton, Esq., a colored man, in New York, shows that our buck brother of the quill is quite as sharp and as competent to think as any of his white competitors. The first selection is from a leader, pleading for equal and universal suffrage for the black man, which is to be tested by the ballot-box at the coming New York election:-
'If the question were to” rest" to-day, and judgment be demanded as to what form of government affords the largest measures of freedom and happiness to mankind, comparing the foremost nations of Christendom, Britain and the United States -comparing wholes with-wholes-that judgment would have to be given in favor of constitutional monarchy. And why? Certainly not from the inherent superiority of the latter, but because in these United States the experiment has not been fairly made; the constitutions, free in sentiment, are not carried out in practice. Our principles are in advance of our practice: British practices are in advance of their principles. And every step by which our practices advance up to oar principles is a gain to human liberty throughout the world. Would Garibaldi to-day be hampered with a crowned puppet-would Italian liberty be in peril-would Hungarian emancipation be in the womb of time-if the” American example" had been perfect? Did not king-graft in Europe receive a release of a century by the rope which strangled John Brown?
The real question at issue is to try whether Universal suffrage, based on manhood, is good or not, possible or not, and whether a great State like New York cannot better advance under a constitution consistent with its principles, and carrying out these principles to the very letter in practice, by making, in a word, the government grow out of and dependent upon the whole of the people governed.'
Adam Smith never discussed a correct principle in better language than the above.-Norristown Republican,

'DOWN WITH THE DARKY.'
At a Democratic meeting in Shookan last Tuesday night, the Hon. Mr. Westbrook, of Kingston, made the following remarks: 'The only argument advanced by the Republicans is” Freedom, Freedom, Freedom-Darky, darky, darky." Indeed, they have a darky for breakfast, darky for dinner, darky for supper, and darky for bed-fellows.' At a late hour in the evening, this gentleman called for a vote on the' nigger question,' with the following flourish of rhetoric: I say, down with the darky. All who are in favor of putting down the darky, manifest it by saying Aye.' So the crowd of three or four hundred persons shouted Aye, to the great gratification of the Hon. Ex-Congressman, who called for the vote. The next morning, the wife of the Democratic landlord at whose house the meeting was held, advised the hostler, who is an honest and intelligent colored man, not to harness Mr. Westbrook's horse. If,' said this humane and spirited lady,' Mr. W. wants to put down a race that is down so low now that it is trodden in the dust, let him wait upon himself.' The speeches of Mr. Westbrook will undoubtedly increase the Republican vote in Ulster County, but no thanks to him. He seeks to elevate himself upon the prostrate negro. He would climb into notice on the shoulders of the slave He would air his humanity upon the human auction -block. 'Down with the darky.' Why put him down? Because he is black? Did not God create him so? Is color a crime? Must he be put down because be is inferior to Mr. Westbrook? Could Mr. Westbrook put Fred Douglass or Samuel Wart down in any sense of that term? Must he be put down because be is already prostrated? Is it fair to strike a man when he is down? Is there a bully in the prize-ring who would do such a deed?' Down with the darky!' Keep him outside the school-house; fence him up in a Negro pew in the
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking pan in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
church; kick him out of the omnibus; drive him away from the polls-because he is black, and homely, and ignorant. Hit him hard, because he cannot strike back again; pat him down, because he cannot get up again without help. If Mr. W. is not careful in his efforts to put down the negro, he may fall himself, and not be able to rise again. I wonder how much such a sentiment will aid Mr. Steele, the present candidate of the Democratic party in Greene and Ulster. If he endorses the doctrine of his co-laborer in the Democratic ranks, next November will surely find him 'elected by the people to stay at home.' The humane, enlightened, and Christian voters of that Congressional District believe in the Scripture sentiment, found in the following words: 'Do justice to the afflicted and needy;' 'He that oppressed the poor reproacheth his Maker;' 'Do good to all men, as ye hare opportunity;' 'Whose stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry, but shall not be heard.'-New York Tribune. 
'NEGRO EQUALITY.'
The strongest argument used by Democrats against the Republicans is, that they are in favor of 'negro equality.' Let us look at the matter, and see who are in favor of this doctrine, and who are its practical devotees. In New York, the negroes vote under a Democratic provision. In Maine, they vote under a constitution passed by Democrats. In Ohio it is the same. Why don't the Democrats tell the people of these facts when they talk of 'negro equality'? Again, we have a high Democratic precedent for carrying out the doctrine. Richard M. Johnson, once a Democratic Vice President of the United States, had a negro woman with whom he lived and acted the part of the husband, and he brought up their offspring as fathers usually do their children. In the South, there are several hundred thousand mulattoes. It is a noted fact that, down there, 'Black Republicans' are very scarce, and Democrats are very numerous. A little mathematical calculation will solve this problem. Why don't Democrats allude to these facts when they talk of 'nigger equality'? 
But, laying aside this, what great damage results to the people of the States where the negroes are allowed to vote? The government goes on just the same as it does in States where they do not vote. The fact of their being allowed to vote does not go to show that the white man makes them his equal. It does not follow that the most degraded white man who is allowed to vote, becomes your equal by so doing. Equality in society rests upon another and very different basis-that of moral and intellectual attainments. The man of high morals and great intellect cannot be made equal to an ignorant white man, or negro either, and the converse of this proposition is equally true. It is not the dignity with which you clothe a man that elevates him. A slave, though kept in pomp, though clad in gold, though surfeited with honors, would be still a slave. But with this matter we have nothing to do. The question of negro suffrage is not before the American people. The Democracy wish to urge this question upon us for the purpose of diverting the public mind from the true issues. The question for the American people to decide, is not whether a white man is superior to a negro, or whether a negro is inferior to a white man: but, whether the blasting institution of slavery shall be extended by the arm of the Federal Constitution into all the States and Territories. With the question of negro suffrage, the American people have nothing to do. That subject belongs to the States, and they alone must regulate it.-Muncie Courant. 

NEGRO EQUALITY. 
Lovejoy, in his speech at Chicago, on the 15th ult. commented upon the Declaration of Independence as follows:-
'All men equal! How? What is the use of this magpie chattering about negro equality? How are men equal? Are they equal in avoirdupois weight? By that test, I would have at least forty pounds more of rights than Judge Douglas. (Great laughter.) Equal in muscular activity-nervous power? No; not equal there, for I could wrestle the Judge down. (Renewed laughter.) Equal in intellect? No. Equal in moral and emotional susceptibility? No. Equal in symmetry of form? No. Equal in beauty of complexion and fair proportions? No. How are they equal? All men are equally entitled to life, to liberty, and to the fruit of their own honest toil. That is what it means. (Much enthusiasm.) And these Democrats, in appealing to men's prejudice against the colored man, which is universal, are attempting to unloose this Government from its old granite moorings, and set us adrift to be guided by the miserable dwarfed idea that all British subjects born on this side of the water are equal to all British subjects born on the other side of the water. (Laughter.) I deny it, I repudiate it, I trample it beneath my feet, even as they do the holy Declaration of Independence. I go back to the bottom of it. That is what they call my radicalism, because I go back to the root of the thing. They call me very hard names. They say I have horns. Perhaps it is because I gore them so. (Laughter.)
I know very well that the African race, as a race, is not equal to ours. I know very well, as a matter of fact, that, in regard to the great overwhelming majority, the Government may be considered, in a certain sense, a Government for white men; but I say that the theory of our Government, contrary to the old theory of despotism,-that kings rule by right divine,-is that all men are equally entitled to those natural rights which the common God and Father gave them by an inalienable title. And when Democrats come chattering their miserable nonsense about negro equality, I am not going to be driven from this everlasting foundation of human freedom. I will not give up the glorious Declaration of Independence, which comes to us baptized in the blood of the purest patriots that ever lived, because there is a miserable prejudice against the colored man. I will not do it. I call up here the shades of the mighty dead-Jefferson, Washington, Franklin and Jay. I array them against the modern Democrats. I hold the doctrines they held-I defend the principles they advocated and struggled for, not with the ballot alone, but in a fiercer strife, with bayonet and bullet, fighting, bleeding and dying in the sacred cause of universal liberty and the equality of man. (Applause.)
AN AMUSING CORRESPONDENCE. 
AUBURN, Oct. 15, 1860. 
Mr. F. DOUGLASS:-Dear Sir-I take the opportunity to address you a few lines as follows. I have been informed that you had an onely daughter and that you desire her to marry a whight man; where-upon you giv $15,000 or $20,000 dollars to any respectable whight man that would marry her and cherish her through life. If there is any truth in this report, P. S. let me know and I will marry your daughter on these conditions, and will endeavor to make myself agreeable. 
Yours respectfully,
To F. DOUGLASS. CHARLES HAPP. 
Direct to CHARLES HAPP, Auburn, N. Y. 
CHAS. HAPP, ESQ.-Dear Sir,-You are an entire stranger to me, and direct me to no one from whom I can learn your real character and responsibility. This, if no other difficulty existed, would seriously embarrass me in making a favorable answer to your proposition. You should have at least given me one respectable reference. The fact that you have not done so, with other circumstances connected with your letter, makes it doubtful whether I could honorably accede to your proposition. You date from Auburn, and tell me to direct to you at Auburn, but do not name the street. Pardon me for regarding this as a suspicious circumstance. You may be an inmate of the State Prison, or on you way there-a fact which you see would interfere with the fulfillment of your part of the proposed bargain, even if I could fulfill the part you assign to me. You want $15,000 or $20,000. This is a common want, and you are not to blame for using all honorable means to obtain it. But candor requires me to state, that if you were in every respect a suitable person to be bought, for the purpose you name, I have not the amount to buy you. I have no objection to your complexion; but there are certain little faults of grammar and spelling, as well as other little points in your letter, which compel me to regard you as a person, by education, manners, and morals, wholly unfit to associate with my daughter in any capacity whatever. You evidently think your white skin of great value. I don't dispute it; it is probably the best thing about you. Yet not even that valuable quality can commend you sufficiently to innuce even so black a negro as myself to accept you as his son-in-law. Respectfully,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS. 
<c02>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 9, 1860. 
PRESIDENTIAL AND STATE ELECTIONS. 
REPUBLICANISM TRIUMPHANT.
On Tuesday last, the Presidential struggle, which has been carried on with so much zeal and heat in all parts of the country, terminated in the triumph of the Republican party by the election of ABRAHAM LINCOLN, of Illinois, to the Presidency, by the following decisive vote:-
For Lincoln and Hamlin. 
Maine 8 Pennsylvania 27 
New Hampshire 6 Ohio 23 
Vermont 5 Michigan 6
Massachusetts 13 Indiara 13 
Rhode Island 4 Illinois 11 
Connecticut 6 Iowa 4 
New York 35 Wisconsin 5
New Jersey 7 Minnesota 4
176
Necessary for a choice, 152 
[California and Oregon yet to be heard from.] 
For Bell and Everett.
Maryland 8 Tennessee 12 
Virginia 15 Kentucky 12 
Louisiana 6 
53
For Breckinridge and Lane. 
Delaware 3 Florida 3 
North Carolina 10 Mississippi 7
South Carolina 8 Texas 4
Georgia 10 Arkansas 4 
Alabama 9 Missouri 9 
67 
For Douglas and Johnson. 
000!!!-000!!!
In this State, the vote for President stood as follows:-
Lincoln, 104,467; Bell, 22,017; Douglas, 34,007; Breckinridge, 6,072. Lincoln's majority over all, 42,301. For Governor, the vote is, Andrew, 101,802; Lawrence, 23,079; Beach, 34,094; Butler, 5,791. Andrew's majority over all, 38,838. The Republicans have elected their entire State ticket, and, every candidate for Congress save Anson Burlingame, in the Fifth District, who is defeated by William Appleton, the Fusion candidate. It is alleged, and doubtless with truth, that the defeat of Mr. Burlingame was effected by fraudulent votes in Ward 1, Boston, and it may turn out that this, the only fly in the Republican's pot of ointment, is an interloper, and their victory be yet made complete. 

PENNSYLVANIA A. S. SOCIETY. 
The twenty-fourth annual meeting of this Society was held in the Town Hall, Kennett Square, Chester County, commencing on Thursday, Oct. 25th, at 11 o'clock, A. M. -James Mott, President of the Society, in the chair. After some encouraging preliminary remarks by Lucretia Mott and J. Miller McKim, the following committees were appointed:-
Business Committee-May Grew, Mahlon B. Linton, Simon Barnard, Robert Purvis, Oliver Johnson, H. P. Grozier, Lucretia Mott, Thomas Whitson, and Sarah Pugh. 
Finance Committee-Chandler Darlington, Alice Jackson, E. M. Davis, Samuel Pennock, Joseph A. Dugdale, Isaac Mendenhall, and Abby Kimber. 
Nominating Committee-John Cox, George Atkinson, 
Sarah Barnard, Edwin H. Coates, Jolly Long-shore, 
Stephen Smith and Rebecca Plumly. 
The following resolutions were offered, and, after a discussion extending through five sessions, adopted: 
1. Resolved, That we regard with great satisfaction the agitation that is now rocking the country to its centre on the question of slavery, confident that its effect will be such an enlightenment of the public mind and change of the public heart on that momentous issue, as must eventuate in the overthrow of the system. 
2. Resolved, That in the action of the various ecclesiastical bodies of the North, we see indubitable evidence of the power with which the anti-slavery sentiment of the country presses upon them, sometimes extorting from them faint and unwilling testimonies against slavery, and sometimes eliciting hearty denunciation thereof; and that, in the course of such clergymen as Dr. Cheever, we see indications of a regenerated and purified Church, against which Anti-Slavery Societies can have no controversy. 
3. Resolved, That as long as the fugitive bondman may be recaptured and re-enslaved on Pennsylvania soil, Pennsylvania cannot be called a free State; and that, for the honor of our Commonwealth, for the sake of justice to the slave, for the love of the absolute Right, we will earnestly strive to obtain from our Legislature the enactment of a law which shall protect the personal liberty of every human being on its soil, when that liberty has not been forfeited by crime. 
4. Resolved, That one of the most important signs of the times which the last year has developed, is the sympathy with John Brown, which has extensively pervaded the North, and found expression in the pulpit, on the platform, and through the press; indicating that, whatever theories men may hold respecting State rights and constitutional obligations, there lives and burns in the Northern heart a genuine admiration of heroism, and a genuine sympathy with the victims of oppression. 
5. Resolved, That while we hail, as a token of greatly improved public sentiment, the existence of the Republican party of the United States, and while we rejoice to see men coming up into it from the other political parties, we protest against the inconsistency of Abolitionists giving it their support; first, because such support involves a pledge to return the fugitive slave, and, second, because the Presidential candidate of its party is heartily opposed to the political enfranchisement of colored men, is in favor of a fugitive slave statute, and though he has ï¿½very distinctly made up' his mind 'that Congress possesses the constitutional power to abolish' slavery in the District of Columbia, yet is not in favor of such abolition, excepting with the consent of a large number of the slaveholders of the District. 
6. Resolved, That the experience of a quarter of a century of anti-slavery labor has confirmed our faith in the principles on which our enterprise is founded, in the wisdom of the measures by which we have sought its accomplishment, and in the certainty of its final triumph; and that, thus confirmed and strengthened, we commence the labors of another year in abounding hope that, at its close, we shall rejoice in its success, as we rejoice to-day over the results of the past. 
7. Resolved, That in the death of Theodore Parker, the American slaves have lost a faithful friend, and the Abolitionists a valuable coadjutor, whose great intellect, and large heart, and tireless energies, were devoted to the cause of philanthropy, and were ever most promptly given in the service of those who, by reason of their suffering or their wrongs, most needed sympathy, protection, or championship.
Those who participated in the discussion were Lucretia Mott, J. M. McKim, H. P. Crozier, Mary Grew, Oliver Johnson, Chandler Darlington, Edward M. Davis, Mahlon B. Linton, Thomas Garrett, Anna E. Dickinson, Robert Purvis, Edwin H. Coates, Eusebius Barnard, William Thorne, Caleb Jackson, and Dr. Stebbins. Some of the speakers professed to regard the U. S. Constitution as an anti-slavery instrument,-[what an absurdity in view of its history, and of its concurrent construction and administration by the nation ever since its formation!] and so objected to the fifth resolution. Dr. Stebbins was voluble in his denunciation of the Anti-Slavery movement, and laudation of the Republican party. [For a full re-
<c03>
port of the proceedings, occupying eleven columns, see the last week's Anti-Slavery Standard.]
The Annual Report of the Executive Committee was read by Mr. McKim. It was largely occupied with a just, forcible and discriminating review of the Harper's Ferry affair, and the noble character and deserts of Capt. John Brown. We make the following extract from it, relative to political action:-
'The position of this Committee on the question of supporting candidates for office is not a doubtful one. Their views of the Constitution and its requirements have often been expressed, and have undergone no change. Regarding that instrument as a league with oppression, iniquitous in its nature, and in its results disastrous, they cannot by word or act become parties to its obligations. Intending, as often as occasion may require, to aid the fugitive in his escape from slavery, they cannot, expressly or by implication agree to send him back to his master. Sympathizing with all men everywhere who spurn the yoke, and rise for the recovery of their liberty, they cannot stand pledged, in the intent and meaning of the phrase, to 'suppress domestic insurrection.' Objecting to all unequal distribution of political rights, they cannot be understood as agreeing to an arrangement by which, in the most important features of the government, one class of citizens have ' three-fifths' more of privilege than any other; especially when that class are the owners of slaves who use their extra power for the perpetuation of their system. As a matter of conscience, therefore, of personal honor, and of self-respect, the members of this Committee, and those whom they represent, cannot, by overt act or implied admission, come under obligation of support to the Constitution. Neither can they take any active part in the politics of the day, or be numbered among the recognized supporters of Abraham Lincoln for the Presidency. Holding, as they do, that the Federal compact is an infamous bargain, binding the free States to the support of slavery, the only duty they recognize in regard to it is that of laboring for its annulment. They cannot vote or take an active part in politics until that compact is either dissolved, or so construed, by authority recognized to be competent, as will give their suffrage, in the eyes of the world, the unambiguous meaning of a vote against slavery. 
But, these considerations apart, there are other arguments of great weight against supporting for President the Republican candidate in the pending crisis. His past course in the matter of a Fugitive Slave Law; his present readiness to return the escaping bondman; his avowed willingness to discriminate against the black man in the award of political rights; and his declared hostility, except in a contingency not probable, to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia-are facts, which, in the estimation of discriminating minds, disqualify him for the votes of uncompromising Abolitionists. 
But, having said this, it is due to truth and candor to admit that, as between him and his opponents, and on the issues involved in the present contest, the election of Abraham Lincoln will be a great and encouraging triumph. It will mark a hopeful epoch in the progress of our cause. It will show, that amid all the corruption and demoralization that have prevailed, the nation is not totally depraved; that the predominating feeling in the country is in favor of liberty, assuring us, at the same time, that this feeling will in due season ripen into a conviction that will brook no further compromises with slavery. Regarding the matter in this light, we shall hail the election, should it take place, of Abraham Lincoln, as a most gratifying occurrence. 
From the administration of Mr. Lincoln, as distinguished from his election, we are warranted in entertaining no confident hopes. His election, as the act of the people, so intended, will be a demonstration in favor of liberty; his administration, as the action of an individual, so constrained by the oath of office and surrounding circumstances, must be a continual support of slavery. Let not, therefore, any satisfaction here expressed be understood as based on expectations of what will be done by the incoming national administration.'
LETTER FROM WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 
The following letter was read to the meeting by Mr. McKim:-
BOSTON, October 11, 1860. 
MY DEAR FRIEND: Since I promised to attend the anniversary of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society at Kennett, I have been suffering from a severe attack of bronchitis; and though at the present time it is considerably mitigated, I am under positive medical prohibition, in reference to public speaking, for some time to come; hence I must again disappoint my Pennsylvania friends-most deeply to my own regret and loss, for their magnetic presence is ever most delightful and strengthening to my spirit. I can only beg to be affectionately remembered to them all, and invoke upon their deliberations the blessing of the Infinite Father. 
Twenty-five years ago this evening, I was in a cell in the Leverett street jail in this city-a device of the city authorities to save my life against the murderous designs of an infuriated mob of (so called) 'gentlemen of property and standing,' on account of my anti-slavery principles. Previous to my imprisonment, I was in the hands of the rioters for a time, who tore the clothes from my body as they dragged me through the streets, and who made the most desperate efforts to take me where they could apply a coat of tar and feathers, and commit such other outrages as their ungovernable malignity might suggest. Rescued at last, by the Mayor and his posse, it was deemed indispensable to my personal safety to commit me to prison! This was the only governmental protection that was vouchsafed to me. You remember all the circumstances of that memorable event, and I need not repeat them. Nearly all the prominent actors therein have been called to their final account, but the sacred and glorious cause which they madly attempted to overthrow is now shaping the destiny of the nation. 
So far as the North is concerned, a marvellous change for the better has taken place in public sentiment in relation to the anti-slavery movement. The struggle for freedom of speech and of the press has every where been fought, and the victory won. A general enlightenment has taken place upon the subject of slavery. The opinions of a vast multitude have been essentially changed, and secured to the side of freedom. The conflict between free institutions and slave institutions is seen and acknowledged to be irrepressible-not of man's devising, but of God's ordering-and it is deepening in intensity daily, in spite of every effort of political cunning and religious sorcery to effect a reconciliation. The pending Presidential election witnesses a marked division between the political forces of the North and of the South; and though it relates, ostensibly, solely to the question of the further extension of slavery, it really signifies a much deeper sentiment in the breasts of the people of the North, which, in process of time, must ripen into more decisive action. 
So far as the South is concerned, she has apparently waxed worse and worse-grown more and more desperate-revealed more and more of savage brutality and fiendish malignity, until her crimes and atrocities, not only as perpetrated upon her dehumanized slaves, but as inflicted upon Northern citizens and strangers within her limits, have become too numerous for record, and almost too horrible for belief. 
But all this is the sign that the end is rapidly approaching. Peaceably, or by a bloody process, the oppressed will eventually obtain their freedom, and nothing can prevent it. Trusting that it may be achieved without the shedding of blood, I remain, 
Yours, for liberty and equality for all mankind.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
J. MILLER MCKIM. 
<c04>
DR. BACON'S DEFENCE. 
Rev. Dr. Leonard Bacon, senior editor of the Independent, has written a letter to himself in that paper, trying to throw off the imputation of dishonest dealing in regard to slavery, which his position in the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, contrasted with his position elsewhere, has brought upon him. 
This elaborate letter, of more than two columns, is particularly directed at a statement made in the Christian Intelligencer, of New York city; and Dr. Bacon's sneer at the 'Reformed Dutchmanship' of his clerical brother, who edits that paper, is natural enough, since the stupidity of the latter, on this occasion, has equalled his malignity, which is saying a great deal. In short, Dr. Bacon has seized this (among many) occasions for replying to the charge of dishonest dealing in regard to slavery, because, among the accusatory expressions of the particular article in question, there was one so carelessly and inaccurately worded that he was able to confute it without telling a direct falsehood. So, with characteristic craft, he proceeds to use the verbal vantage-ground thus gained to make the impression that the substance and meaning of the article in question were unsound. 
I propose to show, by an examination of Dr. Bacon's defence, that it avails merely against the form of the careless and equivocal expression to which it replies, and that Dr. Bacon's action in 'The American Board' has always been a maintenance of the complicity of that body with slavery, and a series of dishonest attempts to evade or discredit the charge of such complicity. 
The Reformed Dutchman's article, headed 'More Consistency'-while it shows very justly that Dr. Bacon and others have countenanced and aided complicity with slavery in the American Board while they discountenanced and opposed such complicity in the American Tract Society-uses the incautious expression that these same persons are opposed to resolutions about slavery' in the Board, and in their own church bodies. I have designated by italics the word which fitted this expression to be triumphantly pounced upon by Dr. Bacon. He proceeds to say:- 
'For myself, the affirmation that I am opposed to resolutions about slavery in the Board is ludicrously false. Was I opposed to resolutions about slavery in the meeting of the Board at Brooklyn fifteen years ago?-or in the meeting at Hartford six years ago?- or in the meeting at Utica five years ago?-or in the meeting at Detroit two years ago?-or in the meeting at Philadelphia one year ago?-or in any other meeting of the Board since I became a member of it?' 
Let us see what account the Annual Reports of the Board give of Dr. Bacon's action at the five meetings which he thus triumphantly specifies. 
1. 'The meeting of the Board at Brooklyn fifteen years ago'-namely, in 1845. 
At this meeting, a report, covering eight closely printed octavo pages, was made by Dr. Woods, of Andover, and eight others, to whom, the year before, had been given the consideration of sundry memorials on 'the existence of slavery among some of our missionary churches.' 
This report admitted (p. 58) that slavery was existing in the Cherokee and Choctaw tribes when the missionaries entered on their labors there; that, (notwithstanding the opportunity thus given of preaching against slaveholding, from the beginning of their labors, as a sin against God and man,) they had received slaveholders into their churches, as Christians, indiscriminately with others; that, at the time of this report, fifteen slaveholders were connected with the Cherokee, and twenty with the Choctaw mission-churches; and that, ï¿½in regard to the kind and amount of [public] instruction given by the missionaries in relation to slavery,' there is a substantial agreement among all the missionaries in the following testimony given by Rev. Mr. Byington (p. 59): 'We give such instructions to masters and servants as are contained in the epistles, and yet not in a way to give the subject a peculiar prominence. For then it would seem to be personal, as there are usually but one or two slaveholders at our meetings.' 
In spite of the avowal of these disgraceful facts in: regard to the missionaries, and their action, Dr. Woods and his Committee proceed to declare (p. 61) that these missionaries ï¿½have been faithful in their work'; and they close their report without recommending the slightest change, either in the course of the missionaries, or in the course of the Board with regard to them; a report which was, in effect, giving the memorialists against slavery 'leave to withdraw,' without even the courtesy of a direct answer. 
This report, with a motion for its adoption, and several motions for its amendment, were referred to a Committee of six, of whom Chief Justice Williams, of Hartford, (afterwards the zealous defender of slavery in the American Tract Society) and Dr. Bacon, of New Haven, were the first named members. 
This Committee recommended 'the adoption of the report without amendment'; (p. 62.)
The question was taken by yeas and nays. The affirmative vote of LEONARD BACON is recorded with that of Nehemiah Adams and others, and the record concludes (p. 63) with this statement:-
'As no person voted in the negative, the report was unanimously adopted.'
So much for Dr. Bacon's action at Brooklyn 'about slavery.' 
2. 'The meeting at Hartford six years ago'-namely, in 1854. 
At this meeting, the portion of the Prudential Committee's Annual Report relating to the missions to the Choctaws, Cherokees and Dakotas was referred to a Committee of seven, the first two being Dr. William T. Dwight and Dr. Bacon. Their report praised 'the faithful labors of the missionaries,' (p. 23) and recommended the passage of the following resolution, (p. 24) which was discussed, and finally adopted, by the Board:-
'Resolved, That the Board acknowledge, with gratitude to God, the wisdom and fidelity with which, so far as appears from the documents submitted to them, the Prudential Committee are advising and directing the missionaries among the Choctaws, in conformity with the principles asserted by them in their correspondence with those missions, reported to the Board in 1848.'
While the resolution thus proposed by Dr. Bacon, and adopted by the Board in 1854, plainly approves 'the wisdom and fidelity' manifested in a certain correspondence between the Prudential Committee and their missionaries in 1848, it leaves entirely in the dark (as it was designed to do) what the purport, and the result, of that correspondence were. 
On turning to the Annual Report for 1848, presented at a meeting held in Boston, we find that the documents referred to are the famous correspondence between Rev. Dr. Treat (one of the Secretaries of the Board) and the Choctaw and Cherokee missionaries, in which the latter thus candidly describe their proslavery position. 
Extracts from the letter of the Cherokee missionaries on slavery, signed by Elizur Butler, Moderator, and S. A. Worcester, Clerk:-
'In regard to the question of rejecting any person from the church simply because he is a slaveholder, we cannot for a moment hesitate. For (1) we regard it as certain that the Apostles, who are our patterns, did receive slaveholders to the communion of the Church; and we have not yet been able to perceive any such difference between their circumstances and ours as to justify us in departing from their practice in this respect. And (2) our general rule is to receive all to our communion who give evidence that they love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity; and we cannot doubt that many slaveholders do give such evidence. 
'Nor can we even make it a test of piety, or a condition of admission to the privileges of the Church, that a candidate should express a determination not to live and die a slaveholder.'-39th Annual Report, 1848. p. 93. 
'Occasional exchanges of masters are so inseparable from the existence of slavery, that the churches could not consistently receive slaveholders to their communion at all, and at the same time forbid all such exchanges. We regard it, therefore, as IMPOSSIBLE TO
<c05>
EXERCISE DISCIPLINE FOR THE SELLING OR BUYING OF 
SLAVES, except in flagrant cases of manifest disregard to the welfare of the slave.'-p. 94.
'In regard to the separation of parents and children, we must first remark, that it is one of those things which are not forbidden by any express INJUNCTION OF SCRIPTURE.' 'It is impossible, in our circumstances, to make it a general rule that the separation of parents and children, by sale or purchase, shall be regarded as a disciplinable offence.'-pp. 94, 95. 
Extracts fom the letter of the Choctaw missionaries on slavery, signed by C. KINGSBURY, ALFRED WRIGHT, CYRUS BYINGTON, E.HOTCHKIN, C. C. COPELAND, DAVID BREED, Jr., H. K. COPELAND, and D. H. WINSHIP, with a signature of dissent from J. C. STRONG:-
'We have endeavored as a mission to keep aloof from the abolition movement.'-p. 98. 
'We feel that the Bible contains all that we have need to know or teach. And we prefer TO USE THE PLAIN LANGUAGE OF THE BIBLE, just as it is, UPON THE SUBJECT OF SLAVERY.'-p. 98.
'We wish to touch briefly on the history of our connection with slavery. We have been and are connected with it in two ways; by employing slaves as laborers, and by admitting them and their masters to the Church.ï¿½p. 98. 
'Several masters have given evidence of piety, and were received into the Church, BECAUSE THE APOSTLES HAVE SET US PLAIN EXAMPLES.'-p. 100. 
'As a civil relation, it [slavery] exists by virtue of the Constitution and laws of the land. We are taught in the Bible our duties as citizens. It may be deemed our duly by some to adopt a train of measures which shall aim in their object directly to countervail the whole system, and in the end undermine the entire fabric which human legislation has framed in regard to slavery. We do not feel that we are required to adopt such a course. Nor do we regard this as our work.'-Ib. 
'As slavery, with various modifications, has for a long time had an existence in the Church of God, it is proper for us TO INQUIRE HOW THE SERVANTS OF THE LORD IN OLD TIME WERE TAUGHT BY HIM, AS WELL AS HOW THEY CONDUCTED IN REGARD TO IT.'-p. 101. 
The committee (to whom was referred the correspondence containing the letters from which the above extracts were taken) declared that these letters breathe an excellent Christian spirit'; and at their recommendation, the Board left the whole matter in the hands of the Prudential Committee, under whom these missionaries continued to pursue precisely the same course, without reproof for the past or new instructions for the future. 
Such was the action of 1848, to which Dr. Bacon's report in 1854 refers with strong approval. 
3. 'The meeting at Utica, five years ago'-namely, in 1855. 
At this meeting, the shameful document called 'the Goodwater statement'-a series of articles by which the Prudential Committee united with the Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries in an agreement that slaveholders might still be admitted to the mission churches-was approved by a special committee and adopted by the Board. But the Report does not show any particular action of Dr. Bacon at this meeting, either for or against slavery. 
4. 'The meeting at Detroit, two years ago'-namely, in 1858. 
Dr. Bacon was chairman of the Committee on the Choctaw and Cherokee missions. In his report, he refers to the proceedings of the Board at Hartford, in 1854, [above described,] as perfectly satisfactory; refers to the remonstrances which members of the Board have offered from year to year against slavery as 'the unceasing embarrassments and perplexities connected with the missions in the Indian territory;' and ends by craftily suggesting, as an ultimate remedy for these embarrassments and perplexities, that perhaps these slaveholding churches may, in future years, be found to fall more appropriately under the Home Missionary than the Foreign Missionary department. This report was accepted, and the subject of slavery was accordingly hushed up for another year. 
5. 'The meeting at Philadelphia, one year ago'-namely, in 1859. 
In the course of the year preceding this meeting, the Prudential Committee had taken Dr. Bacon's hint about 'the unceasing embarrassments and perplexities connected with the missions in the Indian territory,' and had decided to discontinue the Choctaw Mission. This decision they communicated to the missionaries, quoting Dr. Bacon's sentence above-mentioned as a foreshadowing of their intention, and speaking of the ï¿½embarrassments and perplexities' as the principal reason for this summary action. 
In closing their report upon the Choctaw Mission, after announcing its discontinuance, the Prudential Committee say- ï¿½Whatever may be said of Indian missions, in the general, this is no failure'; thus implying that they consider this slaveholding nation as a Christian people, and their churches, to which slaveholders are freely admitted, as Christian churches. 
At the Annual Meeting in 1859, the special committee to whom this portion of the Prudential Committee's Report was assigned differed in opinion respecting it, and brought in two varying recommendations, which caused a prolonged discussion. While the question on the minority resolutions was pending, Rev. Dr. Cheever proposed, as an amendment and addition to those resolutions, a clause, proposing that the holding of slaves be pronounced, in the opinion of the Board, ' an immorality, inconsistent with membership in any Christian church.' This amendment was laid on the table by unanimous vote; after which it was voted to adopt the Report of the Prudential Committee, thus approving their discountenance of the Choctaw Mission, and their assignment of 'embarrassments and perplexities' as the reason. 
I see in this Annual Report no mention of any action of Dr. Bacon in regard to slavery, except that, in a taking of yeas and nays upon some subordinate point, his name is again found voting upon the same side with Dr. South-Side Adams. 
6. Finally, in the last Annual Meeting, held in this city a month ago, I find no particular action of Dr. Bacon in regard to slavery, except his threat of calling the police to expel a gentleman who took the liberty to answer the pro-slavery remarks of a member of the Board, without being himself a member. Apart from this, Dr. Bacon seems to have done nothing in this meeting in regard to slavery, except assisting, by his silent vote, in the acceptance of the Prudential Committee's Report, declaring the slave-holding Cherokee nation 'a Christian people,' dismissed from the official charge of the Board because the purpose of the Board in regard to them is already satisfactorily accomplished-and assisting also, by his silent vote, in the unanimous reelection of Dr. South-Side Adams and his pro-slavery colleagues on the Prudential Committee. 
Such is the record to which Dr. Bacon himself refers, to prove that in the 'American Board' he was not opposed to the passage of' resolutions about slavery.' The record does prove this. But it proves also, and with equal clearness, that Dr. Bacon's action, when he has acted, and his quiescence at other times, have uniformly tended to encourage and fortify the complicity of the Board with slavery; and that he has done his utmost, in all ways, to avert and to nullify those 'embarrassments and perplexities' which the Board suffered from the remonstrances of Dr. Cheever and a few others of its members, against its pro-slavery position-C. K. W.
STATE ELECTION - VOTE OF BOSTON. 
Andrew. Lawrence. Beach. Butler. Total. 
Ward 1. 509 365 776 87 1837 
2. 1110 432 383 193 2118 
3. 505 198 482 185 1362 
4. 620 468 165 66 1321
5. 813 466 256 51 1598
6. 990 728 137 51 1907
7. 260 170 433 138 1001 
8. 672 378 256 39 1345
9. 680 441 203 20 1344 
10. 669 368 263 38 1338 
11. 1405 876 554 72 2912
12. 1068 493 672 44 2288
9301 5383 4590 985 20,269
There were 12 scattering votes. 
<c06>
WESTERN OPERATIONS.
SPRING DALE, CEDAR CO., IOWS,
November 2, 1860.
To the Editor:
The responsibilities of those who are laying the foundations of a new State, both personal and public, cannot be too strongly enforced or deeply felt. It now seems reasonable to suppose Iowa as destined, one day, to exert the most commanding influence of any interior State of the Union. What Virginia has been Iowa, may be. Its agricultural resources are beyond any State lying East of it. Its soil has no superior on the globe. In richness, Illinois may be its equal, but the extremes of drouth or its opposite will affect them very differently. Either extreme will affect Illinois far more than this State. Where I now am, no rain has fallen to affect the wells or springs for a whole year. And yet the crops are truly luxuriant. I saw the best of wheat sold the other day for sixty cents the bushel; and corn can be had in cargoes for fifteen cents. 
But the peculiarly hard times, during the two last years, have made havoc of many high hopes and fair prospects. The final result, however, will be good-very good. Whoever is compelled to sell eighty acres of his farm to pay for the other eighty, will doubtless be enriched by the change. Nature probably laughs at any child of hers, who expects to grow rich by buying large extents of Iowa prairie, and then mortgaging it to ensure payment. She probably never intended soil or sunshine to be held as property; and a 'coup de soleil' by too much of the latter is only a parallel to an excess of half-worked land, and mortgaged for security besides. That is a 'coup de soil,' and often proves fatal. And it is a fearful evil here, at the present time. 
The result is disastrous every way. Roads, bridges and all such improvements are hindered. Education suffers; manners, morals, all virtues, public and private, are sadly affected; and so Anti-Slavery, and other Progressive Platforms, share in the general calamity.
And yet the people are really desirous for the proclamation of the gospel of truth. I never addressed more attentive audiences than in this State. A little ï¿½border ruffianism' here, last night, is the only exception. Even Republicans, who would vote for Lincoln though a Virginia gallows impended over them, are yet regretting that my stay is so short. 
After all, it is doubtful whether, with our present field forces, we shall act wisely to attempt much on this side of the Mississippi. We may scatter our word and work too widely for the highest general good. When will the Lord of the harvest send forth laborers equal to the demand? 
Spring Dale is celebrated as the military rendezvous of the Harper's Ferry Host, and their West Point Academy during the last winter before their conquest of the 'Old Dominion.' I have just come from the house and the rooms and the parade ground where they spent the winter of 1857-8, and am now writing in the copy little home of the noble mother of the brave young Coppics-a gentle, quiet little Quaker woman as the world often sees. Barclay is at home, and suffering most severely from an old complaint-the asthma. At times, he is compelled to sit up day and night. The last night was an instance, and a severe one. 
Mrs. Coppic was a widow in Ohio, almost twenty years ago, with five small children. For several years she supported them by teaching school. When the eldest was seventeen, she removed to this then almost unknown region. But disease and death pursued her here; and when the noble Edwin suffered his martyrdom, two only remained. But the faith and fortitude of the mother still survive. May she live to see her highest hopes realized, and the death of her beloved boy gloriously avenged, in the total downfall of American Slavery! 
My labors in Iowa are necessarily limited. Iows City, Muscatine and two or three other smaller places, are all that remain to visit this year. Then the Conventions at Mendota, Illinois, and Adrian. Michigan, will close this campaign. 
PARKER PILLSBURY. 
REFUGES FROM ARKANSAS AND TEXAS.
What shall I say for the victims of oppression from Arkansas and Texas!! 
The southern counties of Kansas were poor enough, God knows, from the entire destitution of crops, this season, and could hardly sustain themselves. But now there are thrown upon them hundreds of families, white and colored, who have only recently escaped the land of blood and whips with their lives! Friends of the oppressed! what shall be done? Our people there assure me they would gladly divide their bread with them-but they have none to divide! An appeal came up to me to-day from them in the simple language- ï¿½We hear you are a friend of the oppressed. What shall we do? Go back we cannot-it's the grave-stay here, we starve. Is there any help for us? I have sent them some temporary aid; and I echo now their voice to our eastern friends-What shall they do? They are victims of oppression, no more belonging to Kansas than to Massachusetts or New York. But they are our brethren. They have, in the midst of a perverse generation, stood up for man-claimed their inalienable rights-made 'insecure' the chains of oppression! They now to-day, stand erect on free soil in God's own image! What shall they do? Their persecutors show us that they bore a faithful testimony for the right. Are not suspected of crime. Their offence is, not bowing to slavery! 
The colored portion of these refuges 'might have chosen masters, and gone into slavery.' we are told, and 'been well cared for.' But it must be borne in mind that for them to go into slavery is to go into endless servitude-for them and for their posterity; there is no end to it-no year of jubilee-no freedom when baptized and taken into the Church! O, this interminable servitude is a condition darker than death!-more damning than perdition! for death and the grave are not without their hopes. Lights from the curtain's edge of immortality are seen to to penetrate their darkness, and bid the sleeper wake, and live, and hope!-and perdition, with its unyielding grasp., has no claims upon a man's posterity. The 'child may follow the condition of its mother,' in Southern parlance, 'durante vita.' But it does not, thank God, throughout its immortality. 
I say again, what shall be done? Having come up out of great tribulation, will no hand succor them? Having planted themselves upon this soil, which we have been obliged to make free by the blood and tears of four years' struggle, must they have no nourishment in the inclemency of their first winter? The firm and stately trees for a New England village, which now stand erect, defying the winds of a hundred winters, were once slender shrubs, and tied to a dry post for support; and what shall these oppressed ones, who have toiled a life long in the sun, have to eling to, during a winter more rigorous than they ever knew? If they can now be supported, they or their children will one day rise up to bless the hand that early held them, and may become the shining monuments of a higher civilization! I herewith commend them to those who, when I say 'bread,' will not give them a 'stone,' and when I ask for 'meat,' will not give them 'a serpent.'
I have to-day sent them a few things, such as I had; but the slow ox has to tread the weary way to them, 140 miles! I encouraged them to come again in two or three weeks. Shall I have wherewith to give? Shall l00 free firesides be made cheerful this winter by the kindness of our friends? Of course, I shall wait anxiously for a response.
Yours, for all men in sorrow,
S. C. POMEROY.
Atchison, K.T., Oct. 31, 1860.
Contributions may be sent to Dr. WEBB, Emgrant Aid Office, 3 Winter Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MORE HANGING IN TEXAS -A NORTHERN MAN AND WOMAN HUNG.
The reader will remember that a few weeks since we stated, on the authority of a letter received at Fairview that Dr. Shreeves and Mr. Foster, with their families, had been warned by the ruffians who hold away in Texas to leave that State, and were making preparations to return to Illinois. On Thursday <Illegible> Mr. Wm. Bybee, a resident of Texas, well known to  many of our citizens as a dealer in cattle and horses, <Illegible> from that State, and brought to the friends of Fairview the melancholy intelligence that Dr. Shreeves and Mrs. Foster had fallen victims to the spirit of outrage which runs riot in Texas.
The two families, it seems, had complied with the <Illegible> command expelling them from their homes, and were on their way toward this State, when they were overtaken by their persecutors, and Dr. Shreeves and Mrs. Foster summarily secured and hung to a <Illegible> Mr. Foster and the remainder of the two families escaped.
We get the news from Dr. Shreeves, of Fairview, nephew of the Dr. Shreeves above referred to, and who has no doubt as to its authenticity. He says Mr. Broee was a friend and neighbor of his uncle's, and an <Illegible> of fifteen years standing.
No letters have been received from Dr. Shreeves or Mr. Foster for eight weeks, by their friends at Fairview, a circumstance of fearful portent, as heretofore they have been prompt correspondents. At no previous time have they permitted letters to them to remain so long unanswered.
In our sympathy for the afflicted friends of these <Illegible> to the cause of free labor, we have no disposition to bestow upon the authors of this enormous <Illegible> those denunciations which their guilt deserves. <Illegible> is mine,’ saith the Lord, and these ruf<Illegible> murderers cannot escape the malediction which <Illegible> Cain a wanderer and an outcast upon the earth.
We will remark, by way of explanation, that Dr. Shreeves was not only not an Abolitionist, but we are informed by his connections at Fairview, was in favor of Slavery, and was preparing to make investments in negroes. When he left this State, he was a Dougle man. The only ground for disturbing him was is being a Northern man, and coming from a section where free white labor is respected.-Canton (III.) Register, Oct. 23d.
YANCEY'S LIBERTY OF SPEECH .Hon W. L. Yancley, at Faneuil Hall, was asked if a man from the North could go South. He replied, 'Yes, if you can't go there to steal our niggers!’ During the present year, a book agent was arrested in Alabama for soliciting subscribers to Fleetwood's Life of Christ, published by a Northern publisher. After the arrest, he was placed under examination of a number of the so-called ministers of Christ, lawyers and doctors. A paper was drawn up, adopted, and published in the newspapers, setting forth the ground of their action as follows:-
We have examined this man's case. We find no evidence to convict him of tampering with slaves, but as he is from the North, and engaged in selling a book published at the North, we have a right to suspect him of being an Abolitionist, and we therefore recommend, in order to guard ourselves against possible danger, that he be immediately conducted by the MILITARY out of this county into the next adjoining.’
Will Messrs Pro-slavery Curtis, Hillard, Stevenson, and others of the Bell-Everett party, who believe in the trinity of cotton, say that they can go South, and sell the Life of Christ and the New Testament, and not be ordered out of any of the slave States under escort of the military for so doing:-Atlas.
FOUR MEN LYNCHED IN TEXAS.- In addition to the many accounts of lynchings in Texas, we have the following from the Novarro Express. No reasons are given for hanging up of four citizens of the place. The affair is mysterious. The Express says-
On Thursday morning, the 2d inst., four respectable citizens of the county, all members of our County Court were found hung in the public square of this town. Various are the conjectures as to the causes of this unfortunate affair. We presume, however, that it was owing to the fact that they were members of the County Court .In saying this, we must here enter our declaration that we know of no conduct of theirs which deserved such a severe penalty. It is thought the presence of the Chief Justice could have saved them from such a fate. As we will hereafter speak more of this matter, we withhold comment until further developments shall put us in possession of all the facts connected with this melancholy affair.’
REV.MR. BEWLEY-The Texas Christian Advocate of October 18th, published at Galveston, has a letter from H. W. South, dated Waxahaskie, Texas, October 4th, 1860, stating as follows: 'Mr. Bewley was followed to the vicinity of Springfield, Mo., taken and brought back to Fort Worth, and on the 13th of September 1860, was hung on the same limb of the same tree on which Mr. Crawford had been hung before. The letter found near Fort Worth, and published in your paper sometime ago, was certainly addressed to Rev. Mr. Bewley. It is further said here, that the son-in-law of Mr. Bewley, Rev. Mr. Willett, has been taken in Missouri, and is now on his way back to Fort Worth, where he will hang on the same limb. This piece of information is by letter from the eastward to a gentleman in Fort Worth. The information in relation to Mr. Bewley is true.'
GOVERNMENT AND THE MISSIONARIES. The Watchman and Reflector says that Mr. Jones, a Baptist missionary to the Cherokees, has just been ordered by a government agent, who claims to act by the express order of the administration, to leave the Cherokee country and the other Baptist missionaries have received intimations that they must follow. Their only offence, it is stated, consists in their efforts ‘to exclude slavery, bigamy and concubinage from their communion. They have never been anti-slavery propagandists. They have attempted no general crusade against the institution of slavery as it exists in the Cherokee nation and in the Southern States.' They have merely refused to admit slaveholders to their churches. The Watchman asks, ‘under what article of an Indian treaty, or under what act of the national legislature, peaceable citizens and worthy ministers of the gospel, pursuing their work in a strictly legal way, are interrupted in that work rudely separated from their trusting flocks, driven from their homes, and called to endure not only the virtual confiscation of their worldly estate, but the undoing and lighting of the labor of years?'

REPUBLICANS IN VIRGINIA.-The Wheeling (V a.) latelligencer says:-
'To see some of the letters we get is enough to make a man's heart grow sick within him. To see freemen, so called, beseeching us to burn their letters as soon as read, and not let their names be known, for fear of injury to their persons or property at home, is humiliating indeed. Yet this is the case even here in western Virginia .We get letters almost every week assuring us of the deep sympathy of the writers with the Republicans, earnestly expressing the hope of the election of Lincoln and Hamlin, and yet containing the cautious injunction not to let the names of the writers be known, if we should see fit to publish any part of the letters.’
A FRIGHT IN ARKANSAS.-The Governor of Arkansas, Elias N. Conway, has issued a proclamation to the militia of the State, directing them to 'prepare for trouble and danger.' In this remarkable document, Governor Conway expresses the singular belief that the peril of the South comes, not from the North, but from the machinations of Great Britain. He says:-
'It is my opinion that the British government is the real author and instigator of the mischief and outrages perpetrated against the slave States, and that it is the duty of our Federal government, and of the patriotic people of the United States, to hold the British government responsible for disturbing the domestic tranquillity of the United States.'
A ‘fusion’ document has been distributed in New Jersey in order to get up a panic. Its contents are thus described in its heading:-

THE SOUTH IN REVOLT.
TREASON RAMPANT.
Negro Insurrections in South Carolina, Alabama and Arkansas.
GEN. BICKLEY MARCHES UPON WASHINGTON
GEN. SCOTT ORDERED TO COMMAND THE ARMY OF THE NORTH.
GOV.WISE ASSASSINATED.
SECRETARY COBB ARRESTED FOR TREASON.
John Minor Botts at the head of 7000 men, to protect Washington.
The Zion's Herald says that the Southern Methodist papers have nearly all come out decidedly against the election of Lincoln, and even resort to the blackguardism of the lower order of political papers, calling the Republicans 'Black Republicans,' &c. Only one of them thus far has declared in favor of disunion in case of Lincoln's election. The Northern religious papers mostly, as usual, have nothing to say about mere partisan politics. Truly religious people (says the Herald) will generally vote right on a question involving morals.
<c02>
THE OTHER END OF THE PANIC. We are just beginning to get some account of the Southern recoil of the disunion agitation. Our stock markets may be sensitive, but the negro market is quite as much so, though the fluctuations are not discerned in a single morning. But sharp eyes are watching it, and its tendencies cannot remain long unnoticed. Hear what the Valley Star, a Virginia Democratic paper, says:-
‘Virginia is already having a foretaste of what is to come. We understand, from reliable authority, that No.1 negroes hare already fallen more than 25 percent., and second and third-rate hands from 30 to 50 percent. What has produced this sudden decline? Does not every man see at a glance that it is the cry of disunion raised by these cotton planters, producing a feeling of uncertainty-a want of confidence in the holders of slave property? Yes, Virginia is now being bled to the tune of thousands of dollars, to enrich those who by their clamor about disunion have designedly created this panic.'
The Richmond Whig endorses this statement, in all its parts, and says:
‘Slaves have depreciated in value here in the Richmond market-the largest slave market in the Union-some three or four hundred dollars within a very short period, as we are informed by many persons with full opportunities of knowing what they are talking about. And they will continue to depreciate, unless a stop is put to the threats of disunion by the Breckinridge leaders.'
OUTRAGEOUS CASES OF KIDNAPPING IN ILLINOIS AND IOWA. It is pretty well settled that Jerry Boyd, a decent colored man of Galena his wife, daughter, and a little white girl who lived with them, were induced to leave their home by a great scoundrel, whose name is supposed to be Wilder, under promise of a good situation on a farm in Iowa, and that, getting them into Iowa, his gang murdered Jerry for the sake of the money he had with him, and then sold the colored woman, her daughter and the little white girl into slavery in Missouri. The suspicions have been confirmed by a letter received by the little white girl's mother, a Mrs. Goodland, at Galena, from the murdered Jerry Boyd's wife, stating that they were near St. Joseph, Mo., in the hands of slave traders, and about to be sold.
It is also almost certain that a colored woman and a colored man, who have been missing from Dubuque since this prowling Wilder had left there, were abducted in the same manner, and are probably now in slavery. 
These high-handed outrages, committed upon free negroes, resident of Illinois and Iowa, ought to be inquired into by the State authorities, and we trust that a well-directed investigation will be instituted at once, by which the fate of these colored people and of the little white girl may be discovered, and the scoundrel or scoundrels who are guilty of the heartless transaction brought to punishment. Certain it is, that such high-handed proceedings ought not to be allowed to go on in a free State with impunity.- Chicago Journal.
ANOTHER COOLIE TRAGEDY. Another Coolie tragedy has taken place on board the Spanish ship Encarnacion. She left Macao Roads on the 2d inst., and a few days after leaving, whilst the crew were washing the decks, the Coolies rose and rushed into the cabin. They wounded the captain severely; but in the meanwhile the crew came aft, and a fight ensued. The interpreter and one of the crew, as well as 75 of the Coolies, were killed in the fray. The captain and 11 of the crew were also severely wounded, and are at present in hospital at Macao, whither the ship put back. We may mention here, with reference to the Coolies rising on board the American ship Norway, that it was afterwards found out that a plot had been formed by a large number of the Coolies, before going on board, to take the ship. For this purpose, they had taken compasses and various implements on board with them. It was also their intention, in the event of success, to have taken the ship to Cochin China, and sell her to some Chinamen there. It is too much to be feared that many of the Coolie revolts have arisen from a similar causes.-China Mail, Aug. 16.
EFFECTS OF FREEDOM. In Montgomery County, Maryland, formerly the land was held in large tracts, by great slaveholders. Of late, however, some having died and others grown poor, or failed, the land has, to a great extent, passed out of their hands, and has been bought up by small farmers from Pennsylvania. The result, as shown by the census returns, is, that during the past ten years, the population of the county has increased forty-five per cent., and its property nearly quadrupled in value! There is not probably another district in the whole of the South that can begin to show such a result. And this is plainly attributable to nothing but the advantages of free over slave labor. No other district near there, in Virginia or Maryland, has had any such increase. Not one! These facts are beginning to open the eyes, and mouths too, of the people. They cannot help seeing these results, and they naturally inquire what the reason is.
WASHINGTON'S PISTOL. The Washington Star says that Thaddeus Hyatt, proceeding to North Elba for the purpose of distributing some money to the family of John Brown, was there waited on by many persons, one among whom spoke of a certain pistol in the possession of some member of the family. Inquiring into the matter, he became convinced that the weapon referred to was one of a pair once belonging to General Washington, which had been taken from Col. Lewis Washington's house at the time of the Harper's Ferry affair. He spoke to the family concerning this relic, and went on his way to Kansas. When he returned from that part of the country to New York, he found at his residence a mysterious box, which had been awaiting him for some time, and which had excited no little apprehension lest it should turn out to be an infernal machine. The box was found to contain the pistol spoken of, and this has now been restored to its rightful owner.
THE RECAPTURED AFRICANS. The Washington correspondent of the New York Journal of Commerce states that the Government of Liberia has refused to receive the recaptured Africans who were sent to that Colony from Key West, and who were captured by our cruisers and landed at Monrovia in August last. The number of Africans thus landed is about twenty-four hundred. The American Colonization Society have a contract with the Government to take charge of all the Africans for one year, for the compensation of one hundred dollars a head. But there is some trouble with the Liberian Government, which refuses permission for the negroes to remain in its territory, or under its protection, without the same compensation which the Colonization Society is to receive. The Colonization Society will endeavor to arrange the matter by compromise.
REVELATIONS OF A. SLAVE SMUGGLER.-R. M. DeWitt, New York. Price 25 cts.-A thrilling book, and so far, as we can judge, quite free from exaggeration. It purports to be the confession of a person whose whole life, from boyhood, was passed either in Africa or in voyaging to and from that country to this continent, as a slave-trader. A comparison of the statements made in this narrative with known facts regarding the traffic in slaves, shows that no flights of fancy have been indulged in by the unfortunate author of the 'Revelations.' Horrible and loathsome as the subject is, it appears to be here dissected with a steady hand, without regard to any consequences that may result from personal disclosures. Seldom do we find such a compact view of a subject, in every detail, as this little book presents. It ought to go into the hands of every anti-slave-trade man, North or South.-Provincetowm Banner.
POLITICAL ROW AT ST. LOUIS . The meeting of some Breckinridge club men with some Douglas civil guards, was the occasion of a bloody fight in St. Louis the other night. The Democrat says:-
‘Rocks flew like hail stones, torches flourished like tomahawks, and those who had neither went in on their muscle, striking out wildly from both shoulder and hip. making the blood fly at every blow, and often felling the recipients to the earth. The Douglas men, however, showed their discretion by a hasty retreat, amidst the cheers and jeers of the Breckinridge men. Neither party had much to brag of, for many on both sides were covered with blood, had noses smashed, teeth knocked out, and several had faces badly cut.'
MR. HILLARD ON THIRD PARTIES. In 1849, Mr. Hillard, in a speech in the Whig Convention, (which, by the way, Resolved, That we go for the abolition and exclusion of slavery wherever Congress has jurisdiction.) gave utterance to the following sentiments with regard to third parties. They are as true now as then:
'In our country, there could be but two great parties-one, that of progress, and the other, that of repose. Any third party which may arise is placed in a dangerous position, from the tendency which would continue to accompany it to barter its votes and influence to either one or the other of the two prominent parties, and at last blandly yield itself to their proposals, and be absorbed by them.'
<c03>
TELEGRAPHIC DISPATCH FROM EDWARD EVERETT.
 The charges of Judge Rice, embodied in an article in the Montgomery Mail, that Mr. Everett was in favor of negro equality, and that be sent his son to the public schools of Boston, in which negro children were allowed, were forwarded to Mr. Everett by Col. A. H. Dawson, who received the following reply.- Columbus Sun.
'BOSTON. Oct. 20, 1860. Col. A. H. Dawson: There is not the slightest foundation for the charges of Judge Rice, or the inferences of Mr. McCaw.
EDWARD EVERETT.'
POOR PROFESSOR LIEBER.—Unfortunate Professor Lieber! He enjoys some reputation as one of the ablest living writers on Political Science. But what is all that, now that the Euphradian Society of beardless youths in South Carolina College have voted to remove his bust from their hall. And why? Because he presided at a Republican meeting in New York. We trust that he will be able to endure the shock.— Providence Journal.
AN UNDERGROUND RAILROAD CONDUCTOR IN LIMBO.—On Sunday last, a man who gave his name as Phillip Coughenour was lodged in the county jail, charged with enticing negroes to run away. He was discovered in a corn-crib, about six miles from Eudora.- Chicot.(Ark.}.) Press, Oct. 4th.
SENTENCED TO THE CHAIN GANG.-.—Richard White, a suspected Abolitionist, has been sentenced to the chain gang for four months, at Petersburg. Virginia, for insulting ladies in the street. Recently he was driven out of Tarboro, N. C., for tampering with slaves.
James Wheelen was indicted a few days ago in the Superior Court of Guilford County, N. C., on the charge of circulating incendiary documents. The case, however, was compromised on the defendant paying costs, and promising to leave the State immediately. Mr. W. is a native of the county, and has held the offices of county surveyor and magistrate, and yet is driven from the place of his nativity for no better reason, probably, than for subscribing for some Northern newspaper.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Times says of the disunion conspirators:-
'Their plan is to betray the South into rebellion, by a repetition of the Lecompton fraud. They dread the consequences of a direct appeal to the people on the question of disunion. To elude this danger, the general convention of the seceding States is to be elected by their several Legislatures, and upon this body full and conclusive powers of dissolving the Union, and of electing Breckinridge to the Presidency, are to be conferred!'
A PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT FOR THE SOUTH.-The New Orleans Bulletin publishes a plan for a provisional government, for the Southern States. It says it was circulated through the South some months ago. The scheme is to secure, if possible, a peaceable separation from the Union, and equal division of all the Territories, and for this purpose it recommends the immediate formation of a great Southern party.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?-New York, Oct. 29th.— A Washington dispatch says that Governor Letcher of Virginia reports that four batteries will be at Richmond this week, and that nineteen companies of cavalry are reported to him as organized.
KANSAS.—The Kansas land sales are not to be postponed, the interference of the Secretary of the Interior having been refused. So, in addition to the horrors of a famine, the people of Kansas are to be exposed to the loss of their homesteads, from lack of means to bid in their claims. It would be supposed that Kansas had suffered sufficiently at the hands of the last two administrations, but Democratic hatred of a free and unsubdued people overrides every dictate of humanity.
PUNISHED FOR CRUELTY TO A SLAVE. — A man named Mitchell, overseer for F. George, near Whiteville, N. C., convicted of causing the death of a negro by whipping, has been sentenced to be branded, and to serve six months in prison.
EXECUTION OF A SLAVE.—Felix, a slave, sixteen or eighteen years old, was executed on the 12th ult. at DeKalb, Miss., for the murder of Green Bishop, of Lauderdale county, his conviction having been had in Kemper county by a change of venue.
LEAVENWORTH, Kansas, Nov. 3d.-The report, that seventy-four buildings on the Cherokee neutral lands were burnt by order of the Indian Agent Cowan, has been confirmed.
NEW ORLEANS, NOV. 3d.—The whole number of persons killed by the explosion on board the steamer H. R. W. Hill, on the 30th ult., was 39; wounded, from 15 to 20.
DANBURY, Conn., Nov. 3d.—A fire in New Milford, last night, destroyed ten buildings, including the bank, the Housatonic House, six stores and two dwellings. The fire had not been subdued this morning. Loss heavy.
A letter from Texas, dated Hill County, October 1st, 1860. says:-
'You, no doubt, hear a great deal about the Abolition excitement here, but you don't get half. Everybody is on the alert. We have to watch on every hand for the scoundrels, and even then, they are constantly corrupting our negroes with their " fancy tales" of freedom. Many darkies have volunteered to tell on them. Vigilance, committees have been organized in almost, if not every county in the State. They have burned some of our towns, and attempted to burn nearly every one in the State. What do they mean? We've done them no harm that we're sensible of.'
A secessionist in Alabama writes to the Charleston Mercury that 'Alabama is divided. There will be a large party in our midst who will, under the shallow pretext of waiting for an overt act, advocate the most abject submission. This party will be led on by able and eloquent men. It will combine the strength of the Douglas and Bell factions, and will also carry off from the Breckinridge party all of the foreign vote, and a large proportion of the merchants and trading people.' He thinks the advocates of resistance are a majority now, but doubts whether they will be two months longer.
AN IMMENSE BLUNDER. Half Europe, and the entire American press, so far as it has had occasion to allude to the subject, has confounded Mr. Sheridan Knowles, of Philadelphia, (whose death in the wreck of the steamer 'Arctic,' is described in another column,) with J. Sheridan Knowles, the well-known dramatist and composer, who flourished in Europe in past years, and visited this country on one occasion. The similarity of names has misled the English press, -even those journals most highly reputed for their accuracy. Mr. S. Knowles was sent out to Russia a short time ago, with others, by the American Bank Note Company, in connection with work in process of execution for that government, as lately noticed in these columns. We understand that the presses, machinery, &c., were forwarded by another vessel. Mr. Knowles was a man of middle age, a worthy mechanic, and has left a wife and three children in Philadelphia.-New York Journal of Commerce.
Tom Corwin, in his speech at Columbus, said: 'Democrats think Washington did not understand the genesis of the whites and blacks. When he wrote that letter, expressing his hope that slavery might soon disappear from the land, he didn't know what he was about. The Creator had a private interview with Adam when he sent him adrift from the garden, telling him that in sorrow he should eat his bread earned by the sweat of his brow, but that he would provide a negro to sweat for him.'
The Daily Progress (Bell) printed at Newbern, North Carolina, says of an effort to organize a branch of the South Carolina Minute Men, 'The attempt proved a miserable failure. This is as it should be, and we rejoice at it. South Carolina may plot to break up the Union, but North Carolina never.'
'We find in the Progress of Port-au-Prince (No. 38, Sept. 15th,) the following article, which will doubtless interest many of our readers:-
'The Subscription in Favor of John Brown in the United States — Hayti Vindicated. — We find in the Tribune of July 28th, a letter from Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt, relative to the subscription opened in the United States in favor of the widows of John Brown and the other martyrs to the cause of liberty who fell at Harper's Ferry, or were executed at Charlestown, Virginia. After having paid the costs of the trial, and other expenses, there remained in the hands of the Committee $6,150. In this sum is included $2,600 which was collected by Mr. Hyatt, who had conceived and executed the project of selling the photographs of John Brown at $1 each. More than 3,000 copies were sold, leaving a profit of $2,600. The sale of Redpath's Life of John Brown permitted the Committee to realize $1,800. It is, therefore, only $1,700 'which the subscription has obtained, without any material advantage in compensation to the donors. Still more: of this $1,700, a certain amount was raised [une certaine valeur produite] from the lectures of Mr. Wendell Phillips. Without any advantage of this kind-without profits on photographs, or books, or lectures-Hayti has contributed, spontaneously, three times as much as the United States, and in proportion to the population more than thirty times more! What will the New Orleans Crescent, and other journals, now say of the "poor, lazy, ignorant negroes" of Hayti? We shall see!'
<c04>
David Smith, aged 101 years, was among those who voted at the late election in Philadelphia.
Mr. Jeduthan Palmer, the father, of Mrs. Nathaniel P. Banks, died at the residence of Governor Banks, in Waltham, on the evening of the 1st inst., aged 76 years.
Ten men in Chambersburg, Mo., have been arrested on the charge of murdering a man named Whiteford, for his money, in the most brutal manner. He was beaten to death with clubs, and then buried.
Late advices from the West Coast of Africa state that the steamer City of Norfolk got away with 1,300 slaves.
A car with twelve miners on board was precipitated down a slope of 1500 feet, at the Pennsylvania Coal Works, at Scranton, Pa., 25th ult., instantly killing eight of them, and wounding the others.
The value of slaves who have escaped from the counties of Bourbon and Fayette, Ky., within the last month, is estimated at $15,000.
The Louisville Journal (Bell) sternly rebukes disunionists, and derides their claim to be the champions of Southern rights.
Snow having fallen in South Carolina on the 14th ult., a wag suggests that it is a just cause for dissolution of the Union, the calamity evidently being a Yankee incursion into the sunny South.
The Empress Eugenie, since the death of her sister, the Duchess of Alba, has absolutely refused to receive company or be seen in public.
Miss Agnes Bailie, sister of the late Joanna Bailie, recently gave a party on the completion of her one hundredth year. She has resided near London for many years, and enjoys excellent health and spirits. Her faculties are quite, vigorous, and she still pursues her literary gleanings. Her habits, though necessarily retiring, are cheerful, for her breakfast-table would be incomplete without the morning paper, and she speaks of the friends of sixty years ago with a freshness of memory that is truly surprising.
Chas. Dickens's story, 'Hunted Down,' which the London Critic pronounces a feeble emanation, had a six months' run with us before it was printed in All the Year Round. It occupied precisely ten pages in that periodical, and as the author is said to have received $5000 for it, from the Ledger, it netted him $500 per page. Reputation is money.
Lady Franklin visited the rooms of the Woman's Library in New York, a few evenings since, and on leaving inscribed on the visitors' register, 'Jane Franklin, with her best wishes for the success of the Woman's Library.'
William R. May, of Pomfret, Conn., picked forty bushels of apples from one tree. He had the curiosity to count the number of apples in one peck, and found 190, making 760 in one bushel, and consequently 30,400 grew upon the tree.
The New York Commercial Advertiser says:- ‘We have good reason for affirming that a very large number of Southern gentlemen have already personally paid their respects to Mr. Lincoln, and entered freely into conversation with him respecting the views that will control his administration in case of his election to the Presidency, and that the noble frankness and patriotism of the man, and the innate conservatism of his mind, have won for him their respect and admiration, and their assurances of confidence and co-operation.'
The Louisville Journal says that Hon. John M. Elliott said at Sharpsburg, 'If any man calls John C. Breckinridge a Disunionist, I will stain the earth with his blood.' Mr. Breckinridge has since gone to the mountains, and carried Elliott along with him. He is evidently taking the necessary precaution against being called a Disunionist.
A Douglas speaker at Syracuse was asked to define Mr. Douglas's position upon the Slavery question. Said he, 'Mr. Douglas believes that if Slavery aint a mind to go where she is a mind to, she may stay where she is, if she doesn't want to, subject to the decision of the Supreme Court, and of the people of the Territories, when they is agreed on that p'int.' It was taken as satisfactory by his audience.
An Alabama paper expresses its belief that Mr. Yancey's whole political life has been a curse to the country. We believe so too. We don't wish Yancey dead, but we are sorry his mother didn't refuse to have his father. Mr. Yancey never stood upon a platform that we could approve. We presume he never will till he is about to be hung.—Louisville Journal.
The Milwaukee People's Press thinks that the number of passengers on board the Lady Elgin, at the time of her loss, has been underrated. In consequence of conversations had with several of the survivors, the Press is confirmed in the belief that there were fully 500 souls on board the ill-fated vessel, and that consequently nearly 400 were lost.
A Rhode Island paper does not believe the rumor that thirty members of Congress will resign if Lincoln is elected; the unbelieving paper cannot think that these gentlemen will permit the Union to burst up, and owe them $1500 each; and adds that 'patriotism is not as dead as that yet.’
PHYSICAL CULTURE. Dio Lewis, M. D., has started a monthly Journal, which promises to be of real utility in suggesting the means of physical exercise and muscular development. It cannot be denied that the existing race of men and women have degenerated in physical strength, and that a majority of the town-bred women, especially, are invalids. Whatever, therefore, may tend to improve this state of things, is to be welcomed. Dr. Lewis's paper is styled ‘Lewis's New Gymnastics for Ladies, Gentlemen and Children, and Journal of Physical Culture,' is published at 20 Essex Street, Boston. Price, $1.00 per annum, in advance.-Provincetown Banner.
MRS. YOUNG'S LECTURES. The following remarks and resolutions were offered by Mrs. E. H. Cobb, and unanimously adopted, at the concluding lecture of Mrs. S. H. Young, M. D., of Lowell, delivered in Mercantile Hall, in this city, on Friday and Saturday last:-
'Feeling sensible that the lectures to which we have now listened are of great importance to woman, and recognizing subjects so important to her being, and realizing the great obligations under which we are laid by Mrs. Young, for the very interesting, impressive and instructive manner in which these subjects have been presented to us by our worthy lecturer; therefore,
Resolved, That the thanks of this audience be presented to Mrs. Young, for the valuable Physiological and Anatomical information which we have so pleasantly received. And, in view of the limited notice of her lectures just delivered, and the desire manifested that more may share the benefit of her valuable instruction,
Resolved, That Mrs. Young be invited by the ladies present to repeat her lectures now delivered, in connexion with her usual course.'
Mrs. Young will lecture in Mercantile Hall, Summer street, Friday evening, Nov. 9, at 7 1-2 o'clock, on the Circulatory Organs, with the Dissection of the Heart—showing its Auricles and Ventricles.- Also a description of the Microscopic formations in the Blood. On Saturday evening, Nov. 10, she will lecture on the Structure and Functions of the Lungs and Skin; and on Monday evening, Nov. 12, on the Nervous System. These lectures will be illustrated by Diagrams, Skeleton, and a partial dissection of the largest life-size French Manikin, each evening.
These lectures are designed for both sexes.
Admission to each Lecture, 25 cents.
Boston, Nov. 2.

LECTURE ON THE ART OF PRINTING.
The undersigned would respectfully give notice, that he has prepared a Lecture on 'The Early History of the Art of Printing,' and would refer, by permission, to
Hon. CHARLES W. UPHAM, Salem;
Hon. STEPHEN H. PHILLIPS, "
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston;
Dr. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, Boston;
Rev. JAMES W. THOMPSON, D. D., Jamaica Plain.
CHARLES W. FELT, Salem, Mass.,
or at 46 Court Street, Room No. 20, Boston.

DEDICATION AT HOPEDALE.-The new Meeting-House, just erected at Hopedale, Milford, Mass., will be dedicated with appropriate religious services, on Thursday, Nov. 15. There will be three sessions of public exercises, commencing respectively at 10 o'clock, A. M., 2, P. M., and half-past 6, evening. The occasion is expected to be one of unusual instruction, interest and gladness. Our sympathizing friends, scattered abroad, who can make it convenient, are respectfully invited to partake with us in the entertainments of the occasion.
By order of the Committee of Arrangements, ADIN BALLOU.
Hopedale, Nov. 6, 1860.
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. 1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, Boston, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR.
<c05>

MICHIGAN ANNUAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The second Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Michigan will be held in Adrian, commencing on Saturday, the 17th of November, at 2 o'clock, P. M. All the anniversaries of our movement, during the last twelve months, in all the States that observe them, have been of the most interesting and encouraging character. Let every Michigan Abolitionist endeavor to see to it that this shall not be an exception.
Among the speakers will be Mrs. JOSEPHINE GRIFFING, PARKER PILLSBURY, and GILES B. STRBBINS.
Adrian, Oct. 25.

ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The friends of immediate and unconditional, emancipation in La Salle and adjoining counties will hold a Mass Convention at Mendota, in Music Hall, commencing on Saturday, Nov. 10th, at 2 o'clock, P. M., and continuing through Saturday evening, Sunday and Sunday evening,. Nov 11th.
It is the intention of the friends of impartial liberty to make this Convention one of the most important to the cause of humanity and freedom ever held in Illinois. All persons, without distinction of sect, party, complexion or sex, are invited to attend.
Among the speakers will be Parker Pillsbury of Boston, Rev. C. B. Campbell of Iowa, E. R. Brown, Esq., of Peoria, and A. J. Graver, Esq., of Earlville. Admission to the day sessions free; to the evening sessions, a fee of ten cents will be charged to defray expenses. Singing by Mr. Campbell, with Melodeon accompaniments.
Mendota, Oct. 2526, 1860.

WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.
The quarterly meeting of this Society will be held at West Brookfield, on Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov. 17 and 18.
SAMUEL MAY. Jr., H. FORD DOUGLASS, E. H. HEYWOOD and others will be present.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A, HOWLAND, Sec'y.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at 
Sandwich, Sunday, Nov. 11.
Barnstable, Tuesday, Nov. 13.
Yarmouth Port, Wednesday, Nov. 14.
Osterville, Thursday, Nov. 15.
Centreville, Friday, Nov. 16.
Hyannis, Sunday, Nov. 18.
Brewster, Tuesday, Nov. 20.
Dennis, Wednesday, Nov. 21.
East Dennis, Thursday, Nov. 22.
Harwich, Sunday, Nov. 25.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
West Bridgewater, Friday, Nov. 9.
North Abington, Sunday afternoon, Nov. 11.
East Abington, Sunday evening, Nov. 11.
Marlboro', Wednesday evening, Nov. 14.
Feltonville, Thursday evening, Nov. 16.
North Oxford, Friday, Nov. 17.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at the following places:-
Feltonville, Sunday, Nov. 11.
Pembroke, (Merritt's Hall,) Wednesday, Nov. 14.
N. W. Duxbury, (Bosworth's Hall) Thursday, Nov. 15.
Medfield. Monday, Nov. 19.
W. Medway, Tuesday, Nov. 20.
E. Medway, Wednesday, Nov. 21.
E. Walpole, Thursday, Nov. 22.
S. Dedham. Friday, Nov. 23.
SIXTEENTH ANNUAL COURSE OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.-The Sixteenth Course of Lectures before the Female Anti-Slavery Society, comprising eight in number, will be delivered on successive Sunday evenings, at Lyceum Hall.
The introductory, by Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, of Boston, will be given on Sunday evening, 25th inst., at 7 o'clock. Admittance, 6 cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.,
Salem, Nov. 8, 1860.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture at Cummington, Mass., the second and third Sundays—11th and 18th-of November.
Also—in Willimantic, Ct., the last Sunday, or 28th day, of November.
ANTI-SLAVERY WORK IN NEW YORK.—An Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Holland Patent, Oneida Co., on Saturday evening and Sunday, Nov. 10th and 11th. Speakers—Rev. Beriah Green, Aaron M. Powell, and Susan B. Anthony.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in
Warren, Tuesday evening, Nov. 20. 
Ware, Wednesday evening, Nov. 21.
N. Brookfield, Thursday, evening, Nov. 22.
Chicopee, Friday, evening, Nov. 23.
Springfield, Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov. 25.
LYCEUM LECTURES.—DR. JOHN S. ROCK is prepared to deliver the following lectures before Lyceums:—
1. 'The Unity of the Human Races.'
2. 'The Lights and Shadows of African Life.'
3. 'Woman the Intellectual Equal of Man.'
Please address Dr. J. S. ROCK, 83 Southac street, Boston.
WANTED—A situation by a colored lad., 17 years of age, to learn the Newspaper, Book, or Job-Printing business, in Boston or vicinity. He has worked some time on a newspaper; has a good education, having graduated from a high school; and can furnish references, if required. Apply at this office.

SITUATION WANTED.
A young woman acquainted with Book-keeping, both double and single entry, desires a situation as an Amanuensis, or otherwise to do any writing or copying. Inquire of R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.—A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker's sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.—David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
DIED—In Boston, Oct. 31, Mrs. SARAH BENNETT, of New York, aged 68.

AGENTS WANTED
TO SELL
HARRINGTON,
A HANDSOME 12mo. volume of 570 pages. Price $1 25. The most brilliant Anti-Slavery Novel yet written. [For a specimen of its descriptive power, see the chapter quoted from it in the Liberator this week, fourth page.]
Liberal terms will be given to Agents, and a fine opportunity is afforded for those who have no winter employment, to travel and sell this work.
Sent by mail, post-paid, on the receipt of the price.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116 Washington street, Boston. 
Nov. 9. 1w

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar.
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5—6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
Manufacturers of and Dealers in
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS, 
184 WASHINGTON STREET. 184 CORNER OF FRANKLIN ST., BOSTON.
E. ZOEBISCH will pay particular attention to Altering and Repairing old Furs.
FACTORY, 6 CENTRAL STREET.

<C06>
IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces. 
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not, taken into the this circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
 EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER.,
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston. 
For sale by all Druggists. 
Oct. 26. 6w.

PORTRAIT OF
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very highest style of the lithographic art, and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH. 
C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street, Boston.
Oct. 26.

Historical Pictures Retouched.
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of 'Woman's Right to Labor.' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on' Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1.
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'—Norfolk County Journal.
'By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.'—Bangor Whig.
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'-Portland Transcript.
Published by
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY.
245 Washington street, Boston. 
Oct. 26. 3t

LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY,
274 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
THE Second Annual Course of Lectures will commence on Thursday, Nov. 8, 1860.
LECTURERS.
WALTER BURNHAM, M. D., on Practice of Medicine and Surgery.
SUSAN R. CAPEN, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, SYMINGTONBROWN,M. D., Surgical Anatomy, Physiology, and Material Medica.
SARAH W. SALISBURY, M. D., Anatomy and Hygiene.
Intending students will apply to Dr. W. S. BROWN, 15 Congress Street, Boston. 
Oct. 5. 4wis

THAYER & ELDRIDGE'S
ANNOUNCEMENTS!
I.HARRINGTON;
A Story of True Love.
By the Author of 'What Cheer?’ 'The Ghost—A Christmas Story,' &c.
‘Herein may be seen noble chivalrye, curtosye, humanitye, friendlynesse, love, friendshype, cowardyse, murder, hate, vertue and synne. Doo after the good, and leve the evyl, and it shall brynge you to good fame and renowne.'-[Sir Thomas Malory: Preface to Morte D'Arthur.
This is the most brilliant novel ever written in America. It is of anti-slavery character, and altogether the most fascinating story of the kind yet published. 1 volume, 12 mo. Ready first of November.

II
HALF-BATTLE WORDS FROM THEODORE PARKER.
‘Few deeds are equal to his words. His prose was a half-battle.'-[Jean Paul Richter on Martin Luther. One volume, 12mo.
This volume will contain some of the most salient passages to be found in Theodore Parker's Sermons, and also extracts from his famous portraitures of character, such as Channing, John Quincy Adams. General Taylor, Daniel Webster, Washington, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, R. W. Emerson, Humboldt, &c., &c. 
[To be issued immediately.]

III
THEODORE PARKE:
IN MEMORIAM.
Embracing the tributes to his memory, by Emerson, Phillips, Garrison, .J. F. Clark, W. E. Channing, May, Alger, Belcher, Frothingham, Conway, Higginson, Wheelock, Charles Sumner, G. W. Curtis, & c., &c., with a biographical sketch.
This volume will be issued in elegant style, and be embellished with a superb steel portrait. 1 vol. 12mo. [In active preparation.]

IV.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL,
Written by herself. Edited by L. MARIA CHILD.
A work presenting a new phase of the Peculiar Institution, of especial interest to every woman, and to all who love virtue. 1 volume, 12mo.
[Ready in November.]

V.
HISTORY OF SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
By T. W. HIGGINSON.
This volume will embrace the papers in the Atlantic Monthly, contributed by the author under the title of ‘The Maroons of Jamaica,' 'The Maroons of Surinam,' &c., with a history of all other notable slave insurrections. A work of peculiar interest to the American people, as well as a valuable contribution to historical literature. 1 volume, 12mo.

A NEW VOLUME OF POEMS
By WALT WHITMAN.
A handsome brochure of 150 pages. 1 volume,
16mo. O26-2w
DR. E. A. KITTREDGE
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street.
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. 
Oct. 12.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
For the Liberator. 
On the Departure of the Prince of Wales from America, Oct. 20, 1860. 
The ships are gathered on the shore, 
The waiting crowds are met
The last farewells at last are o'er, 
And dumb the last regret; 
Farewell, Prince! for another land 
Recalls thee to her side,
And claims thee with eager hand, 
Heir of her power and pride!
Thou goest; 'tis well. At last thine eyes 
Have seen this land of ours; 
Have read the mystic charm that lies 
In her young, wakening powers. 
At last, thou well canst know her heart, 
Her glory, and her fame: 
Ah! one word more, before we part-
How shalt thou know her shame? 
The shame, that o'er our age must fling 
A stigma from the past,
The that tyrants' hearts could bring, 
The deadliest and the last! 
While all around seems bright and fair, 
In Freedom's rising ray. 
Round Slavery only breathes despair,
That will not pass away! 
Man has tried many things to make 
Life bitter to kind; 
Crushing, with fagot and with stake, 
The empire of the mind; 
Immuring, in the withering gloom 
Of convent and of cell
Hearts, that must bear their living tomb 
Till death stall break the spell. 
But this is over; and we boast 
A truer, nobler time, 
Leading, with Freedom's radiant host
The onward march sublime; 
We boast that Earth's long night is o'er, 
That day is breaking now: 
Is it a day that flings once more 
Old shadows on her brow?
Or is it that our land alone 
In all the earth remains 
Deaf to her captives' warning groan. 
The clanking of their chains? 
If it be so, then what a doom 
Must darken o'er her life! 
How deep must grow the midnight gloom 
Of horror or of strife! 
Young Prince! thy path seems bright and fair 
As earthly path can shine; 
Millions of hearts may witness bear 
The love that shall be thine; 
Yet, than all other gifts above, 
Upon thy bended knee. 
Beyond her power, or fame, or love, 
Thank God thy land is free! 
Adieu! Perhaps, in other years, 
When Sin's enchantment flies, 
Through the dark mists of shame and tears, 
A truer life may rise; 
The scales that blind our eyes may fall, 
Our falsehood turn to truth, 
And England see our land recall 
The promise of our youth
Montreal, Oct. 27, 1860. M. M. 

For the Liberator.
‘TIME TO ’
BY AUGUSTINE CALDWELL. 
‘While the Prince of Wales was at Bunker Hill, he made a pleasant remark to President Warren as to the object of erecting the monument, to which the President made an appropriate reply. The Prince cordially observed, "It is time to forget these old 
Forget? and what shall we forget? 
The worthy sires who, side by side, 
Dared to avenge their country's wrongs, 
And in her service and died?
Forget? and what shall we forget? 
The mother, who, with tearless eye, 
Could bid her son go boldly forth 
To in the victory, or die?
Forget? and what shall we forget? 
The clear, wild song, that rung so free 
O'er laughing dale and rugged hill,
Proclaiming loudly-Liberty?
Forget? ah, we not forgot 
That once we felt the galling chain, 
And crouched beneath the tyrant's gaze, 
And poured our sad complaints in vain? 
If we remembered, could we see? 
A brother trodden in the dust? 
Uphold the laws that keep him there? 
Unblushingly proclaim them just?
O, let us gird the armor on; 
Kindle anew the altar fires; 
And prove ourselves, in all we do, 
As worthy of our noble sires! 
Then willingly will we forget 
The hate we bore our lather-land; 
But God forbid a suffering one 
Should ever lack our helping hand! 

For the Liberator. 
LINES,
On receiving from Mr. Putnam a Daguerreotype of the late Theodore Parker. 
'Grand!' and ‘magnificent!’ These were the words 
That rose spontaneous to my lips, when first 
I saw that wondrous head so full of power-
So full of intellect and moral strength. 
Thou didst not rule a kingdom; but thy throne, 
Unsceptred king, in many a willing heart 
Was placed. Yet tho' the world-known mighty ones, 
For learning, wisdom famed, paid homage to thee, 
No child would shrink in terror from that face, 
No weeping mourners feel 'twere vain to seek 
A brother's sympathy in their affliction; 
And, 'mong the laughing fire-side group, need none 
Fear thy stern frown would check their harmless mirth. 
Thou wast, and art, and will remain a power; 
Thy pen a sceptre, and thy voice a call-
A trumpet-call, onward and upward ever; 
Onward and upward! Onward through the world, 
Raising the fallen, strengthening the weak, and leading 
The young, the earnest, onward, onward still; 
And upward, high as human intellect
Rich, noble gift of our kind Parent's love
Can soar and soar; and as it gains new heights, 
Sees grander, vaster heights for ever rise, 
Till, where enthroned in love and power, reigns 
The Great All-Parent. 
Tenterden (England.) JANE ASHBY. 

CHARITY.
If he one generous act performed on earth; 
If to one noble thought he e'er gave birth; 
If one kind word, to suffering weakness given, 
from his lips as fell from heaven; 
If e'er eye one pitying tear distilled, 
One throb of sympathy hit heart has thrilled; 
If he hath bowed beneath the chastening rod, 
Forgive the weakness of a child of God! 
Spare, spare the follies of an erring brain! 
Judge not his faults-he has not lived in vain! 
Wm. Winter. 
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
ALITY OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW. 
In the Liberator of Oct. 19th, I see a full account of the proceedings in the trial of John Hossack at Chicago, for aiding the escape of a fugitive slave; and, among them, the of Judge Drummond, in which the prosecution and conviction are vindicated. I have no comment to make on the various fallacies in this Sentence, which have been fully discussed elsewhere, excepting on one argument, which I have not seen exposed before. I allude to the argument given to show the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law. In all the judicial charges I have seen, where this constitutionality has been discussed, the Judges have never drawn the authority of Congress to legislate on the subject directly from the words of the Constitution itself, but have always rested their decisions on the judgments of former Courts, on the opinions of eminent statesmen and legislators, which, they say, has settled the question; a mode of determination which cannot be satisfactory to any persons but those trained in the Law. 
We have now, for the first time, (to my knowledge,) a reason, irrespective of authority, for the action of Congress on the subject. After attempting to show that the provision in the Constitution for the delivery of persons escaped from service included slaves, the Judge says-‘ If, then, this be so, and words can be used so as to express a meaning in the case contemplated, an obligation was imposed somewhere, and the authority of Congress to inflict a penalty on any one who interfered by violence with this right of the claimant thus guarantied by the Constitution, and sought to be enforced under the warrant of a Commissioner, is as unquestionable as its authority to inflict a penalty for stealing a letter from the mail, or for a violation of the revenue law.' 
This short argument is full of fallacies. The first is a petitio principal. The true question is not, whether Congress-admitting the right to make the law-has authority to enact a penalty for violation, for this is not disputed; but whether they have authority to make any law on the subject of escaped slaves; and this, instead of being shown, is simply assumed. True, the Judge says-'An obligation was imposed somewhere'-meaning, undoubtedly, an obligation to carry out the provision of the Constitution; but, instead of showing that this gives the authority to make the law, he derives from it only an authority to inflict the penalty-a plain non sequiter. 
But I will suppose that the Judge meant to imply that the imposed somewhere' authorized Congress to make the law, as well as to punish its violation; and now let us try that question. plainly assumes that Congress is obligated to legislate on any provision of the Constitution for the fulfilment of which no other power is appointed, whether expressly assigned to that body or not; but, I would ask, where is the ground for that assumption? Can any line or word be found in the Constitution requiring or authorizing Congress to assume the carrying out of any of its provisions where power is not expressly granted to it? On the contrary, the 10th Amendment says-'The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people:' and this logically comprises provisions of the Constitution which arc not delegated powers, as well as subjects not mentioned in that instrument. 
Many of the false judgments of the Federal Courts depend upon a conception of the character of the Constitution, a compact, which, however cherished by most of the Judges and statesmen of the land, every intelligent citizen, who attentively examines it with a view to the question, will perceive to be erroneous. It is usually understood, (or rather assumed without thought,) that every clause of the Constitution indicates a grant of power to the Federal Government; but wherever an authority is delegated to any department of that government, the word 'power' is always carefully used: shall have power to'-is the constant phrase. Other provisions of the Constitution, consisting of regulations, duties, prohibitions, guaranties, &c., do not imply, and do not seem intended to imply, a power of enforcement by Congress or the Executive. It is no argument to the contrary to say that there must be a power of enforcement somewhere, or these provisions would be useless; for they will necessarily be enforced by the Federal Courts, in each case as it arises. The express grant of powers to Congress, being all found in one Section of the Constitution, (Art. I. Sec. 8,) it seems evident that this Section was designed to comprise them; and by converse inference, to withhold the power from all other clauses. If, therefore, no mention is made of the restoration of fugitives in that Section, and no power expressed in the clause of the Constitution providing for it, the inference is irresistible, that power is not granted to Congress to legislate on the subject. 
But, perhaps alleged necessity is supposed to imply the authority. 'An obligation (says the Judge) was imposed somewhere'; and if he meant that the fulfilment of the constitutional provision was of necessity assumed by Congress, because there was no other means provided for it, he entirely ignores an important department of the Government. In the Article of the Constitution on the Judiciary, among the cases to which the Judicial power shall extend, (Art. 3, Sec. 2,) are those 'between citizens of different State.' The claim for service of the citizen of one State on the citizen of another , who harbors or facilitates the escape of a person alleged to owe service, is a case of this kind; and the claimant of an escaped slave has only to arrest and bring him before any Federal Court, who, by this clause of the Judiciary Article, is thus empowered to determine whether such service is due or not, and, if in the affirmative, to remand him to the claimant of his services. There is not the least need of legislation; no word of the Constitution requires such legislation; and Congress, by making a law for the purpose, encroaches on the province of the Judiciary, on whom the obligation is really imposed, and takes away the jurisdiction of a legitimate Judge, transferring it to a Commissioner, unknown to the Constitution. 
Another error also pervading the minds of our Judges is, that they are morally obliged, by their oath of office, rigorously to adjudge the execution of any constitutional law, however unjust or inhuman that may seem to them. We often hear confessions of regret for the unjust judgments they consider themselves obliged to give. If we were to carry this maxim to cases of extreme injustice in the law, they would probably repudiate it without hesitation; they would refuse to enforce a law to rob a shipwrecked alien, or burn a religious heretic, even if authorized by the Constitution; and I can see no reason why the execution of any law, plainly seen to be wrong, even in a slight degree, should not be equally refused. Any oath to execute the laws faithfully is, by reason and high authority, pronounced void, and not obligatory in cases of acknowledged wrong. The administrator of unjust law is as morally culpable as the legislator. 
I urge these considerations with much anxiety, because I perceive the reign of tyranny is advancing in our country, and from an unsuspected source. If these principles of reliance on prescriptive authority, rather than on rational interpretations of the Constitution and rigorous enforcement of law, however unjust, are to prevail, and to be carried to their legitimate , it will be in vain that we depend upon our Republican forms for the maintenance of liberty, or the protection of private rights. The supposed remedy for unauthorized or oppressive legislation, in representation by suffrage, is an ineffectual chimera, and does not even touch the tyranny of judicial decision. The Fugitive Slave Law I now been 
<c03>
considering is an undeniable proof, that unauthorized, inhuman, and even unpopular laws may be as irresistibly enforced, under professions of republicanism or democracy, as under the avowed despotisms of the Eastern continent. J. P. B. 
VISIT TO WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, (D. C) Sept. 28, 1860. GARRISON-Having here a little business, and curiosity to gratify, I am in this city. I have seen many objects of interest, and, as far as mechanical beauty is concerned, the public buildings, to a great extent, present a grand and imposing Why should they not? Uncle Sam is able, and the people here are willing he sculptured marble speaks.'
Within the spacious walls of the Patent Office, one can see implements adapted to every object and pursuit. over the models, one is almost lost in wonder at the amount of mental and physical labor expended in their elaboration. Here, upon these little pieces, the poor sanguine inventor has spent wearisome days and sleepless nights, and often, very often, his pecuniary reward has been but a delusive vision-his hopes killed by stupid knaves, within without the office.
Among the rejected models are very many quite as ingenious and useful as their more fortunate neighbors, and the tear of sympathy started while thinking of the blasted hopes and chilling wants of their worthy progenitors. But they did not entirely lose their reward-love pf their favorite pursuit cheered them onward, and Truth can never die.
I passed around and within the costly pile of marble and granite, erected to the memory of the mighty warrior and slaveholder, and although not finished, its own weight is crushing the solid marble back to its original dust. The monument is only about 160 feet high-600 being the height designed by its fathers. I was informed that money enough had been given to have built two or three of the like design, but this is silent through lack of funds.
The 'White House' is a respectable building outwardly, but is not so fine a. structure as I had supposed it to be. The Treasury is a very large building, in close proximity, not entirely finished, where rapacious office-holders bleed the public purse. I notice the City Hall is hung with mourning-for what, I cannot say. It may be that the office-holders and slaveholding thieves anticipate their doom-doubtless some kind of a voice from the Toombs.
I visited the Capitol buildings, where small political blackguards hold their midnight orgies, filled with spiritual filth within, and carnal weapons without. Among the objects which attracted my attention, within the rotunda of the Capitol, is the statue of George Washington, taken during his lifetime, and doubtless correct. The statue shows a man of mighty muscular development, very large self-esteem, firmness and basillar organs, with comparatively small intellectual and moral faculties. No moral reformer's regalia consists of swords and daggers, neither does their property consist of the images of God. Let not the one good act in the life, or death, of George Washington be forgotten-the emancipation of his slaves.
In looking down the vista of time, when the intellectual and moral faculties are developed, I see that mighty changes are here to take place. This statue of George Washington may be removed for that true patriot and hero, minus his carnal weapons, John Brown's; and, finally, when the national conscience is sufficiently enlightened, John Brown must make room for a This must be so, for Truth is immutable, and Justice eventually certain.
The hideous images in front of the Capitol, with uplifted tomahawks and other carnal weapons, will be rechisseled into gods and goddesses of Love and Freedom, covered with white-winged birds of purity and olive branches of peace. The pure white marble will reflect the rays from the Sun of Righteousness-the millennial morn will have come.
In coming from New York here, I saw many political displays-none for Douglas. The demented Bell-Everetts had a great torch-light procession at Philadelphia on the night of the 25th. Public sentiment is stronger in this place for Lincoln than for Douglas-in fact, the Little Giant' is a stench in the nostrils of nearly all here. I am no politician-see but little difference between the parties-each one's god being majorities and plunder. I know that Right is eternal, and I am willing to work though it is nervous business sometimes to wait. To all who know and feel thus, I give the right hand of fellowship, wishing them God-speed; to others, love mingled with pity. 
D. H. 
'LIBERTY OR DEATH’—OR, THE SLAVE AND HIS MASTER. 
Having been permitted to examine some of the sheets of the new anti-slavery novel now in the press, and shortly to be published by Thayer & Eldridge, Boston, entitled ' HARRINGTON, A Story of True Love,' we are prepared to express the judgment, that it is a work of thrilling interest and of the most fascinating character. It is sure of a wide circulation. As a specimen of its descriptive power, read the following chapter
The overseer nodded, and chewing stolidly, lounged into the yard, where stood the kitchen, smoke-house, and other outbuildings, and going on through the orchard, emerged upon a blinding space where a row of white-washed cabins, with the gin-house hard by, glared in the hot light. A few negro children, half naked, with a lean and sickly old hound, were grouped in the shade of the gin-house Near them, in the full blaze of the sunlight, a negro man, in coarse plantation clothes of a dirty white, on the ground in a squatting posture, feebly shaking his bare head, to keep off the swarm of insects that tormented him. This was Antony. He was bound in a peculiar manner-bucked, as the plantation slang has it. The ankles were firmly lashed together-the knees drawn up to the chest-the wrists also firmly pinioned and passed over the knees, and between the elbow-joints and the knee-pits, a short stick was inserted, thus holding movelessly, in a bundle of agonizing cramp, the limbs of the victim. This infernal torture—practised by the tyrants of our marine on their sailors that class whose helplessness and wrongs most nearly resemble those of slaves—practised also on wretched criminals by the tyrants of our jails—Antony had endured from midnight till now, about two o'clock in the afternoon.
Nine years Lafitte's chattel, he had been badly used from time to time, and, of late, dreadfully. He had learned to read and write a little before he had come to the plantation, and a week before the present time he had picked up a scrap of newspaper un which was a fragment of one of those declamations about liberty, which Southern politicians are fools enough to be making, on all opportunities, amidst a land of slaves. The fragment had some swagger about the Northern oppression of the South, which Antony did not understand any more than anybody else; but it rounded up with Patrick Henry's famous ' Give me Liberty, or give me Death!' which he understood very well; for, from that moment, Liberty or Death was a phrase which spoke like a voice in his mind, urging him to escape From his bondage. The next thing was to write a pass, make a package addressed to the house of Lafitte Brothers, New Orleans, and with this evidence of his assumed mission endeavor to reach that city, where he meant to smuggle himself into the hold of some northward bound.
Clad in an old suit of Mr. Tassle's, which he had taken from the gin-house, and boldly riding away the night before, on a mare borrowed from Mr. Lafitte's stables, be been suddenly met on a of the road—unaccountably met at midnight—by his master and the overseer, who seized him, and found his forged credentials upon him. At once, he had been violently beaten over the head with their whip-stocks, driven back to the plantation, reclothed in his plantation suit, securely bound, and left with horrid threats of torment on the morrow. The morrow come, and here he was, in utter misery, half crazy, and more than half fancying that he was in hell. 
<c04>
Mr. William Tassle, his tobacco revolving slowly in his open mouth, stood and stolidly surveyed him. A pitiable object, truly! His face was and swollen, and from wounds in his brow and cheek, made by the blows of the whip-handles, a doll ooze of blood, thinned by his sweat, had spread its stain over the whole countenance. Around the wounds buzzed and clung greedy clusters of black flies, hardly off by the feeble motions of his head, and returning every instant. His dark , ashen grey and flaccid under the crimson stain, and faint with suffering, wore a look of dumb endurance; his eyelids drooped heavily over his downcast eyes; and his breath in short through the bloody froth that had gathered on his loose mouth. His wrists were cut with the tight cords that bound them, and his hands were discolored and swollen, as were his ankles. Even the overseer felt a sort of rude pity for him. 
'Well, Ant'ny,' said Mr. Tassle, slowly, pausing and turning his head aside to eject a vigorous squirt of tobacco juice, which lit upon small chip, and deluged a fly thereon, throwing the insect into quivering spasms of torture, you're in for it, you poor, mis'ble devil. Yer master's goin' to admonish ye, so he says. Know what that means, don't ye? It's all up with you, Ant'ny.' The dumb, bruised face, with its blood-shot eyes, feebly turned up to his for a moment, then drooped away.
Come, now,' said Mr. Tassle, cutting the negro's bonds with two strokes of a jack-knife, up with ye!' 
Antony, suddenly released from his cramped posture, fell over; then made a feeble effort to crawl up on his hands and knees, tottered, sank down, and lay panting. Mr. Tassle started with alacrity for the gin-house, the black piccaninnies scampering and tumbling over each other in their scramble to get away, and the old hound sneaking after them. Presently he came back with a bucket of water and a gourd. Antony raised himself, and drank from the gourd; then sat up, panting, but relieved. 
'Strip,' said Mr. Tassle. 
Antony tried, and was helped roughly by the overseer, who then dashed the bucket of water over his naked body. It revived him, for he presently began to wipe himself feebly with his trowsers. In the midst of this operation, Mr. Tassle seized him, rolled him over from the wet ground to a dry spot, and began to rob his arms and knees vigorously with his horny hand, chewing and expectorating rapidly as he did so. Soon the arrested circulation began to be restored, and Antony, getting his clothes on, was able to walk up and down in a brisk, tottering walk, the calves of his legs loosely shaking, and his legs trembling with exhaustion. 
'That'll do,' said Mr. Tassle, at length; ' you'll be ready for your floggin' right soon. Here, you dam cuss of a nigger, drink a swallow of this. That'll set you up.' 
Antony took the proffered whiskey-flask—Mr. Tassle's pocket companion—and gulped the liquor. It went to his poor, famished heart like fire, and shot some vigor through his numbed veins. 
Damned if I aint a philanthroper,' growled Mr. Tassle. Lettin' a hell-bent cuss of a sooty nigger drink my whiskey. No matter. Have it out o' yer hide, Ant'ny, afore supper time. Now pick up yer feet for the house. Yer master has to settle with yer.' 
Antony went on to the house, Mr. Tassle following, and contemplatively regarding, as ho spat and chewed, the shaking calves of the negro's legs, which he had a chance to do, as the old trowsers, too short in the first instance, were now split the backs, nearly to the knees, and feebly flapped as the slave tottered on. Antony himself, giddy with his long exposure in the sun, and with the glow of the liquor he had drank, felt his poor mind wander a little, and was conscious of nothing so much as of the queer tattered shadow that bobbed around him, and which he half fancied would trip him up if he were to try to run away now. 
An indefinite sense, which fell upon him as he entered the house, and slowly walked through the passage, that this guarding shadow had fallen behind and left him, was succeeded by a sense as vague, that the shadow he now saw lurking in the sunlight on the floor beneath his master's chair, was the same, and that it had gone on before when he came into the passage, and would leap from that place and chase him, were to flee. Dimly conscious of this fancy, he kept his hot eyes fixed upon the shadow—conscious, also, of a dreadful sullen hatred rising in his heart, and prompting him to spring upon his tyrant and strangle him, though he died for it afterward. Beyond , he was vaguely aware that Tassle had put something that clanked on the table, and had gone; and that the Madame, as he would have called her, was present, sitting very still, and apparently indifferent to him or anything that might happen to him. 
Suddenly he heard the smooth and quiet voice of his master, seeming nearer to him than it should seemed. 
‘Well, Antony, so it appears that I have a learned nigger on my plantation. Cousin to the learned pig, I suppose. Did you ever hear of the learned pig, Antony? 
Never did, Marster.' 
‘Indeed! Then you never heard what happened to him?' 
'Never did hear, Marster.' 
'Ah! Indeed! Well, he ran away, and was caught, and flogged, and bucked, to begin with. Just like yon, Antony. After which he was treated so that he wished he was dead, Antony. Just as you are going to be, my learned Do you understand?' 
Yes, Marster.'
In this colloquy, Mr. Lafitte's voice was as smooth and tranquil as though hewas promising his servant pleasures, instead of pains. Antony had answered mechanically, in a voice as quiet and subdued as his tyrant's, with the slightest possible quaver in his husky tones. 
'So you can read and write, Antony' said the planter, after a pause. 
A little bit, Marster.'
A little bit, eh? Yes. Come, now, let's have a specimen. Here's the Picayune, with something that suits your case.' Mr. Lafitte took the paper from the table as he spoke. A little bit of abolition pleasantry that your British friends fling at the South, and this booby editor circulates. Here, read it out.' 
Antony saw his master's hand extending the paper to him, with the thumb indicating a paragraph. Moving nearer, he mechanically took the paper. The print swam dizzily before his eyes, as, with a halting voice, he slowly read aloud what was, in fact, one of the most pungent anti-slavery sarcasms of the day:— 
'From the—London—Morning Advertiser. One million dollars—reward. Ran away—from—the— subscriber—on the 18th August—a likely fellow, (Antony boggled terribly over "Magyar,"-which he thought must mean mulatto,) named—Louis—Kossuth. He is—about—45—years old—5 feet—6 inches—high. Dark—-com-plexion, marked —eyebrows, and—grey eyesNot a bad description of you, Antony' interpolated Mr. Lafitte. Quito like you, in fact. Go ahead.'
Antony stammered on, losing the place, and beginning lower down. 
"Captains and—masters—of vessels—are—particularly—cautioned—against—harboring—or—concealing—the said—fugitive—on board—their ships—as the—full—penalty—of the law—will—be—rigorously—enforced. You see, Antony,' again interrupted the planter. You reckoned, I suppose, on getting off in a ship, when your nice scheme got you to New Orleans. Didn't you, my nigger Kossuth? You'd be advertised, though, and caught, just like him. Go on' 
Unheeding this sally of Mr. Lafitte's cheerful fancy, Antony went on, losing the place again, and getting to the bottom of the paragraph. 
N. B.—If the—fellow—cannot—be taken—alive—I will pay—a—reward—of (Antony boggled again over the 250,000 ducats named, and called it twenty-five dollars) for his—scalp. Terms as—above. Francis—Joseph, of—Austria.'
'Good,' said the planter. 'Your scalp, you woolly-headed curse, wouldn't bring that in the market, or I'd have it off, and your hide with it. Lay the paper down. You read atrociously.'
Antony laid the paper on the table, and without looking at his master, fixed his blurred eyes on the floor again.
You see,' continued the planter, ' how runaways get served. You have been told, both by Tassle and myself, that even if you got North, you'd be sent back. We've got a Fugitive Slave Law now for runaway niggers, and back they come. You go to Philadelphia. That good Ingraham—that good Judge 
<c05>
Kane—that dear Judge Cadwallader—they send you back. You go to New York. Lord! There sends you back! You go to Boston. That dear Ben Hallett grabs That good Sprague—that good Curtis—all these good grab you, they grabbed that nigger Sims, and back you come. Yet you try it, you foolish Antony. Your caned brother got off from mo nine years ago, and so you think you'll try it too. Fine fellows, both of you. He leaves Cayenne pepper in his tracks, which plays the devil with the , and off he gets. But you've had to smart him. All you've got since, been on his account. Now you'll get something on your own. I'll teach you to steal my horse, and make off for the river with your forged pass and package. Do you see this?'
Lifting his dizzy eyes to the level of his master's hand, Antony saw that it held a heavy iron collar with a prong, on which he read in stamped letters, LAFITTE BROTHERS, NEW ORLEANS. My brother had a nigger that wore this collar once, 'said the smooth, cruel voice, 'and now you'll wear it. If you ever get away again, which I'll take care you never will, people will know who you belong to, my fine boy. Kneel down here.'
Antony felt the sullen hatred seethe up in his heart, and his brain reeled.
I won't have that collar on me, Marster,' he huskily 'You may kill me, Marster, but I won't have that collar on me.' You won't, eh?' returned Mr. Lafitte, tranquilly. 'Oh, well, then, if you won't, you won't. By the way,' he pursued, carelessly taking the paper from table, and fanning himself gently,do you know how I knew you were going to run away? I'll tell you. I was standing near the gin-house, last night, when you came there to steal Tassle's old clothes, and I heard you say to yourself, "Now for liberty or death." Ah, ha, Antony, you shouldn't talk aloud! Tassle and I saw you go to the stable and take the mare, and then we saddled and headed you off, my nigger. That's the way of it. Pick up that paper.'
Raising his eyes to his tyrant's feet, Antony saw the folded paper there where it had been dropped. Approaching, he painfully stooped to pick it up, when he felt himself seized, thrown down upon his knees, and the collar, which opened in the centre, on a strong hinge, was around his neck! He struggled to free himself, but he was held, and the collar closed. In an instant, a key of peculiar wards inserted in one of the cusps of this devilish necklace, shot a bolt into the socket of the other, and Mr. Lafitte, taking out the key, and putting it into his pocket, quietly spat in the face of the man whose neck he bad just fettered, and spurning him violently with his foot, hurled him backward from his knees with a dreadful shock over on the floor.
Stunned for a moment, Antony lay motionless on his side. He knew that his master had risen, for, as he turned his head, he saw the hideous shadow dart suddenly from the pool, and vanish, as though it had entered the planter. On his feet the next instant, with a dark cloud of blood bellowing in his brain, he saw with bloodshot eyes Lafitte standing before him with a calm, infernal smile on his visage, and all the tiger in his tawny orbs. The next second, Madame Lafitte swept, like a superb ghost, between him and his revenge.
'Stay, Josephine,' yelled the planter, his voice no longer issuing smooth and soft from the throat, but tearing up from his lungs in a loud, harsh snarl—'remain here. This entertainment is for you. You object to the howls of my black curs. I bring one here—into this room—whose howls shall split your ears.'
She turned, as be spoke, on the thresh hold of the room, and advancing toward him, paused. For one instant she stood imperial in her beauty, her magnificent form drawn to its full height, her haughty brow corrugated, her eyes burning like bale-fires, her outraged blood flooding her countenance with one vivid crimson glow. The next instant she strode forward, and smote him a sounding buffet on the face. Then, without a word, and with the step of an empress, she swept from the room.
Lafitte turned purple and livid in , and tottering back, fell into his chair. Struck! By her! Before his slave! Glaring up, he met the bloodshot eyes of Antony.
'Dog!' he yelled, 'you are there, you! Wash my spittle from your face with this!'
For a second, Antony stood holding his breath, with the wine the planter had dashed into his face, dripping from him, and steaming in his nostrils. For a second afterward, he stood unwincing, the fragments of the shattered goblet which followed, stinging his flesh. The next, his whole being rose in a wild, red burst of lightning, and the throat of Lafitte was in his right hand, his left crushing back the hand which had struck at him with a bowie-knife as he sprung. With his right knee set solid on the abdomen of the planter, pinning the writhing form to the chair, he saw the devilish face beneath him redden in his gripe, and deepen into horrible purple, and blacken into the visage of a fiend, with bloody, starting eye-balls, and protruding tongue. Still keeping that iron clutch of an aroused manhood on his tyrant's throat, he beard the mad, hoarse gurgle of his agony, and felt the struggling limbs relax and lose their vigor beneath him. And then, yielding to an impulse of compassion his master never knew, and which rose louder than the bellowing voices of his revenge; he unclasped his hold, and saw the body slide flaccid and gasping to the floor.
Away, Antony! The bitter term of your bondage is over, and there is nothing now but Liberty or Death for you! Death? Ay, Death in the land of Liberty for the man who repays long years of outrage with one brave grip on the throttle of his oppressor! Death, when the savage planters muster to avenge their fellow, and drag you down to bayou, to shriek and scorch your life away among the sappy fagots of the slow fire! Death like this, or by gnawing famine, or the beasts and reptiles of the swamp whose beckoning horrors soon must close around you! Liberty or Death-and Liberty a desperate chance, a thousand miles away.
He stood, for an instant, panting, with a wild exultation pouring like fire through his veins. Then snatching the heavy bowie-knife from the floor, he sprang from the room, and leaped on the veranda just as the overseer, who had come up again from the fields, had set one foot on the steps to ascend. Flying against him full shock, he threw him backward clear and clean off his feet, and saw his head bounce with a terrific concussion on the grass as he sped on over the stunned body. He did not pause, nor look behind, but flew with the rush of a racehorse for the swamp. The light wind had risen, and the grain in the fields and the scattered trees on either side, and in the skirting woods beyond, and all the lurking shadows, waved, and tossed, and lifted under the sultry vault, as he sped his desperate course, while the hot landscape rushed to meet him, and ran whirling by, closing around and behind him, and seeming to follow as flew. Across the lawn, its grass and wild-flowers sliding dizzily beneath him—up with a flying leap across the fence, which vanished below him—and down with a light shock on the red plantation marl which rose to meet him, and reeled from under him as he bounded on. Away, with frantic speed, over rows of cotton-plants, bruised beneath his feet, and gliding from under him—away, with a wilder leap, as the loud shouts of the slaves in full chorus struck his ear, and he saw them all, men and women, with open mouths and thrown arms, stand with the mules and ploughs in the field on one side, and vanish from his flying glimpse as he fled by. Away, with every nerve and sinew desperately strung—with his pained heart knocking against his side-with his held breath bursting from him in short gasps—with the sweat reeking and pouring down his body, and dropping in big drops from his face, to be caught upon his clothes in his speed-with the bright knife, as his last refuge, clutched in his grasp—with the one thought of Liberty or Death burning in the whirl of his brain. Past the plantation now, his feet thudding heavily on a hard, black soil—on, with the swarming hum of insects, swirling by—on, with the light and rapid current of the hot south wind cool on the pain and fervor of his face, and swiftly purring in his ears—on, over rushing grass and flowers, and stunted shrubs and butts of trees—up again with a furious leap over a fence that sinks, and down again with a heavy thump on ground that rises--on and away at headlong speed over a field of monstrous stumps, scattering the light chips as he flies—in now with a bound among the bright green leaves of a thick palmetto bottom, and on with a rush through the swish, swish, swish of their loud and angry rustle, as crashes forward to the still gleam of the bayou. Now his feet swash heavily on a grassy turf that yields like sponge, and water fills his shoes at every bound. Now the water deepens, and he sinks above his ankles or midway to his knees, as splashes forward with headlong ve-
<c06>
locity, half-conscious and wholly careless in his desperate exultation that black venomous water-snakes writhe up behind him as he plunges through their pools. Now he bounds over a bank of black <illegible> and swerves in his course as something like a dirty log changes to an alligator, and lumbers swiltly toward him with jaws. And now splashing through the green slime of the margin, he burst with a plunge into the glistening waters of the bayou and swims with vigorous strokes, while the gaunt bittern on the bank beyond scrambles away with squawking screams. Swimming till the water shoals, he flounders on again through <illegible> to <illegible> and over another bog of pools and water-plants and spongy sod, till gaining the outskirts of the dense forest, and reaching a patch of damp, black earth under an enormous eypress-tree, he slackens his pace, stops suddenly, and throwing up his arms upon the trunk, drops his head upon them, panting and blowing-and the first mile-heat of the dreadful race for Liberty or Death is run!
OFFICIAL RUFFIANISM.
The result of an effort to befriend the three African boys who were found on board a deserted slave vessel, that was taken into New York, is thus stated in the Evening Post. The charges are fully sustained by affidavits:-
Mr. Lewis Tappan, who is now over 70 of age accompanied by his grandson, repaired on the 23d ult. to the office of the United States Marshal, Rynders, to inquire into the condition of the boys, and to see if it were possible to transfer them to the care of the ladies of the Colored Orphan Asylum. As soon as the objects of Mr. visit were made known to the agent of the government, he was assailed in the most violent and profane manner. Disgusting oaths and were heaped upon his head—the fists of the burly office-holder were shaken in his face, his cowardly crew of subordinates looking on all the while, and clapping their hands, and finally he was thrust out of the door. When Mr. Barney, a youth under 20, stepped in to shield his grandfather from personal violence, he was abused in the same outrageous manner. Rynders caught him by the hair, and dragged him about the room, and even threatened, amid the most <illegible>rid oaths to cut off his ears with a knife. A more brutal and atrocious assault was never committed by an officer of the government upon unoffending citizens.' 
'HISTORICAL PICTURES RETOUCHED.' 
Mrs. new work, Historical Pictures Retouched,’ has not only a happy title, also more unity than is usual in a volume of miscellanies. The leading idea of the book is Justice to Woman. But the argument is conducted not polemically, but historically, and so is likely to reach and convince more minds. It is hard to get angry with a fact as we often do with an argument. There is closter of biographies, or biographical sketches, of women illustrious in Science, Medicine, and other leading human pursuits. But gracefully intertwined with these are other pleasing articles, touching other points of life and manners. Thus the book, good to keep as a work reference, on account of its numerous details concerning distinguished women, is also good to read, because of its entertaining and brilliant sketches, or, as Mrs. Dall prefers to call them, fancies. It is her best work,-an advance, it strikes us, on the last, Right to which it pleases to see has gone to a second edition. We can give no very good reason saying that this book is better than that. But the tone is more serene; less tending to denunciatics or righteous indignation. The wine is more mellow, these bullition of feeling less profuse, the sediment deposited. That had to be drunk hastily, its bubbling pathos brought disagreeable mist into the eyes; but this we can hold up calmly, and watch the sunshine through its topaz clearness. The names of these studies are attractive, gentle reader. See them,-'Aspasia,' The Countess Matilda, 'Cassandra Fedele. The women of Bologna, (seventeen names are given, The Contributions of Women to Medical Science, (thirty seven names,) The Duties and Influence of Women, (illustrated by reference to thirty women.) Add papers on Marie Cunitz,' 'Madame de Stael, Margaret Fuller, The Great Lawsuit, The Francies, and an excellent tribute to Dr. Lowell,-and you see that this is a book to interest you.- Christian Examiner for November.
A little volume has appeared from the Riverside Press to the memory of John W. Browne It is no ordinary tribute to no ordinary man, which the church, the platform, the bar, and the press have united to render. It is the more appropriate, because the fall from the platform of a railroad car, which occasioned his immediate death has been attributed to another cause than the jar of a sudden turn of the train, just as he had raised to secure his hat. But most appropriate, because Mr. Browne was distinguished in a way which earns no distinction, by qualities as rare as they are valuable, -by a very sensitive conscience which his profession was never suffered to impair; by a manful independence, which early rejected the prized of party preferment; by an earnest philanthropy, which enlisted hand, voice, and purse in the service of the slave, the criminal, and the fallen and the conquest of an impulsive pirit, by a gentleness like that of a woman, and a tenderness as of a mother. Messrs. Sumner Andrew, and Dana Wendell Phillips and C. C. Shackford, have well united in an expression of feeling as graceful as it is true..
SLAVES EMANCIPATED.-The Paris (Ky.) Citizen says: Mr. Noah Spear left here the other day for Xenia, Ohio, taking with him a family of , consisting of a man, his wife and two children, whom he has emancipated and handsomely provided for. He purchased them an excellent farm as a cost of nearly $50 an acre, gave them a wagon and pair of mules, a large quantity of provisions, &c. The name is Edom he is an industrious, sober man, who will do better, when thrown upon his own resources, than most of his class. This is the second lot of Mr. Spear has taken to the same place.
We find in the Wilmington Cazette the complete returns of the census of the State of , from which we learn that there are in the State 110,542 free persons, and 1805 slaves, or 112.319 inhabitants altogether; 19,257 dwellings 19,264 families; 6666 farms; 615 slave- There are 254 slaves in Newcastle county, 203 in Kent, and 1348 in Sussex. In 1850, there were in Newcastle 347, Kent 393, and Sussex 1549-total, 2200. There has therefore been a general decrease of slaves all over the State, reaching in the aggregate 485. The total increase in the population of the State is 10,815.
LORD BROUGHAM. Lord Brougham completed his 82d year, September 19th. He was in perfect health, and has since presided over the annual meeting of the National Society for the promotion of Social Science, at Glasgow. He was born on the 19th day of September, 1778, was admitted an advocate of the Scotish bar in 1800, was called to the bar at Lincoln’s Inn in 1808, was appointed Attorney General to Queen Caroline in April, 1820, and was Lord Chancellor from 1830 to 1834 in Earl Grey’s Government.
A CURIOUS CEREMONY. A Lincoln pole was recently set up at Martinsville, Ohio, and the flag to adorn it was presented by thirty-three young Indies. Sixteen of them were dressed in white, sixteen in black. The thirty-third was dressed in deep scarlest, with a red liberty cap, to represent ‘Bleeding Kansas.’ They all marched round the pole in double file, black and white arm in arm. The ‘red one’ followed on behind, alone and weeping.
THE ‘KIBBEY’ NEGRO BOYS. The three boys found in the bark W.R. Kibbey, which was seized as a slaver some months ago, were, on Saturday, given up by U.S. Marshal Rynders to the Secretary of the Colonization Society. The little fellows looked healthy, and were neatly dressed.
The British government appears to be determined to carry into practice the principles of equality set forth in the famous act of emancipation. Thus, lately the Mayor of Kingston, Jamaica, was made a Companion of the Bath, and more recently Mr. Samuel Cockburn, another gentleman of color, and a <illegible> of the island of Granada, has been appointed Administrator of the Government of Montserrat.
Mr. S. Howard, a colored man, from New Bedford, has improved a machine for sewing hose, with which he successfully manufacturing hydraulic hose in California by which he will realize a fortune.
Mrs. Gell, wife of the incumbent of St. Johns, Notting hill, England, died suddenly on the 6th ult. She was the only child of the late lamented Sir John Franklin.
