THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMSTow dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID.) to the General Agent
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $100.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvanian, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDWARD QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDE’L PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 50. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1860. WHOLE NO. 1564.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
Nothing is more certain than that lunacy, of a type equally grotesque and incurable, reigns throughout South Carolina. Remembering that all her mad pranks and treasonable machinations are reported to solely for the purpose of perpetuating her horrible slave system, re-opening the foreign slave trade, and preventing the extension of free institutions,-and remembering, too, that more than half of her population are chatted slaves, to whom are accorded no more rights than to cattle, sheep and swine,-who but lunatics would think of singing such sentiments as we give below? Surely, 'madness rules the hour'-otherwise, this would present a case of matchless impudence. To think of such inflammatory appeals to liberty being sung in the hearing of slaves, instigating them to 'grasp the sword,' and calling them 'to arms' in defence of their long-lost rights! Who are the real incendiaries at the South?

THE MODERN MARSELLAISE.
The Cooper Opera Troupe, singing in Columbia, S.C., introduced the following Hymn, which Miss Annie Milner was to sins, waving the flag of the Lone Star as a compliment to South Carolina':-
Ye sons of the South, awake to glory!
Hark! hark! what thousands bid you rise!
Your children, wives and grandsires hoary,
Prevent their tears, and save their cries!
Shall hateful tyrants mischief's breeding,
With sectional hosts, a ruffian band,
Affright and dissolute our land,
While peace and liberty lie bleeding?
To arms! to arms! ye brave!
Th' avenging sword unsheath!
March on! march on! all hearts resolved
On victory or death!
Now, now the dangerous storm is rolling,
Which treacherous men confederate raise,
The dogs of faction, loose, are howling-
And, lo! our homes would soon invade.
And shall we basely view the ruin,
While lawless Force, with guilty stride,
Spreads dissolution far and wide,
With crimes and blood his hands imbruing?
To arms! to arms! &c.
Oh, liberty! can man resign thee,
Once having felt thy generous flame?
Can dungeons, bolts and bars confine thee,
Or threats thy noble spirit tame?
Too long the South has borne, bewailing,
That falsehood's dagger Northern wield-
But Freedom is our sword and shield,
And all their arts are unavailing.
To arms! to arms! &c.

From the Carolina Spartan,
A. SOUTHERN MOTHER'S APPEAL.
SOUTH CAROLINA, our pride and boast,
Soil of the gallant and chivalrous brave;
Now is the time, with your panoplied host,
From Northern oppression your country to save!
No longer can you to the tyrants submit,
No! from the Union you surely will sever;
Though in letters of blood your fate may be writ,
Our Rights you'll defend, or resign life forever.
Can you sit still, when your homes are in danger?
Forbearance is over! The hour has come
When each heart must be bold, and to fear be a stranger;
March valiantly forth; and no reckoning sum!
Your wives and your daughters, like SPARTANS of old,
Will gird on your armor, and buckle your shields!
Will bid you God-speed, undaunted and bold;
Exerting their influence wherever it wields!
Then let your bright banners wave high in the air,
The 'Lone Star' will beam as a beacon of light;
Tho' dark clouds may lower, no storm can you fear, 
When guided by rays so glorious and bright!
Then wait not, ye brave hearts! Fear not to act;
Our came is a just one, it's noble and right;
With a firm trust in God, may you never retract:
SECESSION is the Watch-Word our foes to affright!
Spartanburg, Nov. 23.

From the Mobile Tribune.
THE SOUTHERN PATRIOT'S SONG.
Hark! on the breeze it is wafted afar;
The sound of the trumpet, the alarum of war.
Up! up with our banner! the hour has come!
Let each Southern patriot prove true to his home!
When we are united, what have we to fear?
So banish contention and discord fore'er.
Grasp the sword,
Strong of hand,
Pass the word
To each band.
And stand in defence of our own native land.
Is it peace that ye ask for, when 'there is no peace'?
Let such useless clamors forever now cense!
The time is long past when a freeman should crave
A boon on his knees like the down-trodden slave;
Nay, stand to your arms like your fathers of old,
The tri-color proudly above you unrolled;
Never blanch.
Then, but fight,
Ever stanch
In our might;
We know that we battle for Freedom and Right.
Then fearlessly face ye this fierce coming storm,
Like sheep we will drive back the hireling swarm;
For plunder and rapine they raise the red hand;
We tight for the love of our fair Southern land;
Like heroes be bold, and so surely we'll prove
He fights doubly armed who is armed with his love.
Let 'The South'
Be our cry.
And each mouth
Ring it high;
These hounds of the Northland before us will fly.
But let the base coward shrink, trembling away,
And leave us the honor and brunt of the fray;
While hid in dark caverns his safety he seeks,
The blush of his shame deeply mantling his cheeks.
The bright crown of glory shall cover the brow
Of every true Southern that strikes down a foe.
Firmly stand
By the sod
That your brave
Sires trod,
And trust in the truth of your cause and your God.
Mrs. Margarita Canedo sings thus in the Galveston News:-
'Sons of the brave! while shine the swords
That drove the oppressors from our land,
Shall we give way to Northern hordes?
We basely cringe at their command?
No, never!-while there yet remains
A drop of that heroic blood
That dyed our dear-bought battle-plains,
We'll meet the foe, we'll breast the flood.'
<c02>
PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:
Throughout the year, since our last meeting, the country has been eminently prosperous in all its material interests. The general health has been excellent, our harvests have been abundant, and plenty smiles throughout the land. Our commerce and manufactures have seen prosecuted with energy and industry, and have yielded fair and ample returns. In short, no nation in the tide of time has ever presented a spectacle of greater material prosperity than we have done until within a very recent period.
Why is it, then, that discontent now so extensively prevails, and the Union of the States, which is the source of all these blessings, is threatened with destruction? The long continued and intemperate interference of the Northern people with the question of slavery in the Southern States has at length produced its natural effects. The different sections of the Union are now arrayed against each other, and the time has arrived, so much dreaded by the Father of his Country, when hostile geographical parties have been formed. I have long foreseen, and often forewarned, my countrymen of the now impending danger. This does not proceed solely from the claim on the part of Congress or the Territorial legislatures to exclude slavery from the Territories, nor from the efforts of different States to defeat the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law. All or any of these evils might have been endured by the South without danger to the Union, (as others have been,) in the hope that time and reflection might apply the remedy. The immediate peril arises not so much from these causes, as from the fact that the incessant and violent agitation, of the slavery question throughout the North, for the last quarter of a century, has at length produced its malign influence on the slaves, and inspired them with vague notions of freedom. Hence a sense of security no longer exists around the family altar. This feeling of peace at home has given place to apprehensions of servile insurrection. Many a matron throughout the South retires at night in dread of what may befall herself and her children before the morning. Should this apprehension of domestic danger, whether real or imaginary, extend and intensify itself until it shall pervade the masses of the Southern people, then disunion will become inevitable. Self-preservation is the first law of nature, and has been implanted in the heart of man by his Creator for the wisest purpose; and no political Union, however fraught with blessing and benefits in all other respects, can long continue, if the necessary consequence be to render the homes and the firesides of nearly half the parties to it habitually and hopelessly insecure. Sooner or later, the bonds of such a Union must be severed. It is my conviction that this fatal period has not yet arrived; and my prayer to God is. that He would preserve the Constitution and the Union throughout all generations.
But let us take warning in time, and remove the cause of danger. It cannot be denied that, for five and twenty years, the agitation at the North against slavery in the South has been incessant. In 1835, pictorial handbills and inflammatory appeals were circulated extensively throughout the South, of a character to excite the passions of the slaves and, in the language of General Jackson,' to stimulate them to insurrection and produce all the horrors of a servile war.' This agitation has ever since been continued by the public press, by the proceedings of State and county conventions, and by abolition sermons and lectures. The time of Congress has been occupied in violent speeches on this never-ending subject; and appeals in pamphlet and other forms, endorsed by distinguished names, have been sent forth from this central point, and spread broadcast over the Union.
How easy would it be for the American people to settle the slavery question forever, and to restore peace and harmony to this distracted country!
They, and they alone, can do it. All that is necessary to accomplish the object, and all for which the slave States have ever contended, is to be let alone, and permitted to manage their domestic institutions in their own way. As sovereign States, they, and they alone, are responsible before God and the world for slavery existing among them. For this, the people of the North are not more responsible and have no more right to interfere, than with similar institutions in Russia or in Brazil. Upon their good sense and patriotic forbearance, I confess I still greatly rely. Without their aid, it is beyond the power of any President, no matter what may he his own political proclivities, to restore peace and harmony among the States. Wisely limited and restrained as is power, under our Constitution and laws, he alone can accomplish but little, for good or for evil, on such a momentous question.
And this brings me to observe that the election of any one of our fellow-citizens to the office of President does not, of itself, afford just cause for dissolving the Union. This is more especially true if his election has been effected by a mere plurality, and not a majority, of the people, and has resulted from transient and temporal causes, which may probably never again occur. In order to justify a resort to revolutionary resistance, the Federal Government must be guilty of a deliberate, palpable and dangerous exercise of powers not granted by the Constitution. The late Presidential election, however, has been held in strict conformity with its express provisions. How, then, can the result justify a revolution to destroy this very Constitution? Reason, justice, a regard for the Constitution, all require that we shall wait for some overt and dangerous act on the part of the President, before resorting to such a remedy.
It is said, however, that the antecedents of the President elect have been sufficient to justify the fears of the South that he will attempt to invade their constitutional rights. But are such apprehensions of contingent danger in the future sufficient to justify the immediate destruction of the noblest system of government ever devised by mortals? From the very nature of his office, and its high responsibilities, he must necessarily be conservative. The stern duty of administering the vast and complicated concerns of this Government affords in itself a guarantee that he will not attempt any violation of a cleat constitutional right. After all, he is no more than the chief executive officer of the Government. His province is not to make, bill to execute the laws; and it is a remarkable fact in our history that, notwithstanding the repeated efforts of the anti-slavery party, no single act has ever passed Congress, unless we may possibly except the Missouri Compromise, impairing, in the slightest degree, the rights of the South to their property in slaves. And it may also be observed, judging from present indications, that no probability exists of the passage of such an act, by a majority of both Houses, either in the present or the next Congress. Surely, under these circumstances, we ought to be restrained from present action by the precept of Him who spoke as never man spoke, that 'sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.' The day of evil may never come, unless we shall rashly bring it upon ourselves.
<c03>
It is alleged, as one cause for immediate secession, that the Southern States are denied equal rights with the other States in the common Territories. But by what authority are these denied? Not by Congress, which has never passed, and I believe never will pass, any act to exclude slavery from these. Territories; and certainly not by the Supreme Court, which his solemnly decided that slaves are property, and, like all other property, their owners haves a right to take them into the common Territories, and hold them there under the protection of the Constitution.
So far, then, as Congress is concerned, the objection is not to anything they have already done, but to what they may do hereafter. It will surely be admitted that this apprehension of future danger is ho good reason for an immediate dissolution of the Union. It is true that the Territorial Legislature of Kansas, on the 23d of February, 1860, passed in great haste an act, over the veto of the Governor, declaring that slavery' is, and shall be, forever prohibited in this Territory.' Such an act, however, plainly violating the rights of property secured by the Constitution, will surely be declared void by the judiciary whenever it shall be presented in a legal form.
Only three days after my inauguration, the Supreme Court of the United States solemnly adjudged that this power did not exist in a territorial legislature. Yet, such has been the factious temper of the times, that the correctness of the decision has been extensively impugned before the people, and the question has given rise to angry political conflicts throughout the country. Those who have appealed from this judgment of our highest constitutional tribunal to popular assemblies would, if they could, invest a territorial legislature with power to annul the sacred rights of property. This power Congress is expressly forbidden by the Federal Constitution to exercise. Every State Legislature in the Union is forbidden by its own constitution to exercise it. It cannot be exercised in any State, except by the people in their highest sovereign capacity when framing or amending their State Constitution. In like manner it can only be exercised by people of a territory represented in a convention of delegates for the purpose of framing a constitution preparatory to admission as a State into the Union. Then, and not until then, are they invested with power to decide the question whether slavery shall or shall not exist within their limits. This is an act of sovereign authority, and not of subordinate territorial legislation. Were it otherwise, then indeed would the equality of the States in the territories be destroyed, and the rights of property in slaves would depend, not upon the guarantees of the Constitution, but upon the shifting majorities of an irresponsible territorial legislature. Such a doctrine, from its intrinsic unsoundness, cannot long influence any considerable portion of our people, much less can it afford a good reason for a dissolution of the Union.
The most palpable violations of constitutional duty which have yet been committed, consist in the acts of different State Legislatures to defeat the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law. It ought to be remembered, however, that for these acts neither Congress nor any President can justly be held responsible. Having been passed in violation of the Federal Constitution, they are, therefore, null and void. All the courts, both State and National, before whom the question has arisen, have, from the beginning, declared the Fugitive Slave Law to be constitutional. The single exception is that of a State Court in Wisconsin; and this has not only been reversed by the proper appellate tribunal, but has met with such universal reprobation that there can be no danger from it as a precedent. The validity of this law has been established over and over again by the Supreme Court of the United States with perfect impunity. It is founded upon an express provision of the Constitution, requiring that fugitive slaves who escape from service in one State to another, shall be' delivered up' to their masters. Without this provision, it is a well known historical fact that the Constitution itself could never have been adopted by the Convention. In one form or other, under the acts of 1793 and 1850, both being substantially the same, the Fugitive Slave Law has been the law of the land from the days of Washington until the present moment. Here, then, a clear case is presented, in which it will be the duty of the next President, as it has been my own, to act with vigor in executing this supreme law against the conflicting enactments of State legislatures. Should he fail in the performance of this high duty, he will then have manifested a disregard of the Constitution and laws, to the great injury of the people of nearly one-half of the States of the Union. But are we to presume in advance that he will thus violate his duty? This would be at war with every principle of justice and of Christian charity. Let us wait for the overt act. The Fugitive Slave Law has been carried into execution in every contested case since the commencement of the present Administration, though often, it is to be regretted, with great loss and inconvenience to the master, and with considerable expense to the Government. Let us trust that the State legislatures will repeal their unconstitutional and obnoxious enactments. Unless this shall be done, without unnecessary delay, it is impassible for any human power to save the Union.
The Southern States, standing on the basis of the Constitution, have a right to demand this act of justice from the States of the North. Should it be refused, then the Constitution, to which all the States are parties, will have been willfully violated by one portion of them in a provision essential to the domestic security and happiness of the remainder. In that event, the injured States, after having first used all peaceful and constitutional means to obtain redress, would be justified in revolutionary resistance to the Government of the Union.
I have purposely confined my remarks to revolutionary resistance, because it has been claimed within the last few years that any State, whenever this shall be its sovereign will and pleasure, may secede from the Union, in accordance with the Constitution, and without any violation of the constitutional rights of the other members of the confederacy. That as each became parties to the Union by the vote of its own people, assembled in convention, so any of them may retire from the Union in a similar manner by the vote of such a convention.
In order to justify secession as a constitutional remedy, it must be on the principle that the Federal Government is a mere voluntary association of States, to be dissolved at pleasure by any one of the contracting parties. If this be so, the confederacy is a rope of sand, to be penetrated and dissolved by the first adverse wave of public opinion in any of the States. In this manner, our thirty-three States may resolve themselves into as many petty, jarring and hostile republics, each one retiring from the Union, without responsibility, whenever any sudden excitement might impel them to such a course. By this process, a Union might be entirely broken into fragments in a few weeks, which cost our forefathers many years of toil, privation and blood to establish.
<c04>
Such a principles is wholly inconsistent with the history as well as the character of the Federal Constitution. After it was framed with the greatest deliberation and care, it was submitted to conventions of the people of the several States for ratification. Its provisions were discussed at length in these bodies, composed of the first men of the country. Its opponents contended that it conferred powers upon the Federal Government dangerous to the rights of the States, whilst its advocates maintained that under a fair construction of the instrument, there was no foundation for such apprehensions. In that mighty struggle between the first intellects of this or any other country, it never occurred to any individual, either among its opponents or advocates, to assert or even to intimate that their efforts were all vain labor, because the moment that any State felt herself aggrieved, she might secede from the Union. What a crushing argument would this have proved against those who dreaded that the rights of the States would be endangered by the Constitution! The truth is, that it was not until many years after the origin of the Federal Government that such a proposition was first advanced. It was then met and refuted by the conclusive arguments of General Jackson, who in his Massage of 16th January, 1833, transmitting the nullifying ordinance of South Carolina to Congress, employs the following language:-'The right of the people of a single State to absolve themselves at will, and without the consent of the other States, from their most solemn obligations, and hazard the liberty and happiness of the millions composing this Union, cannot be acknowledged. Such authority is believed to he utterly repugnant both to the principle upon which the general government is constituted, and to the objects which it was expressly formed to attain.'
It is not pretended that any clause in the Constitution gives countenance to such a theory. It is altogether founded upon inference, not from any language contained in the instrument itself, but from the sovereign character of the several States by which it was ratified. But is it beyond the power of a State, like an individual, to yield a portion of its sovereign rights to secure the remainder? In the language of Mr. Madison, who has been called the father of the Constitution-' It was formed by the States, acting in their highest sovereign capacity; and formed consequently by the same authority which formed the State Constitutions.'
Nor is the government of the United States, created by the Constitution, less a government in the strict sense of the term, within the sphere of its powers, than the governments created by the Constitutions of the States are, within their several spheres. It is, like them, organized into legislative, executive and judiciary departments. It operates, like them, directly on persons and things; and, like them, it has at command a physical force for executing the powers committed to it.
It was intended to be perpetual, and not to be annulled at the pleasure of any one of the contracting parties. The old articles of confederation were entitled 'Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union between the States;' and by the 13th article it is expressly declared that the articles of this confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union shall be perpetual.' The preamble to the Constitution of the United States, having express reference to the article of confederation, recites that it was established 'in order to form a more perfect Union.' And yet it is contended that this' more perfect Union' does not include the essential attribute of perpetuity.
But that the Union was designed to be perpetual appears conclusively from the nature and extent of the powers conferred by the Constitution on the Federal Government. These powers embrace the very highest attributes of national sovereignty. They place both the sword and the purse under its control. Congress has power to make war, and to make peace; to raise and support armies and navies, and to conclude treaties with foreign governments. It is invested with the power to coin money, and to regulate the value thereof, and to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States. It is not necessary to enumerate the other high powers which have been conferred upon the Federal Government. In order to carry the enumerated powers into effect, Congress possesses the exclusive right to lay and collect duties on imports, and in common with the States to lay and collect all other taxes.
But the Constitution has not only conferred these high powers upon Congress, hut it has adopted effectual means to restrain the States from interfering with their exercise. For that purpose it has, in strong prohibitory language, expressly declared that no State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation; grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payments of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts. Moreover,' without the consent of Congress, no State shall lay any imposts or duties on any imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws;' and, if they exceed this amount, the excess shall belong to the United States.
And ‘no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage; keep troops, or ships-of-war, in time of peace; enter into any agreement or compact with another State, or with a foreign power; or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay.'
In order still further to secure the uninterrupted exercise of these high powers against State interposition, it is provided ‘that this Constitution and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every Slate shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of one State to the contrary notwithstanding.'
The solemn sanction of religion has been super-added to the obligations of official duty, and all Senators and Representatives of the United States, all members of State Legislatures, and all executive or judicial officers,' both of the United States and of the several State, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution.' 
In order to carry into effect these powers, the Constitution has established a perfect government in all its forms, legislative, executive and judicial; and this government, to the extent of its powers, acts directly upon the individual citizens of every State, and exercises its own decrees by the agency of its own officers. In this respect it differs entirely from the government under the old confederation, which was confined to making requisitions on the States in their sovereign character. This left it in the discretion of each whether to obey or refuse, and they often declined to comply with such requisitions. It thus became necessary, for the purpose of removing this barrier, and s in order to form a more perfect Union,' to establish a government which could act directly upon the people, and execute its own laws, without the intermediate agency of the States. This has been accomplished by the Constitution of the United States.
<c05>
In short, the government created by the Constitution, and deriving its authority from the sovereign people of each of the several States, has precisely the same right to exercise its power over the people of all these States, in the enumerated cases, that each one of them possesses over subjects not delegated to the United States, but 'reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people.'
To the extent of the delegated powers, the Constitution of the United States is as much a part of the Constitution of each State, and is as binding upon its people, as though it had been textually inserted therein.
This government, therefore, is a great and powerful government, invested with all the attributes of sovereignty over the special subjects to which its authority extends. Its framers never intended to implant in its bosom the seeds of its own destruction, nor were they at its erection guilty of the absurdity of providing for its own dissolution. It was not intended by its framers to be the baseless fabric of a vision which, at the touch of the enchanter, would vanish into thin air, but a substantial and mighty fabric, capable of resisting the slow decay of time, and of defying the storms of ages. Indeed, well may the jealous patriots of that day have indulged fears that a government of such high powers might violate the reserved rights of the States, and wisely did they adopt the rule of a strict construction of these powers to prevent the danger! But they did not fear, nor had they any reason to imagine, that the Constitution would ever be so interpreted as to enable any State, by her own act, and without the consent of her sister States, to discharge her people from all or any of their federal obligations.
It may be asked, then, are the people of the States without redress against the tyranny and oppression of the Federal Government? By no means. The right of resistance on the part of the governed against the oppression of their governments cannot be denied. It exists independently of all Constitutions, and has been exercised at all periods of the world's history. Under it old governments have been destroyed, and new ones have taken their place. It is embodied in strong and express language in our own Declaration of Independence. But the distinction must ever he observed, that this is revolution against an established government, and not a voluntary secession from it by virtue of an inherent constitutional right. In short, let us look the danger fairly in the face: secession is neither more nor less than revolution. It may or it may not be a justifiable revolution, but still it is revolution.
What, in the meantime, is the responsibility and true position of the Executive? He is bound by solemn oath before God and the country' to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,' and from, this obligation he cannot be absolved by any human power. But what if the performance of this duty, in whole or in part, has been rendered impracticable by events over which he could have exercised no control? Such, at the present moment, is the case throughout the State of South Carolina, so far as the laws of the United States to secure the administration of justice by means of the Federal Judiciary are concerned. All the federal officers within its limits, through whose agency alone these laws can be carried into execution, have already resigned. We no longer have a District Judge, a District Attorney, or a Marshal, in South Carolina. In fact, the whole machinery of the Federal Government, necessary for the distribution of remedial justice among the people, has been demolished; and it would be difficult, if not impossible, to replace it.
The only acts of Congress on the statute book bearing upon this subject, are those of the 28th February, 1795, and 3d of March, 1807. These authorize the President, after he has ascertained that the Marshal, with his posse comitatus, is unable to execute civil or criminal process in any particular case, to call forth the militia and employ the army and navy to aid him in performing the service, having first by proclamation commanded the insurgents to s disperse and return peaceably to their respective homes within a limited time.' This duty cannot by possibility be performed in a State where there is no Marshal to execute it, and where, even if there were such an officer, the entire population would constitute one solid combination to resist him.
The bare enumeration of these provisions proves how inadequate they are without further legislation to overcome a united opposition in a single State, not to speak of other States who may place themselves in a similar attitude. Congress alone has power to decide whether the present laws can or cannot be amended so as to carry out more effectually the objects of the Constitution.
The same insuperable obstacles do not lie in the way of executing the laws for the collection of the Customs. The revenue still continues to be collected, as heretofore, at the Custom House in Charleston; and should the Collector unfortunately resign, a successor may be appointed to perform this duty.
Then, in regard to the property of the United States in South Carolina. This has been purchased for a fair equivalent,' by the consent of the Legislature of the State,'' for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals,' &c., and over these the authority to exercise exclusive legislation' has been expressly granted by the Constitution to Congress. It is not believed that any attempt will be made to expel the United States from this property by force; but if in this I should prove to be mistaken, the officer in command of the forts has received orders to act strictly on the defensive. In such a contingency, the responsibility for consequences would rightfully rest upon the heads of the assailants.
A part from the execution of the laws, so far as this may be practicable, the Executive has no authority to decide what shall be the relations between the Federal Government and South Carolina. He has been invested with no such discretion. He possesses no power to change the relations between them, much less to acknowledge the independence of that State. This would be to invest a mere Executive officer with the power of recognizing the dissolution of the confederacy among our thirty-three sovereign States. It bears no resemblance to the recognition of a foreign de facto government, involving no such responsibility. Any attempt to do that would, on his part, be a naked act of usurpation. It is, therefore, my duty to submit to Congress the whole question in aft its bearings. The course of events is so rapidly hastening forward, that the emergency may soon arrive, when you may be called upon to decide the momentous question whether you possess the power, by force of arms, to compel a State to remain in the Union. I should feel myself recreant to my duty, were I not to express an opinion upon this important subject.
The question fairly stated is: Has the Constitution delegated to Congress the power to coerce a State into submission which is attempting to withdraw or has actually withdrawn from the Confederacy? If answered in-the affirmative, it must be on the principle that the power has been conferred upon Congress to declare and to make war against a State. After much serious reflection, I have arrived at the conclusion that no such power has been delegated to Congress or to any other department of the Federal Government. It is manifest, upon an inspection of the Constitution, that this is not among
<c06>
the specific and enumerated powers granted to Congress, and it is equally apparent that its exercise is not 'necessary and proper for carrying into execution' any one of these powers. So far from this power having been delegated to Congress, it was expressly refused by the convention which framed the Constitution.
It appears from the proceedings of that body, that on the 31st May, 1787, the clause 'authorizing an exertion of the force of the whole against a delinquent State,' came under consideration. Mr. Madison opposed it in a brief but powerful speech, from which I shall extract but a single sentence. He observed:-'The use of force against a State would look more like a declaration of war than any infliction of punishment, and would probably be considered by the party attacked as a dissolution of all previous compacts by which it might be bound. Upon his motion, the clause was unanimously postponed, and was never, I believe, again presented. Soon afterwards, on the 8th June, 1787, when incidentally adverting to the subject, he said:-' Any government for the United States, formed on the supposed practicability of using force against the unconstitutional proceedings of the States, would prove as visionary and fallacious as the government of Congress'-evidently meaning the then existing Congress of the old confederation.
Without descending to particulars, it may be safely asserted, that the power to make war against a State is at variance with the whole spirit of the Constitution. Suppose such a war should result in the conquest of a State, how are we to govern it afterwards? Shall we hold it as a province, and govern it by despotic power? In the nature of things we could not, by physical force, control the will of! the people, and compel them to elect Senators and Representatives to Congress, and to perform all the other duties depending upon their own volition, and required from the free citizens of a free State as a constituent member of the confederacy. 
But, if we possessed this power, would it be wise to exercise it under existing circumstances? The object would doubtless be to preserve the Union. War would not only present the most effectual means of destroying it, but would banish all hope of its peaceable reconstruction. Besides, in the fraternal conflict, a vast amount of blood and treasure would be expended, rendering future reconciliation between the States impossible. In the meantime, who can foretell what would be the sufferings and privations of the people during its existence?
The fact is that our Union rests upon public opinion, and can never be cemented by the blood of its citizens in civil war. If it cannot live in the affections of the people, it must one day perish. Congress possess many means of preserving it by conciliation; but the sword was not placed in their hand to preserve it by force.
But I may be permitted solemnly to invoke my countrymen to pause and deliberate before they determine to destroy this, the grandest temple which has ever been dedicated to human freedom since the world began! It has been consecrated by the blood of our fathers, by the glories of the past, and by the hopes of the future. The Union has already made us the most prosperous, and, ere long, will, if preserved, render us the most powerful nation on the face of the earth. In every foreign region of the globe, the title of American citizen is held in the highest respect, and when pronounced in a foreign land, it causes the hearts of our countrymen to swell with honest pride. Surely when we reach the brink of the yawning abyss, we shall recoil with horror from the last fatal plunge. By such a dread catastrophe, the hopes of the friends of freedom throughout the world would be destroyed, and a long night of leaden despotism would enshroud the nations. Our example for more than eighty years would not only be lost, but it would be quoted as a conclusive proof that man is unfit for self-government.
It is not every wrong-nay, it is not every grievous wrong-which can justify a resort to such a fearful alternative. This ought to be the last desperate remedy of a despairing people, after every other constitutional means of conciliation had been exhausted. We should reflect, that, under this free government, there is an incessant ebb and flow in public opinion. The slavery question, like everything human, will have its day. I firmly believe that it has already reached and passed the culminating point. But if, in the midst of the existing excitement, the Union shall perish, the evil may then become irreparable. Congress can contribute much to avert it by proposing and recommending to the legislatures of the several States the remedy for existing evils, which the Constitution has itself, provided for its own preservation. This has been tried at different critical periods of our history, and always with eminent success. It is to be found in the fifth article providing for its own amendment. Under this article, amendments have been proposed by two-thirds of both Houses of Congress, and have been' ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States,' and have consequently become parts of the Constitution. To this process, the country is indebted for the clause prohibiting Congress from passing any law respecting an established religion, or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press, or of the right of petition. To this we are, also, indebted for the Bill of Rights, which secures the people against any abuse of power by the Federal Government. Such were the apprehensions justly entertained by the friends of State rights at that period as to have rendered it extremely doubtful whether the Constitution could have long survived without these amendments.
Again: the Constitution was amended by the same process, after the election of President Jefferson, by the House of Representatives, in February, 1803. This amendment was rendered necessary, to prevent a recurrence of the dangers which, had seriously threatened the existence of the Government, during the pendency of that election. The article for its own amendment was intended to secure the amicable adjustment of conflicting constitutional questions like the present, which might arise between the governments of the States and that of the United States. This appears from contemporaneous history. In this connection, I shall merely call attention to a few sentences in Mr. Madison's justly celebrated report, in 1799, to the Legislature of Virginia. In this, he ably and conclusively defended the resolutions of the preceding Legislature, against the strictures of several other State Legislatures. These were mainly founded upon the protest of the Virginia Legislature against the 'Alien and Sedition Acts,' as' palpable and alarming infractions of the Constitution.' In pointing out the peaceful and constitutional remedies-and he referred to none other-to which-the States were authorized to resort, on such occasions, he concludes by saying that the Legislatures of the States might have made a direct representation, to Congress with a view to obtain a rescinding of the two offensive acts, or they might have represented to their respective Senators in Congress their wish that two-thirds thereof would propose an explanatory amendment to the Constitution, or two-thirds of themselves, if such bad been their option, might, by an application to Congress, have obtained a convention for the tame object.'
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they spouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
This is the very course which I earnestly recommend in order to obtain anexplanatory amendmentï¿½ of the Constitution on the subject of slavery. This might originate with Congress or the State Legislatures, as may be deemed most advisable to attain the object.
This explanatory amendment might be confined to the final settlement of the true construction of the Constitution on three special points:-
1. An express recognition of the right of property in slaves in the States where it now exists or may hereafter exist.
2. The duty of protecting this right in all the common territories throughout their territorial existence, and until they shall be admitted as States into the Union, with or without slavery.
3. A like recognition of the rights of the master to have his slave, who has escaped from one State to another, restored and ï¿½delivered upï¿½ to him, and of the validity of the Fugitive Slave Law enacted for this purpose, together with a declaration that all State laws imparting or defeating this right are violations of the Constitution, and are consequently null and void.
It may be objected that this construction of the Constitution has already been settled by the Supreme Court of the United States, and what more ought to be required? The answer is, that a very large proportion of the people of the United States still contest the correctness of this decision, and never will cease from agitation and admit its binding force until clearly established by the people of the several States in their sovereign character. Such an explanatory amendment would, it is believed, forever terminate the existing dissensions, and restore peace and harmony among the States.
It ought not to be doubted that such an appeal to the arbitrament established by the Constitution itself, would be received with favor by all the States of the Confederacy. In any event, it ought to be tried in a spirit of conciliation, before any of those States shall separate themselves from the Union.
This portion of the Message contains all that is said by the President in regard to the defiant sedition of the Cotton States. It is characterized throughout by gross misrepresentation, falsehood, slander, treachery, and virtual complicity with the conspirators.

THE PRESIDENTï¿½S MESSAGE.
It was hoped by all the wise and good men of the nation, that the President, at this crisis to which he and his party have brought matters, would show himself a man and a patriot. But his message dissipates all such hopes. He has not met the facts face to face, nor has he manfully told the honest truth. He shows himself to be the same base and heartless partisan and demagogue he has been all his life. This message shows the administration, of which he is the head, to be as weak and puerile as it is base and unprincipled. By his feebleness, and gross and shameless sectionalism, and injustice, and subserviency to the fire-eaters, he has added the last stroke that will make him contemptible in the eyes of the civilized world.
An opportunity was offered at this juncture, for Mr. Buchanan to redeem his administration and his own character from the odium with which they have been covered by the past, and it was hoped that he had manliness and self-respect enough left to enable him to rise to the attitude of a statesman and a patriot, and speak words which would command attention and respect. Instead of this, we have not only feeble words, but a long document filled up with statements, arguments and recommendations of the most false, unjust and shameless description-with nothing above the partisan baseness and subserviency of the graceless press of his party. This message can have no other effect than to aggravate the dangers which threaten, and precipitate the catastrophe which he so feebly deprecates, and the blame of which he places on the shoulders of anybody but the guilty parties.
What will be the result, time only can tell. With such a feeble administration, and one in the interests of the fire-eaters as we have, these reckless persons are bound to have their own way till the 4th of March next, when it is hoped they will find an old Roman at the head of the government, who has something of the spirit of Gen. Jackson, and will wisely, justly, and with a vigorous hand, wield the power with which he will be invested. It is very certain those desperadoes who lead the present agitation, will find themselves beset with difficulties in going out of the Union they do not now apprehend. They will find more is required to accomplish this thing than to vote and to bluster, when they seriously set about the business. It will require time to do what seems to them a matter so speedily and easily accomplished. This very delay, affording time for the people to experience some of the effects of this folly on themselves and their interests, and for passion to subside and for reflection-this, to our mind, is the only hope that the plot of the fire-eaters will not be finally consummated. If final action is delayed till after the inauguration of the new administration, we are sure it will not be attained. With a wise, just, firm, and vigorous executive at the head of the government, treason will come to an end, and peace, honorable and just to all parties, be secured. But with the triumph of the fire-eating policy, there never can be peace. The North will never submit to being made slave-hunters, and the instruments to sustain and extend slavery. Better have secession than this; for any such attempt will only increase and intensify the contest.-Portland Journal.

WHAT A SPECTACLE!
If the Union survives the present ï¿½crisis,ï¿½ it may indeed be deemed impregnable. With a vacillating, timid President, who confesses the wrong, but deems himself powerless to redress it; with treason flaunting its shameless banner in the face of the Executive and defying the nation; treason planting its iron foot on the necks of all Union-loving men within its reach; treason lurking in the Cabinet and diffusing its poison in the Presidential councils; treason receiving aid and comfort from recreant men and presses at the North, having little influence at home, it is true, but powerful for evil where mischief is brewing; what can save the Union but its own innate strength, and the silent influence which its innumerable blessings must eventually exert? Oh, for an hour of Jackson in the Presidential Chair at this time! Oh, for a burst of that patriotic fervor which would have emanated from him, had he seen the starry flag of his country insulted and trampled under foot; which would have aroused from his countrymen, whose hearts yet warm to the stars and stripes as the heart of the Highlander to the Tartan, an irresistible expression of loyalty to the Union, and a stern determination to dare every thing in its defence! Oh, for an hour of Webster, to refuse submission to palpable wrong, though the enemy were thundering at the doors of the Capitol! But now, what weakness, what imbecility, what a humiliating acknowledgment of powerlessness, what a bundle of contradictions in the Presidential Chair!
But let that pass. There are some significant symptoms that the reign of terror in the most intolerant of the Southern States is becoming too atrocious to be submitted to longer without resistance. Thinking men are beginning to experience its effects, and to appreciate its danger. People are beginning to ask what all this must end in. There are signs, too, that the violent threats and speeches of leading secessionists are opening the eyes of those around them to their designs, and inducing them to inquire what they are to gain by exchanging the Union for a military dictatorship or a constitutional monarchy. As the fatal day approaches, the how it is to be done, who are to rule, and the what is to follow, are suggesting reflections, and leading to comparisons between the present and the probable hereafter. Such hot haste is creating suspicion and beginning to be deprecated, and the still small voice of the conservatives who have hitherto been compelled to silence is making itself heard. The motives of those who are urging rash measures are more and more the subject of discussion, and there is every day more reason to believe that there will be a pause before the fatal plunge is made. Meanwhile let every patriot hope that the delusion will speedily pass away, and wait and watch for whatever fortune may betide, but in any event determined to manifest unyielding fidelity to the principles and the heritage committed to us by the Fathers of the Republic.-Salem Register.
SEWARD ON THE MESSAGE. The Washington correspondent of the New York Evening Post says: ï¿½The Message was playfully, but quite happily hit off by Mr. Seward, just after the reading, when some friends of the President asked him what he thought of it. ï¿½I think,ï¿½ said the New York Senator, ï¿½the President has conclusively proved two things: 1st, that no State has the right to secede unless it wishes to; 2d, that it is the Presidentï¿½s duty to enforce the laws, unless somebody opposes him.ï¿½ï¿½
<c02>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 14, 1860.
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Commonwealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and humane portion of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to be up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, be tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose; and let the world know how many there are among us who ï¿½remember those in bonds as bound with them,ï¿½ and are therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave-hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as their accomplices in kidnapping.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes ï¿½service or labor ï¿½to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.

CARL SCHURZ ON FREE SPEECH.
The eleventh of the Fraternity lectures was delivered, Tuesday evening, at Tremont Temple, by CARL SCHURZ of Wisconsin. The subject announced in the papers was that of ï¿½American Civilization, ï¿½but recent events, he said, had suggested another topic, which he had worked out in two days-that of ï¿½FREE SPEECH. ï¿½(Loud and long continued applause.) At the conclusion of this demonstration, Mr. Schurz in his exordium said-
A few days ago, when on my travels in the State of New York, I was reading newspapers in a railroad car, my eye lighted upon a column headed in large letters: ï¿½The mouth of Abolitionism shut! The Blacks smoked out! ï¿½&c., and then followed a glowing account of the ardor and enthusiasm displayed by the intelligent and conservative citizens of Boston, in breaking up a meeting of Abolitionists. At first, I thought there must be some mistake; it must be an old paper, or an article copied from an old paper; or it must be a typographical error, substituting Boston for Baltimore, or Louisville, or some other place exposed to the Southern breeze-but sure enough, all the particulars coincided; it was Boston, the great commercial and intellectual metropolis of the great and enlightened State of Massachusetts. I need hardly add that the paper which expressed so high satisfaction at an attempt to put down freedom of speech, had in the late campaign advocated the interests of that champion of popular rights, Stephen A. Douglas, slightly mixed up with those of Mr. Bell, and of the great representative of American culture and refinement, Edward Everett. (Sensation.)
I must confess that the reading of that account filled me with sadness; for of all countries on the globe, Massachusetts, and of all cities inhabited by civilized beings, Boston ought to be the first to undertsand that free speech is not only the great propelling power of progress, but also the great bulwark of peace and security. (Hearty applause.)
Mr. Schurz then proceeded to make a most eloquent defence of the right and safety of free speech, showing its glorious results, and illustrating his theme in a manner to elicit enthusiastic applause from the immense audience. The entire lecture may be found in the Atlas & Bee of Wednesday, and the demand for it will doubtless be great. Thanks to the noble German for his timely utterances!

A PATRIOTIC PARODY
On our first page may be found a fiery poetical (!) effusion, entitled ï¿½The Southern Patriot ï¿½s Song. ï¿½We find the following parody in an exchange paper:
Awake! on the breeze it is wafted afar;
The sound of Fire-eaters in war ï¿½s flaming car!
Up with our blood-banner; the hour has come
To follow brave Keitt and the bold Quattlebum!
When we are united, we ï¿½ve nothing to fear;
Let us pledge heart and hand in good whiskey here!
Grasp the sword,
Strong of hand,
Pass the word
To each band,
And hold to a slave, if perchance you can ï¿½t stand.
Is it peace that ye ask? alas! there ï¿½s no peace;
Let such Yankee twaddle forever surcease!
The time is long past when a Southron should fear
To follow the leaders of chivalry here;
Nay, stand to your arms-supplied by the North-
With cockades of blue ï¿½neath the ï¿½Lone Star ï¿½go forth.
Never run-
But keep ï¿½tight, ï¿½
For there ï¿½s fun
When you fight
Proud chivalry ï¿½s battle-the wrong for the right.
Then fearlessly face ye this fierce coming storm,
Backed up by slave-drivers, a blood-thirsty swarm-
Of the low Northern ï¿½mud-sills ï¿½who is afraid,
When plunder and rapine alone are their trade?
Like herds of Australia-immortal Haynaus-
Let us fight for the slave-pen, its flag and our laws.
Let slavery,
Our prayer,
Be the cry-
Don ï¿½t despair-
And these hounds of the North before us will fly.
But let the base cowards, who are wishing to pay
Their debts to the North, keep out of the way;
And two hundred millions of dollars-all told-
Will be stolen for State rights insurgents so bold!
And the cockade of slavery will shine o ï¿½er the brow
Of every true planter who thus robs his foe.
Then stand
By your liquor!
Hold your hand
On each trigger,
And when Chestnut cries Fire!-let the whole GIST go.
ï¿½Punch, ï¿½a paper always true to humanity, had lately some graceful lines expressing, on the occasion of the Prince of Wales ï¿½s visit to the United States, the sentiment of fraternal alliance which should unite the two countries. In the accompanying illustrative engraving, ï¿½Lord Punch ï¿½is represented, his countenance beaming with smiles of the intensest satisfaction, introducing the Prince to his partner in the ball-room, with these words- ï¿½Now, my boy, here ï¿½s your pretty cousin Columbia! You don ï¿½t get such a partner every day! ï¿½
It is noticeable that the dress of Columbia is adorned with stars, but has no stripes on it. May we soon have a Free Northern Republic, with which the best sentiment and principle of Old England can appropriately be allied.-C. K. W.
South Carolina continues to bawl till she is hoarse, ï¿½Se-CESSION! ï¿½Well, we want to see it! When shall we see it? Why such tardiness? We are growing extremely impatient! And what is peculiarly distressing to us is, that, by the latest telegraphic intelligence, it is announced that she is cooling off rapidly! We trust it is not true; yet we fear the worst-for the Legislature of that State is so divided at this moment as to be unable to elect a Governor-the champion fire-eater, Rhett, running the lowest of the candidates! We are apprehensive that, after all, our hopes of secession are to be blasted!
<c03>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LONDON, Nov. 23, 1860.
MY DEAR GARRISON:
A brief note I must send you, to offer my heartfelt congratulations on the result of the popular vote for President of the United States, and especially on the present position of old Massachusetts. All drawbacks to the contrary notwithstanding, the 6th of November, 1860, was a glorious day for the Bay State. A majority, over all, of 42,000 for a Presidential candidate representing the ï¿½anti-slavery idea. ï¿½and a majority, over all, of nearly 39,000 for an anti-slavery Governor, who was not afraid to applaud John Brown before his election, nor to stand on the platform with Wendell Phillips the day after his elevation. Verily, my dear friend, your reward is great!
ï¿½Saw we not the cloud arise,
Little as a human hand?
Now it spreads o ï¿½er all the skies,
Drops on every thirsty land! ï¿½
Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God in his anti-slavery government? or with what comparison shall we compare it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that lie in the earth; but when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches, so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadows of it.
The newspapers of England, with some exceptions-and those the representatives of the cotton interest- have loudly echoed the acclaims that have reached us from your side of the sea since the election of Lincoln.
To me, it seems that the triumph just achieved has placed the cause in a new, a critical, and a trying position; demanding (if it be possible) additional vigilance, inflexible steadfastness to fundamental moral principles, and unrelaxed energy in the employment of anti-slavery means. You have now to grapple with the new doctrine of Republican conservatism, and will be called to contend with those in power who, having gained their object by the assistance derived from the abolition ranks, will use their power to repress, if not to punish, the spread of the true gospel of freedom. You have now to make genuine converts of those who have as yet only been baptized into the faith of non-extension, and whose zeal in that direction is mere white-man-ism. Forgetting the things that are behind, you have to reach forth to the things that are before, pressing towards the object you had in view when starting-the utter extermination of slavery wheresoever it may exist.
I have just read the splendid speech of Wendell Phillips, on Wednesday, the 7th. It is a masterly review of the history of the Anti-Slavery movement, and the various political sects it has generated. It is as philosophical as it is eloquent, and as brilliant as it is profound. What affluence of language, what merciless dissection of the pretensions of would-be great men, what sublime moral integrity! Thank God! that the cause of the slave possesses a man like Phillips, the heaven-gifted champion of the rights of the oppressed. What electrifying power over the souls of millions his utterances must exert! How the boasted statesmen of your continent must quail in the presence of the scorching truths directed by him to the overthrow and annihilation of their self-seeking schemes!
My paper is full, save that I have room enough to say that I am ever,
Most fraternally yours,
GEO. THOMPSON.

LETTER FROM WM. S. BAILEY.
NEWPORT, (Ky.) Dec. 6th, 1860.
W. L. GARRISON:
MY GOOD FRIEND,-I was indicted by the Grand Jury at the Circuit Court, last week, but my trial was continued until the next term, in May, 1861. This was at Alexandria, thirteen miles back of Newport, where much bullying and pro-slavery abuse was expected, from threats made previous to the sitting of the Court. I got a few friends to go out with me, and some were there from that neighborhood, and we all kept near to each other during the four days I had to stay. Abusive and malicious language was made use of, but no violence was offered. My wife was with me, also, to see the worst of what might be done. My prosecution was the subject of much conversation, and, so far as I could learn, was generally condemned. Much excitement prevails here now. It cost me $100 at this Court, and my friends about $50; and, on my own account, in all, since I was first arrested, $250, not including the money spent by friends going out to Alexandria.
I paid off that pressing portion of debt upon my house and lot, near $700, on my return home from Boston. Had it not been for the fruits of slavery and the slaveholding power, crushing every thing that resists the intolerance of its sway, to-day I could have possessed a home free from debt, and enjoyed the fruits of the labor of myself and family; but to grant what slaveholders consider their rights, bars every other person of all rights.
Some of my children are at work in Cincinnati, and some are at home in the office on jobs: they make out to keep the house, but business is very dull and prices very low.
Should I raise a little more money, I will soon start the paper again. These blustering bullies are no terror to me. Their actions prove too clearly their own cowardice; and I am sorry to see the Free State people holding ï¿½Union meetings, ï¿½to satisfy such brazen insolence. They can destroy my property at will, and then seek to put me into the penitentiary for publishing their act. If Mr. Buchanan would do the nation ï¿½s will at this time, these arrogant despots, with their tar-and-feather accomplices, would soon become cool. There it a way by which they could be made very penitent, very obliging and common-sense citizens. They are aching for chastisement, and the President should not delay a single hour in the discharge of this necessary duty. A large majority of the Southern people, now tongue-tied under the frown of these slaveholding lords, would glory in the deed. I know the hearts of the people too well to be mistaken in what I say.
W.M. S. BAILEY.
Post-office address, ï¿½Covington, Ky. ï¿½
OLIVER ï¿½S COLLECTION OF CHURCH MUSIC.-Ditson & Co. have published a fine music book of 320 pages, containing a collection of hymn and psalm tunes, sentences, anthems and chants-a National Lyre, for use in the church, family, or singing school-compiled by Henry K. Oliver. Gen. Oliver, says the Salem Register, has long been known as a musical amateur of great theoretical and practical knowledge, fine taste, and an enlarged acquaintance with the works of the best authors. He is also a composer of some of our most popular church tunes, and from his long connection with choirs is perfectly familiar with their wants, and amply competent to prepare a compilation suited to all emergencies. His collection will, therefore, at once secure the confidence of choristers and choirs in all this region. It comprises a great variety of pieces, selected and original, much of the latter being taken from his own rich stock, and that of musical friends, and never before in print. We are glad to notice that he retains many of the fine old tunes of the English school, which it has been fashionable to discard in recent collections, but which are really among the most meritorious and impressive. The usual elementary matter is omitted, thereby leaving more room for the legitimate purposes of the book. The harmony is distinctly arranged for the organist or pianist, and the typography is uncommonly good, exhibiting indeed a model of musical legibility.
Wendell Phillips is to lecture before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society on Sunday forenoon, at Music Hall. There will be a full house.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
GERMAN POPULAR TALES AND HOUSEHOLD STORIES: Collected by the Brothers Grimm. Newly Translated. With Illustrations by Edward H. Wehnert. In Two Volumes. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1861.
These are tempting volumes with reference to Christmas and New Year ï¿½s gifts for the juveniles, handsomely executed, and containing about two hundred tales and legends, full of all that is droll, grotesque, marvellous and impossible, yet often teaching a useful lesson. The industry of the Brothers Grimm, (what a queer name in connection with such a fund of humor and extravagant fancy!) in compiling these numerous stories, which have been repeated, at least in part, in almost every German household from generation to generation, with more or less of embellishment, and are likely to be handed down to a distant posterity, is certainly remarkable. At no period of life is the love of the marvellous wholly lost; so that the gravest, in their hours of relaxation, find amusement and relief in the perusal of such works as the Arabian Nights ï¿½Tales and the German Popular Legends. The gift season being at hand, and the winter evenings extending, these volumes will prove extremely attractive and acceptable to the ï¿½rising generation. ï¿½The Illustrations are numerous and graphic.
THE PERCY FAMILY. THE BALTIC TO VESUVIUS. By Daniel C. Eddy. Boston: Andrew F. Graves, 24 Cornhill. 1860.
This is a neat volume of 256 pages, pleasantly describing the events of a tour on the Continent, and the many strange and interesting objects encountered on the way. Its style is simple and colloquial, Walter and Minnie, the children of Mr. Percy, the traveller, enlivening the narrative with their excited inquiries and remarks. The engravings are-St. Peter ï¿½s, Rome; The Ca ï¿½Dora Palace; Venice; The Campanile, Florence; The Holy Stairs; The Roman Forum; A Street in Pompeii; The Doria Palace. The next number of the series- ï¿½Over the Alps and Down the Rhine ï¿½-will be issued in a few weeks, completing the tour of the Percy Family in Europe.
THE ANTI-CHRIST OF NEW ENGLAND. A Sermon preached at the opening of the Essex North Conference, Haverhill, Mass. Sept. 9, 1860. By Charles Beecher, Georgetown, Mass. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co.
It would puzzle our readers to correctly guess who or what is ï¿½The Anti-Christ of New England, ï¿½in this connection; but it means the man who dissents from Charles Beecher in regard to the nature and precise amount of ï¿½inspiration ï¿½contained in the Bible! Of course, the assumption, though not extremely modest, is easily made; but to prove it is quite another matter. As there is no admitted Protestant infallibility,-though it is often assumed,-we beg leave to say that we totally dissent both from the theory and the reasoning (if sophistry be reasoning) of the author of this sermon; and not calling the honesty of his own convictions on this subject in question, we may venture to suggest that those who do not agree with him are not less honest than himself; nor less reverent in spirit, less appreciative of truth, less anxious for the dissemination of light, less disposed to ï¿½prove all things, and hold fast that which is good. ï¿½He may invidiously brand all such as the disciples of ï¿½Anti-Christ, ï¿½and treat them accordingly; but, until he can show in his own case a better life than theirs,-a more vital interest in the cause of suffering humanity, a higher moral courage to grapple with the prevailing sins of the age, a more self-sacrificing spirit to promote human welfare on a world-wide basis than theirs,-his accusation will carry with it no moral force among those who know how to distinguish between a mere theological dogma and an upright character. Indeed, what more biting retort need be made than to quote his warning to evangelical churches, ï¿½Especially must they beware of suffering social reform to become the monopoly of the destructives ï¿½? What sort of ï¿½destructives ï¿½are these? And of what value are churches needing such an admonition? ï¿½The temperance reformation, ï¿½he says, ï¿½was born and brought up by the churches of New England. ï¿½As one of the earliest advocates of that reformation, this is news to us. Long after it was commenced, the doctrine of total abstinence was generally treated by the churches as no better than fanaticism; and even at the present time, they evince no special zeal or courage in its enforcement. It is claimed by Mr. Beecher, that ï¿½the free congregations of New England rendered the air so pure that slavery died of asphyxia. ï¿½It would gratify us if he would give the public any evidence that they did any thing directly and purposely towards effecting the abolition of slavery in New England, beyond the general political and secular sentiment of the times on that subject. He admits, as pertaining to the great struggle now agitating the country, that ï¿½the churches have need to confess sins of omission, ï¿½-and, we will add, of commission,- ï¿½towards the slave, ï¿½yet he is confident that ï¿½time will show their head, and heart, and system to be right in this matter. ï¿½The same charitable opinion may be expressed in regard to all heterodox churches. No doubt, in time-that is, when an irresistible abolitionized public sentiment shall make conformity on their part not only expedient, but indispensable-they will all be opposed to slavery; just as they are now generally indifferent or hostile to the anti-slavery enterprise. ï¿½I humbly hope, ï¿½says Mr. Beecher, ï¿½I speak the honest conviction of the New England churches, when I say SLAVEHOLDING IS A SIN. ï¿½His hope is immensely large, if, by ï¿½honest conviction, ï¿½he means a practical enforcement of that conviction. Not one-tenth of them are ready to endorse the resolutions adopted by his own church on this subject; for these resolutions are unadulterated ï¿½Garrisonian abolitionism ï¿½!-Read, and decide:-
ï¿½Resolved, That we, as a branch of Christ ï¿½s church, feel ourselves called upon to bear our solemn testimony against this sin (slaveholding) in all its forms, feeling that in the neglect of this duty, we at the last day shall incur the displeasure of Him who has said, ï¿½Inasmuch as ye did it not to the least of these my brethren, ye did it not to me, ï¿½and that it is a Christian duty which we owe to the oppressor thus faithfully to reprove him for his Heaven-daring sin.
Resolved, That in view of the light that is shed upon the path of the Christian at the present day, it is a sin for us as a church [to hold,] and we will not hold fellowship or communion with any one who claims the right to hold, or holds his fellow-beings as property.
Resolved, That we feel it to be a sin, and a reproach to the cause of Christ, for any one bearing his name to connive at, or apologize for, the sin of American slavery. ï¿½
This is our thunder-the kind of ï¿½infidelity ï¿½we have promulgated for the last thirty years; but it is only an obscure church, here or there, in New England, as a very exceptional (and, to the rest, very exceptionable) case, that has had the moral courage to adopt it as a rule of discipline.
In regard to the ï¿½plenary inspiration of the Bible, ï¿½it is time for all dogmatism to cease; for men who are intelligent, honest, and morally independent, will value the book in proportion as its contents are seen to be just, humane and true; and such portions of it as they believe to conflict with sound reason, pure morality and impartial justice, they will reject. Even if the dogma be granted in the abstract, or for the argument ï¿½s sake, practically it can never be of any value in making unity of belief and conformity of life, so long as to every man is conceded the right to read and interpret the Bible for himself; against all external authority; hence the dogma is a mere ï¿½nose of wax, ï¿½and ï¿½plenary inspiration ï¿½is resolved into external opinion and human fallibility. Hence the multitudinous conflicting opinions as to what the Bible really teaches, and the thousand jarring sects, each professing to be sustained by that volume.
<c05>
NOTES ON THE TREMONT TEMPLE MOB.
As none of the daily papers gave an entirely accurate and just account of the proceedings at Tremont Temple on Monday forenoon, the 3d of December, and as many of them grossly perverted the truth in regard to that meeting, I will state some facts respecting it which came under my own eye.
The meeting was called for 10 o ï¿½clock in the morning, and announced to be held also through the afternoon and evening. Being accidentally detained, I did not reach the Temple until 101/2. At that time, a crowd, densely gathered together on the School street side of the Hall, were clamoring and shouting so as to drown the voices of those who occupied the platform, and who had been named in the Call for the meeting, as designing to take part in its proceedings.
I went to that side of the Hall, into the midst of the disturbers. Although the Hall was not a quarter part full, and the seats in front of the platform had very few occupants, these rioters were standing, grouped closely together, and many of them standing on the cushions, and on the backs of the seats. The noise, proceeding from perhaps two hundred vigorously exerted voices, was enforced by violent kicks against the seats, defacing and injuring them, and by the noise of canes and heels on the floor. Whenever the gentlemen on the platform attempted to proceed with the organization of their meeting, or to remonstrate against this lawless invasion of their rights, the howls, kickings and stampings of this body were repeated.
The persons who made this disturbance were not laboring men, neither were they in dress and personal appearance what would ordinarily be called vulgar men. Their language, when any remonstrance against their riotous conduct was addressed to them, was vulgar and profane; but their dress and their faces plainly declared them to be ï¿½gentlemen of property and standing. ï¿½Their coats were of fine broadcloth, their shirt collars fresh and clean. They looked like the frequenters of State street, and of the avenues of wholesale trade in cotton goods. They resembled the famous mob of 1835, of which also I was a witness. Probably, many of them were the sons of the ï¿½gentlemen ï¿½who at that time violently broke up the ï¿½Women ï¿½s Anti-Slavery Meeting. ï¿½They certainly showed the same spirit and character.
The aspect, manners and language of this mob showed an active sympathy with slavery and slave-holders. When Frederick Douglass, in that part of his speech which was audible, spoke of the fact that the slaves, from half-a-million, had increased to four millions, the mob shouted- ï¿½Good! Good! ï¿½Their remarks to each other contained frequent curses and vituperations against ï¿½niggers, ï¿½and the white friends of ï¿½niggers ï¿½; and from time to time, through the whole forenoon, they put their disturbance of the meeting for which the hall had been hired into the form of ï¿½three cheers ï¿½for any prominent representative of the Slave Power that occurred to them. Thus, ï¿½three cheers, ï¿½with the heartiest vigor and good will, were given for Governor Packer, of Pennsylvania, who had written an uncivil letter to the callers of the meeting; then three cheers for the Constitution; then for South Carolina; then for Virginia; then for Governor Wise; then for Daniel Webster; then for Bell and Everett; then for Georgia; then for Tennessee, &c., &c., these being brought in at those intervals when Mr. Sanborn and his friends were attempting to speak.
The aspect, language and manners of this mob showed also a murderous ferocity of spirit. It seemed evident that they were ready to kill the more prominent representatives of opposition to slavery, as soon as tumult and confusion could be raised far enough to screen the individual perpetrators of such act. I am satisfied that nothing but the firm quietness of the gentlemen on the platform, confining themselves to temperate and orderly remonstrance against this invasion of their rights, prevented the brutal spirit of the mob from proceeding to bloodshed. This was shown, among other things, by the alacrity with which they rushed forward to the platform on the single occasion when one of those gentlemen used his hand, as well as his voice, to maintain the rights of his friends; namely, when Mr. Frederick Douglass attempted to prevent Mr. Sanborn ï¿½s chair from being snatched away from behind him for the use of the mob-chairman. An immediate eager movement forward of the mass of rioters, together with the expressions that I heard passing from one to another- ï¿½That ï¿½s it! ï¿½-ï¿½Now ï¿½s the time! ï¿½-indicated that an arrangement to take advantage of such opportunities had already been agreed upon.
The existence of such a pre-arrangement, or conspiracy, was manifest from other indications. The mob-chairman drew from his pocket a series of proslavery resolutions covering a whole letter sheet, which must have been prepared before the meeting commenced, (very likely days before,) and which were immediately accepted by the unanimous vote of the mob, without criticism or the slightest suggestion for their modification.
The rioters gave three cheers, as I have said, for Bell and Everett. The dress, manners and morals of the crowd showed that they might, probably enough, belong to the Bell-Everett party, (whether or not officials of the Custom House were among them, as was afterwards reported.) When the tumult prevented my distinguishing the name that was nominated for second mob-chairman, I asked one of the disturbers, who told me it was J. Murray Howe, adding, by way of explanation- ï¿½Bell and Everett candidate for the General Court. ï¿½All these indications of the particular party from which the outrage proceeded are confirmed by the statement in the Courier, which vouched for their ï¿½respectability, ï¿½ ï¿½recognized a large number of the merchants of Boston ï¿½among them, praised their ï¿½resolute good nature, ï¿½(!) and assumed that ï¿½all good citizens ï¿½were entitled to do what they did! In its representations of the meeting, the Courier lied with its usual systematic unscrupulousness, and its usual malignity.
About an hour after the commencement of the disturbance, the police arrived, and a large number of them were in the Hall from that time to the close of the meeting. The outrages went on as before, the police standing idly and gazing at them, but evidently not directed by their Chief to interfere. The Chief of Police himself appeared on the platform from time to time, and made feeble appeals to all persons present, alike the holders of the meeting and the rioters, to withdraw. But, although he had a force present which, in any five minutes of the subsequent two hours, might have reduced the meeting to perfect order, he gave no command to that effect. I <illegible> instance, that I saw, was there the slightest interference with one of the rioters, although, in the latter part of the meeting, the police did interfere with some of the legitimate holders of it, for instance, Mr. Sanborn and Mr. Frederick Douglass.
The mob soon saw the systematic indulgence which the Chief of Police accorded to them, and gave, vociferously, ï¿½Three cheers for the police. ï¿½At different stages of the meeting afterwards, I heard prominent rioters saying to each other- ï¿½The police are all right ï¿½- ï¿½The police are with us ï¿½- ï¿½The other party pay ï¿½em, and we get the work. ï¿½
The demeanor of the Chief of Police was puzzling, and seemed at first unaccountable. His inaction through most of the meeting, combined with his action at its close, favored the rioters throughout, and accomplished their purpose to break up the meeting. Yet he did not exhibit, nor seem to feel, any strong bias for one side nor against the other. The puzzling
[Here it is:-] EXECUTIVE DEPARMENT,
HARRISBURG Pa., Nov. 21, 1860.
SIR:-In my opinion, the young men whose names are attached to the foregoing letter would better serve God and their country by attending to their own business. John Brown was rightfully hanged, and his fate should be a warning to others having similar proclivities.
WM. F. PACKER, Governor of Pennsylvania.
JAMES REDPATH, Boston.
<c06>
thing was, that he looked and acted irresolutely. He might thoroughly have protected the meeting, and insured its quiet continuance through the afternoon and evening, by giving a single command. He did not give it. On the contrary, whenever he spoke, it was with an indecisive manner, and in a feeble voice, requesting instead of commanding; requesting both parties to withdraw, instead of commanding the riotous party to cease from their violence.
This gross violation of the duties of a Chief of Police was afterwards rendered still more puzzling by the testimony of some who heard the Mayor direct the Chief to ï¿½use his discretion ï¿½in regard to the meeting. On that occasion, he substantially helped the mob to break up the meeting. In the evening, however, another meeting of the same persons in the Joy street church was perfectly protected, and a mob of ten times the number was kept under perfect restraint by the police, under circumstances unspeakably more difficult. The only theory which will account for all these facts is one which the character of Mayor Lincoln renders every way probable; namely, that he gave secret directions to the Chief of Police to let the first meeting be broken up; that he then used the fact of its dispersion as an excuse for giving the arbitrary and shameful order, (for which he alone is responsible,) that no meeting should be held in that place in the afternoon or evening; but that afterwards, finding that the grossness of his violation of duty might have an unpleasant reaction upon himself, he commanded that the Joy street meeting should be really protected.
It seems clear that, next to the actual rioters, Mayor Lincoln is the most guilty person in this matter. It is to be hoped that measures may soon be taken to have the metropolitan police force appointed by the State, instead of by the city.
It was observable among the rioters, that though some of them exhibited the most hardened impudence and openness in their proceedings, others were so much ashamed of their acts of violence as to keep them more or less concealed from public view, placing themselves so as to be screened by their companions. Several times I saw quiet remonstrances addressed by individuals to the disturbers nearest them. Frequently, curses and threats would be given them in return; but even then, some mitigation of the disturbance was generally the result; and the effect of the presence of these few quiet and pacific protestants was such, that it seemed clear to me that a number of them equal to the body of police in the Hall, distributed among the rioters, and acting in concert by gently, but firmly, speaking against disorder, each to some one next him, would probably have disconcerted the mob, prevented their unity of action, and thus prevented the accomplishment of their purpose, even in the absence of the badge of authority, and that divinity which ï¿½doth hedge ï¿½an officer.
The most efficient of these men, who did the proper work of a peace officer without a badge, was Captain Hayes, Superintendent of the Temple. He accomplished far more towards the preservation of good order, and the postponement of mob violence on that day, than the Chief of Police and his fifty uniformed men. He repeatedly spoke from the platform, vindicating the right of those who had hired the hall peaceably to enjoy the use of it; and he frequently went among the rioters, appealing to them for quietness, as well as for the protection of the cushions and seats from injury. He, too, was repeatedly cursed and threatened while in the discharge of this duty. But he did, bravely and faithfully, all that one man could do.
There were two occasions in the course of Monday forenoon, on which the movements of the rioters were temporarily foiled, (receiving what chess-players would call ï¿½Check! ï¿½) from the exercise of ready with and skill by two of the occupants of the platform.
As soon as the mob-chairman first chosen had finished reading his cut-and-dried list of pro-slavery resolutions, Frederick Douglass, who was sitting next the desk, on the front of the platform, immediately addressed him- ï¿½Mr. Chairman ï¿½-thus compelling him, in the exercise of his usurped office, to introduce to the mob, as a person authorized to address them, the very last person they would wish to hear. Without loss of time he commenced a hold and energetic speech, the tenor of which may be judged from its commencement: ï¿½Mr. Chairman, this is one of the most impudent outrages on the right of free speech that I ever witnessed. ï¿½The mob, as well as their chairman, were so taken by surprise, that Mr. Douglass was able to tell them a good deal of disagreeable truth before the disturbance recommenced. And when, at last, it did recommence, the following amusing incident took place. The mob-chairman (Mr. Fay) seemed, much against his will, to feel bound by the proprieties of the public function he had undertaken to discharge. He was bound, officially, to repress the disorder that began to arise, and the customary way to do this is to call out ï¿½Order, ï¿½and rebuke those who continue disorderly. But in this case the disturbers were his own friends and allies, and the disturbance was the very work he had come there to promote. The position was truly awkward, yet he must take some immediate action; so, like a body impelled by two diverse forces, the puzzled mob chairman took a course between, and instead of demanding the right of uninterrupted speech for Mr. Douglass in a chairman ï¿½s customary style, he indicated to his friends by winks, grimaces, shakings of the head, and deprecatory motions of the hands, that he had got into a tight place, which absolutely required that they should bear for awhile the lashes which the impetuous orator was bestowing upon them.
The second mob-chairman, Mr. J. Murray Howe, of Brookline, was bothered with equal adroitness and success by Stephen S. Foster.
After a debate as to who was properly chairman of the meeting, in the course of which Mr. Sanborn had been clamored down, and Mr. Howe clamored up, by the mob, a few minutes of silence succeeded. Mr. Foster came forward, and, addressing J. Murray Howe, (who occupied the chair that one of his accomplices had stolen from behind Mr. Sanborn ï¿½s back,) said- ï¿½Mr. Chairman, ï¿½-and then, as if asking for more certain information, added- ï¿½I understand you to claim to be chairman of this meeting. ï¿½The unsuspecting Mr. Howe answered ï¿½Yes, ï¿½and Mr. Foster proceeded-ï¿½Why does not the business of the meeting go on? ï¿½It was a hard question to answer. But before Mr. Howe had found what to say to it, the pitiless Mr. Foster proceeded- ï¿½What is the business of this meeting? ï¿½-a harder question yet to reply to. The mob-chairman knew not what to answer; and Mr. Foster coolly suggested-ï¿½Would it not be well to read the Call? Not knowing what else to do, Mr. J. Murray Howe took this counsel, and thus he was forced to read, and his accomplices forced quietly to hear, the programme of that which they wished to nullify and overthrow.
There might have been next, perhaps, a speech from Mr. Foster; but shortly after this, an order from the Mayor caused the dispersion of both the meeting and the mob.
A sapient Alderman, in one of Dickens ï¿½s Christmas Tales, announces his intention to ï¿½put down ï¿½this, that and the other custom of the poorer classes, which interfered with his case and comfort, or contradicted his theories. In imitation, perhaps, of him, the Tremont Temple mob and its two chairmen have determined to ï¿½put down ï¿½something. They declare, in their last resolution, the existence of ï¿½a nuisance, ï¿½which, they ï¿½are determined, shall henceforward be summarily abated. ï¿½This nuisance, strange to say, is the holding of ï¿½public meetings, ï¿½by ï¿½political demagogues of every description. ï¿½
I feel so much interest in this comprehensive and extensive undertaking, that I shall carefully watch for, and report to the readers of the Liberator, its beginning and progress, and-if it is ever accomplished-its accomplishment. Will they begin, I wonder, with the Democratic or the Bell-Everett party? C. K. W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Translated for the LIBERATOR, from the Boston PIONIER (German) of December 6.
THE CHURCH A REFUGE. 
For the first time since our sojourn in the United States, we attended church on the 3d of December, and (what is most remarkable) learned there something new and useful. But, the credit of this conversion is to be laid neither at our door nor at that of a priest, but belongs to a mere mob and its leaders.
For the anniversary of the murder of John Brown, the abolitionists of this vicinity had appointed three meetings, forenoon, afternoon and evening, on the 2 of December, at Tremont Temple, one of the largest public halls in Boston. The day before, we were informed by them, that the moneyed men of State Street would make an attempt to break up the evening meeting by means of a mob, and we were entreated to be present with a number of Germans, determined with them to defend, at all hazards, the right of free speech. We hastily besought some of our acquaintances to collect as many friends as possible, and to be on hand in the evening. Busied during the day at home, we knew nothing of what was going on meanwhile; and when we appeared at Tremont: Temple in the evening, we found the doors closed, and before them a collection of disgusting gallows-birds, whom Boston and its vicinity had produced, but not a single German. We now found, an inquiry, that the projected disturbance had already been successful in the case of the day meeting, and that the evening session had been appointed by the colored preacher, Martin, at his church in Joy Street;
The merchants had collected in Tremont Temple such a mass of slaveholders’ tools, that they outvoted, by a large majority, the abolitionists there, who had organized the meeting, replaced their president with' gentleman of property,' and crowded their speakers off the platform. As the abolitionists would not let their right be taken from them by such a trick, some petty acts of violence ensued; but, since the strong police force present (some 100 men) would not protect them, opposition could avail nothing. As it afterwards turned out, the police would have done their duty, had not the Mayor prevented them. On him, therefore, rest the chief blame and disgrace. We beseech our countrymen to mark this man at a new election for mayor.
Thus in Boston, the ’Cradle of Liberty,' in the year 1860, with the protection of the authorities and at the instigation of the traders, the right of free speech was trampled under foot by a mob, in a peaceful meeting, whose avowed object was to discuss the means of abolishing slavery !
But the right was not, abandoned, and freedom triumphed, notwithstanding.
We hurried from Tremont Temple to Joy Street, and found it, as well as the vicinity, beset by the mob; but the colored church, to our great delight, was so thronged by the defenders of free speech, that only with difficulty did we succeed in obtaining a standing-place in the gallery.
On the platform, among others, were Wendell Phillips,- whose appearance on this occasion is worthy  by of note,-Mrs. Maria W. Chapman, the well-known  abolitionist, Frederick Douglass, Mr. Sanborn, (as President,) Mr. Redpath, and John Brown, Jr. The last-named was the first speaker, and in his appearance at once recalled his father, whose coolness and resolution seem to have passed over to him. The gist of his remarks was this, that for the abolition of slavery, and its attendant wrongs and abominations, words will not suffice, but the sword must come in to help. He recommended that every slave-catcher should have a hundred stripes counted out to him by the pursued slaves; and if that did not cure him, that halter should be his portion. He closed with the motto which the people of Kansas have adopted: 'Give me Liberty, or I will give you Death.'
We are confident that John Brown, Jr. knows how to act in accordance with these words. And yet this man of iron was obliged to hold his hands before his face, in, order to conceal his tears, whenever the other speakers mentioned the name of him whom the latest German ’Radicalism'—shame on it!- brands as a malefactor.
The chief speaker of the evening was, of course, Wendell Phillips. His speech was one of the best that we have heard from him,—every word a sword that pierced to the bone the Boston millionaires ('who are so far degraded as to steal from the abolitionists the hall which these have paid for') and kindred traitors. He found the greatest progress in these times in the distress of the slaveholders and their abettors. ’Now,' said he, 'they are afraid of a President, because they do not know him; we must man-age in four years to make them fear one, because they do know him.'
Of course, a large part of the audience was composed of negroes. What especially pleased us was the interest and enthusiasm manifested by the colored women, —quietly, it seemed to us. Would that all our German women were like them in this respect!
There was no important disturbance in the meeting. As soon as any noisy fellow made himself conspicuous, he was quickly removed. But outside, in the whole surrounding of the church, the ever-increasing mob roared like a band of Indians advancing, and one ’street-orator,' sent by the opposition, sought before the entrance to the place to bellow down the abolitionists with his real ox-voice. But the latter allowed nothing to put them out of countenance, and the proceedings went tranquilly on to the end. Every roar outside contained a pereat to John Brown, and a vital to the man who hung him. But even the brutal mob wore not unanimous in such an offence against Freedom's martyr, whom the latest German’ Radicalism’ —shame on it!—calls a malefactor.
When the meeting dissolved, the mob had beset all the streets in the neighborhood. Mr. Phillips had to be accompanied to his house by an escort through a by-street,—but was, notwithstanding, insulted and threatened by the mob in the most shameful manner. The police, it is true, were stationed at the church, but were not to be seen in the adjoining streets. The military were in readiness, but far removed from Joy Street, and, before they could have reached the spot, the mob, had they not been too cowardly, might have massacred the whole body of returning abolitionists.
Thus, in the 'Cradle of Liberty,' in a ’Republican' city, and under a’ Republican’ Mayor, is the right of free speech defended, if it is directed against slaveholders. The pestilential breath of those barbarians whose 'manhood' according to the latest doctrine of German 'Radicalism.' we ought to’ recognize,' is so piercing and corrupting, that, even in the chief city of American freedom, it makes the authorities and the people barbarians. And whither does American liberty take refuge? In a colored church! Those who were once slaves have advanced in the year 1860, to be the protectors of the American friends of freedom! What a dispensation of fate, that former slaves should, by an asylum in their church, discharge their indebtedness to the very ones who provided them with an asylum in the free States! Former slaves were the only ones in the free North who helped the true friends of freedom to maintain the right of free speech, after a triumph of the ’Republican' Party, which is going to reestablish free speech and a free press in the-South!
Here is a fact which may speak to those who will not listen to words.
Where does Mr. Seward expect to find an asylum, if the time declared by him to be possible should come, when he must turn his back on his native land? The only asylum which America would then proffer to the friends of freedom would be—the negro Republic of Hayti!
'As we afterwards learned, a number of brave Turners answered our call, but at the colored church were turned back by the police, probably because they came in a body, and therefore were taken for disturbers of the peace.
<c02>
JOHN BROWN MEETING AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
When I left home the other day, the thought was far from me, that the scenes of 1835 were again to be transacted. In that day, as in this, my indignation was aroused, that Boston, the city of my birth, could possibly give such a revelation of depravity and meanness. But perhaps it is well, if such ruffianism is latent, that it should have an outlet. I entered the hall at an early hour: few were there, and all was quiet, indicating that the meeting, at least the morning session, would be of little account.
But soon the scene changed. A stampede from one direction, accompanied with noisy demonstrations, gave reason to believe that mingled with 'gentlemen of property and standing,' were many of the 'baser sort,' whose passions and prejudices were' set on fire of hell.' And it soon proved true, that the lackeys of Cotton and State Street Mammon-worshippers, as well as the pitiable tools of the Slave Power, armed and equipped with poor rum and North Street bullyism, were ready, for their work. By brute force and fiendish yells, the object was accomplished, and the meeting for the day was defeated. Let the Mayor, the Chief of the Police, and his people have all the glory, for to them it belongs. Poor Richard, who acted as chairman for the usurpers, is more to be pitied than blamed—as he really showed, himself to be a weak tool of his Southern masters.
Thank God, the sequel proved that free speech is not yet clean gone in the Pilgrim city. I gladly exclaim—' Boston, with all thy faults, I love thee still.' Alone, and sad, at early hour, I wended my way to Joy Street. All was dark and cheerless near the church. I learnt, to my sorrow, from some colored friends near by, that there would be no meeting. The committee having taken counsel of their fears, refused to open the house. I saw the deacon of the church who had just shut off the gas, and he declared, that no consent would be granted to open the church. Still I doubted, knowing the fidelity and courage of the pastor. My inward conviction was, free speech crucified in the Temple, at the bidding of the Slave Power, will be vindicated here tonight. And God be praised, so it was. The meeting was a success, in spite of the threats and disturbance outside.
Our ever-faithful and eloquent friend, Wendell Phillips, <illegible> meeting with his presence and his words of power, which were indeed like the ’hammer and fire'<illegible> the allies of slavery. Mrs. Chapman, who accompanied Mr. Phillips, gave sublimity to the occasion by her calm and heroic appearance, and in that hour of peril well deserved the cheers that were given.
It was refreshing to hear the voice of Frederick Douglass, who that day, by brutal violence, had been dragged from the platform. I have long professed to be an ultra peace man, but may as well in honesty own, that I never came nearer the deed of fighting for the right. But either my cowardice or discretion prevented, for which I am thankful. And let it be remembered, to the shame of the men who engaged in this second Boston mob, to crush out freedom, that this despised negro, or 'nigger'—to use the dialect of rowdies—was invited, and did address an intelligent audience at Music Hall, last Sunday.
Never mind: the better day is coming—it hastens on apace. Our enemies can do 'nothing against the truth, but for the truth.' It is no longer a question whether John Brown was right, or Harper's Ferry is to be remembered, or whether the African race is to be doomed as victims of the vilest oppression. But the question is now—'Liberty for all or chains for all.' The other end of the chain, fastened by the white man's cupidity on the ankle of the slave, is around our own necks. Thank God for this, as we shall all the sooner’ lay the monster low.' Many of the cold-hearted, who, allied to a wicked prejudice by the rowdy cry ‘nigger,' will refuse longer to endure the lash and wear the yoke of their masters, who have well-nigh reduced them to vassals.
I have only to regret that any abolitionist should speak of the late John Brown meeting as ill-timed, or seem to give the least countenance to the twaddling spirit of many of the Republicans, who, to gain a little national reputation, are in close fellowship with Peter in his denial of the Master—even Christ. This surely is not the hour for a truce, or the least con-cession to mammon and wrong. Let the panic come. Man is not to' live by bread alone.' Life does not’ consist in the abundance of the things a man possesseth.' Better starve as freemen, than ’fare sumptuously every day’ as slaves. Let State Street jobbers and cotton lordlings menace, and gnash their teeth, and utter their threats. Let them remember, if they work for the devil, they will get the devil's wages. No; these are not the times to be intimidated by the South, or by doughfaces at the North. A John Brown meeting ill-timed! No; a thousand times, no!
'Shall tongues be mute, when deeds are wrought
Which well might shame extremest hell?
Shall freemen lack the indignant thought?
Shall Pity's bosom cease to swell?
Shall honor bleed? Shall truth succumb?
Shall pen, and press and soul be dumb?'
No. We will agitate, and agitate, till this guilty land foams with the fury of her shame ; till men who deify Moses and Joshua, LaFayette, Washington and Garibaldi, shall surrender to a better, a more truthful judgment, that all such glorification is the play of Hamlet, with Hamlet left out—if JOHN BROWN of Harper's Ferry is not there.
G. W. S. 
Milford, Dec. 9, 1860.

LETTER FROM HON. HENRY WILSON.
NATICK, NOV. 27, 1860.
GENTLEMEN,—I have received your invitation to meet in a Convention to be held in Boston, on the 3d of December, 'a number of young men unconnected at this time with any organization,' and 'to address them in reply to the question—' How can American Slavery be Abolished ?' You say in your note of invitation, 'that the anniversary of the death of John Brown, who, on the 2d of December, 1859, was killed for attempting to decide this problem in the mode that he believed to be the most efficient, is an occasion peculiarly appropriate for the discussion of our duty to the race for whom he suffered, and more especially for the unfolding of practical methods for achieving the holy object he desired to attain by his descent on Harper's Ferry.' Abhorring slavery in every form,—loving equal and impartial liberty for all men,—I am ever ready to exercise all the powers of the Constitution of my country to relieve the nation from all connection with, and all responsibility for slavery, by prohibiting it, wherever it exists, or can exist, under the exclusive authority of the Federal Government; and I am also ever ready to use all means sanctioned by law, humanity and religion , to persuade our countrymen of the slaveholding States, to’ undo the heavy burden,' and’ let the oppressed go free;' but I am utterly opposed to all appeals, by whomsoever made, to force and violence. Ours is a government of constitutions and laws,- a government of the people, by the people, for the people. Not therefore to the rifle nor the pike should the friends of the slave appeal, but to the heart, the conscience, the reason and the enduring interests of the people of the Slave States, upon whom rests the responsibility of slavery in the States.
While I accord to John Brown sincerity of motive, unselfish devotion, and unsurpassed courage, I deplore and condemn his armed invasion of Virginia. Were it in my power to do so, I could not consent to attend your meeting, for I cannot, by an act of mine thus associate in any degree, the issues concerning slavery with John Brown's lawless descent upon Harper's Ferry. Yours truly,
HENRY WILSON.
To JAMES REDPATH, Esq., and others of the Committee.
<c03>
FREDERICK DOUGLASS AT MUSIC HALL.
Mr. Frederick Douglass, of Rochester, N. Y., (says the. Atlas and Bee of Monday,) the well-known colored orator and editor, gave a lecture yesterday forenoon in Music Hall, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society. The hall was filled in every part. Among those present were many well-known gentlemen in business circles. The large attendance was probably somewhat induced by the expectation that Mr. Douglass would take occasion to allude to the recent exciting events at Tremont Temple and the West End. In this they were not disappointed.
Mr. Douglass announced that he should read a lecture on 'Self-Made Men,' which he proceeded to do in a clear and oratorical manner. It is a carefully-written, thoughtful production, and contains several eloquent and very many common sense passages; the whole being illustrated by examples in life. The central thought of the lecture is that every man has not only latent forces of illimitable extent, but also power to develop them, if he will.
At the conclusion of his address, he spoke as follows:-
Boston is a great city—and Music Hall has a fame almost extensive as that of Boston. No where more than here have the principles of human freedom been expounded. But for the circumstances already mentioned, it would seem almost presumption for me to say anything here about those principles. And yet, even here, in Boston, the moral atmosphere is dark and heavy. The principles of human liberty, even if correctly apprehended, find but limited support in this hour of trial. The world moves slowly, and Boston is much like the world. We thought the principle of free speech was an accomplished fact. Here, if no where else, we thought the right of the people to assemble and to express, their opinion was secure. Dr. Channing had defended the right; Mr. Garrison had practically asserted the right; and Theodore Parker had maintained it with steadiness and fidelity to the last.
But here we are to-day contending for what we thought was gained years ago.  The mortifying and disgraceful fact stares us in the face, that though Faneuil Hall and Bunker Hill Monument stand, freedom of speech is struck down. No lengthy detail of facts is needed. They are already notorious; far more so than will be wished, ten years hence. 
The world knows that, last Monday, a meeting assembled to discuss the question: ’How shall Slavery be Abolished?' The world also knows that that meeting was invaded, insulted, captured, by a mob of gentlemen, and thereafter broken up and dispersed by order of the Mayor, who refused to protect it, though called upon so to do. If this had been a mere outbreak of passion and prejudice among the baser sort, maddened by rum and hounded on by some wily politician to serve some immediate purpose—a mere exceptional affair—it might be allowed to rest with what has already been said. But the leaders of the mob were gentlemen. They were men who pride themselves upon their respect for law and order.
These gentlemen brought their respect for the law with them, and proclaimed it loudly while in the very act of breaking the law. Theirs was the law of slavery. The law of free speech and the law for the protection of public meetings they trampled under foot, while they greatly magnified the law of slavery. 
The scene was an instructive one. Men seldom see such a blending of the gentleman with the rowdy, as was shown on that occasion. It proved that human nature is very much the same, whether in tarpaulin or broadcloth. Nevertheless, when gentlemen approach us in the character of lawless and abandoned loafers—assuming for the moment their manners and tempers—they have themselves to blame if they are estimated below their quality.
No right was deemed by the fathers of the Government more sacred than the right of speech. It was in their eyes, as in the eyes of all thoughtful men, the great moral renovator of society and government. Daniel Webster called it a home-bred right, a fireside privilege.  Liberty is meaningless where the right to utter one's thoughts and opinions has ceased to exist. That, of all rights, is the dread of tyrants. It is the right which they first of all strike down. They know its power. Thrones, dominions, principalities and powers, founded in injustice and wrong are sure to tremble if men are allowed to reason of righteousness, temperance and of a judgment to come in their presence. Slavery cannot tolerate free speech. Five years of its exercise would banish the auction-block and break every chain in the South. They will have none of it there, for they have the power. But shall it be so hero? 
'Shall tongues be mute,' &c.
Even here in Boston, and among the friends of freedom, we hear two voices—one denouncing the mob that broke up our meeting on Monday as a base and cowardly outrage,—and another, deprecating and regretting the holding of such a meeting, by such men, at such a time! We are told that the meeting was ill-timed, and the parties to it unwise.
Why, what is the matter with us? Are we going to palliate and excuse a palpable and flagrant outrage on the right of speech—by implying that only a particular description of persons should exercise that right?  Are we, at such a time, when a great principle has been struck down, to quench the moral indignation which the deed excites, by casting reflections upon those in whose persons the outrage has been committed? After all the arguments for liberty to which Boston has listened for more than a quarter of a century, has she yet to learn, that the time to assert a right is the time when the right itself is called in question—and that the men of all others to assert it, are the men to whom the right has been denied?
It would be no vindication of the right of speech to prove that certain gentlemen of great distinction, eminent for their learning and ability, are allowed to freely express their opinions on all subjects—including the subject of slavery. Such a vindication would need itself to be vindicated. It would add insult to injury, Not even an old fashion abolition meeting could vindicate that right in Boston just now. There can be no right of speech where any man, however lifted up or however humble, however young or however old, is overawed by force, and compelled to suppress his honest sentiments.
Equally clear is the right to hear. To suppress free speech is a double wrong. It violates the rights of the hearer as well as those of the speaker. It is just as criminal to rob a man of his right to speak and hear, as it would be to rob him of his money. I have no doubt that Boston will vindicate this right. But in order to do so, there must be no concessions to the enemy. When a man is allowed to speak because he is rich and powerful, it aggravates the crime of denying, the right to the poor and humble.
The principle must rest upon its own proper basis. And until the right is accorded to the humbles as freely as to the most exalted citizen, the Government of Boston, is but an empty name, and its freedom a mockery. A man's right to speak does not depend upon where he was born or upon his color. The simple quality of manhood is the solid basis of the right—and there let it rest forever.

WM. O'CONNOR, ESQ.
MR. EDITOR—From the wide-spread and constantly increasing interest which the powerful Boston story of ’Harrington' has created, it has been suggested that the talented author be invited, to speak before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at as early a day as convenient.
This is in accordance with the general wish of a large number of friends, who would be pleased to welcome his appearance again upon the public platform. 
Boston, Dec. 10, 1860. A.
<c04>
JOHN A. ANDREW ON THE FREEDOM OF SPEECH.
MONDAY, Dec. 10.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The accompanying letter is so fully in accordance with my own views of right, that I venture to request you to give it the publicity of your paper, believing the public will endorse its sentiments.
Respectfully, &c.,
MOSES KIMBALL.
BOSTON, Dec. 4, 1860.
MY DEAR SIR,—I am tempted to write to you from my house, where I am confined by temporary illness, to express my cordial sympathy with the result of the City Republican Convention in your nomination last evening. And I beg to suggest that you should plant yourself for one position, at once, on the great right of free speech, and put yourself before the people on that issue directly; not to the exclusion of other ideas, but in connection with them. '‘The right to think, to know and to utter,' as John Milton said, is the dearest of all liberties. Without this right, there can be no liberty of any people; with it, there can be no slavery.
I care not for the truth or error of the opinions held or uttered, nor for the wisdom of the words or time of their attempted expression, when I consider this great question of fundamental significance, this great right which must first be secure before free society can be said to stand on any foundation, but only on temporary and capricious props.
Rich or poor, white or black, great or small, wise or foolish, in season or out of season, in the right or in the wrong, whosoever will speak, let him speak, and whosoever will hear, let him hear. And let no one pretend to the prerogative of judging another man's liberty. In this respect there is, and there can be, no superiority of persons or privileges, nor the slightest pretext for any. 
'Error of opinion may be safely tolerated, so long as truth is left free to combat it.' So said Jefferson, and I firmly believe it. But even if I did not feel so sure of that, still I would contend for the right to utter the error as well as the right to utter the truth,, simply because the right is not derived from the thing spoken, but belongs to the speaker, irrespective of, and anterior to, the speech contemplated or made; and also because the public, spoken to, can only decide between the various claimants to the possession of the truth, after they have spoken and been heard. 
The men of yesterday who broke up a meeting, the original calling of which I could not but disapprove, only put themselves in the wrong, and put the callers of it in the right. And I, for one, am free and happy to declare myself on the subject wherever I have any proper occasion to do so.
I trust you will have a successful canvass. It will be out of my power to participate in it, over-tasked and over-worn as I am already by numerous cares. 
But I assure you of my hearty sympathy and my best wishes, and am, very faithfully, your friend and servant, JOHN A. ANDREW.
Hon. Moses Kimball.
ATTEMPTED SLAVE INSURRECTION IN GEORGIA.—The Macon Daily Telegraph publishes a letter from Fort Valley, Georgia, giving the particulars of an attempted insurrection of the slaves. The writer says:
'I learn from a friend, just from Knoxville, Craw-ford County, that the negroes at Hickory Grove and vicinity, in Crawford County, attempted an insurrection yesterday, 6th inst. He states that Mr. Robert Bailey rode into Knoxville at one o'clock, and announced that the negroes at Hickory Grove had risen, but were suppressed without doing any damage to life or property. Twenty negroes belonging to Rev. W. C. Cleveland, and negroes belonging to old Mr. Davidson, (Simmons, Harp, and Respees,) were the only negroes captured. They were incited-—so they con-fess-—by one Cullen Davidson, a son of the gentleman above named, and a man by the name of Grier, a tin pedler, living at Hickory Grove, a Yankee by birth.
'Old Mr. Davidson's negroes, on Monday, the 5th inst., told him that they intended to kill him and all the white folks. The negroes state that their intentions were, on Tuesday, while the men were going to the polls, to kill all the married women and children, but to keep the young women for their wives, &c., and kill the men on their return home.
'Their emissaries have been at work on every plantation in Crawford County, and many in the surrounding ones. For the past twelve months, their operations were somewhat more extended, but my informant can give me no more particulars. He states that after the announcement of the above facts in Knoxville, the citizens mounted their horses and made for their own firesides, and there were scarcely enough men who felt an interest, in the face of the above facts, in Knoxville, to count out the votes. The parties—two white men and the negroes mentioned—are in custody.'
ANOTHER CONSPIRACY IN HAYTI.—The New York Post has advices from Hayti to November 1st, giving the particulars of a recent conspiracy in that island to assassinate the President and overturn the Government. The 4th of October was the day fixed upon for the conspiracy to take effect, when Salomon, late Minister of the Emperor Soulouque, was to take the reins of Government. Two women, Mesdames Florisin and Hilaire, were the soul of the conspiracy. Nathaniel Montgomery, a chemist of Baltimore, was also a prominent actor in the plot, and in pay for his services, was to receive from the new Government the lucrative office of Director of the Mines. 
The women were present at all the private meetings of the conspirators, gained over a number of adherents, and administered to them the oath of secrecy. At the last moment the plot was disclosed to the Government, and the principal conspirators were arrested. After a fair trial, Montgomery was shot on the 27th of October. Madame Florisin, though condemned to death, had her sentence commuted to imprisonment for ten years. Madame Hilaire was sentenced to three years imprisonment.
This second narrow escape of the President from assassination has again aroused in his behalf the liveliest sympathy of the people, and congratulatory addresses from all parts of the Republic are pouring in upon him.
During the trial of the case of the slaver Kate in New York, recently, Henry C. Smith, custom house broker, swore that the clearance of the Kate was honest and legal; but James L. Degraw, clearance clerk, immediately took the stand and testified that after the clearance of the bark, Smith came to him, and, putting a $20 gold piece on the table, asked him why he was reporting these vessels, and told him that a similar sum would be paid in each case if he made no trouble in future. As Mr. Degraw descended from the witness's stand, Mr. Smith approached him, and, using insulting language, threatened to ’spoil his face so that his mother would not know him.' This incident throws light on the fact that slavers leave New York so easily.
INDEPENDENCE, Mo., Dec. 11th.—Four men attacked the house of Morgan Walker, demanding his money and negroes. He called for assistance, and fired on the robbers, killing one and wounding another of them. They were from Kansas.
COUNSEL FROM MR. LINCOLN. In a speech at the Cooper Institute, New York, last winter, Mr. Lincoln addressed the following words of counsel to his political friends:—
'A few words now (he said) to the Republicans.  It is exceedingly desirable that all parts of this great Confederacy shall be at peace, and in harmony with one another. Let us Republicans do our part to have it so. Even though much provoked, let us do nothing through passion and ill-temper.  Even though the Southern people will not so much as listen to us, let us calmly consider their demands, and yield to them, if, in our deliberate view of duty, we possibly can.'
Utterly useless has all this billing and cooing proved on the part of Mr. Lincoln. The South are eager for his immolation; so that the following brutal taunt of a shameless Northern Democratic print is true to the letter:-
WHAT A PRESIDENT!—Old Abe Lincoln would not and could not travel in all the States of the Union, so inimical are his principles to those of the people of a large portion of this country.—New York Daybook.
Stephen Arnold Douglas has made a similar taunt ; and even Mr. Lincoln himself has admitted, in private conversation, that he could not safely visit the graves of his relatives, in his native State, Kentucky! Republicans, what’ a glorious Union' is yours!
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, for November, contains the following papers:—Civil Service  Appointments; Carpe Diem ; The Romance of Agostini-Part III.; The Administration of India; Judicial Puzzles —The Annesley Case; Ary Scheffer; Norman Sinclair—An Autobiography—Part X.; The Courtesies of War; Dando, the Oyster-Eater; Iron-Clad Ships of War. For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, Boston.
<c05>
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
Receipts in November.
Collections by K. H. Hey wood:
West Brookfield. $14 42; Mrs. C. C,. Tyler, to redeem pledge, Jan. 1, 1860, 2.
Collections by A. T. Foss:
Cummington, Mass., 30; West Milan, N. H.,
Sarah Higgins 50c., Mary W. Higgins 50c;
Northumberland, 73c; Milan Corners, S5c;
Gorham, 15c ; Sandwich, Mass., W. C. 
Chipman, 1; Barnstable, 2 10; Osterville,
4 10: Centreville, 44 13; Hyannis, 3 60; 
East Dennis 3 65; Harwich, 7 26.
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.

AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Collections by H. Ford Douglass.
Weymouth, $11 00; Marlboro', 6 30; Feltonville, 8 09; Warren, 5 37 ; Ware,4 28; 
North Brookfield, 1 97.
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, made in January last, or previously, are now payable, and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. Donations in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause will be faithfully consecrated to the redemption of the millions of' the suffering and the dumb' of our land. All payments should be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or E. H. HEYWOOD, General Agent pro tem., 221 Washington street.

'WOMAN'S RIGHTS UNDER THE LAW.'
MRS.DALL'S LECTURES, 16 SUMMER STREET.
Mrs. DALL will deliver a course of Lectures on three successive Wednesday afternoons, at the Room of the Young Men's Christian Union, No. 16 Summer street, to commence
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 9th, at 3 o'clock, P. M.
Jan. 9. French and English Law.
Oriental basis for the Law's estimate of woman. Common proverbs. Roman Law not pertinent. The estimate of the French Law shown in the rights of property, marriage and franchise. Women in the public employ never promoted. The estimate of the Law regulates the price of Labor. '‘The Law's Resolution.' English Common Law. Divorce for hopeless insanity not allowed. Results. Anecdote of a London Court Room. Sir Charles Morgan's Aunt, and her opinion of the Law.
Jan. 16. The English Common Law—continued.
Equity. The Law's estimate of a woman's truthfulness. Divorce by Act of Parliament. The Hon. Mrs. Norton. Hungarian Law contrasted with the English. Practical immorality of the Law, which makes virtue in the wife depend on vigilance in the husband. Suffrage. Objections met. The Art Critic and Rosa Roukner. Suffrage a death-blow to three kinds of Law. Harris v. Butler. Delicate discussions in Parliament. Divorce Bill. Duke of York's Trial. John Sheart Will on Suffrage. Women of Upsal.‘ Dames de la Halle.' Black wood in 1854. Abbesses in Parliament. Buckli's Lecture. Changes in Canada. Pitcairn's Island.
Jan. 23. The U. S. Laws and the Secret of Success. 
The despotism of a Republic. Kent. The man's notion. Poynter on Consistency. The Laws of nineteen States changed in ten years. Graham's decision. Mrs. Dow's claim. New York Bill. Complication of legislation. Mrs. John Adams and Mrs. Hannah Cobbold. ’Human rights.' Patient thoroughness the title to respect. Through Labor to Suffrage. Mean men. Woman's right to man as counsellor and friend. The historical development of the question. The practical question. Mahomet and the Venetian Catechism.
These lectures are given in the afternoon in order to permit persons from the neighboring towns to attend. The subject is very little understood by women, and this course of lectures concludes the twelve Mrs. Dall originally projected.
Doors open at 2, P. M. Admittance to each lecture, 25 cts.
AN APPEAL.—The ladies of the Twelfth Baptist Church in Southac street, over which Rev. Mr. Grimes is pastor, are preparing to hold a FAIR about the time of the holidays.. They are in great need of funds to relieve from pecuniary embarrassment. They, therefore, sincerely and earnestly appeal to their friends, and the public generally, to assist them by donations in money, or articles appropriate to the Fair. All who aid them will receive their thanks, and promote a good cause.
Donations may be sent to Mrs. C. E. BANNISTER, Treasurer of the Society, 323 Washington street, or 28 Grove street.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
Gardner Centre, Sunday, Dec. 16.
South Gardner, Tuesday Dec. 18
East Templeton, Wednesday, Dec. 19.
Hubbardston, Friday, Dec 21.
Barre, Sunday, Dec 23.
HENRY. C. WRIGHT will lecture at Foxboro', Sunday, Dec. 16.
At Bethel, Vt., in Bullard's Hall, Sunday, December 23.
He will attend a Free Convention in same place, to commence on Tuesday, Dec. 25, and to continue three or four days, as shall be deemed best by the Convention.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at 
Taunton, Sunday, Dec. 16.
Franklin, Wednesday, Dec 19.
Bellingham, Thursday, Dec 20.
North do., Friday, Dec 21.
Hopkinton, Sunday, Dec 23.
WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture on Sunday next, at
North Abington, afternoon, at 2 o'clock.
North Abington, evening, at 7 o’ clock
SIXTEENTH COURSE.
The Fourth Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by F. B. SANBORN, of Concord, (Mass.) on Sunday evening, Dec. 23d, in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock. Admittance five cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.
 MRS. C. H. DALL will, by invitation of the Young Men's Christian Union, deliver a lecture on Thursday evening, Dec. 23, at half-past 7 o'clock, at their Rooms, 16 Summer street, on the’ Ideal Standard of Female Education,' and will give some account of Women's work in Algiers and Egypt. 
The public are invited.
ELISHA MYRICK, Secretary.
MERCANTILE LIBRARY ASSOCIATION.—There is to be a debate, at the Rooms of this Association, in Summer street, on Tuesday evening next, the 18th inst., at 8 o'clock, on the propriety of repealing the Personal Liberty Law of Massachusetts. The public are invited to attend.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D.,
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON.
Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M.
Nov. 23. 3m.
MARRIED—In Cincinnati, Ohio, Nov. 22. Mr. 
FENTON HARPER to Miss FRANCES ELLEN WATKINS.
DIED—In this city, on the 6th inst., ELIZA JACKSON, wife of FRANCIS JACKSON, aged 73.
In Worcester, Dec. 4, MARIA LOUISA, wife of ABRAHAM FIRTH, Esq., aged 38 years.
The throng of sorrowing friends, which filled the church where the funeral services took place, attested the unusual respect and love felt for this lady, as well as sympathy with her bereaved family. The following notice, by an anti-slavery friend who knew her well, appeared in the Worcester Spy and Worcester Transcript:
‘This event brings special sorrow and tender grief to the circle of home and friends bereaved. A peculiar delicacy of temperament, united to a bright, vivid intellect, imparted a winning grace of demeanor, and gave her a rare sense of beauty and refinement, that found expression in conversation, manners, dress, and household adornment. We who have so often been welcomed within her door by her child-like frankness of disposition, her gentle courtesy, her kind and affectionate nature, weep that we shall see her lovely face no more, and feel how much her memory is endeared to our hearts forever.
"Thus star by star declines,
Till all have passed away;
As morning high and higher shines,
To pure and perfect day;
Nor sink those start in empty night,
But hide themselves in heaven's own light."'
<c06>
NEW SERIES OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman Street, New York;
107 Fifth Street, Philadelphia; 15 Steuben Street, Albany; and 221
Washington Street, Boston.
No 1. Correspondence between Lydia. Maria, Child
and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. pp. 28. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. pp. 24. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. pp. 144. 10 cents.
No. 5. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. pp. 48. 5 cents.
No. 6. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 95. 10 cts.
No. 7. Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, with his Address to the Court. pp. 16. 3 cents.
No. 8. The Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. pp. 47. 5 cents.
No. 9. The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: An Appeal to the Legislature, of Massachusetts. By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 10. The Infidelity of Abolitionism. By WM. LLOYD CARRISON. pp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 11. Speech of John Hossack, convicted of a Violation of the Fugitive Slave Act at Chicago, III. pp.12. 3 cents.
No. 12. The Patriarchal Institution, as described by Members of its Own Family. Compiled by LYDIA MARIA CHILD. pp. 55. 5 cents.
No. 13. No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay State: An Appeal to the People and Legislature of Massachusetts. pp. 24. 5 cents.
A deduction of fifty per cents. from the above price will be made where a dozen or more copies are taken. Gratuitous copies will be sent by mail, for examination, on receiving the postage charge.

COMMON WEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MIDDLESEX, SS. To the Heirs at Law, Creditors, and all other persons interested in the last Will of JOHN CABOT, late of Newton, in said county, deceased, testate:
WHEREAS, application has been made to me to appoint GEORGE JACKSON, of Boston, Trustee under the Will of said deceased, in the place of FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, resigned—you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at Cambridge, in said county of Middlesex, on the second Tuesday of January next, at nine o'clock before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same.
And the said George Jackson is hereby directed to give public notice thereof, by publishing this citation once a week, for three successive weeks, in the newspaper called the Liberator, printed at Boston— the last publication to be three days, at least, before said Court.
Witness my hand, this 27th day of November, 
in the year eighteen hundred and sixty.
WILLIAM A. RICHARDSON. 
Judge of the Probate Court.
A true copy: attest, J. H. TYLER.

Historical Pictures Retouched.
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of ‘Woman's Right to Labor.' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on’ Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature, 16mo., $1.]
'By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.' Bangor Whig.
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'—Portland Transcript.
Published by
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY,
245 Washington street, Boston.
Oct. 26.3t

IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire, prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, how. ever, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description. Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER,
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
Oct. 26. 6w.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WlNTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plays, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO- 
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16tf
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
FOURTH EDITION.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publisher. 
A. J.DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5-6m 274 Canal street, New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
LINES.
BY EDW. M. MACGRAW.
Addressed to the Republican orator, who was willing that all negroes should be free, but who did not wish the ‘thick-skulled, flat-nosed, long-heeled wretches to live among us.'
Nor manly, generous, nor brave,
Nor Christian, were those words of scorn,
But heartless as the winds that rave
Round the unhoused and newly born!
Thy sable brother, crushed and weak, 
And friendless, stands-a child of tears!
And yet thou hast a tongue to speak
Coarse words of railing in his ears!
Was this thy feeling, scornful man?
Or didst thou thus proclaim aloud
Thy fear to meet the vulgar ban-
The jeering of a godless crowd?
Then, fear’st thou not that One may say,
Who loved the friendless negro well,
‘Depart thou to thy place-away!
Thou canst not in my presence dwell.
'Lo! in the least of these I've mourned-
Been hunger'd, bound, and vilified;
And thou hast fed me not, but scorned,
And spat upon me in thy pride!'
But thou wouldst set the bondman free,
Yet drive him from thy presence, hence,
A wretch and vagabond to be!
Rare justice! Vast benevolence!
For shame! for shame! not thus spoke he,
The sage of Auburn, whose great soul
Would have all men-all races free, 
And elevate and love the whole!
Yet, as the sun dispenses rays 
To every land, to every zone, 
Even thus his giant mind displays 
Its lustre to all nations known.
If Seward, from his height of mind,
Sees none too low to love and bless, 
Canst thou not toleration find 
For weakness in thy littleness?
Then go to him who has no care,
‘If slavery's voted up or down,’
And breathe amens to scoffings there, 
On which a devil well might frown!
Yes, bend to him the supple knee,
And there the atheist creed embrace ,
That 'all are equal born and free,'
Means only those of Saxon race!
But dare not hence to understand 
That ‘love thy God with all thy might, 
And love thy neighbor'-would command 
Thee but to love the great or white.
For He who sees the sparrows fall, 
And decks the rose and feeds the raven, 
Is Father, God, and Judge of all
The tribes and races under heaven!
‘If there are any in this country who would rise, I say to them, in God's name, good speed! If there are in foreign lands, people who would improve their condition by emigration, or if there be any here who would go abroad in search of happiness in the improvement of their condition, or in their elevation toward a higher state of dignity and happiness, they have always had and always shall have a cheering word, and such efforts as I can consistently make in their behalf.’ WM. H. SEWARD.
The following grandly inspiring lines are quite as timely now as they were when first published.

VOICE OF NEW ENGLAND.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Up the hill-side, down the glen, 
Rouse the sleeping citizen;
Summon out the might of men!
Like a lion growling low-
Like a night-storm rising slow-
Like the tread of unseen foe-
It is coming-it is nigh!
Stand your homes and altars by;
On your own free thresholds die.
Clang the bells in all your spires;
On the grey hills of your sires
Fling to heaven your signal fires.
From Wachuset, lone and bleak, 
Unto Berkshire's tallest peak, 
Let the flamed-tongued heralds speak.
O! for God and duty stand,
Heart to heart, and hand to hand, 
Round the old graves of the land.
Whoso shrinks or falters now,
Whoso to the yoke would bow, 
Brand the craven on his brow.
Freedom's soil hath only place
For a free and fearless race-
None for traitors false and base.
Perish party-perish clan;
Strike together while ye can, 
Like the arm of one strong man.
Like that angel's voice sublime, 
Heard above a world of crime, 
Crying of the end of time-
With one heart and with one mouth, 
Let the North unto the South
Speak the word befitting both:
What though Issachar be strong!
Ye may load his back with wrong
Overmuch and over long:
Patience with her cup o’errun,
With her weary thread outspun,
Murmurs that her work is done.
Make our Union-bond a chain,
Weak as tow in Freedom's strain
Link by link shall snap in twain.
Vainly shall your sand-wrought rope 
Bind the starry cluster up,
Shatter over heaven's blue cope!
Give us bright, though broken rays,
Rather than eternal haze, 
Clouding o'er the full-orbed blaze.
Take your land of sun and bloom;
Only leave to Freedom room 
For her plough, and forge, and loom;
Take your slavery-blackened vales;
Leave us but our own free gales,
Blowing on our thousand sails.
Boldly, or with treacherous art, 
Strike the blood-wrought chain apart;
Break the Union's mighty heart;
Work the ruin, if ye will;
Pluck upon your heads an ill 
Which shall grow and deepen still.
With your bondman's right arm bare,
With his heart of black despair,
Stand alone, if stand ye dare!
Onward with your fell design:
Dig the gulf, and draw the line:
Fire beneath your feet the mine!
Deeply, when the wide abyss
Yawns between your land and this, 
Shall ye feel your helplessness.
By the hearth, and in the bed,
Shaken by a look or tread, 
Ye shall own a guilty dread,
<c02>
And the curse of unpaid toil,
Downward through your generous soil 
Like a fire shall burn and spoil. 
Our bleak hills shall bud and blow, 
Vines our rocks shall overgrow, 
Plenty in our valleys flow;-
And when vengance clouds your skies, 
Hither shall ye turn your eyes,
As the lost on Paradise!
We but ask our rocky strand, 
Freedom's true and brother band,
Freedom's strong and honest hand,-
Valleys by the slave untrod, 
And the Pilgrim's mountain sod 
Blessed of our father's God!’ 

THE LIBERATOR.
PRINCIPLE VERSUS THE SPIRIT OF FEAR.
The present political crisis furnishes a good opportunity to test the moral courage of the dominant party of the country. We shall soon see which will prevail, commercial considerations based on expediency, or loyalty to great principles, which we have all along professed.
It requires but a handful of unscrupulous and defiant men, by aid of an inflated rhetoric, to innoculate with false ideas a multitude of such white men as mostly populate the South. Under such deluded leadership, a few hundreds of thousands may be made to play among millions of well-disposed citizens a desperate game, and shake the foundations of society for a time. It is impossible to estimate fully the motives of the present actors. Every breeze from the South bears on its wings scattered fragments of speech and resolution, scorched and reddened with fire and blood. We hear of secession, Southern confederacies, and, more than all, loud and bitter complaints against that large and most unreasonable majority of American citizens who have audaciously dared to elect a President of the people under their laws and Constitution! All as yet is bluster and noise, very like what we have been always accustomed to hear from that quarter. No overt acts against! the laws of the country have yet been perpetrated, and we are, up to this time, legally at peace. What Southern men may do, should they so far lose their reason as to become desperate, time only can disclose. It is some time to the 4th of March, and the commercial community, more especially at the South, can ill-afford to suffer so much financial embarrassment added to their usual amount of trouble. The great question of slavery is, of course, at the bottom of all said and done, morally, politically and religiously. This generation of Northern men have been so educated from the cradle to manhood, that when uninfluenced by motives of gain, they cannot help loving freedom, and hating slavery with perfect hatred. This strong affection for human freedom pervades their best literature, and stamps itself upon all their institutions; it breathes life into their every thought and act; it inspires with energy, and fills their minds with bright hopes of the future; and what they now lack in entire fidelity to freedom, they are bound to make up and complete by future exertion. Loving freedom, then, as they do, a majority of them, in their capacity as citizens of States, have chosen to express this love in their statute books in the shape of 'Personal Liberty Bills; and when, in their practical operation, they are found not quite equal to the task of striking off the fetters of the slave when he steps over our borders, some propose and mean to so far alter or amend as to make them, when executed, accomplish this very end. They want to be at least as free as England is in his particular. It is true, that according to some interpretations of the Constitution, this is not right, Yet, in spite of Constitutions and their interpreters, these Northern men are determined to be true to God's laws, Constitutions, cold lead and hemp to the contrary notwithstanding. These Northern people, or the majority who have just elected a President for the country, understand so well the social wickedness and political workings of slavery, that they profess, in the choice they have made, to be determined not only to prevent slavery getting established beyond where it now is, but hereafter to work for its downfall as long as a solitary foot of American soil shall be blasted under its withering curse. All this has got to come. It is only a question of time. The spirit of the age, the genius of the American people, the love of humanity, and God's justice and truth, all enter their solemn protest against it, and its doom is sealed on this continent. The question most immediate to us is, How firm do these American voters, who have just chosen their standard bearer, mean to stand by the principles they profess to hold so dear? As business men, is any portion of them to be intimidated by threats of deluded men, and thus be compelled to relinquish what they have already gained? Will they be driven to apology and concession? For what? For the sake of peace ‘when there is no peace’? Because they made up their minds before election to choose a man who should represent the principle of liberty and manhood? The South talk of calling a Convention to settle their claims! Claims against whom, and for what? Will a majority of the citizens of the United States stoop so low as to lend a listening ear to a turbulent minority, and find itself so far demented and lost to all self-respect as to entertain a proposition from such a quarter? In the name of common sense, what sin lays at the door of Northern men or of the government, but the right of ruling by majorities under the laws and Constitution of the republic? Let all poltroons and cowards who suffered themselves on election day to be so far elevated in the scale of humanity as to vote for an undying principle, pause and reflect on what they are about to do when their courage is found flagging at the ravings of a handful of Southern barbarians.
Is there not great danger, now that the excitement incident to the election has subsided, that the more timid and conservative sort will be inclined to take the back track, and join the hue and cry of that traitorous crew who have been whipped into submission by such renegades as edit and stump for the repeal of the 'Personal Liberty Laws'? To such weak-kneed citizens we would say, look at your openly declared principles, and then consider the propriety of abandoning them when about going into practice. Now is your chance to weigh your power, to grasp and hold a principle as opposed to the shuffling of a cold-hearted diplomacy. Will you hug the delusion that any concessions to so foul a wrong as slavery can have the effect to pacify its supporters? Are you as ready us ever to blanch and writhe under the pointless irony of Southern braggadocio? If we truly desire to see our country prosper, in the name of Heaven, let us concede nothing to slavery! Let us ever bear in mind that the most prominent consideration, and the only one, in this regard, that interests noble minds, is the gigantic fact of 4,000,000 of slaves in the heart of this republic, with all the demoralizing influences of the system pressing with leaden weight the shoulders of free American men and women throughout the land, and of our obligations as Christians to liberate the degraded and suffering bondman. This consideration touches the higher region of our minds, and appeals directly to all that is graceful and generous in the heart. The work and wish of a quarter of a century of all good men are now about to seek their consummation, if we only have courage to stand by our manhood. Compared with this, questions of commercial expediency and of equitable division of power in the departments of government are as chaff, and worthy only the effort of political jugglers. Come what may, let us not, under any servile fear that we may lose what we have gained, be tempted to 
<c03>
swerve from our principles, and thus lose sight of the grand object to be sought, viz: the complete annihilation of American slavery. 
There was never better missionary ground than that afforded by the Southern section of this country; but for the 'reign of terror' there, our missionaries and schoolmasters would be glad to 'be abroad,' when we might hope to see the good effects of their instruction co-operating with the efforts of Northern men to remove slavery. But as it is impossible to perform toward them this needed service, we hope the newspaper press will avail itself of our new census to scatter through the South all such facts and statistics as tend to illustrate the relative power and weakness of the two sections of country-data, it seems to us, necessary to work into the calculation of cost of secession and its consequences. W. 

A GOOD MAN GONE. 
Born to the spirit-world, at Ann Arbor, Michigan, Friday, Nov. 18, RICHARD GLAZIER, aged 70. 
An emigrant to Ann Arbor, from New York city, in 1833, a pioneer farmer, for years an active and leading preacher among the Hicksite Friends, then transcending all sects, and seeking for Truth wherever found. 
For the last twelve years, he had taken an active part in Reform movements. 
He was a man of clear and vigorous intellect, of decided and positive character, of transparent integrity, and a moral courage that knew no wavering. Whatever he thought true he advocated, so soon as his mind was clear and the way open. 
Accustomed when a Friend to 'the voice within,' as he outgrew the bonds of sect, he kept the truths of the Society in his sou’, and was ready to give hospitable welcome and prompt aid to whatever good word or work came in his way. 
He was an early opponent of Capital Punishment, and years ago carried a petition from Friends' Quarterly Meeting of Battle Creek, and from citizens near his home, to Gov. Barry, in behalf of a man sentenced to death for murder, which deeply enlisted the feelings of the Governor, but which he hardly felt free to grant. Yet, during the delay thus caused, the culprit broke jail and fled, and thus was prevented the only death-penalty ever proposed since Michigan became a State. While a Territory, a few were hung, but no one since. He always refused to do military duty, and disapproved of the war spirit. He was a decided, earnest anti-slavery man, ready to welcome a true, brave utterance for Freedom, and ever giving the fugitive slave aid and counsel. He never wavered in his firm adherence to universal liberty as a principle, and was radical and clear in his views. The equality of woman, in rights and freedom of action, was but simple justice in his view. 
He believed in the spiritual presence and intercourse of the departed, or, as he said, 'I know, for I have seen my friends, and felt their healing touch, relieving pain'-and accepted, with clear judgment, only what seemed true and rational to him as evidence; enjoying much the broad views of the ‘Harmonial Philosophy.' 
The last years of his life, though feeble in health, seemed richer in enjoyment than those past. He was more genial in spirit, had more of the tender charity of daily life, was more tolerant, and enjoyed much his wide range of thought and reading. This was the happy result with him-as it has been with others, especially in life’s evening on earth, just as morning dawns toward the Better Land-of a release from sectarian authority, and an active interest in Reform and Progress. 
In the last short illness, he waited calmly and pleasantly the change. But a few days since he said, The Society of Friends will be scattered to the four winds, for their work, as a sect, is done; but their principles will live, for God's throne is in the heart of man.' To a friend he said, 'Tell thy friends thou hast seen a Deist and a Spiritualist ready to die cheerfully. Man is a deist, for he has something of the Divine in him. He is a Spiritualist, for God is a Spirit. Be true to God and Humanity. Be honest. What men call thee is of no moment. What they call me does not touch the hem of my garment.' With a last quiet breath, the feeble lungs ceased their office. G. B. S.
Standard, Bugle, and Herald of Progress, please copy.

OBITUARY.
Died, in Centreville, (Indiana,) of pulmonary consumption, on the 15th Nov., Mrs. ANNE ELIZABETH JULIAN, wife of Hon. GEORGE JULIAN, in the 34th year of her age. 
The deceased was the daughter of Cyrus and Theresa A. Finch, who were among the early settlers of Centreville. Her father died while she was an infant, and, like her, was cut down in the meridian of life, and by the same desolating disease. 
Mrs. Julian was blessed with the finest endowments, both of mind and heart. Her perceptions were uncommonly quick and active. Her intuitions were as bright and clear as sun-light, stamping her judgment with peculiar authority, and making her a ready and sure critic of character. 
Perhaps the leading trait in her character was her unflagging energy. It was out of all correspondence with her frail, delicate, and finely fashioned physical organization. She directed all the details of housekeeping, domestic economy, gardening, plans of building and kindred matters, and at the same time was invariably consulted by her husband as to affairs of larger moment, whether connected with business or politics. She freely entered into all his plans, cheerfully shared all his fortunes, which often were dark and cheerless, and bravely fought his battles, and espoused his welfare, even during her distressing and protracted sickness. And to her judicious counsel and executive energy, he is largely indebted for whatever praiseworthy work he has accomplished thus far in the journey of life. 
Scarcely less remarkable was her truthfulness. Her integrity seemed entire and unqualified. She would not countenance the slightest appearance of insincerity or indirection. She had a positive faith in rectitude. Her nature was married to the great primal truths of the moral world. While she was a decided lover of peace, and valued the good opinion of others, it was delightful to witness the steady moral dignity with which she would trample under her feet any suggestion of expediency, when principle was to be trifled with, or duty evaded.
She was a quiet but earnest soldier in the army of reform. Her ever active sympathy, which could not endure the sight of suffering and wrong, made her the friend of every form of practical philanthropy. There was no truer friend of the millions of dehumanized slaves of the South, and she proved her fidelity by standing by the flag-staff of Freedom years ago, in the face of much popular obloquy, and every form of political and social proscription. She did this with no hope whatever of worldly advantage, and with a certainty of sacrificing ease, friends, and worldly prosperity.
She was a decided lover of nature and of the beautiful, whether in nature or art. She was passionately fond of flowers, and her sensitive organization borrowed exquisite pleasure from the world of life around her.
Austerity was utterly repulsive to her. Measured, by the square and rule of Priest and Levite, she was not orthodox. She cared little about theological dog. mas, but went at once to the root and foundation of true religion, by living it, making it inwrought in. her daily walk, and thus showing the' fruits' by, which alone we are authorized to judge. Whilst she cherished a hearty, trusting faith in the paternal character of God, she seemed to feel that
'To worship rightly is to love each other,
Each smile a hymn, each kindly deed a prayer.'
<c04>
THE RECENT RESPECTABLE RIOT. 
[Boston Correspondence of the New York Tribune.]
It is possible that I may give the Tribune some details of the Bell-Everett riot not picked up and forwarded by its vigilant reporter, who was fortunately present. Considering the fact that the rioters, according to the Courier, were strong in' respectability,' as well as in numbers, that paper, as well as the Post, is unaccountably remiss in not giving the names of those who were present and active. With the exception of Mr. Richard S. Fay, Mr. J. Murray Howe, Mr. Christopher Plunkett, Col. Jonas H. French, Mr. Perkins, (Thomas H., I believe.) Mr. Bacon, and Mr. Thomas Farmer, of Roxbury, I do not find in either of these papers the names of any of the rioters. I use the word rioters in no offensive sense, but for convenience. The rioter of one day is a revolutionary patriot the next year, and if these gentlemen succeed in permanently putting down free speech in Boston, I shall, after the customary usage, change the designation. But as the experiment remains doubtful, with the chances at present against them, I will stick to the word I have used. There was one curious feature about this riot and the conduct of the public authorities, and that was this: that the police officers, acting under the orders of the Chief, Mr. D. J. Coburn, and the Mayor, Mr. F. W. Lincoln, Jr., made the curious mistake of undertaking to stop the disturbance by arresting and ejecting the quiet people and legal occupants of the ball, and letting the rioters remain in peaceable possession. Certain men had hired the hall, and were presumed to be able and willing to pay for it, for the purpose of discussing the best means of abolishing slavery. Certain other men made an irruption into it, violently and riotously took possession of it, wrested it from its purpose, in fact, burglariously entered and stole it, and the police, instead of interrupting the process, proceeded with the utmost coolness to dispossess the original and rightful owners. It is no wonder that, when the Mayor and the police have thus got their heads turned topsyturvy on the subject of their duty of preserving the peace of the city, the insanity should also seize the Juries, the District-Attorneys, and other officers of the Courts, so that there should be, as there has been for the last year, general immunity for rogues and rascals of all sorts. I do not mean to blame the police. They were acting under orders, or supposed they were, though it was hard to find out what the orders were. Dr. S. G. Howe, finding himself excluded from the hall, at a time, too, when there was no greater disorder than is frequent in political meetings, demanded the reason, and was told by the police officer at the door that the Chief had given orders that no one should be admitted. The Doctor proceeded to the Mayor's office, and there found the Chief, who told him he had given no such orders. The fact is, probably, that he had forgotten all about it, or had given all sorts of contradictory orders, or had given no orders, and the officer at the door was doing his best on his own responsibility. An incapable officer is always the worst of rioters in a disturbance of this kind, and if somebody had read the riot act to Daniel J. Coburn, and dispersed him, he would have done good service. His subordinates-(plague on it! I keep speaking as if he was not himself the most ridiculous of subordinates, servile to all the earthly influences!) were one moment hustling a man out, and the next moment returning him, and apologizing for their roughness; and Mr. F. B. Sanborn, the lawful Chairman, was actually rescued out of the hands of an officer by two others, who returned him safely into the hall from which he had been rudely ejected. Most of them were good-natured and clever fellows, who would have gladly done their duty if they had been properly guided. 
But I am straying from my purpose, which was to give you the names of some of the solid and respectable men who undertook to ‘set Boston right,' as your neighbor of the Express has it. Before doing this, however, I must pause to express my regret that the leading men of the Bell-Everett and Democratic parties so disgracefully skulked through out the whole day. The Post, two days in succession, egged on the rioters, but I cannot learn that either Col. Greene or Mr.Frothingham were present. Nobody saw Mr. Hallett, or Collector Whitney, or Mr. Bailey of the Herald, or Mr. E. B. Bigelow, or Mr. John T. Heard, of the Democratic side, or Mr. Everett, or Mr. Winthrop, or Mr. Hillard, or Mr. Stevenson, or Mr. Saltonstall, or Mr. Fearing, or Mr. Appleton, or even Mr. Lunt, of the Bell-Everett persuasion. The vindication of Boston was unfortunately left to such small fry as Oliver Stevens, and Thomas Farmer, and Cherrington, and young Choate, and Jo. Bell, and Harry Horton, and Watson Freeman. Jr., and the mass of named and nameless riffraff that followed them. It would have been a cheerful and pleasant sight if we could have seen Mr. Everett himself raising his clarion voice and his quivering finger, in behalf of the country at this crisis of her fate; or Mr. Hallett interposing his burly form, like Mr. Webster's 'broad shield of the Constitution,' between our united country and James Redpath; or Mr. Winthrop, winding his cloak about him with one hand, and with the other striking a hearty blow from the shoulder, for the Union and the laws; or Mr. Whitney, encouraging his squad of gaugers and inspectors; or Mr. Lunt, piously lifting up his voice, and asking the blessing of the God he ignorantly worships on the good work; or Col. Greene, doing penance for his early errors in the cause of free speech, in Abner Kneeland's case, by helping to mob men as unpopular as Kneeland ever was. But, alas! these men seem to have been satisfied with urging on the mob, or with the still more ignominious part of rejoicing over what it accomplished. 
Mr. Richard S. Fay and Mr. J. Murray Howe were the most conspicuous persons among the rioters. Mr. Fay was de facto Chairman for a time, and Mr. Howe thought he occupied the same position afterward. Mr. Fay is a wealthy man, resident in Lynn. He is one of the Cow Commissioners, and has the reputation of knowing something about agriculture. Though not a Boston man, he evidently feels as great a responsibility for the existence and success of our experiment of government as the solidest man we have, even Mr. G. T. Curtis himself. Mr. Howe I shall say nothing about; he is exempt from criticism for reasons which he and a portion of the public understand. Col. Jonas H. French, who was very active in the good work, was one of Gov. Gardner's Aids. Thomas. H. Perkins, a broker, was very lively, compromising his dignity so much, I am informed, as to assault a negro. Mr. William D. Swan, book publisher, and two young Swans, were hearty sympathizers. So was Mr. Arthur Gilman, architect-of his own fortune, as well as of sundry churches, and an excellent story-teller. Wm. C. Fay, described sarcastically by the Traveller as a gentleman of' great respectability and considerable prominence,' continued his labors in the evening at the church in Joy place, and if he had been properly supported might have achieved as signal a victory there, as he and his associates achieved at the Temple in the morning. Charles A. Brewer and Michael Scanlan, and Isaac P. Wainwright and Charles C. Hobbs, are men of less note, and I do them a service in bringing them before the public in such respectable company. In addition to Choate, Jr., and Jo. Bell, the bar was represented by B. F. Russell and Oliver Stevens. Perhaps those are not the highest names at the Boston bar, but they may be considered rising men, after Monday's work. Mr. Horton (before mentioned) is of the firm of F. Skinner & Co., and is a worthy representative of dry-goods principles. John C. Boyd, Wm. C. Rogers, a Salem merchant, J. H. & W. F. Loud, J. T. Coolidge, Jr., Charles Larkin, Wm. J. Parsons, son of Prof. Parsons, Plunkett, Mooney, and Marble, Custom-House officers, (very noisy and disagreeable,) William Aspinwall, of the old Whig State Committee, and others, are mentioned to me as having been irritant in season and out of season. Then there were Amorys, Heaths, Randalls, and so on, too numerous to mention. If I have omitted any names, I shall gladly, on proper application, supply them, and if any gentleman disclaims the honor, or feels himself unworthy of the choice companionship I have given him, I shall take pains to make the necessary correction, so that the future chronicler who searches the files of the Tribune, out of which history will be written, may not fall into any errors. You will see that all professions and classes were represented. The shoulder-hitters were very strong. The Chief of Police remarked concerning one of them, that he deserved to be arrested every night of his life. He let him alone, however, on this occasion. One gentleman, who is under indictment for an attempt to kidnap, was observed to be active in the good work. A merchant, who not long ago was obliged to pay $100 to a baggage-master at the Eastern Railroad Depot, (a man about 70 years of age,) for committing an assault upon him, was also conspicuous. 
The literary class was represented. One gentle-man
<c05>
was pointed out to me as the author of a work on 'The Evasion of Payments,' 'The Autobiography of a Jeremy Diddler,’ "Hand-Book for Swindlers,' ’Stealing Without a Master,' 'Bird's-Eye View of Boston, with Particular Directions how to Dodge a Policeman,' and other elementary works which I have not seen, and which I suspect are still unpublished.
I have omitted to mention that Mr. Amos A. Lawrence was present. I do not think he was sympathizing with the rioters to any great extent: still less, probably, did he have any sympathy with the meeting. Following the Stebbins rule, he was no doubt in favor of free speech, but opposed to all measures to protect and secure it. His equivocal position is a perfectly natural and suitable one. I have told how decidedly he was implicated in John Brownism; but one incident in his history I have not related. When John Brown's wife was in Boston, just before her visit to Virginia for the purpose of seeing her husband, Mr. Lawrence called upon her, and said, ‘Mrs. Brown, I have always had a high respect for your husband, and I don't think I have any less now.' He also gave her money, and told her if she wanted any more, to let him know. Yet, at the last election, he was the candidate for Governor of the Courier faction, whose chief 'card' during the campaign was Mr. Andrew's declaration that whatever might have been the character of John Brown's act, Brown himself was right. Of such a man it is impossible to predict anything. 
Sometimes we say of a man that 'you always know where to find him.' If this can be said of Mr. Lawrence, it must be because he is sure to be on one side to-day, and the opposite side to-morrow. He will be a good man for us to send to Congress, for I see by a telegram in the Boston Journal, 'that news of the Boston disturbance is received with satisfaction' in Washington, 'even by many who condemn the act.' In fact, this seems to be the identical position in which some of the Boston newspapers now are, with respect to the Tremont Temple affair. The Advertiser and the Journal have published apologetic articles, but the Journal seems to have been partially brought to its senses by an article in the Courier, exultingly threatening in substance, that Sumner, Phillips and Wilson, should be served in the same way as Douglass and Sanborn were served, if they undertook to speak. And why should they not?
The only persons harshly treated were the negroes and their associates-the very ones who had engaged the hall, and were accountable for the payment for its use. Among the myriad weaknesses of the Chief of Police is the strongly marked one that he is a most submissive respecter of persons. It was not dreamed of in his philosophy that he could hamper the course of any man whose indorsement was good for any conceivable amount. So neither Mr. Fay, nor Mr. Howe, nor Mr. Perkins, nor any of their fraternity from North street, over whom they exercised protection, were harmed. It certainly was a little difficult to understand why Mr. Frank Sanborn, who courteously asserted his right to the chair, should be dragged out by the neck, while Mr. J. Murray Howe, who insolently proclaimed his, was sedulously protected. Or why Mr. Fred. Douglass, who fought after provocation, should be set upon by half a dozen policemen, while Mr. Thomas H. Perkins, who gave provocation, was respectfully smiled upon. You see there's a brilliant divinity doth hedge our Beacon lights, before which the gleams of the guardian stars of order are quite paled. But the meeting was broken up, in spite of the unwillingness of the Trustees and the Superintendent of the Temple, who united in urging the Mayor to secure and maintain tranquillity, which might have been done at any time, had any vital authority on the side of order been displayed.
The evening meeting at Mr. Martin's Church was a different affair. The building was early filled with friends of the Garrisonians, and the Deputy Chief of Police, into whose hands the power had been yielded, thereafter prevented all ingress. An enormous crowd gathered around outside, but, so long as the meeting lasted, was kept in all necessary restraint by the excellent management shown by this officer. There was very little disturbance within. The savers of the Union were in the minority, and manifested a mournful carelessness as regarded the destruction of their revered fabric. One gentleman was very active in hissing Mr. Phillips, and proclaiming him a liar, but he seemed to be fairly quieted by a colored brother, who rose upon him with this threat: ‘If you don't sit down, Bill Fay, and shut up, I won't shave you to-morrow.' After this, the gentleman had little to say, from which we may gather that, to the average conservative mind, a smooth face is dearer than the sustenance of the Union. The speeches were not remarkable. That of Mr. Phillips was very brilliant, and very violent, and, of course, very satisfactory to the greater part of those who heard him. The most exciting event of the evening was that which immediately followed Mr. Phillips's egress, about 9 o'clock. For his own safety, he was conveyed some distance through a dark and narrow passage, so awkward and irregular as to call up vivid recollections of some of Ainsworth's old-time romances. Although the crowd was comparatively small where he emerged, he was at once recognized, and a rush of some hundreds of persons was made toward him. The fact that Mrs. Chapman and one other lady were with him probably saved his life; for while all sorts of execrations were hurled at him, remonstrances in behalf of the ladies were equally loud. For a few minutes, it looked as if that martyrdom which has often been threatened was about to befall him. The mob which swarmed about him as he descended the steps of the Common, was evidently hungry enough for some kind! of violence. But the half-score of friends near him had an ugly look of resolution about them that kept the assailants from venturing beyond wordy expression of their feelings. It was altogether an edifying spectacle, this wolfish and cowardly hunting of a man across Boston Common. At Mr. Phillips's house, a last concentration of vocal venom was let off; but the thing had become ridiculous by that time, and nobody minded it. 
Of the midnight mauling of the negroes, and the breaking of their windows, you have already been informed. These final demonstrations were a splendid culmination of the meanness and the cowardice which had distinguished the Beacon and North street forces throughout the day. 

FREE SPEECH 'SUMMARILY ABATED.'
In another place will be found some account of a very notable ‘Union' demonstration which took place in Boston yesterday. A company of men, whose motto in politics is' the Union, the Constitution, and the Enforcement of the Laws,' manifested their veneration for the laws by riotously taking possession of an anti-slavery meeting, and breaking it up. It is a long time since such a thing as that was at empted in Boston, and it will be a still longer time, probably, before those who engaged in the business, yesterday, will persuade reasonable persons to become entirely satisfied with their conduct. Freedom of speech cannot be stifled in Massachusetts, and they are very foolish who undertake to stifle it. We invite the Yanceys and the Rhetts to come here and speak, and when they come, we listen to them respectfully. They have a right to speak freely; but is their right superior to that of the extremists of freedom? We are not obliged to hear speeches that do not please us, for we can stay away from the meetings where they are to be delivered; but it is our duty to abstain from trampling on the rights of others, and they are hypocrites, and enemies to good order, who talk of reverence for ‘the Constitution and the Laws,’ while so ready to trample both under foot.
The Boston papers state that the riotous persecutors of that meeting of abolitionists were 'Union men;' and 'Richard S. Fay of Lynn,' the presiding genius of the riot, is a prominent Bell-Everett man, and the owner of a slave plantation in North Carolina, we believe. It was very appropriate for him and his followers to resolve that anti-slavery meetings' shall henceforth be summarily abated in Boston.' It is likely, however, that they will encounter insuperable difficulties in their attempt to carry out their resolve. If they had met somewhere by themselves, in a peaceable way, and resolved that it was folly and wickedness and fanaticism, and all that, to propose such a meeting which they' summarily abated' at Tremont Temple, they would have done no more than they had a right to do, in the exercise of free speech; but, when they resolve to suppress all those anti-slavery people in Boston whose views seem to them wild and offensive, they undertake an enterprise which cannot be made successful in Massachusetts. The meeting they disturbed might not have attracted much attention, if they had been wise enough to let it alone. Their violence has done far more to help 
<c06>
han to hinder its purpose, and it may be that what hey have done will cause a general revival of the extremest anti-slavery enthusiasm.-Worcester Spy.

FREE SPEECH.
The Union raid upon the John Brown meeting in Boston was one of the most disgraceful attacks ever made in this country upon Freedom of Speech. The animus of the affair was the same that characterized the attack made upon a band of defenceless women in Boston, by a mob of gentlemen of property and standing, in the summer of 1835; but that mob was led by choicer spirits than Fay, Hove and Perkins, the illustrious trio, who have now undertaken the task of setting Boston right. The community are in much greater peril from the lawless violence of a well-dressed mob, which seeks to prevent the free utterance of opinion, than it can possibly be from the promulgation of the doctrines, however extreme, of any body or class of men in its midst.
Grant, as we certainly do, that the meeting was ill-advised and ill-timed, its projectors had a right to the undisturbed use of a hall which had been hired by them, and they also had a right to the protection of the city authorities. In a government like this, all men, both as classes and individuals, have a right to the free expression of their honest opinion, and for every infringement of that right, the whole community must in the end suffer; for the same power which can suppress the expression of one class of opinions, can also be used for the suppression of other opinions, whether in the form of public speech, legislative enactment, or judicial decision, which may not be in accordance with the prevailing sentiment of the hour.-Dedham Gazette.

From the Bellows Falls (Vt.) Times.
RIOT IN BOSTON.
We had supposed that at least in New England, the right of free speech was so thoroughly established, that no such disgraceful scene as that enacted in Boston the other day, would ever have occurred. But old hunkerism dies hard, and it is the same in Boston.
During the performance, Rev. D. C. Eddy, formerly Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, tried to prevail on the 'eminent respectability' to allow free speech, but all in vain, and it is now hoped that South Carolina will remain in the Union another fortnight.
The effect of this exhibition of Boston flunkeyism will be the reverse from what was intended, or precisely as when they attacked Rev. Mr. Alger's Fourth of July Oration, a few years since. Had they permitted the meeting to have been held, it would have passed off quietly, and comparatively but few would ever have known that such a meeting had been held. Now it will be heralded all over the Union, and the Abolitionists may well chuckle in their sleeves about it.
We do not believe in the acts of John Brown, but we do believe in the freedom of speech, and it is a shame and disgrace to Boston, or any other place, it they cannot maintain it. We close by an extract from the Springfield (Mass.) Republican. That paper says:-
'This singular demonstration in Boston is of little significance in itself. It only shows, that there are several varieties of the genus fool still extant, and there are certainly none more stupid than those who suppose they are contributing to the salvation of the Union by attempting to suppress the freedom of speech on any subject. They ought to know, too, by this time, that there is nothing ultraism thrives so fast upon as persecution, and nothing such men as Red-path and his associates court more than the notoriety given them by a row. They are a thousand times better satisfied than if they had been allowed to utter their harmless eulogies on John Brown without opposition.'

BLACKGUARDS IN BROADCLOTH.
Certain blackguards in broadcloth, in violation of order and decency, repaired to the meeting, and by violent physical demonstration-chiefly of the lungs-so disturbed it that it was obliged to be abandoned. Their course was both a crime and a blunder,-a crime in that it was in opposition to law and the rights of freemen; and a blunder because its result will be to elevate the men who called the meeting, from a position amounting nearly to social outlawry into that of champions and vindicators of the right of free speech.
The crowd, notwithstanding some of its leaders are known on 'change, was composed mostly of men of vulgar and debased ideas. Cheers for South Carolina were repeatedly called and given! The very men engaged in it went to Faneuil Hall, and heard the libels and the lashings which Yancey a Southern disunionist, dealt out, last October, without a word of remonstrance. To be fanatical on the side of Slavery is, in their eyes, no crime; but, unlike their great prototypes of the early days of the Republic, they can pardon nothing to the spirit of Liberty.
The Boston Courier, emboldened by this success, has since uttered a threat, as infamous as it is senseless, that Henry Wilson and Charles Sumner shall next be made the victims of mob-violence, and denied the right of speech in Boston. Let them try it!-Norfolk County Journal.

THE DISGRACEFUL RIOT IN BOSTON.
The Bristol County Republican says:
'We Massachusetts men cannot but deplore the shameful proceedings of that occasion. If the highly respectable gentlemen who aided in breaking up that gathering had called a meeting, and Wendell Phillips, Fred. Douglass, and their friends had voted them down what would have been said of the rude "abolition mob "? If fanatical men choose to hold meetings for the purpose of discussing their own chimeras, they have a right to fair play and free discussion. This right is guarantied to them by the spirit of our tree institutions. Had there been no interference, the occasion would have passed over as a trivial affair: now it will be kept alive.'
The Milford (Mass.) Journal, commenting upon this disgraceful outbreak, says:
'It is a little singular that those disturbers of the peace belonged to the celebrated Union party-which has just been so strenuous for the "Constitution and the Union, and the Enforcement of the Laws"! If the meeting had been held in Charleston, S.C., it would not have been strange if it had been broken up; but we had hoped that by this time, free speech would be tolerated in Boston, and we believe yet, that this dear bought right will not be bartered away for the privilege of selling calico.'

A HANDSOME COMPLIMENT.
We find the following in the Brooklyn City News of October 15th:-
'In a visit to the foundry of Messrs. Esler & Co., on Friday last, we observed a very large, intelligent looking colored man engaged with one of the proprietors, apparently selecting and ordering machinery. Upon inquiry, we found that he was an engineer, sent to this place from Port-au-Prince, his residence, for the purpose of ordering a large amount of machinery, among which were two steam engines and sugar-mills, one for Messrs. Blanchard, Bretaux & Co., of Aux Caves, and the other for T. Claix, of Port-au-Prince; also the castings for a water-mill near the same place, and other work of the like character. We were much pleased with the appearance of the engineer, and from the little conversation we had with him, concluded he understood his business as well as white engineers. His name is Hezekiah Grice, and he appears to be an intelligent, ingenious man, and thinks this will not be his last visit to this city for the same purpose as his present one. All parts of the world must necessarily rely upon us for such work, and our machinists, if they would consult their own interests, would take more measures to let themselves be heard of abroad, as well as at home. We understand that Mr. Grice closed his present contracts with Messrs. Esler & Co., and from their Well-known abilities, we have no doubt that the work will be speedily and satisfactorily done.'
Now, Mr. News, the above is a very handsome compliment to Mr. Grice, and we thank you for conceding so much to one of our race; but we cannot resist the temptation to put a flea in your ear, notwithstanding. Consistency, Mr. News, is a jewel. You know that there are large numbers of such men as Mr. Grice among our people, and yet you persist in shutting them out from the enjoyment of privileges which are conceded to all others. Will you not hoist the banner of free suffrage, and use your influence in our behalf from now till election? -Anglo-African, Nov. 3d.
