THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID)to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 35.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1647.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
SLANG OF A DEMOCRATIC DEMAGOGUE.
Hon(!) John B. Haskin, formerly M. C. from New York, recently made a rigmarole speech (which the Boston Courier regards as “sensible and patriotic"!) before the citizens in the Eighth Senatorial District, of which the following is a sample:-
If there is any one thing which I deprecate more than another to-day, it is the exhibition on the part of some gentlemen of the North of a feeling-certainly not a courageous one-which would proclaim a necessity to arm the negroes in our warfare to put down the Southern rebellion. (Cheers).
There are but eight millions of white people in the South against twenty millions of white people in the North and I tell you gentlemen, it is a humiliating confession, and one attacking our individual courage, which says that the eight millions of the South are superior to the twenty millions of the North. It is not so. (Cheers.) Now, what my friend says in relation to the employment of the negro upon interchements I agree to; but there is an old story that if you would skin eels well, you must first catch, and have them to skin. (Laughter and applause.) I have been South to Fortress Munroe and elsewhere, and have seen these poor, miserable negroes, and in my judgment they are better off in the state of slavery in which they were, than when they are brought North, to be maintained by the miscalled philanthropy of fanaticism (Cheers.) I was at Fortress Munroe when the battle of Bull Run was lost by Gen. McDowell. I conversed with at least fifty negroes there, termed' contrabands,’ who had come within our lines. When I asked them the cause of their being there, each one told me that it was because his master had left him, and gone in the rebel army. Mind you, it was not the negro who deserted the master, but the master who had deserted the negro; and he came to our camp for bread and for sustenance. Thank God, we have given protection and bread to all who have come; and I say amen to that, because I would feed any one under such circumstances. (Applause.) But when you attempt to bring the negro into the Federal army, in competition with the white man, and call him equal, you excite the very natural prejudices of white men, and bring about what you have already seen in the loyal people of the North, a lack of confidence in the leaders of the war. It is that which has repressed the enthusiasm in favor of the war in this region. If the result of it is to be the bringing North of these negro's, to enter into competition with white labor, and to throw the poor laboring white man out of employment, you will find very few more of these men ready to volunteer, as they have nobly done in the past in the Union army. The effect of the fear of such a result upon this class of our citizens has already been felt.
Now, citizens, a few days since, a man in Boston, named Wendell Phillips, the Marat and Danton of the North, proclaimed that this must be a war of emancipation, a war for the abolition of slavery, and that the Constitution under which we live must be trodden in the dust. Why, what is the difference between this nigger-worshipping traitor and the men of the South who advocate the same doctrine under the guise of secession? (A voice, None.) Why not mete out to him, and those who openly sympathize with and sustain him, the same punishment that has been meted out to Mc. Masters, Ives and others? Why not send them to Fort Lafayette or Fort Warren? (Great applause.) I say these pestiferous agitators, by raising this unnecessary nigger question, are producing all the division and trouble we now have in the great North. But I have faith that it will all come out right. It must come out right. (Applause.) We have twenty millions to eight millions. We have the art, the science, the labor, the material wealth, and the strength on our side, and all that is wanted is confidence and courage.
I know that if these pestiferous agitators will only cease throwing cold water upon the cause, and stay their efforts to overthrow the Constitution, by proclaiming abolition, and getting up negro regiments and things of that sort, we will yet have an army that will protect Mr. Lincoln and his cabinet, and keep them in Washington during their term of office. If this doctrine of abolition and emancipation prevails, and the Constitution should be thus violated, what hope would there be of finding a single Union man in any one of the Southern States? 
How much has been said about the fighting of the poor negro, who intrude themselves everywhere, in every public meeting, and on Congress, but not by their own efforts' I recollect once, at a meeting have, applying these lines of the poet to them:–
“Hereditary bondsmen, know ye not
Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow?"
Have you heard of a negro Union company in the South any where? Have you heard of those people putting forth the least effort to help themselves, or to assist the Government in this war? On the contrary, they have assisted the South, and why? Because they are content with their position. I remember talking with the fire-eaters of the South, on the floor of Congress, on this subject. They used to say to me, “You Northern men are mistaken about our slaves. They are content; and if a war should ever take place between us, they will dig our trenches, yea, they will fight for us.” I doubted it. I thought there was some latent love of liberty in the bosoms of these men, which would induce them to come forth and fight for the Union; but, as yet, they have done nothing.
I see announced upon the bulletin boards, to-day, that Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts, is getting up a negro brigade, and drafting negroes and white men together, in Boston. I wish the fanaticism of Boston was sunk in the ocean. (Hearty cheers.) The negroes do not want to fight. They have shown it in the South. Not twenty of the "negroes who have come within our lines have willingly taken up arms to assist the Union forces. They came from necessity. As I said before, to get their bread and butter. I would employ them in the trenches, but as for talking about using them as volunteers along-side of while men to fight-when, directly interested as they are, they have shown no disposition to do so-it seems to me to be a little absurd. No, citizens, this rebellion must be put down by white men. It is a government of and for white men, not niggers. (Cheers.) I regret as much as any living man that slavery was ever introduced upon this continent, but we did not bring it here. The English and Dutch brought it here from self-interest; and while I say I regret it as a philanthropist, for I profess to be one, yet if the power was given me to-night, to emancipate the four millions of slaves now in the South. I would ask first, what is to become of them? Will Wendell Phillips, will Beecher, will Cheerer, will these white-choke red gentlemen who talk about putting negro regiments in the field, but do not go themselves, provide for them? (Laughter and cries
<c02>
of “No," "No.”) Let this revolution, if it may yet be termed so, in the South, be defeated, and the question of the negro will resolve and settle itself.

WENDELL PHILLIPS “A POLITICAL NUISANCE, A TRAITOR, AND A PERNICIOUS MAN.”
When Mr. Wendell Phillips admitted his devotion to the Union some months ago, many rejoiced that such a splendid intellect had been added to the list of our national defenders. He had been a representative man. He belonged to a class which though small, was active, persistent, gifted, and entitled to respect. His followers were wedded to an idea. It was impracticable, ephemeral, and possessed neither substance nor power, but it had been a source of irritation and agitation. When the war burst upon us in uncontrollable fury, we had but one anxiety, and that was the union of every sect, opinion, or prejudice in defence of the Union. The question was not what men had believed, or with whom had they acted, but how did they believe and act in the present crisis? Every man-the Abolitionist, the Republican, the Conservative, the Douglas Democrat, the Breckinridge Democrat-was welcome to the Union cause. We asked no question but the question of loyalty, and accepted no test but the test of allegiance. We had hoped that Mr. Phillips, with his rare powers as an orator, and his influence with the eccentric class that believed in him, would have been useful to the country. In this hope, we have been sadly disappointed.
Wendell Phillips is a traitor in his soul. He differs from Jefferson Davis in this only, that Davis has drawn the sword, while Phillips is effective without it. We can conceive of no doctrines more horribly dangerous than those contained in his recent speeches. There is a fury and a recklessness in his invectives which almost amounts to a mania. He denounces everybody, and believes in no one. Mr. Lincoln is “a turtle” a first rate second-rate man.” General McClellan is incompetent, and takes an hour to decide a question, and say no. “Let this Union be dissolved, in God’s name,” he says in a burst of raving rhetoric, “and the corner-stone of a new one be laid, on which shall be en-graven forever,' Equality in a political sense for every man who is born in the world.” Cease believing in the Cabinet: there is nothing there for you. Pray God to awaken your President to a sense of his position and the interests at stake.” ”President Lincoln, through coward fear of the Border States, keeps McClellan in the position he holds. But the day will come-and it is that that hurts us all-when Lincoln will confess that he never believed in Mc-Clellan.” ”I do not say that McClellan is a traitor; but I do say that, so far, he could not have done more to help traitors than he has done.” Language like this can find no parallel in the columns of the Richmond Examiner. It serves every purpose that the most malignant enemy of the Republic could desire. It serves to destroy public confidence, to weaken our faith in our constituted authorities, to make us despair, and become sick, weary and disheartened.
We have no objection to these wild and extreme denunciations in times of peace. They become subjects of jesting and merriment, and have no other purpose than to create a smile of pity, or a sneer of contempt. But now, when hearts are lacerated by daily bulletins from bloody fields of battle, and the public mind is sensitive on the utterance of every public man, and extremely so in relation to our generals and statesmen, are these fierce falsehoods to be permitted? There is not a traitor in the land who will not exult over these declarations. In Richmond, they will be read with joy; in unfriendly London, they will be greeted with exultation and mockery. “What strength, what dignity has this Republic of America, which can permit traitors in Boston to assail it from the forum; while traitors in Richmond assail it from the battle-field? It sends men to Fort Warren for attacking the Government and disowning the oath of allegiance, and I yet it permits men in Boston-men of smooth speech and choice words and eloquent phrases-to glory in the fact that they disdained to owe allegiance to the country of their birth, and at the same time sought to divide and destroy it? “ These are the words which these speeches of Wendell Phillips will excite, and we are very much afraid they will be truly spoken.
That man is a traitor who refuses to sustain the Government; to defend it against its enemies; to respect its constituted authorities; to submit to its laws; to give allegiance to its Constitution. That man is a traitor who, in times of danger, permits any sentiment or prejudice to weaken his love for the Union, or give comfort and consolation to the enemy. That man is a traitor who finds cause for exultation in our national discomfiture or misfortune. Mr. Phillips has done these things, and more. “Davis is perfectly satisfied with his successes. They are greater than he anticipated-far greater; and, if he can possibly float upon them and a few more. England will, as she ought to, recognize the Southern Confederacy.” Can anything be more treasonable- than this? We have yet to see the utterance of any traitor, secessionist, or Breckinridge Democrat, so full of malignity; and there is no reason in the world, why he should not meet with the treatment which loyal men everywhere bestow upon the traitor, the secessionist, or the Breckinridge Democrat.
No eloquence-no number of personal gifts-no sincerity or honesty of purpose, can permit the unreduced utterance of such sentiments as these. Mr. Phillips may be an honest man, but we say of him as he says of Mr. Lincoln: “He may be honest, but who cares whether he is honest or not? What has his honesty to do with the matter?” He is an enemy-a political nuisance-a traitor-and a pernicious man. He should be abated. If it can be done by any social or political influence, we shall be satisfied; but if not, there is a short and easy road from his home near Boston to a casemate in Fort Warren. Philadelphia Press.
Wendell Phillips, probably under a wholesome fear of arrest for his abominable treason, has written a letter to the New York Tribune, in which, with some difficulty, he manages to deny that he intended to discourage enlistments. He takes the occasion to state what he calls his “position,” and what others more justly call his treason, viz: that there can never be peace or union until slavery is destroyed. The latter makes Phillips’s offences no less criminal, and it is plainly the Government's duty to follow the advice of loyal newspapers throughout the country, and, without delay, ARREST HIM. He is a nuisance, a pest-and should be abated. Boston Post.
The Washington Sunday Chronicle demands the instant arrest of Wendell Phillips for treason, ARREST HIM! Boston Post.
Does the Post expect to hide its own factious designs by raising an outcry like this?
<c03>
Selection
MR. PHILLIPS AND THE ABOLITIONISTS.
[Correspondence of the A. S. Standard.]
PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 18, 1862.
These are dark hours. Transpiring events have little in them to cheer. But darkness has its uses; and these events are the stern logic which alone can convince us of our sins. There is nothing strange in what is now happening; nothing that was not to be expected. Neither is there anything discouraging in it, except to those who need discouragement. People who are on the wrong road, or indulging delusive hopes, or cherishing false dependencies, should not be encouraged. Despondency, for them, is the state of mind most to be desired. It is a step in the right direction; a preparation for a confidence better grounded and more enduring.
To prophesy “smooth things“ is, to the natural mind, a pleasing task, and the one who performs the office is sure to be acceptable to the people. As it was in the days of Isaiah, so may it be truly said now: “This is a rebellious people, that will not hear, the law of the Lord; which say to the seers, See not, and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things. Speak unto us smooth things.” But as then, so now-woe unto the prophet who perverts the law of the Lord, and woe to the people who delight to be imposed upon!
The Fourth of July or First of August orator who will say: “All is well; peace, peace; let your confidence in your rulers be implicit; let no distrust mar your repose in the ability of your Generals,” will be hailed as a prophet worthy of all honor; he will receive the newspaper plaudit of “Well done, loyal citizen; bravely spoken, true patriot.” But let him, with the fear of God before his eyes and the love of truth in his heart, say: “All is not well; put not your faith in princes; cease from man, whose breath is in his nostrils,” and let him give good and sufficient reasons for thus expressing himself, and see if he be not condemned as an unfaithful citizen, and held up as an enemy of his country.
Wendell Phillips, oppressed with a sense of his country's condition, anxious to put a period to a bloody and exterminating war, and desirous to save the nation from bankruptcy and dismemberment, addresses the people, and says:' ‘The policy of the Government on the pivotal question of slavery is not a wise one: the competence of leading Generals in the field is a matter that demands inquiry; undiscriminating praise of a Chief Magistrate is calculated to beset dangerous delusions; blind trust in leaders, political or military, is unbecoming; a great people.” These propositions-stated in his own way Mr. Phillips proceeds-also in his own way-to demonstrate from the facts of history, past and current. His object is not to make an ephemeral sensation, of which he shall be the hero, but to effect a lasting benefit, of which his country shall be the chief sharer. His object is-to crush the rebellion; to strengthen the Government; to recruit the ranks of our decimated forces. The rebellion he would crush by bringing to bear against it every resource, moral and physical, that God and nature have put into our hands. He would strengthen the Government by constraining it to occupy the broad ground of eternal truth and justice, thus making it “strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might”; he would recruit the thinned ranks of our armies, by adding the half-million of stalwart men whose thaws now constitute the chief strength of the rebellion.
This is the sum and substance, the drift and aim of Mr. Phillips's speech delivered at Abington Grove, on the 1st of August. The Press of this city, its editor having read a report, or what purported to be a report, of this speech, denounces him as a traitor, and threatens him with a felon's prison. The writer's patriotic sensibilities are shocked, and- as it would seem-he only suppresses the cry of “a la lantern!” by the as yet more convenient hue of “send him to Fort Warren!” The New York Herald and other quasi loyal papers had been before the Press in this sort of patriotic service; but it was only in point of time; in positive ness of assertion and bitterness of invective, Mr. Forney's paper was up to the foremost of them.
The Press is not given to howling upon the track of unpopular individuals. It is a truly loyal paper; an able paper; and, except in rare instances, a fair paper. It has been quite a favorite with Abolitionists; Mr. Forney of late standing as high as he once stood low in the estimation of this class of people, the past has been forgotten, and the present only borne in mind. The article alluded to was perhaps not written by Mr. Forney; but it was his none the less. He is responsible for it. The appearance of this violent diatribe in such a quarter shows that men must be on their guard how they exercise their rights. We are now in a state of war, and our whilom rights have become mere privileges. Our home-bred prerogatives are no longer assured to us; they are for the time being in abeyance. We exercise them at our peril and by sufferance. If what we say happens to please the public, all's well-at least for us; if it displeases them, we must take the consequences-which may be a call of the Deputy Marshal, and an invitation to accompany him to the nearest fort. Abolitionists, from their character and sentiments, ought to be in less danger of arrest than other citizens, but from the course of the Press toward Mr. Phillips, it would seem that they enjoy no exemption.
Editors of newspapers, in cases like this and in times like these, have great power; and the Press, speaking, as it assumes to do, as the friend par eminence of the Administration, would be especially potential in any hostile demonstration it might choose to make against an obnoxious citizen. A little less than two years ago, a wanton article in its reportorial columns came near costing the life of one of our most worthy citizens. If in times of peace this paper could do so much mischief by inadvertence, how much greater mischief could it do, in times like these, by intention! I don’t mean intention to do mischief-I make no such imputation- but intention- to stigmatize and to make odious.
The editor of the Press is a man of knowledge and experience. He is one who usually knows what he is about. Surely he must be aware that, unless he means to precipitate the evil always to be dreaded in revolutions-anarchy-lawless violence-he should be careful how he bandies grave words like those of “traitor,” ”enemy,” and “prison.” To hurl such epithets at an obnoxious individual, moving among men whose passions are aflame, is like playing with an assassin's knife in the dark, or dallying with a halter at the lamp-post. Besides, the editor must be aware that there is an ebb and flow in the tide of human passion, and that the man who is on the crest of the wave to-day, may be in the trough of the sea tomorrow. This week it may he Mr. Phillips, of whom it is said: “He is an enemy; a political nuisance; a traitor, and a pernicious man. HE SHOULD
<c04>
BE ABATED" (see Press of 11th inst.); next week it may be Mr. Forney's turn to bear the brunt of such invective.
In saying that our rights under the Constitution are for the time being in abeyance, I would not be understood as finding fault with that fact. It is meet that it should be so. In the midst of a revolutionary war like this, no government can assure to each citizen the certain enjoyment of his personal rights. The suspension of the habeas corpus is a military necessity. To get at its enemies, the government must take the risk of injuring its friends; and the truly loyal men will be willing that it should take this risk. One of the evils of war is that in certain conjunctions the soldier is in as much danger from the bullets of his friends, as from those of the enemy. The only safeguard in such cases is the prudence and experience of the commanders. The man who, from carelessness or ignorance, or any other cause, turns the fire of his batteries on his own friends, is not fit to be a leader. This is as true of the editor in the sanctum as of the General in the field.
The sentiments expressed by Wendell Phillips are the sentiments of the Abolitionists all over this country. Not only this, they are the sentiments of thousands and tens of thousands of the best and bravest friends of the government in the land-of all parties. In denouncing Mr. Phillips as a “traitor“ and “an enemy,” the Press, by implication and in effect, denounces all who have the manliness to acknowledge their agreement with him. As Mr. Phillips would scorn to defend himself against charges like these, so does every other Abolitionist. For the Abolitionists are assured that no man, who is at the same time honest and well-informed, will bring any such charges against them; and from the malicious and willfully ignorant, they can't stop to vindicate themselves. They have work to do that is more important and more honorable. When other men were laboring, by all the means at their command-fair and foul-to put Mr. Buchanan into power, thus laying broad and deep the foundations of slaveholding dominion, and in the face of evidence, multiplying on every hand incentives to civil and social discord, the Abolitionists were warning the country of the danger which was impending over it, and at the cost of their reputation and the risk of their lives, imploring the people to save the nation from the abyss into which its leaders were plunging it.
The Abolitionists are loyal above all other men. For thirty years, they have been laboring to save the country from this hour. Had their counsels been listened to, America would be to-day as the garden of the Lord. They have sacrificed much and risked everything to rescue the nation from the danger which have environed it. Jefferson said: “When I reflect that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep for ever, I tremble for my country.” So have Abolitionists said; and they have acted accordingly.
At this moment, though the Administration and they are not in unison on the main question at issue, the Abolitionists are to a man the loyal supporters, of the Government. There is not an Abolitionist in the United States who has the slightest sympathy with the secessionists. Their objection to the Government is, that it does not go far enough or fast enough. Their loyalty is visible in the very acts which are made the occasion of accusing them. Knowing that their personal rights are not assured to them, and that they are liable to be misunderstood by the ignorant and misrepresented by the malicious, they take the risk of proclaiming from the house-tops what other men only whisper in secret places. Having no favors to ask of the Government, they will support but not latter it; and they will not keep silent as to its derelictions.
The share of support which Abolitionists give to the Administration-though having no personal interest in it-will bear comparison with that rendered by any other class of citizens. They at this moment stand ready to make any sacrifice that may be proved necessary to save the country from the evils which threaten it. They are not conditional loyalists; but let the Government proclaim to the world that this is a war for freedom, and that, the support of the nation is to be henceforth and for ever withdrawn from the slave system, and the Abolitionists, with a sublime unanimity, will say “Here we are; take our property and our sons; all we have and all we are, to the extent of your necessities, are at your command.”
In the meantime, the Abolitionists, loyal alike to their cause and their country, claim the right, and affirm the expediency, of holding our rulers to account, by a course of judicious criticism. They will praise, in its proper measure, what deserves laudation, and in like manner they will condemn. They will award to Mr. Lincoln and his Cabinet, and his Generals in the field, all that can be claimed for them, and even more; but they will not flatter either the ruler or the people. An overestimate of those who are placed above us is neither just nor expedient. Mr. Lincoln is what he is, and no more; let us be thankful that we have so worthy a man for our Chief Magistrate. No Abolitionist is disposed to detract from his merit; but the contrary. Against his enemies, at home or abroad, they are his sure defenders. But against his false friends, who, by their fulsome laudation, challenge criticism, they I have a word of protest. Some men are weak enough to be made conceited by parasitical praise and official eulogy; the Abolitionists pay Mr. Lincoln the compliment of supposing that he feels more respect for their friendly censures than he does for a certain other class of people's hostile praises.
Happily the success of the contest in which we are engaged does not depend on the wisdom of our rulers, nor on the ability of our military chieftains, God seems to be overruling the blunders of both for the salvation of the country. We are not yet worthy of success. The attitude of the nation and the course of the government are not such as to warrant or justify our triumph. God would not be God were he to crown our sin-controlled efforts with prosperity.
Then welcome, thrice welcome, the harsh lessons of adversity. Reverses are hard to bear, but sorrow is good for the soul. When a wail for its first-born shall go up from every household, and the nation shall have served to the verge of bankruptcy, then, and it is to be feared not till then, will the people learn wisdom.
In the meanwhile, let Abolitionists bide their time, and do their duty. What that duty is, each one must determine for himself. Part of it is to speak the truth without fear or favor, whenever occasion calls for it. A true man will not run before he is sent, neither will he halt when the summons comes. There is no occasion for discouragement. God and the truth, our free institutions and the good heart of the people, furnish ground for implicit confidence and the serenest faith. “Put not your trust in princes,” as the case now stands, is an injunction easily obeyed, Mc. Carlile, the Western Virginian in the U. S. Senate, has virtually gone over to the rebel side.
<c05>
LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: You misrepresent me when you say that I discourage enlistments in the Union armies; though, for aught I know, the garbled extracts, and lying versions of New-York papers may make me do that and many other things of which I never thought. You know, by experience, that the American Press, in general, neither tries nor means to speak truth I about Abolitionists of any type. I have never discouraged enlistments. In the Union army are my kindred and some of my dearest friends. Others rest in fresh and honorable graves. No one of these ever heard a word from me to discourage his enlisting. I had the honor, last March, to address the 14th Massachusetts at Fort Albany, and this very week the 33d Massachusetts at Camp Cameron. No man in either regiment heard anything from my lips to discourage his whole-soled service of the Union.
Allow me to state my own position. From 1843 to 1861, I was a Disunionist, and sought to break this Union, convinced that disunion was the only righteous path, and the best one for the white man and the black. I sought disunion, not through conspiracy and violence, but by means which the Constitution itself warranted and protected. I rejoice in these efforts. They were wise and useful. Sumter changed the whole question. After that, peace and justice both forbade disunion. I now believe three things:
1. The destruction of slavery is inevitable, whichever section conquers in this struggle.
2.There never can be peace or union till slavery is destroyed.
3. There never can be peace till one Government rules from the Gulf to the Lakes; and having wronged the Negro for two centuries, we owe him the preservation of the Union to guard his transition from slavery to freedom, and make it short, easy and perfect.
Believing these three things, I accept Webster's sentiment, “Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable.” Gladly would I serve that Union-giving it musket, sword, voice, pen-the best I have. But the Union which has for twenty-five years barred me from its highest privileges by demanding an oath to a Pro-Slavery Constitution, still shuts that door in my face; and this Administration still clings to a policy which, I think, makes every life now lost in Virginia, and every dollar now spent there, utter waste. I cannot conscientiously support such a Union and Administration. But there is room for honest difference of opinion. Others can support it. To such I say-Go; give to the Union your best blood, your heartiest support.
Is there, then, no place left for me? Yes. I believe in the Union. But Government and the Union are one thing. This Administration is quite another. Whether the Administration will ever pilot us through our troubles, I have serious doubts: that it never will unless it changes its present policy, I am quite certain. Where then is my place under a Republican Government, which only reflects and executes public opinion? I believe in getting through this war by the machinery of regular Government, not by any Cromwell stalking into the Senate Chamber of the White House. Where, then, is my post, especially under an Administration that avowedly sits waiting, begging to be told what to- do? I must educate, arouse, and mature a public opinion that shall compel the Administration to adopt and support it in pursuing the policy I can aid. This I do by frankly and candidly criticizing its present policy, civil and military. However “inapt and “objectionable” you may think my “means,” they are exactly described in your own words: “The good citizen may owe his Government counsel, entreaty, admonition, to abandon a mistaken policy, as well as force to sustain it in the discharge of its great responsibilities.” No Administration can demand of a citizen to sacrifice his conscience, and the limits within which he is bound to sacrifice his opinion are soon reached. If the Press had not systematically eulogized a General, whom none knew, and few really trusted, we should have saved twelve months, five hundred millions of dollars, and a hundred thousand lives. In my opinion, had the Tribune continued, last August, to do its duty and demand vigor of the Government, you would have changed or controlled the Cabinet in another month, and saved us millions of dollars, thousands of lives, and untold disgrace. Such criticism is always every thinking man's duty. War excuses no man from this duty: least of all now, when a change of public sentiment to lead the Administration to and support it in a new policy, is our only hope of saving the Union. The Union belongs to me as much as to Abraham Lincoln. What right has he or any official-our servants-to claim that I shall cease criticizing his mistakes, when they are dragging the Union to ruin? I find grave faults in President Lincoln: but I do not believe he makes any such claim.
I said on the 1st of August that, had I been in the Senate, I should have refused the Administration a dollar or a man until it adopted a right policy. That I repeat. Had I been, in that way, a part of the Government, I should have tried so to control its action. You were bound as a journalist, I think, to have impressed that duty on the Republican party which holds the Administration. Such a course is right and proper under free Governments. But when Congress has decided, and under its authority, or by his own, the President demands soldiers, "the hour for such effort or protest is gone. We have no right then to discourage enlistments,” as a means to change public opinion, or to influence the Administration. Our remedy is different. If we cannot actively aid, we must submit to the penalty, and strive meanwhile to change that public thought which alone can alter the action of Government.
That duty I try to do in my measure. My criticism is not, like that of the Boston Courier and its kindred, meant to paralyze the Administration, but to goad it to more activity and vigor, or to change the Cabinet. I claim of you as a journalist of broad influence, that you resume the post which I think you deserted last summer, and hasten the ripening of that necessary public purpose by constant and fearless criticism of the whole policy of the Administration, civil and military, in order to avert years of war, to save thousands of lives, to guard the industry of the future from grinding taxes, to secure speedy and complete justice for the negro, and to put the Union beyond hazard.
Respectfully yours,
Aug. 16, 1862 WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The Providence Post says, Gov. Andrew, by his speeches and military orders, “is doing more to obstruct the President's path and defeat his plans, than all the secessionists to be found in States claiming to be loyal.” A lying accusation!
Cassius M. Clay, who, like Jeff. Davis, repudiates the Constitution of his country, and is opposed to the restoration of the Union under it has not been arrested, although he proclaimed his treason at Washington. Boston Post. Stuff!
<c06>
WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH THE NEW! ARMY.
To the Editors of the N. Y. Evening Post.
The call for three hundred thousand men, and the draft for three hundred thousand more, will soon throw into the field a fresh army of six hundred thousand soldiers. This army, added to the number now actually in the service, will swell the aggregate of our forces under arms to at least ONE MILLION OF MEN-allowing for all probable contingencies of sickness and other causes of disability. The three hundred thousand volunteers are ready. The draft, going into effect on the third of September, will add three hundred thousand to the volunteer force by the first of October. Six weeks suffice, in the judgment of experienced drill-masters, to reduce raw recruits to discipline, and render them capable of maneuvers in the field. By the middle of November, therefore, this great army of a million of men will be prepared for active service.
What can be done with so tremendous a force? Or, rather, what cannot be done? Let us see.
First—What can be done.
Group the new levies in Virginia at a central point near Washington, taking that city as the base of operations and supplies; sandwich a raw regiment between two of the veteran battalions which have already done noble service, and thus arouse a spirit of emulation among the troops while the new recruit learns tactics from his skilled comrade. Put each regiment in severe drill the moment it reaches the rendezvous, and continue the rigid discipline of the camp until the last body of men shall have undergone the tuition of the drill-master for six consecutive weeks. Then hurl the whole mass upon the enemy.
Leave a force of two hundred thousand men to guard the capital, hold the forts, and occupy the recaptured cities of the South, and form the eight hundred thousand who remain into one solid mass- commanded by Fremont, Sigel, Burnside, Halleck, or some general who has fire, pluck, energy and will-and, without dividing the enormous body, throw it like an avalanche from the Alps upon the rebel ranks.
Sweeping down upon Richmond by a perpendicular movement, a terrible array like this, living upon the enemy's country as it moved-equipped, like Pope's soldiers, with “a frying-pan for each mess,” unencumbered by baggage-trains or supplies, light -handed and light-hearted, confident of victory, and animated by the presence and example of a live commander-would drive the rebel army before it as chaff before a whirlwind. A solid mass of eight hundred thousand men, by sheer momentum, would brush away the rebel armies almost without the firing of a gun. Richmond taken, the rebel <illegible>. would fly south. Our troops would move at their heels with resistless force, operating over a district of country thirty to fifty miles in width, denuding the land of every rebel State at every stage of its progress, and leaving desolation and misery in its track.
Still on, with mighty sweep, through North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia to the Gulf-along the Gulf, through Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana-up the banks of the Mississippi, through Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, back to Virginia through the gorges of the mountains-always pouring down great columns of men upon the rebel ranks, suffering them to enjoy no moment of rest, but crushing mercilessly till they cried “Quarter!” How long, does any one suppose, Jeff. Davis and his wretched crew could bear this fearful pressure?
It may be said that our troops could not subsist, and that the forced marches would decimate our ranks. The answer is simple. The rebels live upon the country, and as rapidly as their army wastes away, they recruit it by conscription. We can do the same. While our great force is on its march, a new levy of half a million of men can be raised by draft, at the order of the President, and before the three months' campaign ends, fresh troops can sally out to meet the returning host on its way from West to East.
While our army thus performs its work, the President should send forth the proclamation of EMANCIPATION which the Confiscation and Emancipation act empowers him to issue. The slaves of the South, now holding back under the timid and vacillating policy of the Administration, would help us at once. That electric current which runs through every slave-cabin in the South would fire the hearts of the negroes, and bring them to our ranks by thousands. Thus beset at once from within and without, the rebels could see no escape but by absolute surrender.
To this surrender they must come. The North decrees it, and God sanctions it. The end is as inevitable as the eternal triumph of right over wrong. Let us strike the blow terribly, crushingly. The time has come. We have the means, the will to do it. One great crash, and the thing is done.
Then comes the question of punishment. Mr. Lincoln told the black men of Washington, in his speech to them on Thursday, that the blacks and whites could never live together on terms of equality in this country. Grant it. But that is no reason for expatriating the negro. If he desires to stay in the only country he has ever known, where his family affections centre and his home exists, there is no good reason for compelling him to emigrate. The President told the blacks in Washington that he proposed to send them back to Central America to colonize. He can do better than this. Send them to South Carolina.
That hot-bed of treason deserves the severest punishment. Let the President decree that henceforth it shall be a negro colony; that all the freed slaves of the South shall possess it in perpetuity; that the rich estates of the wealthy planters and the smaller ones of the poorer proprietors, who have taken part in the rebellion, shall be parceled out among the negroes in small patches, each of sufficient size to support a family, (say in farms of from two to ten or twenty acres;) and that this territory shall no longer exist as a State, but as a district, under the government of officers to be appointed by the President.
Then let Mr. Lincoln say to the South: “You have at last yielded! Your country is laid waste, your trade is destroyed, your prosperity ruined for many years to come. The government will inflict no further penalty upon you but this-South Carolina shall become a negro colonies slavery is forever abolished, the South shall pay the debts incurred in this war, and you and yours shall go free.”
This is what con be done.
Second-What cannot be- done. It is expressed in a single sentences: Our new army cannot be used to guard rebel property, to fight against odds, to serve half-way purposes in Cabinet or field, or to rot in swamps. These things cannot be done-amply—because the people will not suffer them.
STATES ISLAND, August, 1862.
Miss Sarah Spencer, of Middletown, Conn, has procured two substitutes-one for herself? and one for her niece, paying each $50 extra bounty.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all multiple institutions, and SLAVKRY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies hare power to emasscipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 1862.
OUR NATIONAL VISITATION.
An Oration delivered before the Adelphic Union Society of Williams College, Monday Afternoon, August 4.
BY WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
The Hon. Edward Everett, in a speech recently made at the annual dinner of the Alumni of Harvard, forcibly remarked- “A man, I think, would show himself wanting in patriotic feeling, who, on any public occasion, of whatever nature, could forbear an allusion to the present state of the country Believing it is the wish of the Society which has done me the honor to select  for its orator on this occasion, that I should treat upon this all- absorbing theme in preference to any other, I will not disappoint any expectations that may be raised in this particular.
Ten years ago, the strength and security of the American Union seemed infinite. In every section of the country, South as well as North, fidelity to it was made an absolute test of patriotism; and its dissolution was regarded as almost beyond the scope of possible events. If, now and then, a dissenting voice was heard, prophesying its downfall as a covenant with death and an agreement with hell it was instantly drowned by an indignant thunder-from ocean to ocean, Every religious sect, every political party, the pulpit, the press, all that was influential and powerful, reiterated the cry. To make assurance doubly sure Union-saving meetings were held in all the great cities and towns, speeches-made, resolutions adopted, and pledges recorded, in glorification of the Union; the shade of Washington was invoked, and the solemn admonition contained in his Farewell Address was duly rehearsed:—"It is of infinite moment that you should properly estimate the immense value of your National Union to your collective and individual happiness: that you should cherish a cordial, habitual and immovable attachment to it; accustoming yourselves to think and speak of it as of the palladium of your political safety and prosperity Nothing was left undone, it was popularly believed, to render the Union one and inseparable, now and for ever.
Where, now, is the Union? Broken asunder by the very Slave Power which dictated the terms at its formation, and to propitiate which, concessions were made by the North, for a period of seventy years, as humiliating and unrighteous as they were multitudinous! Eleven of the Slave States organized into a hostile confederacy, with an army of 500,000 making deadly war upon the General Government, confronted by an equal number of loyal citizens in martial array on the battle-field! Tens of thousands of victims, on both sides, killed and wounded, and a still larger number slain or crippled by exposure, hardship, and the diseases of the camp; blood still flowing in torrents: the fury of the murderous strife increasing; merciless guerrilla raids in every direction by the rebels, instead of open field conflict; no sign of possible reconciliation or amicable arrangement visible; a national debt accumulating that threatens general bankruptcy; weeping and wailing throughout the land for the prematurely lost; imminent danger of foreign intervention, and consequent war with European powers; opposition to the Union in one part of the country treason, support of it in another part a capital offence; a Babel confusion of tongues as to the cause of all these horrors; no fixed, determined, efficient policy on the part of the Federal Government; old friendships turned into bitterest enmities, all religious and political ties sundered, households at mortal variance, the father against the son, the mother against the daughter, and the mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law! Such is the awful change wrought in the brief period of twenty months!
For every event there is antecedent cause. To us, as a nation, is fearfully applicable the declaration of the prophet:-“The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high, that saith in thine heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground? Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord Our vast increase in population, our unparalleled prosperity, our inexhaustible resources, our remote isolation from the old world and absolute exemption from its endless dissensions, our immense and ever-widening territorial possessions, our republican form of government, our Puritan and Revolutionary descent—all these things have served to make us the vainest and most boastful of all people. We have laughed to scorn all warnings of danger, all accusations of sinfulness, all threats of divine retribution. Like ancient Edom, we have exalted ourselves as the eagle and set our nest among the stars nay, we have made the  and the  our national symbols—and defiantly said, Who shall bring us down to the ground But the justice of God has been too strong for us, and we are prostrate in the dust. For our guilt is identical with that of Edom, in the matter of oppression, and of complicity with oppressors:-For thy violence against thy brother Jacob, shame shall cover thee, and thou be cut off for ever. Thou shouldest not have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction; neither shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress; nor have laid hands on their substance in the day of their calamity; neither shouldest thou have stood in the crossway to cut off those of his that did escape; neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remain in the day of distress—[i.e., in accordance with Fugitive Slave Law arrangements.] As thou hast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall return upon thine own head
Let casuists reason as they may—let demagogues rave as they will—let religious soothsayers and political astrologers divine as they list—let knavish deceivers deal in slander and misrepresentation as they choose—in order to hide the one great damning sin of the nation, and to hold responsible for our calamities the only class that have uncompromisingly defended the cause of the needy and oppressed; still, it remains a plain, comprehensive, undeniable truth, which refutes all lies, exposes all shams, settles all doubts, decides all questions of relative guilt and innocency:-"Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty, every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine This heavy judgment, therefore, is of God; and to say, it is all owing to the desperate ambition of a few Southern leaders, on the one hand, and to a contemptible number of fanatical abolitionists, on the other, whose joint execution would bring peace and unity to our torn and bleeding country, is to insult the Divine Majesty, and to evince absolute moral idiocy. For it is the natural and inevitable operation of the law of eternal justice. It is because the nation, through hardness of heart and blindness of mind, would not have it otherwise.
In this distracted state of the country, let not the minions of despotism in the old world find hope or consolation in the failure of democracy in the new. With us, democracy has not been a failure, because it yet remains to be tried. Genuine democracy includes all in its regards, irrespective of race, color or sex. The Declaration of Independence still remains true, in spite of our national recreancy to it. Those who enslave their fellow-creatures, or who connive at their enslavement, are not democrats, but cheats and dissemblers if they pretend to be such. It is not the democratic but the despotic principle of rule, in its extremest form, that they are reducing to practice; for chattel slavery is the sum of all despotisms as well as of all villanies. As Christianity is utterly incompatible with heathenism, so democracy is with slavery. A democratic Slave State is as incoherent in speech, and as absurd in idea, as a Christian idolatrous
<c02>
State. No democrat can possibly be a slaveholder, any more than a genuine Christian can be a devotee of Juggernaut
“Thank Heaven! the lines are drawn this hour,
Manly Right and Despot Power!
In vain of ‘Equal Rights’ ye prate,
Who fawn like dogs at .gate!
Who plants good seed in span,
He only is my UNION MAN!
Who treads the weeds of Slavery flat,
He is my LOYAL DEMOCRAT!”
The revolutionary struggle of 1776, though recognizing in the abstract the natural, inalienable, God-given right of every human being to liberty, was commenced, continued and ended with half a million slaves unredeemed. It was not a struggle, therefore, for the rights of human nature, but for colonial freedom and independence. It was based, not upon the doctrine of human brotherhood, but upon complexional caste and geographical position. The people who could not endure a stamp upon their paper, or a tax upon their tea, by the British Parliament, without their consent, could at the same time despoil of every right, and subject to hopeless bondage, a vast multitude of their unoffending fellow-creatures. While, in one breath, they could denounce taxation without representation as a grievance too intolerable to be borne, in the next, they could unblushingly defend the right to buy, sell, inherit and bequeath, as marketable commodities, husbands and wives, parents and children, relatives and friends, in lots to suit purchasers While they were ready to lay down their lives, rather than submit to the civil and political disabilities imposed by the mother country, they were equally ready to maintain, at all hazards, the rightful enslavement of the African race. In view of this shocking inconsistency, in his Notes on Virginia was constrained to exclaim-“What an incomprehensible machine is man! who can endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment, and death itself, in vindication of his own liberty, and the next moment be deaf to all those motives whose power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow-men a bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he rose in rebellion to oppose.”
To this day, liberty, as a principle, is not comprehended in this country; nay, it is almost universally rejected as a dogma equally fanatical and dangerous. The annual Fourth-of-July rehearsal of the Declaration of Independence serves only to show the extent of our effrontery and the depth of our shame. Half a million slaves in 1776 have multiplied to four millions in 1862. Nothing has been so odious, nothing so perilous, for thirty years past, as to plead their cause, and demand their immediate liberation. In every part of the country, their enslavement has been vindicated as a necessity, a duty, a scriptural permission, a divine ordination, an act of philanthropy. Of our three thousand public journals, less than half a dozen oppose it as inherently iniquitous; of the forty thousand pulpits, a very small proportion advocate its instant abolition as a religious duty. There is still universal incredulity as to the safety and success of such abolition: all conceivable difficulties, dangers and horrors are thrown around it. The pleas for its continuance are not less perverse than multifarious. The victims are an inferior race; they are better off in slavery than they would be out of it; they do not want to be free; they could not take care of themselves, because of their laziness and improvidence, if they were liberated; they are under the curse of Canaan; the prejudice against them is natural and unconquerable; they can never rise in the scale of being here; they would commit the most dreadful excesses, if turned loose; their emancipation should be remote, gradual, and conditioned on expatriation, if ever attempted. These declarations are made by all classes, in every section of the country, with as much assurance as though they were eternal verities: whereas, they are lies and calumnies. For, if true, then the Declaration of Independence is indeed a rhetorical flourish the rights of human nature are mockeries, and the Golden Rule no test of moral obligation. No man has any natural or acquired right to liberty above another. If to enslave a native on the African coast is a piratical act, it is no less so to enslave one of African descent in the United States. The right of one slave to be free is the right of every other. If its enjoyment would be safe in one case, it would safe in all cases. Evidence is no more needed to prove this, than it is to prove that sobriety is better than drunkenness, honesty better than robbery, purity better than licentiousness. The results of emancipation are as sure as the law of gravitation. They all run in one direction, to the triumphant vindication of the measure; but, of course, those who are disposed to deny personal freedom to the enslaved will not care to study the facts of emancipation. On the contrary, they will impudently deny or grossly pervert them.
None are more loose in their ideas than those who raise the outcry, “It will never do to turn the slaves all loose at once!” So Pharaoh decided when Moses and Aaron said to him, in behalf of the oppressed children of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God, Let my people go It was a demand for immediate, unconditional, universal emancipation; in other words, what in this land is everywhere denounced as fanatical, destructive, pestilent abolitionism. Precisely the same demand was made through the prophet to the Jewish oppressors In his own day:-Loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, break every yoke Every yoke includes all yokes, leaves no one in the house of bondage, brings instant and universal deliverance. It would be an act of madness here exclaim men who profess to believe in the Bible as the inspired word of God, and to be the disciples of Him who came to set the captives free. Break every yoke is still the inexorable command. What is their response? Lord, give us time; not to-day, but in the distant future; not all at once, but very gradually; it is a very delicate and complicated matter; it would reduce to penury masters and mistresses who are now surrounded with every comfort, and transform happy and contented slaves into vagabonds and cut-throats Still thunders from the heavens the command, Break every yoke Again they expostulate —Lord! think of the loss of the cotton crop! Think of the blow that would be given to commerce and manufactures! Think of the shock that would be given to our glorious Union! Think of all the terrible consequences of an act so rash and unadvisable! Why, Lord, it is nothing short of downright Garrisonian abolitionism
Such atheistical distrust, such guilty apprehensions, are condescendingly met with the most cheering assurances and the richest promises, in case of obedience. Here is the enumeration:-“If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; and if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noonday; and thy health shall spring forth speedily; thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy reward. Then thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones; and thou be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou be called, The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in
From the hour when these sacred pledges were given down to the present time, there has never been an instance in which they have not been all redeemed by the substitution of liberty for; and there never will be, while fire burns, or water runs, or the seasons roll. The promises of God are sure, and human nature is the same in all time, throughout the world. Liberty is light, slavery is darkness; liberty is health, slavery is disease; liberty is prosperity, slavery is destitution and general bankruptcy; liberty builds the old waste places, slavery creates them;
<c03>
liberty is the repairer of the breach, slavery fills the land with division and strife.
The first pledge given is, Then shall thy light break forth as the morning Behold its literal fulfilment before own eyes, even in the midst of the distraction of civil war! Look at the thousands of emancipated slaves at Port Royal, Beaufort, and Fortress Monroe, at once supplied with teachers, spelling-books, and Bibles, all as eager to learn as the starving are to receive nourishment; all making cheering progress in the rudiments of education; all improving in moral character and physical condition, in self-respect and self-reliance. All the other promised blessings will be sure to follow in their order.
How was it in the case of calumniated St. Domingo, of whose horrors the enemies of negro emancipation are never weary of discanting? By an act of the National Assembly of France in 1798, slavery was abolished in that island, root and branch. What followed? Any excesses or horrors Exactly the reverse. Col. Malenfant, a resident slaveholder in the island at the time, in his Historical and Political Memoir of the Colonies says:—
After this public act of emancipation, the negroes quiet, both in the south and west. There were estates which  neither owners nor managers upon them; yet upon those estates, though abandoned, the negroes continued their labors, where there were any of the inferior agents left to guide them; and where there was no white man, in any capacity, to take direction of affairs, they betook themselves to planting provisions. On the plantation Gouraud, I managed four hundred and fifty laborers for more than eight months after liberty had been granted them. Not one of them to work. Yet that plantation was reputed to have been under the worst discipline, and the slaves the most idle in the plain. I inspired the same activity into three other plantations, of which I had the management. Ninety-nine out of a hundred blacks are perfectly well aware that labor is the process by which they can obtain means to gratify their wants and their tastes; and therefore they are desirous to work
Three years later, in 1796, he testifies:-“The Colony is flourishing. The whites live peacefully and happily upon their estates, and the negroes continue to work for them.” In his Memoirs for a History of St. Domingo Gen. Lecroix, in 1797, says: —Cultivation prospers, and every day furnishes perceptible proof of progress Four years afterward, Napoleon Bonaparte, instigated by the devil sent out a formidable armament to reestablish slavery in that island, and to reduce its free inhabitants to the condition of chattels. Bravely, desperately and successfully did they defend their liberties against the invading horde; and then—and not till then—those horrors ensued, of which so much is ignorantly and perversely said, and for the initiation of which the French soldiers were responsible, themselves perpetrating all conceivable crimes and atrocities, and compelling terrible retaliation on the part of those whom they sought to load with chains, and who, for more than seven years, had been prospering in a state of freedom.
O Liberty! can man resign thee,
Once having felt thy generous flame?
Can dungeon-bolts or bars confine thee,
Or whips thy noble spirit tame
Of those who raise the mad-dog cry, The horrors of St. Domingo how many (does any one?) ever hint at the revolting perfidy of Napoleon, the barbarous attempt to reenslave an emancipated people, the horrible tortures devised and inflicted by the ruthless invaders, the very natural resistance made to baffle their oppressive designs by the invaded, or the righteous retribution that fell upon the heads of the slave-propagandists? While every other people, who have ever gallantly defended their rights and liberties when menaced, are esteemed and applauded, on what principle of justice are the unconquerable freemen of St. Domingo to be excluded from general approval and admiration? Gracious Heaven! to think of their brave but desperate efforts to save themselves and their posterity from yokes and fetters being held up, in this boasted land of freedom, in order to subserve the interests of Southern slavery, as attempts of emancipated slaves to cut their  throats, in consequence of their liberation from bondage! What historic falsification for an purpose!
The solemn and impressive lesson taught by St. Domingo is this—not the danger of letting the oppressed go free, but the madness and folly of seeking to turn freemen into slaves! It serves to make the position of the Abolitionists all the more impregnable, and to illustrate all the more strikingly the ignorance and folly of their opponents.
How was it in the case of British West India Emancipation? Was any blood shed, any riotous outbreak made, the personal safety of any white man or woman endangered, any disposition manifested to indulge in idleness and vagabondism? No. There is no event in history more creditable to human nature, or more sublime in its features. In Antigua, the boon of freedom was reverently received at midnight, on bended knee, by its recipients, in their crowded chapels. Says one of the missionaries:—
The first of August came on Friday; and a release from all work was proclaimed until the next Monday. The great mass of the negroes spent the day chiefly in the churches and chapels. In every quarter, the day was like a sabbath. A sabbath indeed! the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest. There was not a single dance, by night or day; not even so much as a fiddle played. There were no drunken carousals, no riotous assemblies. The emancipated were as far from dissipation and debauchery, as they were from violence and carnage. Gratitude was the absorbing emotion. From the hilltops and the valleys, the cry of a disenthralled people went upward, like the sound of many waters: ‘Glory to God! Glory to God!’”
Rev. James Phillippo, Baptist missionary in Jamaica, thus describes the day and the event:—
On the preceding evening, the missionary stations throughout the island were crowded with people, filling all the places of worship. They remained at their devotions till the day of liberty dawned, when they saluted it with joyous acclamations. Then they dispersed through the towns and villages, God save the Queen! and rending the air with their shouts: come! free! ‘Our wives and children are free! During the day, the places of worship were crowded to suffocation. The scenes presented exceeded all description. Joyous excitement pervaded the whole island. At Spanish Town, the Governor, Sir Lionel Smith addressed the emancipated people, who formed a procession of 7,000, and escorted the children of the schools, about 2000 in number, to the Government House. They bore banners and flags with various inscriptions, of which the following are samples:-"Education, Religion, and Social Order.’ ‘August First, 1838; the Day of our Freedom.’ ‘Truth and Justice have at last prevailed.’ The children sang before the Government House, and His Excellency made a speech characterized by simplicity and affection, which was received with enthusiastic cheers. The procession then escorted their pastor to house. In front of the Baptist Church were three triumphal arches, decorated with leaves and flowers, and surmounted by flags, bearing the inscriptions, Freedom has come! ‘Slavery is no more! ‘The chains are broken, Africa is free! The enthusiasm of the multitude was wound up to the highest pitch.
Several of the kindly disposed planters gave rural fetes to the laborers. Long tables were spread in the lawns; arches of evergreen were festooned with flowers; and on the trees floated banners, bearing the names of those who had been most conspicuous in bringing about this blessed result. Songs were sung, speeches made, prayers offered, and a plentiful repast eaten. Mr. Phillippo says: The conduct of the newly emancipated peasantry would have done credit to Christians of the most civilized country in the world. They were clean in their persons, and neat in their attire. Their behavior was modest, unassuming, and decorous in a high degree. There was no crowding, no vulgar familiarity, but all were courteous, and obliging to each other, as members of one harmonious family. There was no dancing, gambling, or carousing. All seemed to have a sense of the obligations they owed to their masters, to each other, and to the civil authorities. The masters who were present at these fetes congratulated their former dependents on the boon they had received, and hopes were mutually expressed that all differences and wrongs might be forgiven. Harmony and cheerfulness smiled on every countenance. Many of the laborers gave their first week of free labor as an offering of good-will to their masters. Not a single instance of violence or insubordination, of serious disagreement or of intemperance, occurred in any part of the island
Surely, this was a scene on which angels might have gazed with wonder and rapture! Surely; the whitest complexioned race could not have done better, under similar circumstances! Nevertheless, in this country, the most atrocious misrepresentations of the workings of West India Emancipation have been perseveringly made by the enemies of the negro race. All the statistics of the various islands prove that the experiment has been eminently successful. Revenue steadily augmenting; land doubling in value; population increasing where in the days of slavery it was
<c04>
rapidly becoming extinct; confidence, enterprise, industry, education advancing; exports and imports largely increasing; peace and contentment everywhere abounding.
Here are a few statistics. The annual import trade of British Guiana, Barbadoes and Antigua, before emancipation, was valued at $8,840,000; now at $14,600,000; or, an excess of imports, under a free system, of the value of five millions, seven hundred and sixty thousand dollars. For four years prior to emancipation, British Guiana exported an annual average of 98,000,000 lbs. of sugar; while from 1856 to 1860, its average export rose to 100,600,000 lbs. For four years prior to emancipation, Trinidad annually exported an average of 37,000,000 lbs. of sugar; while from to 1860, its annual average export rose to 62,000,000 lbs. Four years prior to emancipation, Barbadoes annually exported an average of 32,800,000 lbs.; from 1856 to 1860, its annual average export rose to 78,000,000 lbs. During ten years preceding emancipation, the average number of vessels that annually entered the different ports of Antigua was 340, and the tonnage 30,000. In 1858, the number of vessels was 668, and the tonnage 42,534. In 1846, there were in the island 67, containing 3187 houses and 9033 inhabitants. All these villages were founded, and all these houses built, since emancipation. In 1858, 2000 additional houses had been built, and the number of village residents had risen to 15,644. At the same period, there were only 299 paupers in the island. In St. Vincent, there were no paupers. The returns for 1857 show that no less than 8209 persons were then living in their own houses, built by themselves since emancipation. Within the last twelve years, from ten to twelve thousand acres have been brought under cultivation by small proprietors, owning from one to five acres. In Jamaica, under slavery, the cultivation of an acre of cane cost $80; now; $40. Then, digging an acre of cane-holes cost from $35 to $45; now, from $8 to $15. Between 1853 and 1855, there was an increase in exports from Jamaica to the amount of $804,507.40. In his speech, at the opening of the Legislature in 1858, the Governor says: —A still progressive increase, both in the quantity of the staple exports, and in the amount of revenue derived from duties on articles of consumption, indicate a gradual improvement in the productive industry of the colony. Sixteen years ago, there was scarcely a colored landholder on the island; now the number of colored proprietors is over 100,000, and continually increasing; and this, too, with wages ranging from eighteen to twenty-four cents a day. It is estimated that the sum total of the property which has been accumulated since emancipation in 1838, is not less than $12,000,000. The emancipated had built 220 chapels, independent of the Established Church; in connection with which there were 53,000 communicants, or about one-eighth of the entire population. They raise every year, for religious purposes at least $100,000. In Mauritius, the sugar crop, during the last ten years of slavery, averaged 68,741,120 lbs. annually. During four years after emancipation, the average crop was 171,122,500 lbs.; an increase of 102 millions of pounds annually; nearly 150 per cent in favor of free labor. (1)
These cheering facts,—authenticated by governors and magistrates, by parliamentary returns, by resident missionaries and planters, by intelligent tourists and other competent witnesses,—though trite and familiar to every Abolitionist, are wholly unknown to the great mass of the American people, who, in their ignorance or their prejudice, still assert that West India Emancipation has resulted in the ruin of the colonies! What! can it prove ruinous to any people to cease robbing the laborer of the fruits of his hard-earned toil, and to pay him equitable wages! Ruinous to instruct the ignorant, lift up the fallen, and give sight to the blind! Ruinous to recognize man as man, and not as a thing of barter or beast of burden! Ruinous to restore, protect and hallow the marriage institution, where the uncleanness of Sodom prevails! Ruinous to guard and sanctify the parental and filial relations of life, and to render secure and sacred every hearth-stone! Ruinous to abolish the traffic in the bodies and souls of men, women and children, and to bring them under the control and protection of equal laws! What infatuation is comparable to this?
Surely, it is righteousness that exalteth a nation while sin is a reproach to any people God is a liberal rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Obedience to his laws is the only true science of political economy as well as of morals—the only way to obtain solid prosperity and reliable capital. It is as true of us, as a people, as it was of the Israelites in the days of Moses:—
And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and do all his commandments, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come on thee and overtake thee: Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field. Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store. Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out. The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways. The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee in thy store-houses, and in all that thou settest thine hand unto. And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalt not borrow. And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath
This is one side of the shield—the other reads as follows:—
But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and statutes, that all these curses shall come upon thee and overtake thee: Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field. Cursed shall be thy basket and thy store. Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy land, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep. The Lord shall smite thee with a consumption, and with a fever, and with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with the sword. The Lord shall cause thee to smitten before thine enemies: thou shalt go out one way against them, and flee seven ways before them. And thou shalt grope at noonday, as the blind gropeth in darkness, and thou shalt not prosper in thy ways. And thou shalt become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword among all nations. And it shall come to pass, that as the Lord rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you; so the Lord will rejoice over you to destroy you, and to bring you to nought
And-all these blessings or curses, not because of any favoritism on the one hand, or vindictiveness on the other,—nor in consequence of any suspension of natural law or miraculous interposition,—but because of obedience to or disregard of those obligations, relations and duties, which God has imposed upon the whole human race; because as a people sow, that shall they also reap. But, alas! this guilty nation has no steadfast faith in justice, no abiding reverence for liberty, no fixed purpose to obey the divine commandments. Hence, the calamities which now overwhelm it, and the fiery plagues poured out upon it.
Let me be understood. I readily concede that to the South belongs the dread responsibility of causelessly plunging the country into a civil war, which, in malignity and ferocity on her part, and in extent of territory and population, finds no parallel in history. All her accusations against the North, and against the Federal Government, which she makes the grounds of her justification for raising the standard of rebellion, are the foulest calumnies. She has no grievance to show, no wound to be healed, no wrong to be redressed. Up to the hour of her traitorous secession, she had always controlled the government, and shaped the national policy. In her hands the North had been as clay in the hands of the potter. What she had insisted upon, the North had obsequiously yielded. For seventy years she had had the share of all the honors, emoluments and offices provided under the Constitution; and even when she seceded, the President of her choice occupied the chair of State, and the party with which she had always affiliated was in power. The election of Mr. Lincoln, as the successor of Mr. Buchanan, indicated no wish or purpose to interfere with her peculiar institution or to deny to her any of her recognized constitutional-
(1) See “THE RIGHT WAY THE SAFE WAY,” BY Mrs. L. Maria Child.
<c05>
guaranties. No President has been more conservative than Mr. Lincoln, in that direction. Besides, as an absolute safeguard against Federal usurpation, the South still retained a majority of those who were her allies in both Houses of Congress; so that it was in her power to prevent any legislation injurious to her own interests. In addition to this, and yet more reliable, the Supreme Court of the United States, as constituted, with Chief Justice Taney at its head, formed a judicial Gibraltar, behind which she was invulnerable to attack. But she did not wait to see what would be the policy of the new administration—no, not even for the inauguration of the new President. Her secession from the Union, therefore, was as wanton, perfidious and treasonable an act as unmixed human depravity could perpetrate, and an audacious repudiation of the right of the people to choose their own rulers. The Federal Government acting strictly in self-defence against her diabolical machinations, and on the issue presented deserves the sympathy, support and vindication of every upright citizen.
But, while it is true that the North may justly plead not guilty to the accusations brought against her by the South, it is not less true that she is to be held morally responsible, to a fearful extent, for the terrible infliction under which the nation is now suffering. She left nothing undone to encourage and stimulate the slave oligarchy to make any demand, however insolent, or to form any plot, however treasonable, to accomplish their purposes—namely, by frequent sinful concessions; by persistent religious and political fellowship; by elaborate ethical defences of slaveholding; by fierce denunciations of those who advocated immediate emancipation as the right of the slaves and the duty of the masters; by making the interests of trade and commerce paramount to those of bleeding humanity; by entering into a covenant with death and an agreement with hell by numberless pro-slavery mobs to put down freedom of speech and stifle investigation; by a cruel proscription of the free colored people on her own soil; by active and thorough complicity, to give protection and perpetuity to slavery where it now exists, so as to propitiate the bullying lords of the lash and thereby save the Union which they continually menaced in order to achieve success.
While, therefore, the North is innocent of every charge brought against her by the traitorous secessionists, she is verily guilty concerning that execrable system of oppression, out of which this rebellion has naturally and necessarily sprung. However justly she may declaim against the perfidious and piratical course of the South, let her remember her past guilty complicity, put her hand upon her mouth, and her mouth in the dust, and in the bitterness of her anguish cry, Unclean! unclean! God be merciful to me a sinner
Therefore it is that upon the whole land are poured out the vials of divine retribution. Thus saith the Lord: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes; they pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek. Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. Therefore, the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver himself; neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver himself; neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself; and he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith the Lord
Are there any signs of repentance in any quarter For what other avowed purpose has the Southern Confederacy been formed but to give wider extension and better security to the accursed slave system To quote the language of its Vice President, Alexander H. Stephens:
“The new Constitution has put at rest forever all agitating questions relating to our peculiar institution—African slavery, as it exists among us, the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization. This was the immediate cause of the late rupture, and of the present revolution. The foundations of our new Government are laid, its corner-stone rests, on the general truth, that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition. This, our new Government, is the first in the history of the world, based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth. This stone, which was rejected by the builders, is become the chief stone of the corner of our new edifice
And for thus outraging all the principles of justice and humanity, pouring contempt upon the brotherhood of the human race, and impiously defying God, that Confederacy is now in righteous judgment given up to fire and blood, and utter desolation:—
“Babylon is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. Double unto her double, according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled, fill to her double. How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine: and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her. And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her: for no man buyeth her merchandize any more; the merchandize of cotton, and sugar, and rice, and fine flour, and beasts, and Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her
Is the North exhibiting any signs of humiliation or repentance for her share of the tremendous guilt incurred in consequence of our great national transgression? Exceptional cases there are—
“Like angels’ visits, few and far between”-
where confession of sin is heartily made, and forgiveness supplicated, and atonement to the oppressed sought; but, collectively, she continues to despise, spurn and ostracise the entire colored population, in a shameful manner. Upon their sufferings and sorrows she gazes with pitiless eye and stony heart; to recognize their human equality she is as unwilling as though they had no human blood running in their veins—no God for their Father, no Christ for their Redeemer, no immortal life for their destiny; to interpose in any manner for the liberation of the enslaved, even for her own self-preservation, and to save the life of the republic, she yet obstinately refuses. So smitten is she with infatuation—so all-controlling is the sorcery-spell still exercised upon her by the demon-spirit of slavery—that she chooses to have four millions of slaves (a population as large as that of all New England) left in the hands of their traitorous masters, to be used in every possible manner to secure victory to the Confederate States, and consequent defeat and disgrace to the Federal Government, rather than to have them pronounced free, by governmental edict, under the war power, and made effective as loyal laborers and soldiers for the speedy extinction of the rebellion. At best, even in the application of the Confiscation Act, in any use to be made of them, it is only the vindication of the flag, and not any regard for their rights, that is deemed worthy of consideration. Is not this a frightful exhibition of pride and folly? Where is our Christianity? where our humanity? where our common sense? What right have we to expect that Heaven will smile upon our efforts, and not visit us for our misdeeds?
The only alternative presented to the Government is either to abolish slavery, or to be overthrown by it. Attempt what we may, we can never restore “the Union as it was”-it is madness to think of it—nor ought we to do it if we could. It has been an insane experiment from the beginning to reconcile ideas, interests, objects, aspirations and destinies, which in all ages have been, and in the nature of things must be, fiercely antagonistical. To try it over again would end in a fresh baptism of blood, another civil war, and still more terrific consequences. Besides, it is against the Union as it was and the Constitution as it is that the South has sprung to arms, and of which she declares her eternal hatred, and her irrevocable independence; for these have undergone no change in their features, in letter or spirit. Radically wrong as these are in their pro-slavery guaranties, and shaped as they were at their formation in accordance with
<c06>
her wishes, nevertheless, she has grown so depraved and despotic under the corrupting influence of her slave system, so monstrous are her demands, and so desperate her necessities, that she can no longer remain in the old compact; and therefore this rebellion. Take the following explicit declaration from the inaugural address of Jefferson Davis:—
The government had ceased to answer the ends for which it was ordained and established. To save ourselves from a revolution which, in its silent but rapid progress, was about to place us the despotism of numbers, and to preserve in spirit, as well in form, a system of government we believe to be peculiarly fitted to our condition, and full of promise for mankind, (!) we determined to make a new association, composed of States homogeneous in interest, in policy, and in feeling.
Here are three distinct and startling avowals. The first is, that the government of our fathers is not adequate to the requirements of slavery, and  must be repudiated; the second is, that the democratic principle,-to wit, that the majority shall govern,—is the despotism of numbers and therefore (now that the South has for the first time been out-voted) should no longer be tolerated; and the third is, that the system of government, peculiarly fitted to the condition of the South is that which will enable a slaveholding oligarchy to have all the power their hands for the maintenance, extension and perpetuity of slave institutions. It is a war, on the part of these conspirators, not only against abolitionism per se, but against the fundamental doctrine of, of the right of the people to form their own institutions and administer their own government.
These sentiments are openly avowed by every Southern journal. In Review, the organ of the slaveocracy, the lines are boldly drawn as follows:
The real civilization of a country is in its aristocracy. The masses are moulded into soldiers and artisans by intellect, just as matter and the elements of nature are made into telegraphs and steam engines. The poor, who labor all day, are too tired at night to study books. If you make them learned, they soon forget all that is necessary in the common transactions of life
To make an aristocrat in the future, we must sacrifice a thousand paupers. Yet we would by all means make them—make them prominent, too, by laws of entail and primogeniture
The right to govern resides in a very small minority the duty to obey is inherent in the great mass of <illegible>kind”
There is nothing to which the South entertains so great a dislike as universal suffrage. Wherever foreigners settle together in large numbers, there universal suffrage will exist
An aristocracy is patriarchal, parental, and representative. The Barons of England were next to the <illegible> the most perfect representative government. The King and Barons represented everybody, because everybody belonged to them.”
The real contest of to-day is not simply between the North and South; but to determine whether, for ages to come, our Government shall partake more of the monarchies or of more liberal governments.”
All government begins with usurpation, and is continued by force.”
What is this but Toryism run to seed, a  of the Declaration of Independence, pouring contempt upon our Revolutionary struggle, and going back not merely to kingly rule, but to the feudalism of the dark ages? Observe—in these extracts, no reference is made to abolitionism; it is a deadly issue made with a republican form of government.
Indeed, the hatred and contempt of the South for all free institutions seem to be boundless. Here is a familiar illustration from the Richmond Examiner:-
We have got to hating everything with the prefix <illegible> from free negroes, down and up, through the whole catalogue Free farms, free labor, free society, free will, free thinking, free children, and free schools, all belong to the same brood of damnable isms. But the worst of all them abominations is the modern system free schools. The New England system of free schools has been the cause and prolific source of the infidelities and treasons that have turned her schools into Sodoms and, and land into the common nestling-places of howling <illegible>ites. We abominate the system, because the schools are free
Observe, again—in this bitterly contemptuous outpouring, not an allusion is made to abolitionism, but it is indiscriminately applied to the audience before to the people of the North collectively. Let all those who have been deluded with the idea, that the South objects to nothing but the anti-slavery of the North, lay these things to heart. Haughty and barbarous, she claims the right not only to enslave the descendants of Africa, but to hold in subjugation those who have Pilgrim and Puritan blood running in their veins. Listen to the language of the Richmond Whig:—
The whole experience of the war is an attestation of the truth long since discovered by impartial observers, that the master race of this continent is found in the Southern States. Of a better stock originally, and habituated to manlier pursuits and exercises, they have ruled in the affairs of State by force of the stronger will and larger wisdom pertain to and distinguish superior races of men, while on the field of battle they have in every contest held a priority of place conceded to them by their present adversaries.
This natural dominancy of the Southern people has had much to do in bringing on the war. The inferior race grown strong in numbers and ambitious from revolted against, and now seek to overthrow and destroy, those whose superiority was a constant source of envy and self-approach. There is no malevolence than that of caste, and it is this which has so long stirred the Yankee bite. Always, in the presence of the Southern gentleman, he has felt a strong and painfully repressed impulse to take off <illegible> This conscious inferiority has galled the jealous and malignant creature until he has broken out in servile He has vainly concluded that his numbers can whelm and exterminate the objects of his envy, and that he, succeeding to the broad acres and liberal habitudes of the Southern gentry, will come to be looked upon as a gentleman too!
With us, the contest is one for hereditary rights, for the sacred things of home, for the old repute the better blood with the Yankee, it is a rebellious and struggle a place he is unworthy of, for privileges he would degrade, for property he would barter, and for institutions he could neither comprehend nor enjoy. It is the old and never-ending strife between patrician and proletarian, between gentle and vile
Not a word, mark you, once more! about abolitionism: the thrust is at the whole Yankee race. Who talks of peace or of union with such The cause of all this alienation is SLAVERY, and we must see to it that the present bloody struggle ends not, that tyrant-breeding, man-imbruting system is crushed out of existence.
In vain a nation’s bloody sweat,
The sob of myriad hearts in vain,
If the scotched snake may live to set
Its venom in our flesh again
Men of the North, be not deceived! The rebellion is not simply a factious movement, a sudden outburst of pride and passion that will ere long subside, or a temporary division that can be healed by forbearance and policy. It is a fire that burns to the lowest hell It indicates, in its origin, its object, its spirit, and its shocking barbarities, a demonized state of society, where
“Justice is fled to brutish beasts,
And men have lost their reason.”
There are no PEOPLE at the South, in the Northern sense of that term, but only three classes or castes namely—the slave oligarchy, the poor white trash as they are called, and the slaves. The first are as aspiring, obdurate, defiant and desperate as  fallen angels, who had rather reign in hell than serve in heaven; the second are demoralized,  and barbarous, the tools and victims of the first, and utterly incapable of reasoning, or being reasoned with; and the third are clanking their chains, in ignominious servitude. Where, then, is our hope in that direction? Surely not in the first class:—
“The slave-lords of the Southern States,
What demon powers they are!
They make a league with want and crime,
On Freedom they wage war:
They curse the land, the winds, the sea-
Lord, have they conquered thee?
With a frown, looking down,
They curse the land and sea;
They rival hell, they libel heaven,
But have not conquered thee"
Surely, in this terrible emergency, the government has nothing to expect from the poor imbruted whites of the South,—nothing but shocking, savage cruelties, and revolting excesses kind.
The only class left are the four millions of slaves, whose military strength, reckoning from the age of 18 to 45, is army of eight hundred thousand men. As now used, they constitute the very pith and marrow, the bones and sinews of the rebellion. Without them, the rebellion would instantly collapse; with them, it is sure to be victorious. All that they are for, to leap from the side of treason to that of
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
loyalty, is the word “EMANCIPATION,” uttered by ABRAHAM LINCON as President of the United States. For liberty, and in defence of the government, they are willing to run all risks, endure all hardships, and, if need be; lay down their lives. They have an unshaken religious faith that this is God’s appointed time and method for their deliverance. None will work harder, none will be more docile and obedient, none will fight more bravely, under the inspiration of freedom, than they. They are the only class at the South to constitute a basis of civilization, by their deep religious nature, by their aptitude to learn, by their aspiration for a higher destiny, and thus, with a large infusion of Northern brains and muscles, to make the unity of the republic a possible and permanent event. I regard as essentially traitorous, or practically demented, the man who spurns the proposition for their liberation and enrolment under the national flag, on account of their complexion; or who exhibits disgust at the thought that nineteen millions of Northern white men cannot whip into the Union traces six or eight millions of refractory Southern rebels. As for the complexional objection, it is equally unreasonable and unnatural. “A man's a man, for a’ that."
As for their aid and co-operation in the camp and on the battle field, and in every other serviceable capacity, if George Washington, at the head of the American army, was not backward to secure them, in “the times that tried men's souls"; and if General Beauregard does not hesitate to muster as many of them as are needed into the service of the rebellion; what true patriot will object to their being secured and employed in the maintenance of our common liberties? He is an ignoramus, or a slanderer, who impeaches their courage or questions their capacity. In St. Domingo, they vanquished the best troops of Napoleon, and have maintained their independence to this day. In our Revolutionary struggle, it is historically conceded that they were among the bravest of the brave, and did much towards securing the liberties we are now enjoying. In the war of 1812-14 with Great Britain, they performed many gallant exploits on the sea and on land; and it was solely by the aid of the colored soldiers whom he invited to rally to the rescue, that Gen. Jackson was enabled to achieve his memorable victory at New Orleans; and he bestowed upon them the most flattering eulogies. In spite of all the injustice done to them, wherever the flag has been carried amid the thunder and flame of battle, on every field of conflict, their blood has been, freely poured out for our common country. Say not that we can succeed, without their help. If that is the spirit which animates us, a just God will never allow us to triumph. Moreover, it is pure deception, to say, that it is nineteen millions pitted against eight. Even if it were so, let us remember that the race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. But it is not true. The lamentable and alarming fact, is, that the South is in deadly earnest-a unit in spirit and purpose, ready to be exterminated, but never to surrender; while our Northern house is fearfully divided against itself. The secession element is everywhere to be found in every Northern State, either; very thinly disguised under the flimsy veil of conditional loyalty, or else bold and menacing in speech. Even the national capital is full of it, and it is the national capital that is now virtually in a state of siege, and not Richmond. The government seems to be without a policy, timid, equivocal, irresolute, and without vision; and thus far, with a few exceptions, nothing but disaster and defeat has attended our armies, bravely as they have fought. The South can never be vanquished, while she is allowed to retain slavery as a source of her strength and the object of her revolt. Let its immediate overthrow be made the test of loyalty, and resistance to a measure so effectual and beneficent be held as at least prima facie evidence of a treasonable spirit. There is not a moment to be lost. The blow that destroys slavery extinguishes the rebellion, and saves the life of the republic. In God's name, in justice to the oppressed, in defence of our own freedom, and for the sake of the cause of liberty throughout the world, let it be instantly given! 
Men of the North-
“The lords of treason and the whip
Have called you to the dread appeal,
From the loud cannon’s fevered lip,
And the wide flash of bristling steel.
If now the echo of that voice
Shake down their prison-house of wrong,
They have their own perfidious choice;
For God is good, and Truth is strong.
Their steel draws lightning, and the bolt
But fires their own volcanic mine;
God in their vineyard of Revolt
Treads out his sacramental wine!
Be this our conquest-as they gave
Their all to Treason and the Chain,
We snap the fetter from the slave,
AND MAKE OUR SOLE REVENGE THEIR GAIN!"

THE PRESIDENT TO MR. GREELEY.
Last week, Horace Greeley addressed a very cogent and impressive letter to President Lincoln, through the Tribune, conjuring him by the highest considerations to strike directly at the rebellion at its most vulnerable part, and fearlessly to carry out all the acts of Congress for its suppression. Waiving all official reticence, the President makes the following characteristic reply:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, 
Friday, August 22, 1862.
HON. HORACE GREELEY:
DEAR SIR,-I have just read yours of the 19th inst., addressed to myself through the New York Tribune. If there be in it any statements or assumptions of facts which I may know to be erroneous, I do not now and here controvert them. If there be any inferences which I may believe to be falsely drawn, I do not now and here argue against them. If there be perceptible in it an impatient and dictatorial tone, I waive it in deference to an old friend, whose heart I have always believed to be right.
As to the policy I “seem to be pursuing,” as you say, I have not meant to leave any one in doubt. I would save the Union. I would save it in the shortest way under the Constitution, The sooner the national authority can be restored, the nearer the Union will be the Union as it was.
If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them. If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them. My paramount object is to save the Union, and not either to save or destroy slavery.
If I could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also do that. What I do about slavery and the colored race, I do because it helps to save this Union; and what I forbear, I forbear because I do not believe it would help to save the Union.
I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause; and I shall do more whenever I believe doing more will help the cause. I shall try to correct errors when shown to be errors, and I shall adopt new views so fast as they shall appear to be true views.
I have here stated my purposes, according to my view of official duty, and I intend no modification of my of expressed personal wish that all men every where could be free.
Yours, A. LINCOLN.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY for September, has come to hand, with the following attractive table of contents:-Henry Thomas Buckle; The Molly O’Molly Papers; Hopeful Jacket-His Mark-by Richard Wolcott; John Bull to Jonathan; Jonathan to John Bull; American Student Life; Go I and Win; John Neal; The Soldier and the Civilian; Author-Borrowing; Intervention; Maccaroni and Canvas; Anthony Trollope on America; Up and Act, by Charles G. Leland; Reminiscences of Andrew Jackson; Shakspeare’s Caricature of Richard III., by Rev. E. G-. Holland; The Negro in the Revolution; A Merchant’s Story, by the author of “Among the Pines”; Shoulder Straps, by Henry Morford; National Unity, by Horace Greeley; Was He Successful? by Richard B. Kimball; Literary Notices; Editor’s Table. J. R. Gilmore, Publisher, 532 Broadway, New York, and 110, Tremont Street, Boston. $3.00 per annum, in advance; single copies, 25 cents.
<c02>
MRS. L. MARIA CHILD TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
It may seem a violation of propriety for a woman to address the Chief Magistrate of the nation at a crisis so momentous as this. But if the Romans, ages ago, accorded to Hortensia the right of addressing the Senate on the subject of a tax unjustly levied on the wealthy ladies of Rome, surely an American woman of the 19th century need not apologize for pleading with the rulers of her country in behalf of the poor, the wronged, the cruelly oppressed. Surely the women of America have a right to inquire, nay;, demand whether their husbands, sons and brothers are to be buried by thousands in Southern swamps, without obtaining thereby “indemnity for the past and security for the future."
In your Appeal to the Border States, you have declared slavery to be that, “without which the war could never have been,” and you speak of emancipation as" “the step which at once shortens the war.” I would respectfully ask how much longer the nation is to wait for the decision of the Border States, paying, meanwhile, $2,000,000 a day, and sending thousands of its best and bravest to be stabbed, shot, and hung by the rebels, whose property they are employed to guard. How much longer will pro-slavery officers be permitted to refuse obedience to the laws of Congress, saying, “We shall continue to send back fugitives to their masters until we receive orders from the President to the contrary." .”-What fatal spell is cast over your honest mind, that you hesitate so long to give such orders? Be not deceived; God is not mocked. Neither nations nor individuals sin against His laws with impunity. Hear the old Hebrew Prophet whose words seem as if spoken for us: “Thou should’st not have stood in the crossway to cut off those that did escape; neither should’st thou have delivered up those that did remain in the day of distress. For thy violence against thy brother, shame shall cover thee, and thou shalt be cut off forever. The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, saying, who shall bring me down to the ground? Though thou should’st exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord."
The American people have manifested almost miraculous patience, forbearance and confidence in their rulers. They have given incontrovertible proof that their intelligence, their love of country, may be trusted to any extent. They are willing to sacrifice their fortunes and their lives, but they very reasonably wish to know what they are sacrificing them for. Men, even the bravest, do not go resolutely and cheerfully to death in the name of diplomacy and strategy. The human soul, under such circumstances, needs to be lifted up and sustained by great ideas of Justice and Freedom.
President Lincoln, it is an awful responsibility before God to quench the moral enthusiasm of a generous people. It wastes thousands of precious lives, causes an unutterable amount of slow consuming agony, and tarnishes our record on the pages of history. Again I respectfully ask, how much longer we are to wait for the Border States, at such tremendous cost and at I such a fearful risk? When a criminal is on trial, it is not deemed prudent to try by a Jury who are interested in the crime. Slavery is on trial, and the verdict is left to slaveholders in the Border States. The report of their majority shows them to be slaveholders in heart and spirit. The process of reasoning and entreaty has been very properly tried with them, and the people of the Free States have waited long and patiently for some obvious good result. They are getting restive; very restive. Everywhere I hear men saying: “Our President is an honest, able man, but he appears to have no firmness of purpose. He is letting the country drift to ruin for want of earnest action and a consistent policy.” This is not the ‘utterance of any one class or party. It may be heard everywhere; by the wayside, in the cars, and at the depots. Nor can I deny that some speak with less moderation. Shall I tell you what I said when cold water was thrown on the spark of enthusiasm kindled by the brave, large-hearted Gen. Hunter? I exclaimed, with a groan, “Oh, what a misfortune it is to have an extinguisher instead of a Drummond Light in our watchtower, when the Ship of State is reeling under such a violent storm, in the midst of sunken rocks, with swarms of unprincipled wreckers everywhere calculating on the profit they may derive from her destruction.” The crew are working at the pumps with manly vigor and almost superhuman endurance. They look out upon a prospect veiled by dense fog, and their cry is, “Oh! God, let us know whither we driving! Give us a clear, steady light to guide us through the darkness of the storm!"
I trust you will not deem me wanting in respect for yourself or your high position, if I say frankly, that you seem to trust too much to diplomatic and selfish politicians, and far too little to the heart of the people. You do them wrong, irreparable wrong, by stifling their generous instincts, and putting an extinguisher on every scintillation of moral enthusiasm. Are you not aware that moral enthusiasm is the mightiest of all forces? It is the fire which produces the steam of energy and courage, and the motion of all the long train of crowded cars depends on its expansive power. In the name of our suffering country, for the sake of a world that needs enfranchisement, I beseech you not to check the popular enthusiasm for freedom! Would that you could realize what a mighty power there is in the heart of a free people! No proclamations, no speeches, have stirred it to its depths as did the heroic and kindly Gen. Banks, when he gave the weary little slave girl a ride upon his cannon. I hail the omen of that suffering little one, riding to freedom on the cannon of the United States. It is impossible to estimate the benign, far-reaching influences of such an action. They cannot be arranged in statistics, and will therefore be neglected by political economists. They cannot be bought up for electioneering purposes, and therefore men called statesmen attach no importance to them. But they will run through all the patterns of our future, though history will be unable to trace to their origin in the web those golden threads that here glow in the heart of a flower, and there light up the eye of a bird. Gen. Banks was not aware of the magnetism in that simple act of humanity. It owed its magnetic power to the fact that
“What within is good and true,
He saw it with his heart."
And so it awakened a responsive thrill in other kindly, generous hearts, who all remembered the words, “Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these, ye did it unto me.” Such potency was there in it, that it proved an Ithuriel’s spear to disguised forms of selfishness and treason. When it touched the toads, they started up devils.
In thus entreating you to trust to the impulses of the people, I by no means overlook the extreme difficulties of your position. I know that the pro-slavery spirit of the land is a mighty giant, characterized by unscrupulous selfishness and exceeding obstinacy. But I also know that all the enthusiasm is on the side of freedom. Despotism has its ugly Caliban of obstinate pride always at work for mischief. But enthusiasm is the swift and radiant Ariel, always prompt in the service of freedom. These two agents are in active competition. Choose which of them you will trust.
That you sincerely wish to save the Republic, the people do not doubt for a moment; and your scruples about constitutional obligations have commanded their respect. But events have educated them rapidly, and they now deny that any constitutional obligation exists toward rebels who have thrown off the Constitution, spit upon it, and trampled it under their feet. If you entered into partnership with a man who robbed you of your funds, set your house on fire, and seized you by the threat with intent to strangle you, should you consider yourself still legally bound by the articles of partnership? I trow not. But it is urged that some slaveholders are loyal. I apprehend that their name is not legion, nor their loyalty always of
<c03>
a kind that will stand much wear and tear. The course that some of them have pursued recalls to my mind the words of the same old Hebrew prophet: “The men of the Confederacy have brought thee even to the border. The men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee. They that eat thy bread have laid a wound under thee."
Much has been said concerning the inhumanity of arming the blacks. All war is necessarily inhuman; but I cannot perceive why there is more inhumanity in a black man fighting for his freedom than in a white man fighting for the same cause. Doubtless, long years of oppression have brutalized many of the slaves, and darkened their moral sense almost as much as it has that of the slaveholders. If, wearied out with their long waiting in vain for help, and goaded by the increase of their sufferings, they should resort to insurrection, indiscriminate cruelty might be the result. But this danger would be averted by organizing them under the instruction and guidance of officers who would secure their confidence by just treatment. They are by nature docile, and have been trained to habits of obedience. There seems no reason to apprehend that their passage through any district would be accompanied with more devastation than that of other troops. As for bravery, they would be stimulated to it by the most powerful motives that can act on human nature-the prospect of freedom on the one hand, and the fear of falling into their masters’ power on the other.
I need not speak of emancipation as a measure of policy. Enough has been said and written to prove that enlightened self-interest requires it at our hands. But there is one aspect of the question which seems to me very important, though generally overlooked. I mean the importance of securing the confidence of the slaves, to make them feel secure of their freedom, if they serve the United States. One of the “contrabands"” at Fortress Monroe said, “We want to work for the United States; but we can’t work with heart, because we feel anxious about what the United States means to do with us when the war is over.” I often see suggestions about impressing the negroes, and compelling them to work for us. Last night’s paper states that orders have been given to employ them in some of the camps, and to pay wages to those of them who are free. In the name of justice, what right have we to force slaves to work without wages? What right have we to recognize slaves in persons working for the United States? Have we gone so far in this struggle without learning yet that heart-labor is of infinitely more value than compulsory laber? It is our duty, as well as our best policy, to deal justly and kindly by the poor fugitives who toil for us, and to stimulate their energies by making them! feel secure of their freedom., Your word, officially spoken, can alone do this. So long as you delay to utter it, one officer will scourge them and send them to their masters to be again scourged, while another will protect them. The poor creatures, whose minds are darkened by ignorance, and perplexed by their masters’ falsehoods about the Yankees, become completely bewildered, and know not whom to trust. Their I simple declaration, “We want to work for the United States, but we can’t work with heart,” seemed to me very significant and pathetic. Is not the heart-service of these loyal thousands too valuable to be thrown away? If their masters, in desperation, should promise them freedom as the reward for fighting against us, they would doubtless accept the offer as the best bargain they could make; because, alas! they have been unable to find out what the United States means to do with them. What candid person could blame them for such a course? Should we not do the same under similar circumstances?
Oh, President Lincoln, God has placed you as a father over these poor oppressed millions. Remember their forlorn condition! Think how they have been for generations deprived of the light of knowledge and the hope of freedom! Think of the cruel lashes inflicted on them for trying to learn to read the Word of God! Think of their wives polluted, and their children sold, without any means of redress for such foul and cruel wrongs! Imagine them stealing through midnight swamps, infested with snakes and alligators, guided toward freedom by the North Star, and then hurled back into bondage by Northern bloodhounds in the employ of the United States! Think how long their groans and prayers for deliverance have gone up before God, from the hidden recesses of Southern forests! Listen to the refrain of their plaintive hymn, “Let my people go!"!” Above all, think of their present woeful uncertainty, scourged and driven from one to another, not knowing whom to trust! We are told that uncounted prayers go up from their bruised hearts, in the secrecy of their rude little cabins, that “God would bress Massa Lincoln." Is there nothing that touches your heart in the simple trust of these poor, benighted, suffering souls? In view of it, can you still allow the officers of the United States to lash them at their pleasure, and send them back to their masters, on the plea that the President has given no orders on the subject? Shall such officers go unrebuked, while Gen. Hunter is checked in his wise and humane policy, and when the great, honest soul of Gen. Phelps is driven to the alternative of disobeying the convictions of his own conscience, or quitting the service of his country? If you can thus stifle the moral enthusiasm of noble souls; if you can thus disappoint the hopes of poor, helpless wretches, who trust in you as the appointed agent of their deliverance, may God forgive you! It will require infinite mercy to do it.
I can imagine, in some degree, the embarrassments of your position, and I compassionate you for the heavy weight of responsibility that rests upon your shoulders. I know that you are surrounded by devils that have squeezed themselves into the disguise of toads. I pray you to lose no more time in counting these toads, and calculating how big a devil each may contain. Look upward instead of downward. Place your reliance on principles rather than on men. God has placed you at the head of a great nation at a crisis when its free institutions are in extreme peril from enemies within and without. Lay your right arm on the buckler of the Almighty, and march fearlessly forward to universal freedom in the name of the Lord!
Pardon me if, in my earnestness, I have said aught that seems disrespectful. I have not so intended. I have been impelled to write this because, night and day, the plaintive song of the bondmen resounds in my ears-
“Go down, Moses, go down to Egypt’s land, 
And say to Pharaoh:' ‘Let my people go!'"
That you may be guided by Him who has said: “First righteousness, and then peace,” is the earnest prayer of 
Yours, respectfully,
L. MARIA CHILD.
ANDOVER, August 25th, 1862.
MR. GARRISON,-At a Town Meeting in Andover this afternoon, to raise our quota of nine months’ men, the following preamble and resolution, offered by Mr. B. F. Wardwell, and sustained by Mr. W. Jenkins, were passed, with only one dissenting voice, which broke on my ears like an unearthly growl, and seemed to emanate from the bottomless pit. Do we not advance? RICHARD HINCHCLIFFE.
Whereas, the institution of slavery is the cause of the present insurrection, threatening the subversion, not only of Democratic and Republican principles, but of the nation; therefore,
Resolved, That the President of the United States is hereby called upon to declare the abolition of slavery throughout the length and breadth of the land without delay.
THE REBELILION RECORD-Part XXI., Monthly Edition, Illustrated-being a Diary of American Events from 1860 to 1862, edited by Frank Moore-is just published by G. P. Putnam, 532 Broadway. Charles T. Evans, General Agent. This number contains admirably engraved portraits of Col. E. D. Baker and Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War. The work is of immense historical interest and value. Price, 50 cents a number.
<c04>
PRESIDENT LINCOLN AND COLONIZATION.
WORCESTER, August 18,1862.
MR. GARRISON,-The most characteristic act of the President, which exhibits him under the least disguise, is his address to the delegation of colored men. I have faith to believe that, if he could only be permitted to attain the age of Methuselah, he might possibly arrive at a dim perception of the fact, that as slavery is the cause of the rebellion, its extinction must be the only way to put it down. He says, but for the colored race, there would be no war. Marvellous foresight! So to put an end to it, he is going to expatriate it. That might possibly be accomplished in the course of Methuselah’s life-time
I hope this bit of statesmanship will be incorporated into the next treatise on political science, for the benefit of the coming generation. A fitting diadem to grace America’s brow, that, after two centuries of the most diabolical despotism the world ever knew, she spoke, through her chief magistrate, these significant words: “We have in our midst a race that we have plundered and oppressed, to whom we have denied every claim of humanity, out of whose souls we have crushed every noble aspiration, until the judgments of God are visiting us sore; and now we will save ourselves by getting rid of them."
Ah! President Lincoln, God is not to be hoodwinked by you. Justice and righteousness are his, and you are but a speck in the hollow of his hand, which he can crush out of existence at any moment, in the silent workings of those eternal laws which he never fails to vindicate against all human inventions to defeat and evade them.
Then again, see how significant the close:-“Take your full time: no hurry at all.” That has been the character of the war from the beginning, and will be to the close of his authority. Probably, he is a believer in that old doctrine, getting very popular now among theologians, that “God is never in a hurry.” This is the way they explain away our slow progress in putting down the rebellion. He probably forgot himself when he rained fire and brimstone upon Sodom and Gomorrah, and sent the ten plagues upon Egypt. Ah, no! no hurry, as long as we can send our hundred thousands to die in the swamps, and impoverish Northern capital to pay the expense of the sacrifice. No matter how much we suffer, if we can only convince the South that we never intended to harm slavery!
I am soul-sick of all this cant about the President, to prove that he is an honest man. Away with it all! and judge him by his acts, not by his intentions. I know he is an exceedingly amiable man, and therein lies the nation’s danger. He might be a good passenger in the ship in calm weather, never creating a disturbance anywhere; but he is not the man to serve as pilot amid the breakers. He deludes every man who talks with him into the belief that he is going to announce a policy for the vigorous putting down of the rebellion, and slavery, if he can be convinced that such is the will of the people; but he pays no heed to any demonstration of theirs. I have no doubt the instincts of his human soul come out, and he feels what he says at the moment he is talking with Wendell Phillips or Charles Sumner; and then, when he is talking with border State men, the instincts of Kentucky predominate, and he acts on their side.
When a nation’s fate is trembling in the scale, is it for us to stand debating whether Mr. Seward defeated this or that measure, or Mrs. Lincoln’s secession proclivities do not overrule the better judgment and impulses of her husband? No! Better that we should denounce him as a traitor. Does he not aid and abet the enemy by protecting them in the only resource they have? Is he not levying war against the government, in weakening the resources for its preservation, by crippling every effort for its successful defence? By deliberately protracting a struggle which is fast draining the life-blood of the nation, and lending his influence to those most in sympathy with the rebels, will he not, if this Republic shall fall,-and fall it must, if the odium of public sentiment is not brought to bear upon him in such a way that he will be compelled to remember that there is a North, and that it has rights as sacred as the slaveholders, and dares to maintain them;-that is, if saved through Abraham Lincoln, will he not go to his place in history as one of those who deserve the execration of mankind for betraying the most sacred interests ever given to man to defend?
Mr. Seward has instituted a new policy, which is, to make the States judges of the troops necessary for the defence of the country. If it is politic to throw such a responsibility on the States, it is politic for them to act as judges of their own interests, and demand that, before another regiment shall be sent from the North, the loyal blacks shall be wrested from the service of the rebels, and permitted to enter the ranks in defence of the Union.
Such a course would be far preferable to the other alternative to which we may come, as a last resort, when the army, worn with toil and suffering, shall take the responsibility into its own hands, and override the administration.
One of the two must happen, if we are saved, because the President of himself will never wake up in season. It would be a pity to wake him up then to a sense of his honor lost, for he is really more an object of pity than of indignation.
I thank “C. K. W.” for his disclaimer in behalf of the Anti-Slavery Society, having understood his article to speak authoritatively, if not officially, as committing it to the support of the government:-a very doubtful commentary on its wisdom or good faith, I think. Never has the government committed itself to a single act entitling it to the support of the Abolitionists; and I regret exceedingly that any individuals have erred so in judgment as to sanction it in a course they would once have censured in the Republican party. S. E. W. 

THE CAUSE OF THE WAR.
MR. EDITOR,-Did not Mr. Lincoln state a falsehood when he said to the committee of colored men, “But for the presence of your race in this country, there could have been no war"? Is the presence or the condition of the black race the cause of the war? Should he not have said, but for the fact that your race are SLAVES, there could have been no war?
ENQUIRER.
REMARK. Mr. Lincoln’s entire address to the colored committee was a tissue of absurdities and false assumptions.-[Ed. Lib.

LETTER FROM ANDREW T. FOSS.
HYANNIS, Aug. 23d, 1862.
DEAR MR. MAY,-My first week of labor on the Cape, commencing Sunday the 17th, has been a decided success. I found, on arriving in this village, that all the preparation work for the meetings had been thoroughly done. The meeting on Sunday, P. M., was well attended; and the intelligent audience seemed interested. In the evening, the crowd came. I tried to deal faithfully with them. I showed them that their present miseries were the fruit of their own doings. Sometime before I closed, the mob spirit, on the outside of the house, manifested itself by throwing missiles against the house, and smashing the closed blinds. At the close of the meeting, the mob gathered around the door, with cries of “Seize him," “Tar and feather him,” &c., &c. I stood all the while on the platform, outside of the door, with folded arms, waiting the attack, which, I must say, I had not the least apprehension would be made. When friend Hinckley was ready with his carriage, we walked through the mob untouched, and rode home to a night of calm and refreshing repose. I think it was altogether the most successful meeting I have ever attended at Hyannis. So say all our friends here.
On Tuesday, 19th, the meeting at Centreville was thinly attended, but the few present were wide awake,
<c05>
and entered freely into a discussion of the interests and duties of the hour:-to me it was a good meeting.
On Wednesday, I spoke, in Cotuitport. I had a large and very attentive audience. No sign of opposition appeared. It was thought best by the friends that a second meeting should be held here; so I appointed one for the next evening. My criticisms upon the conduct of the war brought out the sheriff of the county, the Methodist minister, and some others. The sheriff threatened me with Fort Warren, and the minister charged me with want of modesty;-or rather said he should regard himself wanting in that quality, if he should criticise the President of the United States as I had done. As nearly as I could learn, a large majority of the meeting sympathized with my views, in regard to the insane conduct of the war.
I go next to Harwich. If the remaining days I am to stay upon the Cape shall be as successful as those that have past, I shall regard this as one of my most successful tours.
Yours, truly, A. T. FOSS.

LETTER FROM MR. MAY.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-I do not see that anything in Mr. Howland's second letter (in last Liberator) requires a reply from me. He but restates and amplifies what he had said before. In my reply to his first letter, I definitely stated my position and the reasons for it. To that letter (see Liberator of Aug. 8) I would refer any of your readers who may not have seen it, as a sufficient reply to Mr. Howland's last. I might fill a column or two of your paper in an argument with him, but to what purpose? Alike unprofitable to the cause, and useless either to him or me. I surely need not repeat that his method of neutrality, in such a struggle as is now going on between the Northern people and the Southern slaveholders, is as distasteful to me and contrary to my sense of duty as ever. Nor need I re-affirm what I before said of the extreme trial of patience by which every anti-slavery person is exercised, through the slow and compromising course of President Lincoln. But, willing or unwilling, (and surely I hope the former,) he is to be, I believe, the instrument of the slaves’ deliverance., And let me add, that I consider the halting and unbelief of our Government, and the present darkened condition of our public affairs, to be fully as much the fault and guilt of the Northern people as of Mr. Lincoln. The worst and most degrading feature of slavery, exhibited by the people of the North, is the despicable prejudice against color,-the virus of which is just in proportion to the ignorance and low rank in the human scale of him who cherishes it. Is there moral power in the North sufficient to rise superior to this in human and atheistic sentiment, and constrain our Government to enact justice, mercy, and right? This is the real question; in the settlement of which, I regard the war to be as needful for the discipline and instruction of the North, as for the overthrow of slavery. God’s retributive hand is dealing with both sections of the land. One section is already slowly learning wisdom thereby. The other will not and cannot; but its heart grows harder, and it waxes worse and worse, and its “damnation tarrieth not.” And the innocent suffer with the guilty, as it has been from the beginning-but with the difference, that the suffering has a life-giving power to the one, to the other it is utter defeat and death. S. M. JR. 

UNIVERSAL CONSCRIPTION.
MR. EDITOR,-Is it not time that the lovers of personal freedom, throughout the length and breadth of the land, should awake to a realizing sense of the despotic tyranny which is now exercised over the movements of honest, peace-loving men? Placed by the force of circumstances in a community, the great majority of whose members fanatically worship an instrument called a Constitution,-which, so long as it recognizes property in man, and bears upon its face so dark a stain as the Fugitive Slave Law, is emphatically a “compact with hell," most of us are subjected, without consent of our own, to a persecution for conscience and opinion’s sake, which is only paralleled by the persecution of the poor black fugitive himself, whenever he falls into the clutches of those who are continually shouting, “The Union as it was, the Constitution as it is.” In these days,-in this land of liberty, so called, in this refuge of liberty of opinion,-every man whose religious principles, or whose constitutional timidity, or whose love of his family dependent upon him, forbids to serve in the ranks of the militia, is prevented from leaving the State or the country, and forced, if those in power so determine, to stand up both to kill his fellow-men, and to be killed by them. He is compelled to do that at which his nature revolts, and in spite of the affliction of his wife and children, who will be thrown into unspeakable misery by his untimely death. It is awful to contemplate the fierce violence with which our rulers enter into the sanctities of our homes, to seize upon the trembling victims of their power, to expose them to peril of life and limb, in a cause in which they have no interest, and which they think ought to be sustained, if worth the cost, by those only who are the most interested in its success. But are a certain number of States, containing a certain number of arsenals and forts, and a certain number of unwilling people, worth in the balance the precious lives of the thousands who have perished in this fearful contest? There is no refuge from oppression, even in this land of the Puritans. But blessed is he who is deaf, or lame, or near-sighted, or afflicted with chronic incurable disease, compared with the father or son forced against his will, his conscience, and his physical constitution, to help on this bloody strife with arms in his hands. 
SENEX.
THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN OF AFRICAN EMIGRATION. The New York Anglo-African of the 23d inst. publishes the following resolutions of the Committee of colored men who had an interview with the President with reference to emigration:-
Resolved, That in the present condition of the public affairs of this country, we, the few assembled, deem it inexpedient, inauspicious and impolitic to agitate the subject of emigration of the colored people of this country anywhere, believing that time, the great arbiter of events and movements, will adjust the matter of so infinitely vital interest to the colored people of these United States.
And furthermore, that we judge it unauthorized and unjust for us to compromise the interests of over four and a half millions of our race by precipitate action on our part.
DISASTROUS CAPTURE. Gen. Pope’s artillery is now guarding the line of the Rappahannock, and Fitz John Porter, with a very heavy force, joined Gen. Pope on Friday evening. But here is a most serious capture by the rebels:-
By a sudden raid of 250 guerillas upon Catlett’s station under cover of the night, twenty supply trains were destroyed and their contents injured by the rebels. A hundred prisoners and many horses were taken, all the private letters and papers of Gen. Pope, copies of despatches and reports, memoranda relating to the campaign and to the army, copies of telegrams sent, all despatches received from the President, Halleck and the War Department, orders issued to the Generals of the corps and divisions, all maps and topographical charts, containing information of the greatest value; in a word, the whole history and plan of the campaign, the numbers and disposition of the troops. All are revealed to the enemy by this disaster. Its seriousness can hardly be estimated. It is taking the rebel General into the confidence of Gen. Halleck, and may render it necessary to change the whole campaign.
Lieut. George W. Califf, of the 11th Mass. regiment, who is well known in this region as a temperance lecturer, was among the released persons from Richmond who arrived at Washington on Wednesday.
One of the foremost theological abettors of the Slave Power, Dr. Thornwell, died at Charlotte, N. C., Aug. 8. He was, until the outbreak of the rebellion, one of the leading men of-the Old School Presbyterian Church, and few men have done more than he to pervert the views of the Southern churches respecting slavery
<c06>
MAJOR GENERAL FREMONT AT TREMONT TEMPLE. As some of our readers in this city will see the present number a day in advance of its regular publication, we would apprise such that they can have the rare treat of hearing JOHN C. FREMONT, the Pathfinder of Freedom through the present bloody struggle, this (Thursday) evening, 28th inst, at the Tremont Temple, on the rebellion, and what should be done for its suppression. No doubt the attendance will be very large. No public man has so strong a hold upon the confidence and esteem of the true friends of liberty as Gen. Fremont.
A VALUABLE AND COMPREHENSIVE CHART. Mr. John E. Fuller, formerly of Boston, but for some time past a resident in England, has elaborately prepared a Statistical Chart of the United States, in a neat form, containing a large amount of desirable information pertaining to the Free and Slave States. The Albion notices it as follows:-
FULLER'S COMMERCIAL CHART. Such is the name of a very comprehensive and carefully compiled statistical table of the population, area and relative importance of the different States which constitute the great American Republic. The chart shows at a glance the varied particulars of relative position, area and population of the different States, showing also the proportions of slave and free populations in the slaveholding States, and, inferentially, the proportions between the free and slave populations of the whole of the States. The information presented in this chart is curious and interesting, and it is obviously the result of much pains-taking and research. It is comprehensively put, and is so arranged as to be of easy reference, as well as very compendious.
TIME WHEN DRAFTING WILL BEGIN. The time indicated as the day upon which the draft shall take place is Wednesday, the 3d of September, instead of Monday, the 1st, as stated in the order of the Secretary of War.
COLLECTIONS 
By the Finance Committee at Abington, August 1, 1862.
Sarah Jane Davee $l 00 Geo. I. McLauthlin 0 25
C. G. Lauthlin 0 30 Josiah Hayward 1 00
S. Chandler 0 25 E. Hobart 1 00
Luke Johnson 0 25 Joshua Perry 0 50
Elbridge Sprague 0 .50 E. and E. H. Richards 2 00
Daniel Foster 0 .50 E. E. Bennett 1 00
Mrs. Loud 1 00 W. L. Garrison 1 .00
Parker Pillsbury.1 00 Geo. W. Stacy. 0 50
C. M. Leonard 1 00 J. M. W. Yerrinton 1 00
J. Sella Martin 0 50 Sarah Cowing 0 50
M. W. Stetson 1 00 Rufus Bates 0 25
H. H. Brigham 1 00 Samuel Reed 0 25
S. H. Lewis 0 .25 E. W. Esty 0 50
J. G. Dodge 0 50 C. H. Collins 0 50
Mrs. Nowell 1 00 R. T. Collins 0 50
B.Everson 0 25 Mary Perry 0 25
A.Nash 0 50 Mary Plumer 2 00
N.Pool 0 25 A. Stonwood 1 00
M. Sprague 0 25 R. Loud 1 00
J. Studley 0 25 D. and A. Morey 1 00
S. Gardner 0 25 H. I. Martin 0 25
Robert Horsey 1 00 Charles Meserve.0 25
S. C. Beal 0 .25 A. Twitchell 0 50
C. K. Whipple 1 00 J. Leonard 0 50
R. W. Henshaw 1 00 E. Curtis 0 25
W. Brown 0 25 Dunbar 1 00
A. A. A. Locke 1 00 B. Arnold 0 50
J. Cushing 0 50 Wm. H. Tucker 1 00
John Jones 1 00 Geo. T. Garrison 1 00
Mrs. Mary May 2 00 T. B. Drew 1 00
Samuel May, Jr.1 00 Wendell Phillips 2 00
A. G. Adams 0 50 C. W. Slack 1 00
Lewis McLauthlin 0 50 Logan 0 50
E. Y. Perry 1 00 “Friends,” and cash, in
John Brown 00 25 various sums, 12 39
POSTPONEMENT OF THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.-The change in public affairs, leading to a prolongation of the civil war, which has occurred since our is sue of the prospectus of the Woman’s Journal in May last, have determined us, with the concurrence and advice of the friends of the enterprise, to postpone its publication to a more favorable turn of events. Meanwhile, we shall be glad to receive communications as before from those interested, at Lock Box 2, Roxbury, Mass. The money already received for subscriptions will be returned on demand, or will be deposited in bank to the credit of the parties sending it, to await the appearance of the Journal. 
MARY L. BOOTH,
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, Aug. 29, 1862.
GROVE MEETING-The colored people of Plymouth County and vicinity will hold a Grove Meeting in Harris’s Grove, half a mile from Centre Abington Depot, to commence on Friday, the 5th of Sept., and continue four days. All persons, without distinction of sect or color, are respectfully invited to attend.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will address the people of DENNIS, upon The Rebellion, its Cause and Cure, on Sunday next, August 31, at the usual hours.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Boylston Hall, Princeton, Sunday, Aug. 31, at half past 4 o’clock, P. M.
WANTED-A colored girl-one who has good references, and is competent to do general housework. Address Box 2744, Boston Post Office.
August 29. 2w
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference:-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
OBITUARY.
Died, in Kimberton, Chester Co., (Pa.) July 30th, Ex-MA J. FUSSELL, eldest daughter of Edwin and Rebecca L. Fussell, aged 23 years and 2 months.
Her life promised richly for the future, but ending prematurely, it leaves to her friends the remembrance of a completely rounded whole.
Beautiful in spirit, lovely in her life, courageous as she was tender, she was instinctive in her sense of right, and unbending in her adherence to well-grounded convictions. Ready in her sympathies, she. was quick to perceive the presence of suffering, and thoughtful, delicate and judicious in her methods of alleviation, while she was energetic and decisive in action for the relief of troubles, great or small.
Affable, and of innate piety, the blessing of her gentle words and kindly deeds followed her daily steps, and she was as happy and joyous as she was beloved.
When a hospital for sick and wounded volunteers was opened in the vicinity of her parents’ residence, she did but obey the laws governing her being when she besought admittance, and carried comfort and the soothing of her presence to the bed-side of the sufferers. The poorest and most neglected had most occasion to bless her, but she was untiring in her efforts for many; and where much was to be done, it was almost a matter of course that she should exert herself beyond her strength.
The same spiritual element led her to see in the tuition of the freedmen at Hilton Head a duty to be performed, and she made the offer of her services, though not without a full knowledge of the sacrifices such an offering; must entail upon her. Her youth excused her from the service, but the exertion of body and mind, resulting from these two causes, in combination with several others, had already loosened her hold on life.
With hands scarce lifted from earthly ministrations, and with a mind still absorbed by benevolent purposes, she passed from the vigor and animation of apparent healthy, through an ordeal of extreme sufferings, to the keeping of the Divine One.
He who now guards her with his transcendent love knows best how to send consolation to those who mourn, and also how, rightly, to apportion the labor dropped from dying hands.
So long as War’s frightful ravages continue, as long will the saintliest of maidens, and the noblest of wives, mothers, sisters and friends, lay down their lives by the side of the stupendous offering of a nation’s manhood. How long, O Supreme Ruler of the Universe, will sacrifices like these be made in vain! G. A. L.
In New Orleans, Jan. 20, of consumption, Dr. THOMAS JENNING , a native of New York, aged 49.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants. 
August 8. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE PRESIDENT'S CALL, AND PROCLAMATION.
BY MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
“Three hundred thousand more brave men are wanted”-
Three hundred thousand more fathers and sons,
To stand in the swamp, and to dig in morasses-
To toil in the trenches, and sleep by their guns.
Three hundred thousand, of volunteer freemen,
To be drilled in the camp, while the foe gathers power;
To be harassed and starved, disappointed and maddened,
By the “strategy” strange that is ruling the hour.
Three hundred thousand, white sons of white mothers-
Hear ye not the words, is the call not enough,
To make you spring gladly to join your white brothers,
Who passed into bliss from Bull Run and Ball’s Bluff?
Come, come! give your names-it is men that are wanted;
Not patriots brave that will conquer the foe;
Men, men, for the sacrifice!-go, nothing daunted,
‘Neath Slavery’s SHEKINAH let precious blood flow.
Oh, mothers and wives! shall we hold back our treasure?
Know we not ‘tis our country that calls for our braves;
Our first-born already rest well from their labors,-
Shall we not give our last, that the traitors have slaves?
The dark men by thousands stand ready and waiting
To “be armed and equipped,” and with hearts brave and strong,
Will join in this conflict against their oppressors,
To work till the last rebel owns to the wrong.
But, hark! ‘tis the voice of our President speaking!
His words blight the hopes of the friends of the slave:
“We will not arm the negroes”!-Brave heart, cease thy beating,
While our President digs for thy dear one a grave.
Oh! rulers of men, think ye justice is sleeping?
Is the ear of the “All Father“ deaf to the cry
Of the widow and orphan, and slave mother weeping?
And the war spirits laugh as that edict sweeps by!
Oh God! still have mercy! spare us yet as a nation!
The people in travail are groaning to-day;
And a child shall be born of that dread proclamation,
Whose name shall be FREEDOM, to praise thee for aye!
For the Liberator.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
All hail, Columbia! to thy western skies,
Where sacred Freedom's lofty temples rise,
The virgin goddess bends her azure flight;
On the fleet pinions of diffusive light,
She comes, with Love's resplendent rays, t' illume
The vale of woe, and cheer its awful gloom;
To snatch mankind from the cold arms of death,
And vale inspire with being's transient breath.
But, ah! will ye who fight in Freedom’s cause,
To die in battle or defend her laws;
Will ye, when fortune has your efforts crowned,
And deathless laurels round your temples bound;
Will ye such bold achievements now disgrace,
Nor freedom grant to all the human race?
Shall the poor bondman blot your rising fame,
And sue for justice with neglected claim?
In the dark cell, where sorrow dwells with pain,
Their tortured limbs indented with the chain,
See Ethiopia's sons, because the day
Upon their skins has glanced too warm a ray!
From social joy, from their dear native land,
By Fraud's ungenerous artifice trepanned,
Far to the west, o'er swelling surges borne,
In slavish life of woe and toil to mourn!
Blush, blush, vile Rebels! who, for lucre’s sake,
Through every natural bond of freedom break!
Although with honor crowned, Columbia’s name
May sound eternal through the trump of fame;
Though shouting millions her new system boast,
By Solons planned, t’ unite her arrin host;
Yet, while the negro clanks Oppression's chain,
And these unfeeling, brutal tyrants reign,
Though decked with all the splendid charms of State,
Her blemished character can ne’er be great.
Hail, glorious era, when the genial rays
Of mild Philanthropy, in one broad blaze,
Shall round the world benignant lustre dart,
And warm the haughty Rebels’ frozen heart;
When Afric's millions shall to freedom rise,
And with loud rapture rend the yielding skies!
Columbia's eagle then, with wings unfurled,
Shall symbolize redemption for the world.
Boston, August 9, 1862. G. E. T.
From the Atlantic Monthly for August.
A SUMMER DAY.
At daybreak, in the fresh light, joyfully
The fishermen drew in their laden net;
The shore shone rosy purple, and the sea 
Was streaked with violet.
And, pink with sunrise, many a shadowy sail
Lay southward, lighting up the sleeping bay,
And in the west the white moon, still and pale, 
Faded before the day.
Silence was everywhere. The rising tide
Slowly filled every cove and inlet small:
A musical low whisper multiplied, 
You heard, and that was all.
No clouds at dawn; but, as the sun climbed higher,
White columns, thunderous, splendid, up the sky
Floated and stood, heaped in the sun's clear fire, 
A stately company.
Stealing along the coast, from cape to cape,
The weird mirage crept tremulously on,
In many a magic change and wondrous shape 
Throbbing beneath the sun.
At noon the wind rose-swept the glassy sea
To sudden ripple-thrust against the clouds
A strenuous shoulder-gathering steadily,
Drove them before in crowds,
Till all the west was dark, and inky black
The level ruffled water underneath,
And up the wind-cloud tossed, a ghostly rack,
In many a ragged wreath.
Then sudden roared the thunder, a great peal
Magnificent, that broke and rolled away;
And down the wind plunged, like a furious keel
Cleaving the sea to spray,
And brought the rain, sweeping o’er land and sea:-
And then was tumult! Lightning, sharp and keen,
Thunder, wind, rain-a mighty jubilee
The heaven and earth between!
And loud the ocean sang-a chorus grand-
A solemn music sung in undertone
Of waves that broke about, on either hand
The little island lone,
Where, joyful in His tempest as His calm,
Held in the hollow of that hand of His,
I joined with heart and soul in God's great psalm,
Thrilled with a nameless bliss.
Soon lulled the wind-the summer storm soon died;
The shattered clouds went eastward, drifting slow;
From the low sun the rain-fringe swept aside,
Bright in his rosy glow,
And wide a splendor streamed through all the sky
O'er land and sea, one soft, delicious blush,
That touched the gray rocks lightly, tenderly,
A transitory flush.
Warm, odorous gusts came off the distant land,
With spice of pine-woods, breath of hay new-mown,
O'er miles of waves and sea-roents cool and bland,
Full in our faces blown.
Slow faded the sweet light, and peacefully
The quiet stars came out, one after one-
The holy twilight deepened silently,
The summer day was done.
Such unalloyed delight its hours had given,
Musing, this thought rose in my grateful mind,
That God, who watches all things, up in heaven,
With patient eyes, and kind,
<c02>
Saw and was pleased, perhaps, one child of His 
Dared to be happy, like the little birds,
Because he gave his children days like this,
Rejoicing beyond words,-
Dared, lifting up to Him untroubled eyes
In gratitude that worship is, and prayer,
Sing and be glad with ever new surprise
He made His world so fair?

The Liberator.
THE NEW JERUSALEM MESSENGER.
MR. GARRISON:
At the forty-third General Convention of the New Church, (Swedenborgian,) held in Boston, on the llth to 15th June, 1862, the editor of their weekly paper, The New Jerusalem Messenger, Mr. J. L. Jewett, was superseded by Rev. James P. Stuart, formerly of Glendale, Ohio.
This, I think, shows some anti-slavery progress, even in the New Church conservative order. The Messenger, under the editorship of Mr. Jewett, totally ignored the monstrous wickedness and evils of slavery. A foreigner, who should read no other American paper, could not learn by it that such an odious institution as slavery had an existence in the United States. Mr. Jewett, its late editor, who has been its editor since the commencement of the paper, seven years ago, never has had a word to say against slavery, or the evils arising therefrom. But he occasionally uttered his hate of abolition. Although he has kept out of his paper any condemnation of slavery, he cannot refrain from showing his hate of abolition and abolitionists. In his parting with the Messenger, in the paper of June 28th, occupying three and a half columns, he comes out more fully upon the subject, and shows his “cloven foet” more plainly than ever, in his enmity to abolition and abolitionists.
He is conscious of being condemned for his former course, and therefore says-“I am called ‘a pro-slavery man,’ a disloyal citizen, or a sympathizer with secession and rebellion. I trust I shall have strength given me to endure it, without a desire to retaliate.” Immediately following the preceding, Mr. Jewett pro ceeds to show his position, as follows:-
“With the unprincipled politicians in the South, who, for thirty years, have perverted the doctrine of State Rights to favor nullification, secession and rebellion, [he don’t say a word about their favoring slavery,] who have striven so successfully to alienate the hearts of their people from the people of the North, that it became possible for wicked conspirators to consummate their most unhallowed purposes; and with no less culpable men in the North, [meaning the abolitionists,] who, for the same length of time, knowing that the Constitution of our Government was an insuperable bar to their fanatical and insurrectionary schemes, have blasphemously denounced that sacred instrument of justice between a great people, which bears the approving signature of Washington, as ‘a covenant with death and a compact with hell,’-have publicly burned it at their unhallowed gatherings, and have labored to exasperate the public mind of the North, until they themselves became the virtual aiders and abettors of traitors in the South,-the virtual abettors, without whose aid secession and rebellion could never have been consummated,-with neither class of these wicked or deluded enemies of my country can I ever have sympathy or fellowship, except that which may hereafter be due from Christians to men who sincerely repent of their wicked deeds. I have never joined in the common cry that slavery in the South, any more than opposition to slavery in the North, was the cause of the war. I recognize no such secondary and unscriptural cause of evil, nor does our great Creator recognize it.”
Thus you see, Mr. Editor, that Mr. Jewett considers the abolitionists equally as bad as slaveholders; in fact, he does not consider the institution of slavery bad at all. He has not a word to say against it, but wishes the Government restored as formerly, slavery and all. He worships the Constitution, putting it above the “higher law.” Hear him:-
“Our Constitution, which binds the States together and makes us one people, is not a moral or religious, but a purely political instrument. Our Union is purely and wholly a political Union. Any attempt, therefore, to establish a ‘higher law’ than the Constitution for the government of the country; any attempt to apply religious and moral tests to our national politics, is a blow aimed at the heart of the Union, and can effect nothing but disunion and anarchy."
I will not quote any more from Mr. Jewett, in his valedictory, upon leaving the editorial station of the New Jerusalem Messenger; but I will close with a few remarks. He seems to ignore the fact that God in mercy, in dealing with nations, raises up men to warn them of their evils, sins of oppression, &c. Was not Noah raised up and inspired of God to preach to the antediluvians, and warn them of the judgments of Heaven for their wickedness and oppression? It is said that “the earth was filled with violence.” But the people repented not at the preaching of Noah, and the flood came, and destroyed them. Moses was raised up to warn Pharaoh, the Egyptian king, against the sin of oppressing the Israelites-enslaving them. The tyrant was asked to let them go-to liberate them. He hardened his heart, and would not. The judgments of God came upon the nation in various ways, till Pharaoh was compelled to yield-then he repented, and followed after the fleeing Israelites, and was drowned, with his hosts, in the Red Sea. Later, Elijah, the prophet, reproved the King of Israel for his wickedness, and the wickedness of the Jewish nation. They hardened their hearts, and repented not. Elijah had to flee from the King, Ahab; but at the end of three years, Ahab searched all the country over to find him, but could not. At length, the prophet showed himself to Ahab, who exclaimed, on meeting him, “Art thou he that troubleth Israel?” Just as this nation accuses the abolitionists of troubling the people of the United States, because they have, for thirty years, warned the nation of the judgments of God which would surely come upon it for the sin of holding slaves in bondage, and refusing to let them go.
Is it possible that Mr. Jewett ever read the first verse of the 58th chapter of Isaiah?-“Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins.” Has he given the nation the least warning of its great sin of slaveholding? I have read his paper very attentively, but never saw one word against slavery; and a constant reader of his paper, the Messenger, could not learn by it that slavery had an existence in the United States! Mr. Jewett has published articles from that pro-slavery sheet, the New York Observer, with approbation, but never an abolition article from any paper.
His removal by the General Convention, as editor of their leading paper, is a bright omen that even the New Church shows progress in the right direction. It is a fact, not generally known, that Rev. Thomas Worcester, D. D., the President of the Convention, who delivered the annual address to that body, who was also chosen President for the ensuing year, is an anti-slavery man, as his sermon delivered at the National Fast, on the 26th of last September, which is printed in a pamphlet form, shows. Another thing seems hopeful, viz At the closing session of the Convention, a paper was read from the General Convention of the New Church in Great Britain,-rep resenting ten thousand people. The communication speaks of receiving “the vigorous, patriotic and manly“ letter of Rev. Dr. Worcester, on the subject of the rebellion and liberty. The above I learn from the Messenger of the 28th ult., which also says:-“The document is a lengthy one, its principal topic consisting of an argument against slavery, a hopeful discussion of the coming time when war shall no longer curse the earth,” &c., &c “Rev. Dr. Worcester, as President of the Convention, authorized Rev. Mr. Stuart, the future editor of the Messenger, to respond to the mission of the British brethren.”
If Mr. Jewett was commissioned to reply to the British New Church abolitionists, what kind of an answer, think you, would be give?
This nation has been continually warned, for thirty years, against the sin of slavery. But it has hardened its heart, and stoned and maltreated the abolitionists,
<c03>
who are the only people who have “cried aloud, and spared not.” Can it be possible that, boasting of being the most civilized, the most christianized, of any of the nations, it has not been warned, by a merciful God, to repent of the sin of slavery, and all other national sins, previous to his divine judgments falling upon it? It cannot be. Therefore, the question arises, who has warned it? I presume that but one true answer can be given, and that is-the abolitionists. The sound of their voice has gone over the whole length and breadth of the land. Although slaveholders of the South have taken immense pains to keep out the light and truth of abolitionism, it has entered there, and greatly disturbed their guilty consciences; but instead of repenting, and forsaking their sins, they have hardened their hearts as did guilty Pharaoh, and would not let the people go, at the command of Jehovah. Hence this war. Hence the judgments of God are upon this guilty nation. As the North have shared with the South in aiding them in protecting, sustaining and enlarging slavery, they must share in its evils.
I perceive that at the celebration of the anniversary of our independence from Great Britain, on the 4th of July, 1862, at Boston, the chief orator of the day, Hon. George Ticknor Curtis, had not one word to say against American slavery-not he! But he was very severe against the abolitionists. He has no notion of having this guilty nation repenting of its enormous sin in still holding four millions of human beings in the most abject bondage. He wants this war closed, and the Government restored as it was before the war,-slavery and all. Jefferson Davis may then, by the aid of the Northern democracy, be chosen President, and the South accomplish the object of war, and our “glorious Union” be made to foot the bill-paying for all the cost of the war, and slavery reestablished stronger than ever. Is this the future destiny of the Republic? But I hope better things, though I thus speak.
Yours for Liberty, I. S.

EVIL EFFECTS OF THE WAR.
DEERFIELD CENTRE, N. H., Aug. 18, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON,—A subscriber to your paper for twelve years, in favor of the reforms you advocate, I respectfully ask you to publish the accompanying communication, because I think it contains truths that ought, to be published.
Yours, for Freedom and Humanity,
A. M. J. M. PAGE.
Among the evil effects produced by the civil war now existing in this country, one of the most lamentable is the demoralizing influence exerted upon that class of persons, termed Reformers. Men who have, for years, labored to effect the subversion of sla very, claiming to be actuated by a regard for the welfare of both slave and master, are now engaged in a brutal war to subdue and crush the South, whom they have considered less guilty of the crime of slaveholding than the North; and also to preserve a Union they have denounced as “a covenant with death,” and tried to destroy.
Filled with the infernal war-spirit now raging in this land, and deluded with the idea that this war may benefit the slave, and promote the cause of freedom, professed Abolitionists seem intent upon inflaming the passions of men in the North to a violent rage against their Southern brethren, and thereby rendering the war more horrid and diabolical than it has hitherto been. They seem blind as a bat to those alarming encroachments upon individual freedom by the national government, and the imminent danger that this conflict will result in binding the chains of the slave still tighter than before, and converting the government of the country into a military despotism.
Advocates of free speech denounce the conservative and pro-slavery press apparently with the design of leading the government to crush it; and have no rebukes to administer when, by the fury of a mob, or the despotic power of executive officers, the most sacred of rights is trampled upon.
Even some who have been radical peace men, advocating the sanctity of human life, and the forgiveness of enemies, are now either taking an active part in this struggle between selfish aspirants for power, or are consenting to let it go on-foolishly expecting it may be productive of some great good.
It is painful to complain of the course of the Liberator. But who, judging this paper by its late numbers, could be induced to believe that its editor and principal contributors are world-wide philanthropists and non-resistants, possessed of such high-toned morality that they would not do the least injustice or injury to any fellow-man to effect the greatest and noblest results? Instead of setting forth the crimes and horrors and disastrous consequences of this war, in order to lead its readers to adopt and carry out the peace principle, this sheet would seem to foster the baneful spirit of hatred and revenge, and to sanction the most violent measures policy may dictate to insure success to the arms of the Northern States.
It is hoped that these delusions and this evil spirit which so paralyze reformatory movements may vanish, and that Abolitionists and other reformers return to the use of moral and peaceful means to promote the welfare of mankind, for which they profess to labor. A. M. J. M. PAGE.

A. S. CONVENTION AT LEOMINSTER.
In response to the call for a mass Convention of the friends of freedom at Leominster, on Sunday, Aug. 10, though the day was very fine, only a handful assembled at the Town Hall in the morning. The meeting was called to order at half-past 10 by Parker Pillsbury. Arad H. Wood of Pepperell was chosen Chairman, Mrs. F. H. Drake and J. F. Adams, of Fitchburg, Secretaries, and Jonathan Drake and Isaac Smith, Finance Committee.
E. H. Hey wood spoke very eloquently and earnestly, urging upon Abolitionists the duty of standing by the old issues and principles, the present being no time to relax our efforts in behalf of justice.
At the commencement of the afternoon session, Mr. Pillsbury offered for consideration the following resolutions:-
1. Resolved, That war is always an evil, if not a crime-and can never be justified, unless for the removal of evils greater than itself.
2. Resolved, That to protect slavery, or to preserve and prolong a Union and Government based on, or extending, or perpetuating slavery, is not worth the sacrifice of one human life; inasmuch as such a Government should never have been formed, and has no right to exist.
3. Resolved, That by all the military laws, precedents or practices of modern nations, slavery could have been abolished by Presidential Proclamation, in the very hour when the Confederate States instituted a separate Union, and hurled defiance in the face of the authorities at Washington.
4. Resolved, That failing to discharge this most positive and palpable constitutional obligation has nearly cost the President and the country one of the noblest armies that ever took the field, besides an incalculable loss of money, and of honor and magnanimity in the sight of all the nations.
5. Resolved, That we rejoice to see among the people a growing distrust of the ability or the integrity of the President and his Cabinet for the terrible exigencies of the present hour; and a sterner popular demand that slavery, the grand cause of the wasteful and hitherto most murderous war, shall die, at whatever cost; and we enjoin upon the people to press this reasonable and righteous demand until it be granted, or the Government itself consigned to the same ignominy which should be visited upon the leaders of the Southern Rebellion.
Mr. Pillsbury stated that the object of the meeting was to rouse the public mind, and by that means to reach the Government. He said slavery had always been an element of weakness to the South, and might be made, if rightly used, an element of great strength
<c04>
to us. No one doubted the power of the President to emancipate the slaves, as a means of ending the war, but the settled policy of Abraham Lincoln had been, to save slavery, if possible. He was attempting to harmonize two antagonisms. He said the noblest army that ever took the sword had been sacrificed to this insane idea; but this nation had no idea of doing justice, or of learning wisdom from all these calamities. Instead of a proclamation of freedom to the blacks, a proclamation had come, reducing the white people of the North to a deadly slavery. The more stringent war policy which had been promised bore harder upon the North than upon the South. He hoped that if the Union could not be founded on the basis of justice, it might perish forever.
The attendance during the afternoon and evening was better than in the morning.
Before the close of the meeting, the resolutions read by Mr. Pillsbury were unanimously adopted.

WHAT THE OFFENCE OF THE NORTH IS.
Is it a crime to disbelieve in human slavery? That is now the question presented to the American people, in consequence of the fanatical course of the leaders of the Democratic party. Assuming that it is a crime, and one so atrocious and unpardonable that the man who is guilty of it should be treated as though he were a mad dog, and hunted to death by the ministers of vengeance, they have declared war against all such, and prefer that the prosecution of the Southern war shall stand still while this is carried on. So men are hunted down in Hungary and Poland, for adhering to a belief in human rights. So in all ages the great struggle for liberty has been going on against oppression. So in America, the slave oligarchs of the South have for fifty years past fought to make liberty infamous and oppression triumphant.
The issue comes now in a new shape. With the South in open rebellion against the Government, the Democratic politicians at the North declare war against the freedom of speech and of the press. What else can be meant by the Democratic ad dress? It seeks to convert into a gorgon horror the single word “abolition.” But abolition of what? Why, of slavery. It is then, according to this address, a crime to be opposed to slavery. It is a crime to be in favor of human freedom. It is a crime to express that opinion. It is a crime to stand by the Government in this war, because, according to the address, it is an abolition crusade. Hence we must stop this Southern contest, and make war upon the North. We must suppress abolition.
And how are we to suppress abolition? It is a cause resting solely on argument and moral suasion. It has never been advocated in any other way. To suppress abolition, then, means to suppress all discourse on the subject, to put a stop to the freedom of discussion on this theme, to compel silence about slavery unless we endorse and praise the inhuman institution. How shall we go about accomplishing all this? Here are nineteen free States, wedded heart and soul to free discussion. They believe, from their inmost souls, in freedom, republican institutions, and human rights. We shall have to overturn their State governments, imprison nine-tenths of their people, both male and female, stop nineteen-twentieths of all their books and publications, and leave the great North a desert waste, beside which the South, even in its present condition, would be a paradise.
This is the programme laid before the public by the Democratic managers. It is idle to deny it. A war against what they term “abolition,” means literally a war against the human species a war against civilization and enlightened progress-a war which would soon leave no one to fight on either side. This is the plain English of all their clamor. The Democratic party has maintained the whole of its recent miserable existence by ringing the changes on this single word, “abolition,” and now a point has been reached when the world must look the word calmly in the face, and contemplate its real meaning and import.
What, then, is this abolition against which we are asked to make war? Why should we abandon all effort to maintain the solidity and perpetuity of our empire, let the South go, and embark ourselves upon a sea of Northern blood, to fight this inscrutible, intangible chimera? We have no desire to dodge the use of the word. Abolition by itself is an empty nothing. Abolition of slavery is the full phrase. Let the public take it up leisurely, and ponder over it. Let no fine words be substituted. Let the whole phrase be repeated until all men shall become familiar with it. Abolition of slavery- not simple abolition. No so-called abolitionist proposes abolition of the white race, abolition of human freedom, abolition of the liberties guaranteed to us by the Constitution, nor, in fact, abolition of anything but slavery.
And what is this sacred and sublime institution which demands such unheard of sacrifices for its preservation? What is the divinity which hedges this unapproachable mightiness so thoroughly that a white citizen of the North is not to be permitted to open his lips about it? How comes it that, in a land where discussion has been as free as the winds, on all other themes, this one is and has been forbidden ground, and all who have attempted to discuss it are doomed to persecution? Surely there must be something inexpressibly precious in this institution, something invaluable, holy, heavenly, dear to the innermost feelings of the human heart, or else it could not excite all this jealous care! Of a truth, this must be some new garden of the Hesperides, whose fruit is guarded by roaring lions ready to devour the hapless intruder.
Slavery, indeed, has been held up as a state of beatitude, by gentlemen who never bad the remotest possible desire to taste its sweets, and who would take it as an insult to be asked to do so. But, in point of fact, it is, in America, the right of holding human beings in abject, helpless servitude; of compelling them to work without pay at the severest toil known to either civilization or barbarism; of brutally beating them if they refuse or are unable to do so, or offend their master in any way; of putting them up at auction as you would a box of dry goods, and selling them to the highest bidder; of separating father from son, daughter from mother, husband from wife, for no cause whatever except the cupidity of the master, or the necessities of the law. It is an institution which denies to four millions of beings the poor recognition of belonging to the human race, and classes them with the wild beasts of the forest. It annuls the ordinance of marriage, or renders it a mockery and a snare. It presupposes neither morality nor religion among its victims. This is the beloved, the immaculate, the unapproachable institution, for whose safety we are asked by the Pennsylvania Democratic State Central Committee to declare war against the whole North, to brand ourselves and our fellow-citizens as felons and miscreants, and to separate the American people from the only code of ethics known to civilization or Christianity, or accepted by enlightened nations.-North American.
SHAM DEMOCRACY Vs. ABOLITIONISM.
The following important correspondence between Francis W. Hughes, Esq., chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee, and Secretary Seward, will be read with interest:-
HEADQUARTERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC STATE 
CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
PHILADELPHIA, August 11, 1862.
Hon. William H. Seward, Secretary of State:
Dear Sir: With some hesitation, I take the liberty of enclosing to you three documents, viz.: The Address of the Democratic State Central Committee of this State; an Address this day issued by myself, as chairman, and the form of a call for a great mass meeting about to be held in this city.
Allow me to say that the Address of the Committee has been much assailed by leading and influential journals, conducted by those who claim to be your political friends. The denunciation has been so decided as to pronounce it treasonable. Whether or not it is treasonable, you can best determine if you read it. It is lengthy, and may take up too much of your time, but the address issued by myself this day is comparatively short, and as it states positions sufficiently to determine the character of the former, it will relieve you of labor if you will read the latter.
As the Address of the committee, as well as that by myself, as chairman, are both from my own pen, I should bear the greater part of whatever reproach should attach to their publication. Still, allow me to assure you that they contain the sentiments of
<c05>
not less than three hundred thousand of the men of Pennsylvania, and I believe of over one million of men in the Central States of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York. Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. I will add, too, that I believe there is no other million of men in the whole country of more devoted patriotism and loyalty.
I will add, too, that I believe this million of men will, amid political changes, remain patriotic and loyal. If you will read one or both of the enclosed addresses, and if, in connection with the facts I have stated in regard to their supporters, it will stimulate you or serve you in any degree to promote a policy on the part of the administration of President Lincoln to put down the demon of abolitionism, my sole object in addressing you this (perhaps presumptuous) note shall be more than abundantly obtained. At all events, rest assured that I address you with the profound respect due your high personal and official character. F. W. HUGHES.
REPLY OF MR. SEWARD.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON,
August 19, 1862.
To F. W. Hughes, Esq. Headquarters of the Democratic State Central Committee of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
Dear Sir: I had the honor of receiving your letter of the 14th instant, together with the three papers to which it refers, two of them being appeals written by yourself, and addressed by the Democratic State Central Committee “to the Democrats and all other friends of the Constitution in Pennsylvania,” and the other being a call for a mass meeting of the citizens of Philadelphia, the objects of which meeting will be “to express a firm purpose to stand by the maintenance of the National Constitution with devotion to the American Union,” and further, “to declare hostility to the policy and measures of all who seek to prostitute the country to the purposes of abolitionism, and formally to express the intention of the democratic party to do as it has always hitherto done, namely, to support the Federal Government in the exercise of its constitutional power, and to defend it, at whatever peril, against the insidious and treasonable teachings of abolitionists.”
You tell me that some influential journals, conducted by political friends of mine, censure one of these papers as treasonable, and that the others are conceived in the same spirit with the one which is so harshly judged. You desire me to read them, and weigh them for myself. You further intimate a hope that the perusal of the papers will have the effect of producing exertions on my part to induce the President to favor a policy to put down the demon of abolitionism.
I have read the documents thus submitted to me, with a high respect for the authority by which they were issued, and with a full confidence in the sincerity of the devotion to the Union, which, as their author, you have avowed.
You will allow me to say that this nation is now engaged, not in a political canvass between opposing parties about questions of civil administration, but in a civil war, carried on by opposing armies on an issue of national life or death.
If the revolution prevail, there will be no questions of administration left to settle. If it fail, there will be time enough to settle all such questions.
I am not to dictate a course for others to pursue in this crisis. But I must say for myself, that neither as a public officer, nor as a citizen can I know with favor or disfavor parties among the supporters of the United States, any more than I can make a distinction between factions which unite in aiding the rebellion.
A nation, like an individual, can only do one thing effectually at one time. It cannot wisely turn aside from the chase of the fearful demon of disunion, to pursue any inferior demon, whether imaginary or real.
I think that the wrangles which occurred among the crusaders about their respective creeds, when they sat down to the siege of Jerusalem, were just as rational and just as wise as disputes about abolition would now be in the army of the Potomac in front of Richmond. What is unwise in the camp at such a moment, cannot be wise in the Cabinet or in the assemblies of the people.
I am occupied here either in mediating between differing parties and jealous sects, or else in watching and counteracting the intrigues of traitors in Europe. But I sometimes think that if, instead of being charged with these duties, I were at liberty, as you seem to be, to serve the country in my own way, I could make an appeal to Democrats and Republicans, Abolitionists and slaveholders, in behalf of our distracted country, that would bring the whole people at once under arms, and send treason reeling back into the den of darkness from whence it sprung. I do not know how this would be, but I do know that if I were in your place, I should try.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

THE PRESIDENT ON COLONIZATION.
Among the numerous writers of the day, we do not know that there is one who can be placed ahead of Orpheus C. Kerr, whose Incubrations are published in the “Table-Talk” of the Sunday Mercury. His last effort is by no means behind the rest, and “takes off” the interview between the President and the colored people, or rather the newspapers’ report of the interview, to perfection, as follows:-
The other day, I went down to Accomac again, to see the General of the Mackerel Brigade, who had invited me to be present while he made an offer of bliss to a delegation from that oppressed race which has been the sole cause of this unnatural war, and is, therefore, exempted from all concern in it.
The General, my boy, was seated in his temporary room of audience when I arrived, examining a map of the Border States through a powerful magnifying-glass, and occasionally looking into a tumbler, as though he expected to find something there.
“Well, old Honesty,” says I, affably, “what is our next scheme for the benefit of the human race?”
He smiled paternally upon me, and says he: “It is my purpose to settle the Negro Question in accordance with the principles laid down in the Book of Exodus. Thunder!” says the General, “if we do not secure the pursuit of happiness to the slave, even, we violate the Constitution, and become obnoxious to the Border communities.”
I was reflecting upon the remark, my boy, and wondering what the Constitution had to do with the Book of Exodus, when the delegation made its appearance, and caused the room to darken perceptibly. Not to lose time, the General waved his hand for the visitors to be seated, and, says he:-
“You and we are different races, and for this reason it must be evident to you, as well as to myself, that it is better you should be voluntarily compelled to colonize some distant but salubrious shore. There is a wide difference between our races: much wider, perhaps, than that which exists between any other two races. Your race suffers very greatly, and our race suffers in suffering your race to suffer. In a word, we both suffer, which establishes a reason why our race should not suffer your race to remain here any longer. You who are here are all present, I suppose.”
A VOICE—”Yes, sah.”
“Perhaps you have not been here all your lives. Your race is suffering the greatest wrong that ever was; but when you cease to suffer, your sufferings are still far from an equality with our sufferings. Our white men are now changing their base of operations daily, and Often taking Malvern Hills. This is on your account. You are the cause of it. How you have caused it I will not attempt to explain, for I do not know; but it is better for us both to be separated, and it is vilely selfish in you (I do not speak unkindly) to wish to remain here in preference to going to Nova Zembla. The fact that we have always oppressed you renders you still more blamable, especially when we reflect upon the fact that you have never shown resistance. A trip on your part to Nova Zembla will benefit both races. I cannot promise you much bliss right away. You may starve at first, or die on the passage; but in the Revolutionary War, General Washington lived exclusively on the future. He was benefiting his race; and though I do not see much similarity between his case and yours, you had better go to Nova Zembla. You may think that you could live in Washington, perhaps more so than you could on a foreign shore. This is a mistake. None but white army contractors and brigadiers on furlough can live here.
The festive isle of Nova Zembla has been in existence for some time, and is larger than any smaller place I know of. Many of the original settlers have died, and their offspring would still be living had they lived long enough to become accustomed to the climate. You may object to go, on account of your
<c06>
affection for our race, but it does not strike me that there is any cogent reasons for such affection. So you had better go to Nova Zembla. The particular place I have in view for your colonization is the great highway between the North Pole and Sir John Franklin's supposed grave. It is a popular route of travel, being much frequented by the facetious penguin and the flowing seal. It has great resources for ice-water, and you will be able to have ice-cream every day, provided your supply your selves with the essence of lemon and patent freezers. As to other food, I can promise you nothing. There are fine harbors on all sides of this place, and though you may see no ships there, it will be still some satisfaction to know that you have such admirable harbors. Again, there is evidence of very rich bear hunting. When you take your wives and families to a place where there is no food, nor any ground to be cultivated, nor any place to live in, the human mind would as naturally turn to bear-hunting as to anything else. But if you should die of starvation at the outset, even bear-hunting may dwindle into insignificance. Why I attach so much importance to bear-hunting is, it will afford you an opportunity to die more easily than by famine and exposure Bear-hunting is the best thing I know of under such circumstances.
You are intelligent, and know that human life depends as much upon those who possess it as upon anybody else. And much will depend upon yourselves if you go to Nova Zembla. As to the bear-hunting, I think I see the means available for engaging you in that very soon, without injury to our selves. I wish to spend a little money to get you there, and may possibly lose it all; but we cannot expect to succeed in anything if we are not successful in it.
The political affairs of Nova Zembla are not in quite such a condition as I could wish, the bears have occasional fights there, over the body of the last Esquimaux governor: but these bears are more generous than we are. They have no objection as dining upon the colored race.
Besides, I would endeavor to have you made equals, and have the best assurance that you should be equals of the best. The practical thing I want to ascertain is, whether I can get a certain number of able-bodied men to send to a place offering such encouragement and attractions. Could I get a hundred tolerably intelligent men, with their wives and children, to partake of all this bliss? Can I have fifty? If I had twenty-five able-bodied men, properly seasoned with women and children. I could make a commencement. These are subjects of very great importance, and worthy of a month's study of the paternal offer I have made you. If you have no consideration for yourselves, at least consider the bears, and endeavor to reconcile yourselves to the beautiful and pleasing little hymn of childhood commencing,-
‘I would not live alway;
I ask not to stay!’”
At the termination of this flattering and paternal address, my boy, the delegation took heir hats, and commenced to leave in very deep silence; thereby proving that persons of African descent are utterly insensible to kindness, and much inferior to the <illegible> at present practising strategy on this continent.
Colonization, my boy, involves a scheme of human happiness so entirely beyond the human power of conception, that the conception of it will almost pass for something inhuman.
Yours, utopianically.
ORPHEUS C. KERR.

CONSEQUENCES OF LOST OPPORTUNITY.
In America, to the latest dates, the miserable <illegible> goes on. Nobody, since the flood, had ever such an awful responsibility, and made such a wretched use of it. It was not that something was to be done it only wanted to be let alone. Wise and active public servants rushed to put out the conflagration. when order after order came from the Grand Regulator, that that water was not to be applied.
Never was an earthly occasion where the importance of acting on the moment was so visible. The dullest on both sides might have been supposed to know that to give the conflagration the chance of living till to-morrow, when it could be put out to day, was to throw the fortunes of the Republic into the enemy's hands. It was no secret that a power divided into halves by a rebellious invasion, ceased to be a power at all, and was at the mercy of all foes and all rivals. It was no secret that there were countries in Europe where predominant influences would hurry with the malignity of envious <illegible> to take advantage of the inviting time; or, if anybody did not know before, the expedition to Mexico was there by return of post to clear their brains. All this might have been prevented in the bed as easily as a good house-wife stops a conflagration in her bed-curtains by applications of the water-jug but there was a power to stay the hand.
The way taken was little short of madness. It was as if troops, who had only to walk in at an open breach, were halted to settle a tariff, or hear a lecture on the hypostatical union. And now there has come of it what has come. It is useless to fight over again the lost battle, except as by the infinite mercy of Heaven there may be an opportunity of applying the lesson of the past. The myriads sent under the sod, in compliance with the crotchet of the wrong man in the wrong place, can never appear again until the day of account. But further myriads might, by possibility, be spared, if “my people” would lay it to heart, and walk in the way of truth and common sense.
See, now, what the thing has come to already, and add what is like to be behind! A country covered with blood and misery, because the Government played into the hands of an invading rebellion, by refusing to touch the point on which the existence of the rebels hung. It would not touch it, and it would not let other people touch it. No heart among all that have beaten upon earth had concerned of such folly or such treachery.
And, next, what is left in prospect? The latest announcement from the English emissaries quartered on America is, that the Northern States are to be conquered by the Slave Power, and the leader of the pro-slavery crusade is to be the next President of the United States. Of course, this is received with thrilling rapture by all who love slavery, and dread the advances of popular freedom in England. The man who drives his serfs to an election with their backs bared for anything he may choose to inflict, or who chuckles at the saving to his thousand of income, by throwing the public expenses on the poor by a forty-fold rate through the intervention of indirect taxation, feels as brother feels for brother at the idea of the victory of his ally.
There may still be virtue in America to blow up the advance of their enemy. One step into the right would do it, and nothing else will. A simple declaration of emancipation to the enemy's slaves <illegible>  scouting of the treasonable plan, that by a rebellion for slavery, what was called slave property was not forfeited; a recognition befitting sensible men, that what was called a forfeiture, was what ought to be paid for as a benefit, a taking the question out of the hands of hidden enemies in America and in Europe, and leaving it to the magnificent common sense of a free and intelligent people, might yet save America from the horrors of a conquest, in comparison with which, all that has ever been suffered from the tyrant and the invader would be wiped from the memory of mankind.-PERRONET THOMPSON.-London Elector.

Hopedale Home School.
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks.
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, A. B. HEYWOOD. Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6. 4t
BRISTOL BOARDING-SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located in the borough of Bristol, Pa. on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia. It will open its fall session on 2d day, Ninth month, 1st.
Terms—$75 per session of five months.
For circular, address
RUTH ANNA PEIRCE, PRINCIPAL
REFERENCES.
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia.
ANNE CHURCHMAN, 908 Franklin street, Philadelphia.
C. N. PEIRCE, 501 N. Seventh street, Philadelphia.
HENRY W. RIDGWAY, Crosswicks, N. Y.
DAVID L. GRISCOM, Woodbury, N. J.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW
NO.6, TREMONT STREET,: : BOSTON.
