<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 48.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1614.

Refuge of Oppression.
THE ABOLITIONISTS TRAITORS TO THE CONSTITUTION.
The great speech of Daniel Webster in reply to Mr. Calhoun, that the Constitution was not a compact, may be applied in every sentence it contains to the principle of the Abolitionists, that the same document was a league with hell. The shallow knowledge, the perversion of the plain facts of history, and the desperate, wicked treason in the nullification of the South, were not more legitimate marks for the terrific force of that great burst of patriotic declamation, than the deliberate and fanatic assaults on the Constitution by the negro-worshippers of the North. Between secession and Abolitionism, the FUNDAMENTAL LAW of the country has no refuge. The former has gone the bloody length of using all its means to disrupt that agreement. The latter took the lead in the treason: it has been the most violent in it; and at this very instant, when the country is distracted by civil war, it stops not, but takes advantage of the difficulty to diffuse its pestiferous doctrines to obliterate the national deed which it shamefully designates a bargain with hell. What wonder that rebellion has broken out? In weighing the guilt of this compound treason, the larger share of it does not fall on the Southern politicians. Guilt is theirs indubitably, but our fanatic friends at home are the more criminal partizans. None of Calhoun's sophistical orations breathed more direct treason than the affected harangues of Charles Sumner; and if we compare the abolition literature of the North with the remaining secession literature of the South, the latter will present itself as the less illegal of the two. Nay, more: in most of its phases, the second is the consequence of the first. In point of fact, Webster may as well have crushed his own constituents, as he did HAYNE and CALHOUN. There was a double treason around him to be attacked; and history will yet decide that the Northern head was not the least innocent. And as the Abolitionists commenced, they are proceeding. On the Constitution they yet act as if it were what they scandalously call it, “a league with hell.” They really teach the dismemberment of the Union for the furtherance of their emancipation principles. The refusal of the President to ratify the extravagant proclamation of FREMONT has utterly confounded them. Their leading writers are constantly writing against that interference; and the proceedings of the Administration to suppress the revolt, they persist in boldly misrepresenting. Their course is, emancipation at all costs to the integrity of the country, and in their use of means they are both fanatical and unconscientious. This is overt treason. For proof of what we here say, we direct attention to most issues of the N. Y. Tribune, and to every issue of the N. Y. Independent. We are not advocates for suppressing the liberty of the press: but, treason of the most infamous kind against the Constitution deserves immediate incarceration. Is President Lincoln acquainted with Jackson’s proclamation against the nullification of South Carolina? He might issue a corresponding one against the nigger-worshippers of the North. Did Mr. McMasters, who was imprisoned in Fort Lafayette, commit real treason? If he did, how much greater is the treason of the Tribune and Independent? The laws should be equally distributed. No one in times like these should be suffered to impugn the fundamental law of the nation. We have no personal animosity to Abolitionists; but they are of no more value than a button near the integrity of the Republic. Does the Administration hold the same principle? Will it show that it does? If it does, Fort Warren will soon be filled with abolitionist. Enough for to-day on this matter: but the complete safety and integrity of the Union require two things, each of them absolutely: the overthrow of rebellion in the South, and the overthrow of abolitionism in the North.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.

PROCLAMATION OF GENERAL DIX.
Considering the way in which the abolition newspapers took the document issued to the South Carolinians by Gen. Sherman, they must be utterly aghast at this of Gen. Dix. If the first was loyal to the Constitution, true to the Union, and regardful of the legal rights of all citizens, the second is only more explicitly open in its total disavowal of any illegal or dishonest purpose. Our accomplished contemporary, the New York Evening Post, for example, was fairly “nauseated,”to use its own expressive phrase, by “the old stuff about constitutional rights,” in the proclamation of Gen. Sherman. But when it sees Gen. Dix informing the people of Accomac and Northampton-“Your laws, your institutions, your usages, will be scrupulously respected;” and “Special directions have been given not to interfere with the condition of any persons held to domestic service;” indeed, “In order that there may be no ground for mistake, or pretext for misrepresentation, commanders of regiments and corps have been instructed not to permit any such persons to come within their lines”-the Evening Post must by this time be in bed, attended by several anti-constitutional doctors, and plenty of weeping nurses (colored), with not a gleam of hope of its recovery. We dare not figure to ourselves the agonizing condition of the Tribune, and certain of our New England newspapers.-Boston Courier.

SUPPRESSION OF ABOLITIONISM.
In the extraordinary session convened by the President last summer, Congress acted with great magnanimity. We hope it will now act with a full appreciation of the magnitude of the case, and that it will rise to the height of the requirements of the country.
The negro question, which was only slightly touched by the resolution adopted in the last session, confiscating the property of rebels, including slaves, when employed in the service of the insurgent army, will be re-opened and discussed at length, and probably some new measures passed in relation to it bearing on the war. This may prove a stumbling-block and a source of division.
At the last meeting of Congress, there was a small opposition to the government. It was of a secession character, or springing from sympathy with the rebel States. This is now completely swept away. But there will be an opposition this time of a very different kind, and far more malignant and formidable. It is the satanic element of abolition. It will thwart the policy of the government, and embarrass its operations against the enemy. But the best way for the administration to treat it is to grasp the nettle firmly with its strong hand, and it will cease to sting. Whether this element exhibit its opposition in Congress or out of it, there is but one safe mode of dealing with it, and that is to squelch it according to the laws and usages of war, thus placing it exactly, on the same footing as the secession element. The government is acting as constitutionally as is compatible with a
<c02>
state of war, and the most gigantic rebellion known to history. Look at its rebuke of Fremont, and the proclamations of Sherman and Dix under its direction. Even the speech of Colonel Cochrane, with one or two exceptions, is all right. Let the government, therefore, show the same vigor in suppressing the abolition element, wherever it manifests itself, as it has done in the case of the secessionists.-New York Herald.

Selections.
ANDREW JACKSON'S TESTIMONY.
In the campaign of 1812, near New Orleans, no more distinguished services were rendered by any body of troops than by the colored men whom Gen. Jackson called into his army. Then, as in the earlier war of the Revolution, this race of people were regarded not only as fit to bear arms in the cause of their country, but their gallantry was recognized by all the rewards paid to any troops. But these were the old times. We, of this generation, have risen superior to such examples. We are sending white men into the field to be shot down by negroes or Indians pressed into the rebel service, or to act as slave-catchers for disloyal masters; while the “Divine institution” that has caused this war must not be touched. It is refreshing, however, if we may not follow the example, at least to revive the recollections of the past. Here is Andrew Jackson's testimony:-
“PROCLAMATION TO THE FREE COLORED INHABITANTS OF LOUSIANA:
Through a mistaken policy, you have been hereto fore deprived of a participation in the glorious struggle for national rights in which our country is engaged. This no longer shall exist.
As sons of freedom, you are now called upon to defend our most inestimable blessings. As Americans, your country looks with confidence to her adopted children for a valorous support, as a faithful return for the advantages enjoyed under her mild and equitable Government. As fathers, husbands, and brothers, you are summoned to rally round the standard of the eagle to defend all which is dear in existence.
Your country, although calling for your exertions, does not wish you to engage in the cause without amply remunerating you for the services rendered. Your intelligent minds are not to be led away by false representations. Your love of honor would cause you to despise the man who should attempt to deceive you. In the sincerity of a soldier and the language of truth, I address you.
To every noble-hearted, generous freeman of color volunteering to serve during he present contest with Great Britain, and no longer, there will be paid the same bounty, in money and lands, now received by the white soldiers of the United States, viz.: one hundred and twenty-four dollars in money, and one hundred and sixty acres of land. The non-commissioned officers and privates will also be entitled to the same monthly pay and daily rations and clothes furnished to an American soldier.
On enrolling yourselves in companies, the Major General commanding will select officers for your government from your white fellow-citizens Your non-commissioned officers will be appointed from among yourselves.
Due regard will be paid to the feelings of freemen and soldiers. You will not, by being associated with white men in the same camps, be exposed to improper comparisons or unjust sarcasms. As a distinct, independent battalion or regiment, pursuing the path of glory, you will, undivided, receive the applause and gratitude of your countrymen.
To assure you of the sincerity of my intentions, and my anxiety to engage your invaluable services to our country, I have communicated my wishes to the Governor of Louisiana, who is fully informed as to the manner of enrollment, and will give you every necessary information on the subject of the address. Headquarters. ANDREW JACKSON,
Major-General Commanding."
December 18, 1814, General Jackson issued, in the French language, the following eulogistic address to the colored members of his army:-
“SOLDIERS!-When, on the banks of the Mobile, I called you to take up arms, inviting you to partake the perils and glory of your white fellow-citizens, I expected much from you; for I was not ignorant that you possessed qualities most formidable to an invading enemy. I knew with what fortitude you could endure hunger and thirst, and all the fatigues of a campaign. I knew well how you loved your native country, and that you, as well as ourselves, had to defend what man holds most dear-his parents, wife, children, and property. You have done more than I expected. In addition to the previous qualities I before knew you to possess, I found among you a noble enthusiasm, which leads to the performance of great things.
Soldiers! The President of the United States shall hear how praiseworthy was your conduct in the hour of danger, and the representatives of the American people will give you the praise your exploits entitle you to. Your General anticipates them in applauding your noble ardor.
The enemy approaches; his vessels cover our lakes; our brave citizens are united, and all contention has ceased among them. Their only dispute is, who shall win the prize of valor, or who the most glory, its noblest reward. By order,
THOMAS BUTLER, Aid-de-Camp."
The New Orleans Picayune, in an account of the celebration of the Battle of New Orleans, in that city, in 1851, says:-
“Not the least interesting, although the most novel feature of the procession yesterday, was the presence of ninety of the colored veterans who bore a conspicuous part, in the dangers of the day they were now for the first time called to assist in celebrating, and who, by their good conduct in presence of the enemy, deserved and received the approbation of their illustrious commander-in-chief. During the thirty-six years that have passed away since they assisted to repel the invaders from our shores, these faithful men have never before participated in the annual rejoicings for the victory which their valor contributed to gain. Their good deeds have been consecrated only in their memories, or lived but to claim a passing notice on the page of the historian. Yet, who more than they deserve the thanks of the country, and the gratitude of succeeding generations? Who rallied with more alacrity in response to the summons of danger? Who endured more cheerfully the hardships of the camp, or faced with greater courage the perils of the fight? If, in that hazardous hour, when our homes were menaced with the horrors of war, we did not disdain to call upon the colored population to assist in repelling the invading horde, we should not, when the danger is past, refuse to permit them to unite with us in celebrating the glorious event, which
<c03>
they helped to make so memorable an epoch in our history. We were not too exalted to mingle with them in the affray; they were not too humble to join in our rejoicings.
Such, we think, is the universal opinion of our citizens. We conversed with many yesterday, and, without exception, they expressed approval of the invitation which had been extended to the colored veterans to take part in the ceremonies of the day, and gratification at seeing them in a conspicuous place in the procession.
The respectability of their appearance, and the modesty of their demeanor, made an impression on every observer, and elicited unqualified approbation. Indeed, though in saying so we do not mean disrespect to any one else, we think that they constituted decidedly the most interesting portion of the pageant, as they certainly attracted the most attention."

"WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THEM?"
We blush with shame for our country and our race, that it should be deemed necessary to ask or answer such a question as the above, in reference to any portion of the human family. If we emancipate the negroes, what shall we do with them? is an inquiry that outrages justice and common sense. What would be thought of the cool impudence that should ask, “What shall we do with the Germans?” or “What shall we do with the Irish? “ or “What is to be done with the Yankees? “Do with the negroes! We have no right to do anything with them, unless it be to assist them when they need our help. Who constituted the white man lord over the black man, that he should say to him, “Dwell here, or go there, or employ yourself as I bid you"? And yet this is virtually what many professed friends of the slave are doing, when they sit down to make out what they call plans of emancipation. Plans to give the black man a portion of his rights, and to withhold the remainder! Plans to relieve him of his present taskmasters, and then deprive him of his freedom to go or stay where he pleases; to pursue happiness when and how he chooses! Such philanthropists have not learned even the alphabet of Liberty; they have no more real respect for the Declaration of Independence than the founders of the Slave Republic themselves, for they are equally ready to violate it. Under other circumstances, and with reversed interests, they would become slaveholders. What is the value of such abolitionism as that of Dr. Cumming, and some other English philanthropists, who, instead of hailing such an act as that of Fremont, are deprecating unconditional emancipation, and advising us to wait till we have prepared the black man for his liberty; at any rate, until we have properly remunerated the slaveholders, lest haply we should do injustice to the claims of the man-stealer! “Let justice be done, though the heavens fall,” was once a noble utterance; now, alas! it has degenerated into unmeaning cant.
What, give the slaves their liberty where they are, and let them rise to the privileges of landholders-yea, voters-and in many States, as they inevitably would, to the predominancy in the State government! ”And why not? Why should our aristocratic tastes be offended, if a black man should happen to have a seat in Congress? In South Carolina the colored people have the majority; can there be any reason given why they should not have their representative in the national councils, except the base, selfish, and contemptibly mean reason that we choose to be Hindus, and to perpetuate our caste distinctions as long as time lasts? What great harm would there be if South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi should, in the course of events, fall chiefly under the sway of the colored race, in like manner as several of the Western Territories are cheerfully allotted to the occupancy of the red race?
"But to emancipate the negroes on the spot would be to drive out the whites, and God has given these States to the whites.” We are not so sure of that; at any rate, if the country has been given to us by the goodness of Providence, we have already disposed of our title to a great part of it by our crimes. The soil of those Southern States belongs to the negro; he has earned it by his labor thrice over.
But we deny that emancipation will drive out the whites; we deny that it will cause any serious convulsions; we deny that the black man would use his newly-found freedom against his master, the moment that master began to treat him justly. False and stupid pretension! It belies all history. The slaves, emancipated, would be just as needful to the planters as they are now. Grant freedom, and no landholder will ever join the insane cry to send them off to Mexico or Africa. Nobody but Northern empirics would ever have started the idea of a general expatriation of the colored race. They are as necessary for the Southern cane and cotton-fields as the stalwart progeny of Europe is for the colder climate of the North. What shall we do with them! Ask our army in South Carolina what they could do without them. Who but they shall dig their trenches, and raise their fortifications? Who but they shall bring them pigs and poultry in exchange for salt and calicoes? Who but they shall gather in the cotton crops now wasting on the ownerless plantations of the Rhetts and Barnwells?-American Baptist.

THE COLORED PEOPLE OF THE NORTHERN STATES.
As a means of earning their bread, pro-slavery editors and politicians, for years past, made it their business to misrepresent the colored people of the country generally, and those of the North particularly. The consequence is, that very often people, otherwise well-informed, manifest the grossest ignorance and folly whenever “niggers” are honored with their attention, in speech or writing. The following facts are, therefore, respectfully submitted:-
It appears by the census of 1850, that the persons of African descent then residing in the Northern States numbered 196,016. Last year, 1860, according to the returns made, the number resident in the same States was 221,738. Instead, therefore, of “dying out,” as knaves and fools have so frequently asserted, there was an increase for the 10 years between the dates named, of over 15 per cent., or more than 25,000.
The most remarkable progress has been made by these people since, a few years ago, ignorant and penniless, they emerged from a state of slavery, and to-day we may find among them many men of wealth, intelligence and refinement. Of these, we can readily call to mind the names of quite a number who are not unknown to fame.
As representatives in wealth, they may boast of such men as Thomas Downing of New York, and the Rev. Stephen Smith of Philadelphia, who may count the value of their possessions by hundreds of thousands of dollars; in the pulpit, of the Rev. H. H. Garnet and J. W. C. Pennington, D. D., of New York, with Rev. J. Sella Martin of Boston; in the medical profession, of Dr. James McCune Smith of New York, Dr. P. Ray of Brooklyn, and Dr. M. R. Delany, late of the Niger Valley Exploring Expedition;
<c04>
in law, of such persons as John Mercer Langston of Oberlin, Robert Morris of Boston, with Dr. J. S. Rock, a native of this State; and in art, of Miss E.T. Greenfield, popularly known as the "Black Swan," and Ira Aldridge, the world-renowned negro tragedian.
The list of newspapers sustained by the small number of colored people of whom we write, speaks also of anything but the ignorance they have so often been charged with by pro-slavery politicians.
They are as follows:-
Frederick Douglass's Paper, published at Rochester, N. Y. This is an able monthly, edited by the celebrated orator whose name it bears.
Repository of Religion, Literature, Science and Art. This is a well-conducted magazine. Rev. J. M. Brown is the editor. Published at Annapolis.
Christian Recorder, a church paper, edited by the vigorous pen of the Rev. G. L. Stamford, and published in Philadelphia.
The Ang’o-African, an ably-edited weekly, which may be regard, par excellence, as the organ of the colored people of the country. Like the other papers named, its whole literary force is colored, and its ample columns teem with articles evincing the highest merit. Any one wishing to satisfy himself of the capacity of the race, should not fail to subscribe for the Weekly Anglo-African. It may be obtained by remitting $1, (for six months) to Robert Hamilton, 48 Beekman street, New York.
Within the last few years, many interesting and valuable works have also been written by colored authors. The latest of these is a brochure just issued, a “Report of the Niger Valley Exploring Expedition.” Its author is the chief of the Expedition, Dr. Delany, a gentleman whose presence at the International Statistical Congress is a fact that may be remembered by the Hon. Mr. Dallas, ex-Minister to the Court of St. James. The book may be obtained at the office of the paper last named.
Here we close, well assured that the world moves, and colored men are moving with it.-Paterson (N. J.) Weekly Guardian.

HOW TO END THE WAR.
Public opinion is coming rapidly to the conclution that one of the speediest methods of ending THE SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION is to emancipate what they are pleased to term their "property”-that is, their slaves-and thus remove the cause which has produced the war. The letter of Mr. Secretary Cameron to General Sherman. instructing him to avail himself of the services of fugitives from labor, who may offer themselves to the National Government, shows that the Administration fully understands the subject, and is willing to test its practicability. The people of the North have ever been over-sensitive with regard to what is called the "rights of the South," while, in return for our consideration, we have been met with insult, contumely and wrong.
There is no disguising the fact, that this war has grown out of slavery. If there had been no slavery, there would have been no war. Every Free State is loyal, every Slave State is disloyal or doubtful. Self-government has proved a failure; not because it is not a form of government applicable to a virtuous and intelligent people, but because the people of the South are not virtuous and intelligent. Slavery has destroyed the purity of character of all white people there-it has degraded the poor whites below the condition of intelligence and self-respect necessary for a free government, and has elevated the rich whites into a pampered aristocracy, who despise the doctrines of equality upon which our government is founded.
We have said that self-government has proved a failure; and though the assertion is a mortifying acknowledgment, it is nevertheless true. Our government is based on the fundamental doctrine, that the people themselves shall be their own rulers; and as the only practical method of knowing the sentiments of the people, it is ordained that a majority shall rule, and the minority shall submit. But the time has now come when the minority has refused to submit, and our doctrines have failed to be successful in practice. If we force submission on the minority, it is still a failure of our essential doctrine, that the minority willingly submit to the majority. This is a fearful state of affairs. The best government on earth is in jeopardy, and slavery is the source of our danger. In peace, we have all regarded the constitutional rights of the States to hold slaves; and if they had not broken the peace, we would still stand faithfully by the old compact. But they have set the government and the laws at defiance-they have forfeited all claim upon our forbearance, and the tolerance of a long-continued evil. The time has now come when we must answer to ourselves this question:-Which shall we sacrifice, our blessed government, and all its many beneficent institutions which have done so much to ameliorate the condition of mankind, or the institution of slavery, which has proved to be the most dangerous enemy to our government? What man can call himself a patriot, and still cherish in his country's bosom the viper that stings and poisons it? Who so dull that he has more regard for the selfish interests and arrogant pretensions of the rebel enemies of the country, than he has for the safety of the government? It is not a question which we can long ponder, for the answer must be now. Shall the aristocrats of the South lose their slaves, and come down to the level of "greasy mechanics" whom they despise; or shall they add the whole people of the North to their possessions, and reduce us all to slavery by the destruction of those institutions which secure to us our freedom?
We are in a desperate struggle for our freedom: to secure our present safety, we must quell the rebellion; to preserve our future safety, we must remove the source of danger, by taking out of the hands of the rebels every slave, and thus putting an end to the evil forever. How are these ends to be accomplished? Why shall we not arm the slaves, and let them become valuable aids in the attainment of both ends? Does any true man's feelings revolt at it as barbarous? Let him remember that the enemies of the government are barbarous. They treat our soldiers barbarously. They have armed the colored people against us, and the semi-savage Indians on our borders. They have boastingly said that their slaves would be available against us, whenever they chose to arm them; and we know that they would have no hesitation in turning them against us, if they could. This is no time to be over-nice about how we would protect ourselves and our government. Our brave soldiers are in the field, exposed to every hardship, and it is not the period to hesitate and weigh nicely, in the scale of political prejudice, questions which have nothing to do with our present danger. The soldier who leaves his home and family, and braves every peril in defence of his country, is not troubled by any scruples about it. He is universally in favor of whipping the rebels, and cannot understand why the contest should be protracted, when it is in our power to crush them at once. Democratic statesmen are
<c05>
beginning to see this matter in its proper light. Bancroft, Butler, Dickinson and other leaders of the party have spoken on the subject, and indicated the only proper course that the government should pursue, if it desires to bring the war to a speedy close.-Chester (Pa.) Republican.

FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND NEGRO-HUNTERS.
As far as can be judged from their words, the tories who are now so bitterly abusing the Administration, look upon the Constitution of the United States simply as a great negro-catching instrument. All its other provisions they discern dimly through the medium of the article relating to fugitives from labor. Therefore, a war to uphold the Constitution amounts in their estimation to a grand military negro-hunt, and nothing more. It is not surprising, then, when a resolution is introduced into Congress, that it is no part of the duty of the national army to return fugitive slaves, these tories are violent in their abuse of it. They consider that it is by all means, and above all other duties, the business of our soldiers to return negroes, and chase them, too, if necessary. They utterly oppose any coercion. We have no right, they say, to enforce obedience to the Constitution, in general, but if a panting fugitive rushes into camp pursued by his bloodthirsty rebel master, then it is time to look out for the Constitution. Then is an opportunity to save the Union to some purpose. This rebel is in open war against the government. It must be put an end to. The rascal must be compelled to take his nigger, if he doesn't the oath in accordance with the Constitution. And so the slave is given up to be driven away again to his labor in the entrenchments, or to his death, if the master thinks he has too keen a scent for liberty.
This is the only true way to uphold the Constitution-by 500,000 armed and equipped slave-hunters. Even if the master be shot in arms, his slaves must be carefully handed over to the estate.
It might happen that, in the very midst of an engagement, a body of these negroes, furious under their long endured wrongs, might wickedly and unconstitutionally precipitate themselves upon the ranks of their masters. It would not be strange. It is very much after the style of oppressed men.
But in this case it would be the duty of the Federal troops to break ranks at once, and rush as a grand posse comitatus to the capture of these miscreants, who were adding "servile insurrection" to the crime of being black, and thus “having no rights which white men are bound to respect.”
This is the substance of the tory diatribes about the "Abolition war." All the interests of government are of no account; the peace of the country is of no account; all the ordinary systems of conducting war is of no account; nothing is of account except negro hunting, and that must be attended to even if the heavens fall. All this is simply the most disgusting sort of toryism. If the rebels care for the safety of their negroes, let them attend to their obligations to the Constitution. Let us have no more of the slave-driving audacity which insists that the suppression of the great rebellion shall be of no importance whatever in comparison with negro-hunting for the benefit of the gentlemen rebels.-Norwich Courier.

THE HORRORS OF BULL RUN.
[Written for the Montreal Witness by an ex-Montreal editor, who has spent several years in the Southern States in the same vocation.]
The battle of Manassas, of Bull Run, as it is somewhat pointedly styled by the Northerners, was a sad victory to the people of Richmond. In proportion, there were many more citizens of Richmond present on the battle-field than of any other city of the South; and the loss of the Southern army was very much greater than was supposed at the North. I have heard Beauregard declare his belief that three or four Southerners fell to every Northern soldier. Be this as it may, Richmond, after the battle, was veiled in morning. It seemed as if there was scarcely a family that had not lost a friend or relative; many had lost their head and every male member of their once loving domestic circle. Manassas was a hardly gained victory, though its moral effects were great; but it was a victory that spread mourning and desolation over the land, for hundreds of the most beloved and cherished amongst the youth of the South, fell on that fatal day. They had gone forth in the flush and confidence of youthful hope and mistaken patriotism, and can we wonder that no sounds of rejoicing were heard, such as are usual after a victory, however unexpectedly or hardly won, even though the wail of the widow, the mother or the orphan child mingles with the hoarse bray of the trumpet, and the shouts of the victors? No song of triumph was sung in Richmond, or in the surrounding villages; and now, for the first time, the people appeared to realize the horrors of the war they had entered upon, without seeming to have calculated its cost. Those who had cherished hopes, raised by the reports that those they loved were not dead, but only wounded, were, alas! doomed to suffer a more bitter anguish than that of their fellow-citizens who wept over the biers of the slain. No pen can adequately describe the horror of the scenes witnessed by anxious crowds, as day by day the wounded were brought in and carried to the houses of their friends or to the St. Charles Hotel, which had been fitted up as an hospital. I question, indeed, whether many of the battle-fields of Europe have been the arena of such horrible suffering. I have read of no campaign, except that of Moscow, where the French soldiers perished by tens of thousands, in every conceivable agony, that can offer a comparison in this respect. It may seem absurd to speak of Moscow and Bull Run in the same breath; but I do not refer to the relative magnitude of the campaigns, nor compare the numbers engaged, the duration of the struggle, nor the loss of life. My comparison refers only to the peculiar sufferings of the wounded, as day after day they were brought into the city in every conceivable and inconceivable condition of mutilation, and writhing in agony where mortification had not already supervened, or where the stupor which generally precedes death by violence had not seized upon the hapless victim of this fratricidal strife.
In most battle-fields of modern times, skillful surgeons and attentive nurses have been in prompt attendance, and the wounded have received every possible attention compatible with their unfortunate position; but with the wounded of the Southern army, at least, this was not the case. Possibly a sufficient number of surgeons could not be provided, and I know that many who were present were poorly supplied with surgical instruments, or with medicines of a nature to alleviate suffering, and that they did the best they could under the circumstances; but I saw men brought in who had lain for four and twenty hours on the field where they had fallen, unaided, and without even a drop of water to slake their burning thirst. I saw men brought in delirious with fever, raving like madmen, and failing to recognize 
<c06>
their nearest and dearest friends. Some were borne past, upon whose livid features death had already set his seal-the pitiful appealing glance of the fast glazing eye being the only sign that life still lingered. The features of many were so distorted by pain that they scarcely appeared to be human; and, most horrible of all, I witnessed at least a dozen poor creatures brought in who had either lost a limb by a cannon ball, or had suffered the amputation of a leg or an arm.
It is hard to decide which of these two classes of victims had suffered the greater agony-those who had lain uncared for, save by some friendly comrade who had bound his kerchief over the limb to stop the effusion of blood, and thus preserve the vital spark-o those who endured the pain of amputation, either too hurriedly, or else unskillfully performed. In several of the latter cases, the ligatures had slipped or become loosened, the bandages had fallen off, and the bones protruded beyond the mangled flesh, while in both alike, the bones and flesh were black and festering, and swarming with maggots. People shuddered and sickened as they turned away from the horrid spectacle; women fainted in the streets-and yet there were some brave women-mothers, wives and sisters-who dared to dress these frightful wounds, when men, used to witness blood and suffering, shrunk appalled from the ghastly scene. Striving to conceal their own acute mental suffering, these angels of mercy lingered to the last over the dying husband or brother-and in more than one case, to my knowledge, over the bed of those who were strangers and friendless-striving to impart that comfort to the departing souls which, Heaven help them, they sorely needed themselves.
It was a happy thing for these poor victims that in most instances they had ceased to feel pain, while consciousness generally returned an hour or two before death; but it is almost needless to add that recovery amongst those who had suffered in the manner we have described was rare indeed. We know but of one instance of the recovery of a man who had suffered the amputation of a limb on the battlefield. Horrida bella!-who, a year or two ago, would have dared to prophecy that such scenes would be witnessed in the heart of the model republic, in the centre of the State which Washington believed to be destined to hold the brightest rank in the Union; which he lived to see progressing favorably, and in which, in little more than fourscore years, the last of his descendants, who bore his name and inherited his estates, was shot from his horse and killed-a Rebel spy!
We have <illegible> it said that reports have prevailed at the North to the effect that Northern prisoners of war were badly treated. This, so far as I have seen and heard, I can resolutely deny. That they suffered under many privations is true; but so did the Southerners themselves.
In no place is there a greater prejudice against the "Yankees " than in Richmond; yet in very few instances have I heard them insulted, and in those instances only by urchins who stigmatized them as “Yankee pedlars," and were always reproved by their elders; while the sick and wounded Northerners received the like treatment as the sufferers among themselves. Doubtless instances of cruelty have occurred in the excitement of battle, or in the flush of victory, or in anger and shame of defeat; but such instances occur everywhere, and amongst every people. War, for the time being, turns men into demons.
Dark, dark and saddening is the prospect. We can see no gleam of light through the sombre vista. The light is there. Even good may come from out of this great evil; but even the most hopeful must admit that can only be arrived at through years of trouble. The country has been thrown back at least half a century. More or less civilized nations must suffer through this mad folly of the nineteenth century, which neither civilization nor Christianity has been able to overcome-so great is the strength of man's evil passions when, as an individual or a nation, they obtain the mastery over him.

SCENES ON A BATTLE-FIELD.
A correspondent of the St. Louis Democrat writes from Cairo under date of Nov. 12, giving a description of the shocking scenes presented by the battlefield at Belmont, the next day after the conflict. He says:-
"After getting permission under the flag of truce to go and bury our dead, and relieve the wounded, who had lain upon the field for nearly twenty-four hours, the first thing we saw after landing was two of our dead men lying beside an old house. Three had been thrown into a corn crib near by, and four lay wounded in the house, nearly dead. We went on through the woods until we came to a corn-field, where sixteen of our dead were lying just as they had fallen, and here we also found three of our wounded, who immediately received the attentions of our surgeons. We also saw here large pools of blood from their dead, who had been removed from the field in wagons. Going on half a mile farther, we came upon a large party of the enemy burying their dead, which they had collected from the different thickets; about fifty bodies were lying about awaiting burial-none of our killed was among them. Going on further through a clearing, we came to the fallen timber where our boys charged and took the enemy's batteries, and where the loss on both sides is represented as frightful. The enemy had buried and removed their own dead, and we found twelve of our men in the position they had fallen. On the river bank we found a number of our dead; and here it was that one of the most heart-rending scenes of the whole battle was enacted. 
Capt. Brooks, of Buford's regiment, came upon the dead body of his own brother, who was a surgeon in the rebel army. He knew he was a rebel surgeon, but did not know he was in the engagement until he stumbled over his corpse. The scene is described as affecting in the extreme; and it certainly forms one of the most thrilling and horrible incidents in this unholy rebellion. Capt. Brooks buried his brother, and put a slab at the head of his grave.
At this point a great many of the enemy's dead had been thrown off the embankment to escape our notice; but we saw where they had been dragged and pitched off the bank. One of our party looked over, contrary to express orders, and saw, as he supposes, seventy-five or one hundred of bleeding and mangled corpses, heaped on heaps, among the dismantled rebel artillery. Having buried our dead-some 85 in number-and bringing away about 20 of our wounded, we again reached our transports.
Our dead were mostly lying upon their backs, and everything taken from their bodies that could be of value to the enemy. The countenances of the dead were mostly expressive of rage. One or two features were expressive of fear. One poor fellow, after he was wounded, bethought himself to take a smoke. He was found in a sitting position against a tree, dead, with his pipe in one hand, knife in another, and his tobacco on his breast.
A young lad, about 16, was found lying across a
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.”
“What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with, such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession.”-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
log, just as he fell, grasping his musket in both hands.
A wounded man, with both legs nearly shot off, was found in the woods singing the ï¿½Star-Spangled Banner.' But for this circumstance, the surgeons say they would not have discovered him.ï¿½

THE ï¿½CRUSHING OUTï¿½ THEORY.
There is a set of addle-pated fools in the North, say's the Fond Du Lac Commonwealth, Secessionists at heart, or if not that exactly, sighing for the restoration of the rule of the slave-drivers over them, who know of no way to show their craven spiritedness, but to abuse the abolitionists. Some of them will join, so they say, in subduing the rebellion of the slaveholders, provided abolitionism is suppressed by the same high and strong hand. The idiots imagine that abolitionism is a thing which a man can root out of his heart and exterminate from his convictions, believe in, or recant, for a consideration, and still be as much of a man as the Almighty calls for in each of their individual cases! As well ask a man to gaze on the tumbling waters of the Niagara, and believe they are going back to Lake Erie all the while, instead of going on down to the ocean! A man who has a moral character, is capable of having moral convictions; a statement that may be difficult for a fossilized pro-slavery servile to understand; still, it is true. Having a moral character and capable of having moral convictions, if it so happens that the system of slavery is brought to his notice, from the inherent properties of the accursed system he cannot fail to have sharp and well-defined convictions of its infamous character. The more he knows in regard to it, the deeper will be his convictions. There is no way to exterminate his convictions, and no way to make him recant with his lips what his heart and his understanding affirm, but to make shipwreck of his moral character.
This being the case, the idea of exterminating abolitionism by any ï¿½crushing outï¿½ process, is as crazy as would be the attempt to blot out a belief in the Multiplication Table.
And yet, by such inane gabble, do men hope to win votes in a nation that has 500,000 men on the tented field to keep our Government from being subverted by a Slave Oligarchy! That venal scoundrels-place-hunters-should break the silence by the utterance of such nonsense at a time when place was at the disposal of slaveites, was not to be wondered at; that men should have no more self-respect than to continue their prattle in the ears of their old coadjutors who must cordially despise them, is proof conclusive that a moral cancer has eaten out their hearts, and has now taken vigorous hold of the brain.
Hon. George B Upton of Boston was nominated for Congress a few weeks ago, in opposition to Samuel Hooper, both being residents of what is known as Burlingame's District. After his nomination he made a speech, in which he elaborated at length the idea that Secession and Abolitionism must both be crushed, before we could have peace. The New York Tribune concludes an article devoted to the gentleman's case in the following words, and as it contains capital instruction to all who imagine honest and earnest men can slough off their convictions as easily as they can pull off their coats, we insert it and invite its perusal:-
ï¿½The human mind shrinks back aghast, and resolutely refuses to believe in folly like this. For our own part, we thought, but thought, it seems, fondly, that it had gone out of date. It is such a ludicrous confounding of cause and effect; it is such a jack-daw repetition of one thin and threadbare formula, which never had much meaning, and has no meaning now; it shows such blindness to fact, such deafness to warning, and such besotted incapacity to reason, that, as we read it, we ask ourselves in wonder, how it is that this man of facts and figures, who, in the purchase of a ship, or the terms of a charter-party, could not be swindled by the cunningest competitor, to the extent of one quarter of one per cent., cannot talk of public affairs without lamentably exposing his own incompetency and talking like a simpleton? It is not to be carried, of course, to the discredit of trade, because able merchants, like Mr. Hooper, the other Boston candidate, often have clear public views, and write statesmanlike letters. What can have possessed Mr. Upton, and left him to believe, that, if we will only go back to the point at which we commenced the war, we shall be sure of eternal peace? Of what stuff does he think the human mind is composed? How can he, otherwise, we believe a sensible man, talk of getting rid of what he calls ï¿½Abolitionismï¿½ and not getting rid of slavery? As if Abolitionism' were an accident of an accident; as if it were something which some ill-intentioned fellows had stimulated for their profit or amusement, and which we have only to resolve to be rid of, to be rid of immediately! Will Mr. Upton, in the event of his election, bring in a bill for the repeal of tide-tables, and the reconstruction of the solar system? He thinks, in his folly, that he can regulate the human mind, put checks and balances upon its complicated operations, make it believe this, make it disbelieve that: he thinks that he can reverse the laws of public economy, that he can legislate outrageously and yet profitably, and that he can buy a peace of the Father of Lies! He is dreadfully mistaken. He does not know what he says, when he so flippantly couples Secession and Abolitionism. While Slavery lasts in this world, there will always be Abolitionists. No reconstruction of the Union, much as we pray for it and desire it, would be worth having at the cost of the hopeless and interminable enslavement of the African race in America.ï¿½

SPEECH OF GEN. LANE.
Gen. JIM LANE made a speech at Springfield, Mo., on the 31st of October, which is characteristic of the man, and very pointed on slavery. We give a synopsis of it:-
ï¿½I shall not conceal the fact that in one respect I differ from some of my compeers in command, as to the mode of warfare which is best calculated to bring this wretched contest to a speedy, honorable and durable close. The point of the difference refers, of course to slavery-the cause of all differences-the Pandora's box from which have issued all our national troubles. My creed is, Let slavery take care of itself. If it can survive the shock of war, let it live, but if between an upper and nether mill stone it be ground to powder, and the winds drive it away, it is not for me to gather up the dust again. I do not propose to make war upon slavery, but upon rebels, and in the meantime to let slaves and slavery take care of themselves. An oligarchy more cruel and proscriptive than ever scourged and cursed a nation, ancient or modern, has brought on this war for slavery; and if we are required to protect, or in any way to help slavery, then we are required to co-operate with the enemy to help him, to defend him, and work for the same end.
Can we place ourselves thus in alliance with our deadly and barbarous foes, and at the same time conquer them, subdue them, crush them? When less contradictions are reconciled, we shall think of harmonizing this. War at best is a terrible calamity to a nation. In all the country through which we have passed, mails are stopped, schools are suspended, churches are turned into hospitals for the sick and wounded, and general demoralization prevails. Protract the war one year, and desolation, moral and material, alone would mark the track of armies. Justice, humanity and mercy require that the conflict should be terminated as soon as possible, with the least practicable shedding of blood. Astonishing as it may seem to you, gentlemen from Indiana, it is a fact we have repeatedly demonstrated, that a heavier blow is dealt to the realm of Secessia in the abduction or freedom of a slave, than in the killing of a soldier in arms. Yes, and I may put the truth in a still stronger light; abduct from the same family a slave, and kill a son in arms, and the loss of the slave will be regarded as the greater misfortune-the calamity for which there is no healing balm. I could bring up more than a thousand witnesses, whose observation and experience qualify them to speak of the truthful candor of my remarks.
If, then, by allowing a slave to fall into the wake of the army and find the priceless boon of freedom, we avoid bloodshed, save property from destruction, and strike death-dealing blows upon the head and front of this rebellion, does not every good and just consideration require that this policy be adopted! This war is for slavery; let us make it the mighty engine for slavery's destruction, and the rebels will soon cry ï¿½enoughï¿½ They will see that like Saturn in the fable, they are eating their own children, and will consent to cut short the repast. Every guaranty that is given to slavery by the Government strengthens the rebels in their course. The Kansas Brigade has met the enemy in battle, and routed him in every conflict. We have destroyed Osceolaa sort of half town and half military post-but all these things combined have not brought the rebels
<c02>
so quickly to their knees as the escaping of a few hundred slaves by. following the back track of the army.
Gentlemen, my logic teaches that we cannot defend and make war upon the same foe at the same time; and if it is the purpose of the Government to crush the rebels and prevent their slaves from stampeding, two armies should be sent into the field. The advance force might be called the treason-crushing army, and should be furnished with offensive weapons. The other should be called the slavery-restoring army, and should move about ten miles in the rear. It should be clad in defensive armor of triple steel; for such is the meanness of spirit which is bred in the hearts of men by slave-breeding, slave-trading and slave-holding, that the masters would creep into every place of ambush and fire upon those who were gathering up and returning their fugitive human property. It would be illegitimate for the slavery-restoring army to return the fire, as they might harm some of the pets and darlings for whom they were so generously acting. Therefore, give them the defensive armor, but no offensive weapons. Such an arrangement, novel as it might seem, must be had, if slavery is to be preserved in the rear of an army which moves with a force sufficient to crush this huge rebellion.
In my opinion, the second army should be as numerous as the first. Preserving slavery will cost the Government ten times as much as crushing the rebellion. (ï¿½That's so.ï¿½) The policy inaugurated by the Kansas Brigade, which I have the honor to command, was not adopted in a moment, but is the result of much experience. In a speech, recently made in the city of Leavenworth, my feelings of indignation became wrought up to such a pitch that I was betrayed into the use of language which was justly condemned by the religious sentiment of the country, and which, in cooler moments, meets my earnest disapproval. But, whether excited or calm, whether my language is rough or smooth, principle and duty require that our policy be rigidly adhered to until condemned by the Government, and if it should be condemned, if the Government demand of the Brigade obedience to the behests of slavery, I shall consider the question of withdrawing from the field.
Since the rebels have failed to nationalize slavery, their battle-cry is: ï¿½Down with the Union!ï¿½ Let slavery lift its crest in the air. And here I solemnly vow that, if Jim Lane is compelled to add a note to such an infernal chorus, he breaks his sword and quits the field. Let us be bold; inscribe ï¿½Freedom to Allï¿½ upon our banners, and appear just what we are-the opponents of slavery. It is certain, as if written in the book of fate, that this point must be reached before the war is over. Take this stand, and enthusiasm will be inspired in the ranks. In steadiness of purpose and courage, each soldier will be a Spartan hero. The spirit of the Crusader will be united with the iron will of the Roman, and an army of such soldiers is invincible. (Cheers.) These things to you, Indianians, may appear strange; but when your military education has received that peculiar cast which experience is sure to give it, and which now pertains to the Kansas soldier, then will we march shoulder to shoulder, and victoriously, too, against the enslavers and brutalizers of men; against the traitors to the best government in the world.
Soldiers, we have a commander in whose skill, courage and kindness of heart we may always confide. General Hunter has a Kansas education; he suffered with us because of slavery, and he will, I know, endorse the policy I have advocated to-night.
It should be the business of Congress, at its coming session, to pass a law directing the President of the United States, by proclamation, to order the rebel States, within thirty or sixty days, to lay down their arms and return to their allegiance; or in default thereof declare every slave free throughout their domains. So far as I am concerned, I hope the Almighty will so direct the hearts of the rebels that, like Pharaoh, they will persist in their crime; and then we will invade them and strike the shackles from every limb.
As such a proclamation might have the effect to liberate the slaves of many loyal citizens, I would cheerfully give my consent to have them paid out of the National treasury any loss they might sustain. Let us dare to do right, trusting to the principle that might makes right: and the Great Republic, once the wonder of the world, will emerge from these troubles purer, wealthier and stronger than ever. These are among the reasons why ï¿½Freedom to Allï¿½ is the watchword of the Kansas Brigade- Would to God I could publish it throughout the army and to the whole nation! Let the wind waft it over the prairies of the West, let the thunder of cannon speak it to the ears of traitor tyrants, let the mountains of Pennsylvania, Virginia and New-England echo it to heaven, and the great God of angels and men, as its Patron and Friend, will give it success.

PLAIN TALK FROM A KENTUCKY PAPER.
The Frankfort Commonwealth, one of the oldest and most respectable journals of Kentucky, gives an unqualified approval to Colonel Cochrane's recent emancipation speech. It remarks:-
ï¿½The policy indicated by Mr. Cochrane is exactly right, and in accordance with the usage of civilized warfare. We hope to see it adopted by the Government. It should have been at first. Had it been, many lives of loyal citizens would have been saved, that were lost through the anomalous conduct of the Government toward traitors in arms. Since the commencement of this most unnatural war, it has been safer to be a rebel than to be loyal to the government. The extreme punishment of treason has thus far been an ï¿½oath of allegiance,' which a rebel will take with as much sang froid as he would a gin cocktail.
ï¿½Why should not the slaves of traitors in arms be confiscated to the use of the government? The Democrat will not deny that slaves are property, as clearly so as are mules. Is it right and proper to confiscate a mule, and put it to hauling transportation? If it is, why is it not equally right and proper to confiscate a slave for a driver of that mule? Both are property, and both are employed by the rebels in their attempt to destroy this government. We believe in ï¿½fighting the devil with fire.' The rebels employ armed negroes, armed savages; they resort to all sorts of base means, even to piracy on the high seas. They poison wells, and when they can-as at Guyandotte-they resort to assassination. It is all stuff to talk about fighting such an enemy on ï¿½high points.' The government has been trying the experiment some eight months, with indifferent success. If we meet a rattlesnake in our path, we mash his head if we can. Let this barbarous rebellion be crushed out. We care not how, so it be done quickly.ï¿½
The Commonwealth further says:-
ï¿½The rebels have two full regiments of negroes in Louisiana. They have three or four regiments of Indians in the field, armed with tomahawks and scalping knives, in addition to the ordinary weapon of warfare. They have a battalion of Nashville State prison convicts in the field, (the Bull Pups,) commanded by a beast that served ten years in our penitentiary, (Red Bill).
ï¿½What do these professed Union men, who are so shocked about the contingency hinted at by John Cochrane, say to these facts? They approve them, of course. The Confederates can do nothing wrong. If they violate the Constitution, the rules of decency, and the laws of civilized warfare, it is all right, because they have no Constitution, no decency, and no civilization. But the Government must adhere strictly to the Constitution, and throw its protecting arm around the traitors who are trying to destroy it.
ï¿½Out upon such hypocritical cant, say we. A straight-out, open and avowed rebel is infinitely above such Union men.ï¿½
A writer in the Boston Transcript comments bitterly on the conduct of General Stone. ï¿½He is known to be in high favor with the Maryland Secessionists. These fellows express the greatest confidence in General Stone; and why shouldn't they? He orders the troops under his command to obey and observe the laws of Maryland, which forbid the harboring of fugitive slaves, &c.; protects known traitors who have been arrested by subordinate officers for making signals to the enemy, and when brought before him, they have been discharged, with a reprimand to the officers making such arrests; sends back all negroes found in the camps to whoever claims them; and to crown his recommendations to their favor, has needlessly, foolishly, criminally, ordered our Massachusetts troops to unavailing slaughter.ï¿½

It is said that Mason is not so bad a man as Slidell, though he is as bad as he knows how to be. Had he half as much sense as pride and pomposity, he would have been twice the traitor he is.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1861.

MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
The Annual Municipal Election will take place in this city on Monday, Dec. 9th. The present Mayor, Joseph M. Wightman, is a candidate for reelection, and is supported, of course, by the Post and Herald, and whatever else is pro-slavery in spirit and purpose, and demoralized and vulgar in character. The Journal, too, with its characteristic moral paltering and political vacillation, joins the ranks of his adherents, declaring, ï¿½We were not among his original supporters, and if he was now a candidate for the first time, we should probably take a different view of the question: but we don't like to see an honest and faithful official made the victim of the secret intrigues and cabals of disappointed politicians.ï¿½ The Journal always has a ï¿½but,ï¿½ and justly makes itself a ï¿½buttï¿½ of ridicule for its double-and-twisted course on every important public question. To what ï¿½secret intrigues and cabalsï¿½ the Journal refers, we are ignorant; but as it makes a fling at the Republican City Committee for ï¿½nominating a man who last year positively declined to be their candidate,ï¿½ (Hon. E. S. Tobey,) its ï¿½disappointed politiciansï¿½ must mean the leaders of the Republican party in Boston. Yet the Journal professes to be Republican in sympathy and position; but it does more harm to the cause of Republicanism by its contemptible course than though it were avowedly hostile to it. Those who recollect (and who can ever forget?) the mobocratic scenes of December and January, can appreciate the fitness of the epithets ï¿½honest and faithfulï¿½ when applied to the man who, if not an active instigator, was at least a brazen and open accomplice in the pro-slavery riots of that disgraceful period. His broken oath of office-not to speak of minor perjuries at the City Hall and in the Tremont Temple-was a distinguished proof of Mayor Wightman's honesty, and the violated peace of the city, for which he was alone responsible, a signal instance of his fidelity. The Journal has the hardihood to quote with approbation from the Saturday Evening Gazette,-a paper, by-the-bye, which openly urged on the rioters at that time, and, like the Journal itself, had no fault to find but with the Abolitionists,-an article which parades the question, ï¿½impossible for any man to answer satisfactorily,ï¿½-ï¿½WHAT HAS MR. WIGHTMAN DONE THAT HE SHOULD NOT BE RE-ELECTED?ï¿½ It might have been pertinent to inquire, and difficult to answer, what he had done that he should ever have been elected; but to propose the former question is sheer effrontery. If to imperil the lives of unoffending citizens, to endanger property everywhere within the municipal limits, and to corrupt the morals of the whole city, by giving loose rein to such a devilish mob as beset the Tremont Temple and Music Hall, when free speech was struck down in Boston, is nothing,-we may well despair of finding satisfactory reasons why the Chief Rioter and the Chief Corrupter of Morals should not be ejected from office, instead of being sent to the penitentiary.
Every lover of order, every friend of freedom of speech, every one regardful of the city's honor, we trust will record his vote in opposition to the election of Joseph M. Wightman.

THE FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The sixth lecture of this course was given by Rev. William R. Alger, Nov. 19th, on ï¿½Judas Iscariot and his Family.ï¿½ The lecturer gave a minute description of the mental and moral characteristics which go to make up a traitor, and made pointed application to some notorious modern members of that family. The concluding remark, worth more than some whole lectures, was that we may reasonably expect Congress, very early in its approaching session, to make provision for the emancipation of the slaves; a prediction which was received with enthusiastic applause.
The Fraternity lectures always fill the seats of the spacious Tremont Temple. The attractiveness of the most popular orators is shown by their filling, in addition, all the standing places, and producing an active competition for the foremost seats. On the evening of the 26th, when Henry Ward Beecher was to lecture, a great crowd besieged the Temple long before the opening of the outer doors, and the house was ultimately filled to its utmost capacity.
Mr. Beecher is noted for his ability and disposition to preach funny sermons. His discourse on this occasion was of this character, and, treating the gravest of subjects with unscrupulous levity, it greatly amused those of the audience who were not shocked by its perversions of truth, justice, reason and Scripture. It was entitled ï¿½Camp and Country,ï¿½ and contained an elaborate eulogy on war, as a promoter of civilization and improvement. The hearers of these lectures being among the most vigorous supporters of the present war, it was easy to amuse them by first giving a caricature of Non-resistance, and then proceeding in detail to argue that the absurdity which he had manufactured was an absurdity. It was easy, too, (for one sufficiently unscrupulous,) to make fun of those Pennsylvania Quakers who-with hearts sorely divided between their dislike of war and their dislike of slavery, and forced by the sad circumstances of the country into the dilemma of finding their customary protest against the former turned to the up building of the latter-have now shouldered the musket and entered the army. The comments of the speaker upon those earnest and honest men resembled the jeers of drunkards against a teetotaler who, having been ordered to take brandy by his physician, had found himself intoxicated by it.
Mr. Beecher admitted a certain amount of demoralizing influence in camp life, but thought that this influence did not differ very greatly in amount from that experienced at home, and in ordinary life, and that the balance of good might be more than recovered by a due admixture of chaplains, tracts and prayer-meetings with the several divisions of the army. As evidence upon this point, he quoted the opinion of one of his 240 soldier-parishioners, who, in a letter to himself, had stated that the means of grace were rather more abundant, and rather more satisfactory, in the camp than at home.
Of Mr. Beecher's accuracy in stating facts, and of his fairness in quoting Scripture, the following specimens must suffice, for the present:-he represented the Non-Resistants as refusing to use, and objecting to the use of, physical force, and he quoted the saying of Jesus-ï¿½I came not to bring peace, but a swordï¿½-as valid warrant for wars between nations.-C. K. W.

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for December, 1861, completing the eighth volume, is published. The following is the table of contents:-
The Home of Lafayette; A Field Night in the House of Commons; A Legend of the Lake; Agnes of Sorrento; A New Counterblast; The Wolves; A Story of To-day; Health in the Hospital; A Story of Thanksgiving-Time; Song in a Dream; England and Emancipation; Union and Liberty; How to Rough it; Self-Possession vs. Prepossession; Review and Literary Notices.
The publishers give notice, that ï¿½the January number will commence the ninth volume, and its very large and still increasing circulation is a gratifying evidence of public approval, and no industry will be spared to render the forthcoming volume adequate to the requirements of times so pregnant with great events as those of to-day. The ATLANTIC MONTHLY will never give other than the best literature, and it will be the constant aim of its conductors to render its variety greater and its attractions better each month than the last.ï¿½
Ticknor & Fields, publishers, 135 Washington street, Boston. Terms-$3 per annum, or 25 cts. a number. Specimen numbers furnished gratis.
<c04>
LECTURE BY WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
Mr. Phillips delivered an address at the Music Hall on Wednesday evening last, under the auspices of the Mercantile Library Association, on ï¿½The War.ï¿½ The spacious Hall was crowded, and on the platform were seated very many distinguished gentlemen, among them, several clergymen, of different denominations. Mr. Phillips, as he entered the Hall, received a hearty welcome; and when he took his place upon the platform to commence his address, be was hailed with repeated outbursts of enthusiastic cheering.
He began by stating, that, after the addresses by Mr. Sumner and Mr. Everett, on the cause and character of the war, their conclusion might safely be adopted, that slavery was the cause of the war. Some men attributed it to disappointed ambition, but he did not think the cause equal to the result. Doubtless, political disappointment was made the occasion of the outbreak, as the tax on tea was made the occasion of the Revolution, though far from being its cause; but the cause of the war was slavery.
It might be supposed that he came there as an Abolitionist, to talk of the war. Not at all. As a mere Abolitionist, his interest in the war had gone by, for the system of slavery on this continent had received its death wound. (Loud cheers.) The rest of its life would be the process of dying. If the North conquered, or there was a compromise, either the old Constitution would be restored or a new one adopted. He believed the Constitution of '89 dead; that the people of the North, after their enormous sacrifices of blood and treasure in the prosecution of the war, would never consent to put back slavery where it was on the 4th of March, 1860; and if we had a new Constitution, its novelty would consist in the omission of the slave clauses, and that would be the death of slavery in the end. If the South baulked us of victory, (she could never conquer,) it would be by writing Emancipation on her banner, and so winning the support of the friends of liberty on the other side of the water. In either case, the slave went free. (Applause.)
This was the most glorious year of the Republic since '76. (Loud cheers.) Until now, the North had been cringing in craven subserviency to the South; to-day, she flung off the chain. It was a sad day when an impertinent. Virginian, standing on Bunker Hill, insulted Massachusetts, and then dragged her citizens to Washington to tell him what they knew of John Brown; but it was a sunny day when Massachusetts held that same impertinent Senator, an acknowledged felon, in her prison fort. (Prolonged and vehement applause.) He loved peace,-not that peace which has craven submission for its mother, and contempt for its father,-but a peace born of Justice, and which recognizes the rights of every race and every man. (Loud applause.)
Some men claimed that they would look at this question only as white men. He descended to no such narrowness. He would look at it, not as a white man or a negro looks at it, but as an American citizen, (cheers,) who knows neither black nor white, neither Saxon nor Indian, but stretches an equal sceptre over all. (Renewed cheering.)
Mr. Phillips then referred to the character of the war, describing it as a terrific one; to the enormous debt which it would cause, to the suspension of the habeas corpus, and to the dangers that would arise from the existence of such vast armies. He did this, he said, not to find fault with the Government, but to show what the war cost us, and that we ought not to sacrifice so much for nought. He did not believe with some men, that the people of the South had been misled by their leaders, and that the presence of a Federal army in their midst would enable them to find out that they have souls of their own, and every thing go back to the happy condition and good old times of Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan. (Great merriment.) He believed we had divided, because we were two nations, and that, in order to come together, we must make ourselves one nation. (Loud applause.) His doctrine was-abolish slavery to save the Union! (Loud and prolonged cheering.)
Some might think this strange language from his lips. Nor at all. He did hate the Union when it made white men hypocrites and black men slaves; when it poisoned the conscience of statesmen, filled the pulpits with lies, and the streets with mobs. Much as he realized the value of the Union, he preferred disunion to being an accomplice with tyrants. But to-day, when he saw that the Union must mean justice in order to last, when he saw that, with a current as swift and irresistible as Niagara, twenty millions of people are resolving that it shall mean ï¿½Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,ï¿½ why should he be a disunionist? He was a disunionist to take nineteen States out of thirty-four, and consecrate them to justice; and twenty million people answer back-ï¿½We adopt your motto, but we include the thirty-four instead of the nineteen.ï¿½ (Loud cheers.) Why should he refuse? Was it supposed that he was not born with the common sense of a Yankee, to know the value of the Union, if it could be had at a fair price? (Laughter and cheers.)
Any other policy was unsafe. It was said that the Administration meant to reconstruct the Union on the old basis, but he did not believe it. But however that might be, they could not resist the logic of events. As well might a blade of Swiss grass stop the sweep of the avalanche. War and Niagara thunder to a music of their own, and no politician sets the tune. (Cheers.) If he thought reconstruction possible, he should deem it the greatest possible mistake; and if he thought our leaders intended it, he should think this war the most wanton and reckless waste of life and treasure that the world ever saw. The leaders who led us to such a goal, would be damned to an infamy compared with which Arnold was a saint and Buchanan a public benefactor. (Great cheering.)
Mr. Phillips said he believed reconstruction impossible, because the negro was to go free, either by the act of the North or the desperation of the South, for the South, the moment she saw victory turning decisively to the side of the North, would write Freedom on her banner, and summon Europe to her aid. The events at Beaufort had shown that the blacks were on our side, not on the side of the South. He would have Congress, by solemn act, proclaim emancipation throughout the Union, and offer compensation to every loyal subject for any loss he might sustain. (Long-continued applause.) This policy he regarded not only as just, but expedient, since a market would thus be secured to the manufacturers of the North which would otherwise be thrown open to Lancashire. Not that he despaired of the ultimate result, but it was possible we might lose this generation. As Napoleon said, ï¿½Every moment lost was an opportunity for misfortune.ï¿½ When December opened, he would have the people demand of the government that it say to the world-ï¿½We know well the evil which has troubled our peace for three generations, sending ruin along our wharves every ten years, and thwarting the natural tendency of our institutions. Democracy knew its strength-knew it could trust great evils to die out, or reveal themselves in such hideous proportions that the people should decree their death. It was in such sublime consciousness of strength that our fathers tolerated the acknowledged evil of slavery, until the reptile that we thought we could tread upon starts up at the touch of disappointment, a fiend. Democracy welcomes the battle! Confident of the strength to execute her judgment, she deliberately records the verdict-DEATH!ï¿½ (Prolonged applause.)
At Mr. Phillips's request, we refrain from giving a full report of this excellent and most timely address. A brief sketch like the above can do justice neither to his argument nor to the pertinency and beauty of the illustrations by which it was enforced. We are glad to know that the address is to be repeated in several cities and towns of this State, and elsewhere.
Hon. CHARLES SUMNER re-delivered his able speech on ï¿½The Rebellionï¿½ at Tremont Temple, on Monday evening, to an overflowing audience. We hope to be able to give it in full next week.
<c05>
A NEW BOOK.
RECORD OF AN OBSCURE MAN. ï¿½Aux plus desherites le plus d'amour.ï¿½ Boston: Ticknor and Fields. 1861. 216 pp.
This book, which we heralded in our last issue, we have read in the interval with rare interest. From the anonymous way in which it is presented to the public, the reader cannot settle with himself, after its perusal, whether he rises from a novel or from a true story. Be it one or the other, it has all the charm of fiction with all the assurance of truth. It assumes to relate what befell the author, while travelling in the South in 1842. At the close of a rainy day, he obtains shelter for himself and horse at the farm of one who proves to be a native of Massachusetts. Transplanted to Southern soil, in order to reinforce the failing health of the father, a clergyman, the family had become reduced to Edward Colvil and his mother-the former a young man inheriting his father's taste for books, the latter an invalid from a spinal complaint. A free woman, Tabitha, completes the household, which exhibits all the thrift and tidiness of New England.
A fever, resulting from his exposure, confines the author to that hospitable home for weeks. In that time, he is enabled to admire the wonderful character of the mother, who by her mental force had sustained the spirit of the house, and not suffered the refinement and civilization of the East to sink into the slovenly barbarism of the South; he discovers the precious library which has saved the backwoods farmer from assimilating with his cattle and his clods; he forms a life-friendship with Edward Colvil. They converse often on various topics, but chiefly upon the nature, capacities, and sometimes the history, of the African race. Whenever this subject is started, Edward speaks warmly in support of the black man. He adduces copious extracts from the works of eminent travellers in Africa, to establish his favorable opinions in this regard, and by felicitous comparisons of extracts from poets, historians, and travellers in civilized lands, convicts the majority of readers of prejudice and distortion in their consideration of the Africans. He constantly insists on their being regarded like other human beings, and deprecates the mind which revolts at some barbarous custom of the negro of today, while it placidly accepts, if it does not enjoy, the identical barbarism among the classic peoples of the Mediterranean. The writer reluctantly confesses his conversion at every step. Edward's mother has revealed the fact that he is an author, and, at the solicitation of his new friend, Colvil produces the manuscript of a ï¿½Tragedy of Errors.ï¿½ It is meant only for reading, not for the stage. For five acts we have instead Morning, Noon, Afternoon, Evening, Night. The theme is derived from American Slavery. Thus the sable thread runs through the book.
Our author returns at length to his own home, bent on rescuing from obscurity this farmer genius, and from time to time receives portions of the tragedy from his Southern friend, who also exchanges journals with him, and writes much more in testimony of African virtue. At last, before half his plans are consummated or his dreams realized, Edward Colvil. falls a prey to consumption, and his mother's death follows close on his. Our author loses his own father, from being rich becomes of a sudden bankrupt, starts anew in business, and is in the end again prosperous only to be lonely, for wife and children have passed from earth. The wish to make his friend Colvil's life of some profit to the world has induced him to publish this memorial volume. To carry out the fiction, or to confirm the truth of the facts narrated, we notice that the publishers have in press the ï¿½Tragedy of Errors.ï¿½
To this little sketch we may add, in a few words, what we have to say of the book. It is written in a pleasing style, not devoid of ornament, yet simple withal, and bears one on quietly but surely to the end. Such a studied tribute to the negro, in this way, we have never had the fortune to see. There is not a word of contempt, as there is not a word of adulation, for the race in the whole book. The African is contemplated as a man apart from his accidents, and heavy must be the load of prejudice against color that is not lightened by the spirit and the truthfulness with which his claims are urged. This is no sensasation book. There is not in it a reference to the present hour; there is no formal discussion of the right and wrong of slavery. The endeavor is made, forgetting place and time, to do justice to those who have been insulted, maltreated, and misrepresented, since they first fell into the clutches of civilized beings. If the attempt has been unsuccessful, the fault lies neither with Edward Colvil, with the author of the Record, nor with the publishers. We wish the book the success which it deserves.

ELOQUENT TRIBUTE.
The discourse delivered before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday last, by Rev. WILLIAM R. ALGER, was a very clear, discriminating and admirable vindication of Reform and Reformers. At the close of it, Mr. Alger paid the following tribute to the memory of FRANCIS JACKSON:-
With this sentence I should have closed my discourse. But since you last met here, a member of your Society has been buried, who was so admirable a representative of what a Christian Reformer should be, and who was furthermore so honored and beloved by you, that I feel it would be a breach of decorum to let this meeting dissolve without at least some passing mention of him. After the touching and lofty tributes paid at his funeral by those whose intimate friendship, kindred spirit and allied services made them the fit eulogizers of his worth, I, a comparative stranger, shrink from the obtrusion of laying any formal offering on his grave. Yet one or two words I may say without impropriety, leaving the more tender and domestic aspects of his life unapproached in their sacredness.
It was a luxury to us, it was a rare service to the community, to have before the public sight for half a century a man who, in every sterling virtue, in weight and height of character, towered above the degenerate times like an adamantine Cato. He was so grounded in principles that you always knew where to find him; of such massive equipoise that you might always lean on him without the shadow of a misgiving. Most men are social vanes, showing which way the popular wind blows: he was rather a secluded magnet, steadily pointing to the eternal heights of heaven. Many even of our public teachers, veering to the dominant moods of the day, are like electrometers that dance about with every disturbance of atmospheric equilibrium: he was steadfastly rooted in certain primary convictions, the fundamental truths of morality, and remained, through every shock of argument or odium, immovable as a granite mountain socketed to the centre. Such a character forms a remarkable landmark, to be looked up to with honor and gratitude.
It was a beautiful trait in him that he grew in grace and goodness to the last, becoming ever freer, broader, more charitable. His whole life was a criticism on himself, seeing where he fell short to-day that he might remedy the defect to-morrow. A Christian reformer indeed, who began with himself, and thence worked abroad on the world. Thus, instead of keeping stationary or falling off, he improved. And surely, friends, this is the true success and victory of man over time and decay. For old age is a tragedy when it contracts and sours us, makes us crabbed, peevish, misanthropic: but old age is a blessing and a glory when it expands and sweetens our sympathies, deepens and elevates our wisdom, renders us genial and content, ripening and mellowing us for the skies. Then like him, we may bid the years fly as fast as they will, since they shall leave us greater and better than they found us, and we have no fear of the future.
Now I will intrude no further words of my own, but conclude with a citation which may give you some
<c06>
conception of what your late Pastor would say, were he standing here to-day to speak of his prized and faithful parishioner. The second edition of the Speeches and Addresses of the first and last minister of this Society contains a dedication, written by him in Europe, while the sentence of death which he bore within him was hastening to its fulfillment. That dedication is in these words:-
ï¿½To FRANCIS JACKSO, the foe 'gainst every form of wrong; the friend of justice, whose wide humanity contends for womanï¿½s natural and unalienable right; against his nation's cruelty protects the slave; in the criminal beholds a brother to be reformed; goes to man fallen among thieves, whom priests and Levites sacramentally pass by, and seeks to soothe and heal and bless them that are ready to perish; with admiration for his unsurpassed integrity, his courage which nothing scares, and his true religion that would bring peace on earth, and good will to man, these volumes are thankfully dedicated by his minister and friend, THEODORE PARKER.ï¿½
Let these graphic and characteristic words which were an honest testimony to him when he was yet alive, stand as his just eulogy now that he is dead. The wintry sea rolls between their parted graves in Florence and New England. No ocean, either of space or time, sunders their friendly spirits already met in heaven and eternity.

WASHINGTON IN NOVEMBER.
Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, having returned on Saturday evening from a visit to Washington, announced as the subject of his discourse Sunday morning, before the society of the Church of the Disciples, at the Indiana Place Chapel, ï¿½Washington in November.ï¿½ The attendance was large. The services were commenced by the singing of the very appropriate hymn, commencing
ï¿½When Israel, of the Lord beloved,
Out from the land of bondage came,ï¿½
which was followed by the reading of select passages from the Scriptures, and, as being especially appropriate, words found in the 1st chapter of Isaiah.
Mr. Clarke, in explanation of his choice of a theme, then said,-In making my recent visit to Washington, I decided to go there, in order that I might learn something that would be useful to my friends. I propose no elaborately-studied discourse, but simply to give you my impressions.
When previously I visited Washington, in 1851, I found it, said he, a city to weep over. The statesmen there were tired of finding themselves eclipsed by some small man who occupied the Chair. Truth for the sake of Truth was unknown-none were ashamed of its perversion. True, men of ideas were there, men of honesty of purpose, but they were totally neglected unless happening to be in power.
I maintain that that state of society must be the most immoral in which every hypocrisy is laid aside-the homage which vice ever pays to virtue. Such, said he, was Washington as I found it in 1851-a miserable place-the slave power ruled everything. The Free Soilers then formed but a little cluster, while to the White House crowed the splendid throngs to whom the word Free Soil was a mockery. Henry Clay held the opinion that the Free Soilers must go down-would go down, and never again rise.
Ten years-and what a change! the little Free Soil cluster of that time has become the great Republican party of to-day. Jeff. Davis, Stephens, Toombs, and those then so domineering, so triumphant, have gone of their own accord into complete exile. The words uttered by John Quincy Adams in those halls have suddenly become so many bayonets in the hands of as many soldiers occupying the very places. Beneath the Capitol 40,000 loaves of bread are baked each day for the soldiers; the government is manufacturing bread in those places where, before, when a man asked for bread, he got a stone.
Now Washington is entirely changed-now it is thoroughly beleaguered and defended, and the sword has taken the place of the toga. But it is the nation itself that has taken up arms-to defend the Constitution, the independence and the laws of the land. The army is the most interesting thing about Washington. I talked, said he, with hundreds of the soldiers; I never tired of talking with them, and never saw men so earnest, unpretending and straightforward. He referred to his visit to the hospitals, where he found them all cheerful, all hopeful, and all patient; described individual cases of suffering, alluding to the fact that there were many resulting from carelessness. Yet the majority were found sitting up, employed in writing letters to wives, mothers or sisters, each one animated by a desire to get back to camp and be doing duty.
Last Sunday, said he, I preached to the soldiers at Camp Aldernay, and told them how much our women felt for them-felt that they could not do too much for them. I was glad to speak to them on Virginia soil. At the review of 10,000 men on the other side of the Potomac, on Monday last, I was present when news was brought that a Brooklyn regiment was liable to be surrounded by the rebels; the review was broken up and the regiments at once set in motion; the soldiers, seeing the signs of battle so ardently longed for, exclaimed, ï¿½Now we are going to have some fun!ï¿½ And on the road I was enabled to converse with them as they walked by the side of the carriage, then on their outward march to the expected engagement. The stars and the moon shone in their fullest lustre, and the air was filled with the voices of the men as they sung the John Brown Army hymn, or others so familiar in our own New England. The scene was the most picturesque and wonderful I ever beheld.
At the sanitary department, when I visited it, 300 or 400 boxes had just been received direct from Massachusetts, the contents of which he very amusingly enumerated. Perhaps, said he, you would like to know something of what I learnt of those who are at the head of the Republic. I do not know that you can learn more of them there than here. Some I conversed with complained that they showed a want of energy-were weak. But the immense quantity of work to be done could not show any immediate results. His impressions of President Lincoln were that he was a thoroughly honest and candid man-too modest, perhaps, to decide on matters unless it became his duty to do so-but on the whole, said he, I do not know how we could have found a better man for the place. Gen. McClellan, he describes as a man of small but robust stature, of fine perceptions, and capable of putting his whole intellect into his work-but he had not inventive genius-not the power of making a brilliant stroke like those of a Hannibal or a Napoleon, but sure not to make mistakes-the best man for the times.
On the whole, said he, my impressions of 1861 are better than they were ten years ago, though then all was peace and now all is war. Washington seems to me much purer to-day, in the midst of war, than it did then in apparent onward peace and prosperity. We have an immense and difficult task to perform. War is a terrible evil. How strange it is that we should be devoting the energies of the nation to contrive to tear in pieces the men whom we would always have met as brothers; and then, after we have torn them in pieces, exhaust every means to restore them. War is bad; but is it not better than to see the heart of the nation corrupted? Is it not a glorious thing to see men sacrificing all on the altar of their country?
A prize was offered for an Army Hymn-no one received the reward, because they could not meet the requirements; but has not the John Brown Army Hymn met and supplied the need? ï¿½His soul is marching onï¿½; and what is the soul of John Brown but an earnest hatred of slavery? The work has been taken out of the hands of the Abolitionists, and is now wholly in the hands of God.

THE COMING REPORT OF SECRETARY CAMERON.
It is understood to have been publicly stated by Secretary Cameron himself that, in his annual report from the War Department, he shall take strong ground in recommending to Congress the emancipation of all slaves belonging to rebels in arms against the Government.
NOVEMBER 29
THE LIBERATOR. 191
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SLAVERY AND THE PRESENT CRISIS IN AMERICA.
A public meeting was held in the Town Hall, in High Wycombe, (England,) Thursday evening, the 10th ult., when addresses were delivered on the above subject by the following gentlemen:-G. Thompson, Esq., latte M. P. for the Tower Hamlets; Harper Twelve-trees, Esq., Chairman of the John Anderson Committee; a deputation from the National Anti-Slavery League; Rev. T. M. Kinnaird, a colored clergyman, formerly a slave, of Hamilton, Canada West; and the Rev. J. Sella Martin, a distinguished colored orator, of Boston, U. S.
The Rev. J. HAYDEN was in the chair.
Long before the time appointed for commencement, every available square foot of ground was tenanted, and many had to content themselves with remaining in the council room. The beat was so intense and oppressive, that several ladies had to be removed.
The Chairman said,-Believing, as he did, that the religion of his Divine and beloved Master was ever opposed to slavery, he readily complied with the request of the gentleman who waited on him to take the chair that night, although he was quite sure that a chairman might have been found better qualified than himself. He would give place to no one in his intense and indignant abhorrence of slavery. It was opposed to the principles of reason and to the principles of religion. Tempting as the subject was, he held himself liable to blame if he took up much of their time on that occasion. Slavery, he rejoiced to say, was an abomination to England; and he hoped the time would never come when the men of this country would cease wholly to detest it. England was never so great, so free, and so noble, as when she held the Bible in her hand and cried aloud, "Let the oppressed go free!" He would finish his speech with a malediction on slavery-"Cursed be slavery from this time forth, and forevermore, and let all the people say Amen." (Cheers.)
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., said the fearful and emphatic malediction with which the Chairman had closed his speech was not uttered there for the first time. That was the malediction which had been rung round the world by millions of voices ever since the world itself was cursed, in consequence of men's sins. Slavery was accursed in the beginning, and in the end. When the children of Israel were oppressed by Pharaoh, God raised up Moses and sent him into the presence of Pharaoh with the message the Chairman has just repeated, "Let my people go free." When he doubled the burdens of the people, and would not let them go, God visited that land, then the centre of arts and science, exalted above all other powers, with a series of stupendous plagues, even to the destruction of the first-born, and in the midst of blood, Pharaoh let them go. After the passage over the Red Sea, seeking a way through Idumea, they were not allowed to pass. That same God, who brought Israel out of Egypt, smote the king of Edom; and the desert of Idumea, on which once stood palaces, is a standing monument of God's execration of slavery. If God spared not the land of Idumea, let the rulers of the present day see whether they are strong enough to fight against Him who delivered His people from Egypt. Slavery has ever been a curse. It has cursed every nation that has cherished it. Where is Idumea, where is Rome, where is Greece, where is Carthage, and where is now the once United States of America? It is only seventy years since the first President got into the presidential chair, and now where is the United States? For the last six months an unnatural and fratricidal war has raged there. The Southern ministers of the Church have entered the army, and send challenges to the Northern ministers, saying, "Come out and fight us, and we will do unto you as Samuel did to Agar." What is the cause of this war? There is but one cause, and that is slavery; but this is only the last curse. Slavery has "been accusing America from the beginning. It was an evil day for the United States when a Dutch vessel entered the James River, and deposited on its shores the first cargo of slaves. The Americans sometimes threw on them the blame of having introduced slavery into their country. He (Mr. T.) had always hurled back in their teeth that the same men who gave them slavery gave them laws, and gave them taxes. They established their independence in 1776, and had ample time to choose between what they liked and what they did not like. They did not like the taxes on tea; and they hurled large quantities of tea into Boston harbor. They did not like tax collectors, and they hanged them. They did not like red coats, and they shot them. And, if they had not liked slavery, they would have sent it with the tea. If they followed us in our footsteps as slaveholders, why did they not follow us in our repentance? A Bible society in America has vaunted that she has distributed a copy of the Scriptures to every man in America, but she has yet to print the first Bible or Testament for the service, enlightenment, and salvation of a slave there. They have printed numbers of tracts against the foibles, vices, and crimes of every class of men and women, but they have yet to print the first tract that acknowledges that there is a slave in the United States. They have their Sunday School Union; they have printed hymns and tracts peculiarly adapted to the juvenile readers, but they have yet to publish a hymn or a tract that will tell a Sunday school child in America that there is a single slave in the United States. The children are thus left ignorant of the fact that there are four millions of slaves in their land. Mr. Thompson then, at length, explained the Fugitive Slave Law. This law has been sufficient to blot out all the stars from the banner of the United States. If they are to be of their proper hue, they should be of the color of blood, to keep company with their stripes. He trusted the time might come when that flag might become the symbol of liberty, and the slave might be cherished by its principles of freedom. Slavery is a curse in the sight of God, and ought to be universally and unconditionally abolished. There was a time when slavery seemed as deeply rooted in the West Indies as it did in the United States six months ago. When he first went to America, a very small room would hold all the abolitionists of the country; but now, search the country from Cape Cod to the Alleghany Mountains, or even to the borders of the Pacific, and there is scarcely a house in which there is not an abolitionist. They and he (Mr. T.) cared not to gather the fruit whilst they lived, but that posterity should gather from their graves the harvest that they had endeavored to produce. They wanted to give to the negro, what every white man possessed, personal liberty. There is the laborer working for his bread, he is free, though he may shelter himself in a hovel, on the site of which his son might build the palace of a millionaire. If the mother is allied to the negro race, although the father might belong to one of the best families in the United States, the offspring would still be a slave. They wished them to be free-free to buffet in the billows of care. He cared not what they were, he wished them to be free. Mr. Thompson resumed his seat amidst vehement cheering.
Rev. T. M. KINNAIRD felt that he had very little to say. He had been ill for five hours; but his friends told him they could never see any change in him, sick or well. (Cheers and laughter.) The fewer words he said the better, as they had on the platform a young man who would tell them something that would interest the whole of them. Whilst listening to the eloquent address of his beloved and tried friend, Mr. George Thompson, tears were drawn from his eyes. Slavery is a mill through which many have passed and been ground pretty closely. They could speak more from experience than from theory. Experience was best, if they did not pay too much for it. The underground railway was a scheme for the salvation of the slave; it did not only purpose to go to a planter's house, and say to the slaves, "Follow me," but would pay their way, find them something to eat whilst on the journey, and land them safely in Canada under the protection of the British flag. The league intended not only to deliver the slave out of bondage
<c02>
and to give him something to eat, but to clothe his wife and children until they could find work. It had been said that negroes would not work. Now, there were 45,000 where he w as; and, if they did not work, he did not know how they lived. They wanted to prove that a libel had been passed on them by slaveholders; they wanted to sustain the anti-slavery movement by sustaining the underground railway. He (Mr. K) had sometimes harsh and bitter feelings; and it would take a long time to work out all his ill-feelings against slavery. He thought it would be after the resurrection. (Laughter.) He then gave an anecdote of a Quaker, who, being called upon to stand and deliver, turned the tables upon his opponent, wrestled with him, threw him down, and was very busily employed in throttling him, when a passer by said, " Friend, let the man get up "; but the Quaker replied, "Friend, if thou hadst known how long it took me to get him down, thou wouldst not say let him get up." (Laughter.) It was so with slavery-that had held him in its bonds for nearly forty years; and now he was landed on British soil, he did not want it to breathe another breath. He had no patience with slavery, and still less with slaveholders. He thought slavery had no right to be found on the earth, and slaveholders on this side of where they ought to go. (Cheers and laughter.) He thanked them for the kindly-expressed feeling of the town. They would die with the knowledge that God has raised up out of their ashes more noble men to work out the deeds commenced by them. He begged again to congratulate his friends in this city-it would be a city some day-for their warm feeling. (Cheers.) All they wanted was a little help from them; they only asked for the crumbs that fell from the table; they did not want the loaf. He would now give place to better men. (Cheers.)
HARPER TWELVETREES, Esq., said,- If he entertained any feeling, it was against that atrocious villany of slavery, which he would oppose in whatever form it might be found. He would not disguise the fact that he was entirely opposed to any attempts on the part of masters to withdraw the rights and privileges of those in their employ. He was equally opposed to the men who endeavored to impose aggressive restrictions on their employers. Whilst the one class was dependent on the other, it was not seemly that strikes and riots should be the order of the day. He was particularly opposed to American slavery-that gigantic crime that trampled out manhood, With what rapid strides has public opinion changed on the subject of slavery, especially in America! Not long ago, four millions of slaves were allowed to groan in their chains; and slavery was then a thing which could not be cured, and must therefore be endured. He then made some remarks on the leading features of the war. There was no doubt that emancipation must be the result of the Northern victories. The North only claimed the right to prohibit any more slave territories. The Southern slaveholders seceded, and seized the property of the Northerners; and, if secession was to be allowed, any State could terminate its allegiance at pleasure; for, if Carolina seceded this year, Massachusetts can secede next year. Nor would it be possible to restrict secession to States, counties would also claim the right of seceding. Secession and revolutions were only justifiable when the governing power had proved itself unable to rule the people-Greece and Italy were cases in point. No government could permit secession to take place without abdicating its power. The North was determined to defend its national rights. No one could foretell the termination of the war, but one thing was certain-the result must be fatal to slavery. If the Northern government succeeded, was it prepared for the military occupation of the whole of the States? Such a state of things as this could not last, and in time they would be too glad to relax their hold on the citizens. Without the stigma of slavery, the Union would soon attain a power and greatness far exceeding that of her former greatness. The South, left to itself, would eat into itself like a canker, and at last be ruined by the overwhelming influence of slavery. (Loud cheering.)
The Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN said he read in the Divine record of a man who left the cultivated soil of Jerusalem, and went to the city of Damascus to preach against God; but, before he reached the city, God so changed his heart that he preached in favor of Him. He was several times threatened with death, and once had to be let down from a wall in a basket. He (Mr. M.) had before him almost the parallel of that event. A man left the Jerusalem of Britain, and went to America an Abolitionist, and he, like the Apostle Paul, had, on one occasion, to be let over a wall in a basket. But that only evoked his zeal in behalf of emancipation. He could read the epistles of George Thompson as readily as those of the Apostle Paul. He could find almost a parallel to that Moses who left the court of Pharaoh to be identified with the sufferings of his brethren, and to strike a blow against Egypt's despot. George Thompson left his long and glorious political career, and identified himself with the despised slave, and now stood amongst the number of those who had done their duty to God and man, and had not been beaten down by public opinion. Whilst the public held out their hand to welcome the black, George Thompson was left without the honor of bringing such things to pass. Mr. Thompson said that the war in America, using a perfect string of expletives, was an unnatural one. If he meant it was unnatural as evoking the most wicked designs of the heart to crush every feeling of manliness, and to violate every feeling of morality, it was unnatural. But, if they thought it was unnatural because he could not see how it came about, he would tell them that slavery for forty years had been carrying them towards it. The fact was, there had been a chronic state, where every man had been the despot to push away matrimonial alliance, or to go to the cradle, and take out the offspring of that alliance, and offer it for sale on the block. They have been compelled to work sixteen hours a day in the midst of the rice swamp. This carried off hundreds. The people of all the nations of the world have regarded the negroes of so much insignificance that they might be blotted out and not be missed. If they analysed public opinion, it would be this-the negroes are in America, and they are oppressed, and we must assist them; but, if they could be carried back to Africa, they would not be missed. No nation ever existed long that was formed like America." Almost every nation at its commencement was one people, but America, at its formation, was a heterogeneous mass, consisting of French, English, German, and Negro. The Negro could not be spared from America. He was docile, not for want of courage, but because particularly adapted for docility. Look at the girl that suckles her mistress' child, while her own child at that instant may be in want of the nourishment she is giving to another-yet she does not poison that child. Look again at the man bleeding from the lash, contented to remain with his wife and family rather than escape himself. Mr. Martin then compared the Northerner, the practical Yankee, with the Southern slaveholder, and said he had always found the Southerner had more heart than the Northerner. The Northerner looked at everything in a practical point of view. If he had a sovereign in his hand, he squeezed it so long that he made the eagle on it cry out. All they had of freedom they owed to education, and not to feeling. If a black man, with his back bleeding from the lash, were to present himself at the house of a pro-slavery man, and say, "I am helpless, and am pursued by bloodhounds," there is scarcely one of these that could resist the appeal. Mr. Martin concluded his address by saying that he should be happy to visit Wycombe again, and then more fully explain the subject.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., made a few additional remarks, and proposed a vote of thanks to the Chairman, which was seconded by the Rev. J. S. MARTIN, and carried.
LECTURE ON GEN. FREMONT. We learn that Mr. J. H. FOWLER, of Cambridge, has prepared a lecture on Gen. Fremont, which he will accept invitations to deliver.
<c03>
A VOICE OF THANKS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAE SIR-Could the friends of freedom know the effect that a good word timely spoken in behalf of the fleeing slave has upon the colored residents in this country, and the deep gratitude they feel for your many acts of kindness and your solicitude and, above all, for that sterling, out-spoken sentiment-as true in its services to them, and in its results upon their destiny, as the needle is to the tempest-tossed mariner-I think there would before faith in the colored people as a responsible moral element, necessary component of the anti-slavery forces, destined now and in the future to enter largely into the moral and political make-up of this continent. I say this continent, because, the importance of islands and other continents admitted, as far as it goes, whatever newfangled theories may be afloat about our destiny as colored native Americans away from here, and out in an island any where, we, at least, realize the truth, that the masses have a fixed destiny here, and we do not believe, and do not intend, that it must always be as the substratum of the body politic.
There are certain plain land-marks by means of which we come to this conclusion, and upon which the beams of this new policy of our removal from the continent to Hayti break like Samson's withes.
I am led to this train of thought by a very noticeable, and, to us, very important paragraph in your remarks in reply to the letter of friend Hiram Wilson, in the last Liberator, wherein you say:' "Although it is probable that the number of fugitives, seeking freedom and safety in Canada, will be somewhat diminished for the present; still, there is reason to believe that many of them will go there this winter," &c. &c.
For this gleam of the old light-this stray beam from the old beacon so well known to our people, we give you sincerest thanks. This says, as plain as English can, that the well-worn friends of the refugee and contraband are not to be turned aside, by every wind of doctrine, from the long-established custom of aiding them to settle upon this free soil, without, in their extremity, either attempting to bias their imperfectly formed judgments against Canada and America generally, or joining in the now, seeking-to-be popular cry that they must leave the country because of the hatred to pursue them as the cause of the war, when the stupid among them know that the slaveholder, not the poor slave, is the cause, and that once he and his system are crushed out, the cause will have been destroyed, and America must become a desirable country for the masses.
Pointed and easily understood paragraphs as your own say plainly enough, that the Abolitionists of America, who labored and suffered long ago, do not join in the crusade against the colored people, but are right upon this question of residence on this continent for the colored men of the land. There has of late been much silence upon this point-so much, that now the new emigration scheme, about which Mr. Higginson wrote, and for which others work, is thought by many to have absorbed all the Anti-Slavery of the United States worth having.
I have often thought that there was a misapprehension somewhere of the relation in which the refugees here stand to the cause proper.
It is a debatable question with some, whether or not, after being once helped to Canada, they are any longer connected with the Anti-Slavery polity. Some are out-spoken, and say that any consideration of the fugitive in Canada is not Anti-Slavery work; others, less sincere, regard this Canada as a vast poaching ground for negro game, from which they may get the material for experiment in the islands without loss to the cause, and certainly without loss to the experiment-makers. A few there are who are honest in believing that they would profit by removal to the British islands.
That you do not share the views of the two first, I infer from your recommendation for "local provision" in behalf of the refugees, should the contingencies of travel make it necessary. This explicit acknowledgment of it, as Anti-Slavery work, is subject of congratulation here.
The institution of slavery has despoiled the colored man of America wofully; the injury done to him intellectually, physically, morally, is not of his seeking; those, therefore, whose sympathies do not care to reach beyond your geographical boundaries, and who choose to forget his perils and the difficulties which he must encounter in his new position by reason of former deprivations in slavery, yet scruple not when here, to arouse prejudice by deprecating further emigration of fugitives and contrabands to the Canadas, clearly forfeit the right to the confidence of the colored Canadian, and must not complain, if they do not command his respect.
The fugitives in Canada, though assuming new and important political relations to this government-relations not to be trifled with by every theorizer, who, upon a flying or discursive visit, may hope to sharpen his axe upon their instability and credulity-have keen sympathies for friends and kindred left behind; their better selves remember for ever the friends who helped them on, and aid others with help when needed here: they divide to the last their morsel with the wayfarer when he escapes, and they gladly welcome and will welcome the many you may send the coming winter, whether to St. Catherines or this western section. They hail also every organized and responsible society for the necessary relief of the really deserving, as an earnest of the ever kind regards of long tried friends; and your endorsement of Fugitive Aid Societies, under proper auspices and limitations, must, as I hear that the one at St. Catherines does, receive their grateful acknowledgments and fullest approbation.
MARY A. SHADD CARY.

MEETING IN MARLBORO', MASS.
At a meeting of the citizens of Marlboro' "who are in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war against rebellion; who scout the idea of a compromise with traitors, and who religiously believe in the truth of the sublime enunciations of the Declaration of American Independence," held at the Town Hall, on Monday evening, October 28th, the following resolutions were adopted as the sense of the meeting:-
Whereas, the first act in our national existence declares that " all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; " and
Whereas, this fundamental law has never been repealed by any authorized national act; and
Whereas, slavery was never acknowledged by the founders of the Republic as a national institution, as is manifest from the fact that neither the word slave nor slavery is introduced into the Constitution of the United States, and from the further fact that Mr. Madison, at the time of the formation of the Constitution, declared that the word slave ought not to be admitted into that instrument, lest it should give color to the idea "that man might rightfully hold property in man," thus making it clear that the authors of the Constitution considered slavery as a local and temporary institution, which was to fade out in the advancing civilization of the age; and
Whereas, the succeeding generations have proved themselves unfaithful to the liberal and grand ideas of the Fathers, and in consequence of this unfaithfulness, have permitted the Slave Power, for years past, to dictate the laws and shape the policy of the Republic to the detriment of freedom; and
Whereas, these continued encroachments of the Slave Power finally awakened the friends of free institutions to a sense of their danger, and led them to embody in their political platform the principles of the Fathers of the Revolution; and
Whereas, Abraham Lincoln was elected to the Presidency of this Republic, pledged to the policy of the founders of our government; and
Whereas, the Slave Power, impelled by a mad ambition to rule and an insane desire to extend and perpetite 
<c04>
the institution of slavery, conspired against the life of the Republic even before President Lincoln entered upon the duties of his office, and at the time of his inauguration stood defiant with arms in their hands in open rebellion against the Constitution and the government; and
Whereas, by the established law of nations, rebels against a government " have no rights " which that government " is bound to respect"; therefore,
Resolved, That, in the sense of this meeting, the Administration would be fully justified in using all the means within its power to put down this most unholy rebellion.
Resolved, That property in man ought not longer to be held as more sacred than property in lands, or tenements, or bales of cotton.
Resolved, That we view with utter loathing the zeal of some of our military officers in sending fugitive slaves back to their masters, without the sanction even of human law, and in direct violation of the Divine law.
Resolved, That the existence of chattel slavery in one section of this Union is this main cause of the present wicked war.
Resolved, That in civil war and insurrection, in the words of John Quincy Adams, "the military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
Resolved, That while we deplore the stern necessity that requires the shedding of human blood, we yet never can willingly submit to any compromise with rebels which shall leave the next generation, from like causes, liable to calamities like those which are now inflicted upon us.
Resolved, That we hail as a sure harbinger of ultimate victory, the liberty-loving instincts which evidently inspire the masses of the people in this contest.
Resolved, That the foresight and untiring energy of Andrew, the practical wisdom and constant zeal of Wilson, the broad and comprehensive statesmanship of Sumner, as developed in his late Worcester speech, and, above all, that noble proclamation issued August 30, 1861, by Major General Fremont, justify the belief that the fire which burned in the breasts of our patriotic sires is again kindled in the hearts of their descendants.
Resolved, That we invite all loyal citizens throughout the country to co-operate with us in petitioning Congress, at its next session, to enact a law which shall confiscate and endow with freedom all the slaves in the country claimed to be owned by rebels against the government, and to set at liberty all remaining slaves by compensation to all loyal slaveholders.
HOLLIS LORING, Chairman.
MEETING IN VERMONT.
Agreeably to a notice previously given by several of our citizens, a mass meeting was held at the union church, in Weston, (Vermont,) on the 13th day of November, 1861, for the purpose of awakening the public mind to a realization of the great importance of rightly improving the present exigency in our national affairs, and rallying for the support of our government in its present struggle with treason and rebellion, with all the zeal and energy demanded by the crisis.
The meeting was called to order by Rev. L. S. Coburn, who, in an appropriate and forcible manner, stated the object of the meeting. The officers of the meeting were then chosen as follows, to wit:-Hon. John Wilder, President; Thomas Richardson, Vice President; Samuel Peabody, Secretary.
Prayer was offered by Rev. Moses Adams. Resolutions were reported by Rev. L. S. Coburn, Chairman of a Committee previously appointed for that purpose, recognizing the justice of the Almighty in the visitation of civil war upon our nation, and the importance of forsaking the sins which have provoked his displeasure. Expressing our sympathy with our government, and promising to sustain it in its determination to suppress existing rebellion, with our prayers, property and lives, if need be. Resolving, in the words of ex-Gov. Fletcher, before the legislature of Vermont,-" That slavery is the bitter root of our national calamaties-the mother of treason and rebellion; the right arm with which treason is warring against us, and that slavery or the republic must die;" that we regard the war in which our country is now engaged, as a war between freedom and slavery, and the advocates of slavery having tendered the issue, it is the unavoidable and imperative duty of Christians and patriots to accept the issue, and give it the prominence before God and the world which rightfully belongs to it." Welcoming any act or declaration from the government, which brings freedom to the enslaved:-against compromise or truce with treason, and in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, until law, order, and the security of person and property is restored, and justice awarded to the chief conspirators. Expressing the earnest desire of liberty loving dwellers on the Green Mountains, that our boys who go from us as soldiers, should be employed for the service to which we cheerfully send them, viz.: to save the Republic; and that our military officers should recognize no human being, but as a freeman. Expressing the belief that we can have no guaranty of peace while slavery exists; that the emancipation of the slaves of our land has become possible, hoping for some definite and reliable measure for the abolition of slavery, as the conclusion of this great conflict for the support of the government and the Union, and acknowledging our duty, in all proper ways, of urging this measure upon the attention of our government, and urging the duty of our people to memorialize Congress, at its approaching session, to abolish slavery, as the only means of saving the nation.
The resolutions were ably advocated by P. H. Hutchinson, Esq., Joseph C. Fenn, Esq., Rev. Moses Adams, Abiel Peabody, Esq., Rev. Mr. Eastman and Rev. L. S. Coburn, of Weston, by Francis Daniels, Esq., of Grafton, Rev. L. Owen, of Londonderry, and Rev. A. M. Swain, of Manchester, and unanimously passed.
A resolution of thanks to the " Green Mountain Guards," who attended as an escort, and to the choir, who enlivened the meeting by discoursing sweet harmony, and appropriate music at intervals during the exercises. The meeting was then adjourned without day. JOHN WILDER, President.
SAMUEL PEABODY, Secretary.
Weston, Nov. 13, 1861.
ARRIVAL OF THE SAN JACINTO. The U. S. steamer San Jacinto, with Messrs. Mason and Slidell on board, arrived in Boston harbor on Sunday, and the prisoners were transferred to Fort Warren. Capt. Wilkes, of the San Jacinto, was welcomed by the authorities of the city and by the people generally, with the utmost enthusiasm. Monday afternoon, Faneuil Hall was crowded to overflowing on the occasion of his formal reception, thousands pressing forward to take the gallant captain by the hand; and on Tuesday, a complimentary dinner was given him at the Revere House, by the merchants of Boston, at which speeches were made by Governor Andrew, Chief Justice Bigelow, and other distinguished gentlemen.
There is a sad state of affairs in parts of Western Virginia, according to the Wheeling Intelligencer. In Lewis and the adjoining counties, during the last week, no less than five Union men have been shot by roving guerilla bands. In Gilmer County, the assassinations became so frequent that on the 3d, Henry H. Withers, a member of the last Wheeling Convention, gathered together seventy-five citizens, and marching upon Glenville, the headquarters of one of the bands, routed it, killing its leader, named Ferrill, and his son.
BARBAROUS. A despatch to the Press states that the dead bodies of Seymore and Taylor-two privates recently killed in a skirmish near Falls Church-were found stripped of their clothing, and their skulls smashed in, as if done by the butt of a carbine. Truly have the rebels resolved to give no quarter to the enemy. Their acts would disgrace a nation of cannibals.
<c05>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION
ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION. ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that "the old Abolitionists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this <Illegible>. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfillment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, or even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country. If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them, they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smoulder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it was more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity.
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that "a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do. All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next. [Particulars hereafter.]
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Louisa Loring, Sarah P. Remand,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp, 
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G. King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay, Abby F. Manley.

AID FOR THE CONTRABANDS.
The following appeal deserves the attention of the charitably disposed. Contributions of old cast-off clothing which are not suitable for the soldiers, may be made available for the objects of this appeal:-
ACARD.
The undersigned, having been appointed by the American Missionary Association their agent for the collection of clothing, clothing materials and money, in aid of the "Contrabands" at Fortress Monroe, and for the support of missionaries and teachers among them, respectfully solicits such contributions from the charitable and benevolent public as they may feel disposed to offer.
There are about two thousand of these ex-slaves now at the Fortress, for whom a large amount of clothing is required, many of them being very destitute and dependent entirely upon charity, while others will need more or less assistance beyond what they receive from Government, who furnish full rations for all, and some clothing for a portion. Clothing of every description of personal wear, and bedding, is needed immediately, and when received will be distributed under the superintendence of the Provost Marshal, (Capt Burleigh,) acting by the approval of the Government and the Association, the latter having the full approval and sympathy of the former in their efforts in behalf of the "Contrabands"
Packages of clothing may be sent to my address, care of Wilder & Co., 26 Water street. Donors are requested to deliver the same in Boston free of expense, and to provide funds (fifty cents per barrel) for the expenses to the Fortress; and any surplus amount will be appropriated for the education of the "Contrabands" W. L. COAN,
Boston, Nov. 26, 1861. Agent A. M. Association.
INTENDED RECEPTION OF GEN FREMONT BY THE GERMANS.
The following call has appeared in the German papers:-
JOHN C. FREMONT.
The removal of John C. Fremont has awakened an outcry of dissatisfaction among the majority of the Northern people, especially the Germans, which no ukase of the gentlemen who stand at the head of the Administration can suppress.
The chief complaints against Fremont are: Firstly, that he wishes to uproot by war the cause of the war; and secondly, that he has given foreigners, particularly Germans, honorable positions on his Staff. The other complaints alleged are so false or so ridiculous that it is not worth while to make any further allusion to them. Fremont has, therefore, sinned because he is for freedom, not in mere form alone, but in its real essence, and because he has thought foreigners-Germans-worthy to do battle for this end. Fremont is removed!
The German citizens of St. Louis have shown that the arbitrary decree of a weak Administration may, indeed, remove the military commander, but not the Man of the People.
The undersigned believe that the free-minded Germans of New York hold the same views. Hence, they have resolved to call together a mass meeting of Germans for the purpose of expressing the opinions of the German element in relation to Fremont.
Time and place will be publicly announced hereafter.
Fr. Kapp, Dr. Dulon, A. Sorge, Fr. Kamm, A. Willman, P. Roedel, W. Kopp, P. Koch, G. Manchot, K. Eulenberg, H. Grube, G. Friedeborn, G. Kuepper, A. Goetze, Th. Glaubensklee, Ch. Vetter.
Gen. Fremont is shortly expected in the city, and the Germans propose giving him a grand reception, with music, torches, and banners. Meetings have been held in different parts of the city, at which speeches have been made indorsing the course of Gen. Fremont. Preparations are in progress for a great public mass meeting, to take place before or after his arrival.
A Committee of eleven, consisting of Messrs. Kessman, Aufermann, Kapp, Dulon, Willman, Kopp, Roedel, Friedeborn, Goetze, Eulenberg, and Kuepper, will wait upon Gen. Fremont immediately on his arrival at the Astor House.—.-New York Tribune.
<c06>
GENERAL FREMONT'S REMOVAL. Nothing could possibly be more admirable in tone and temper than General Fremont's order to his troops announcing his withdrawal from their command. It is manly and patriotic, and will confirm that confidence in his character and ability which is so widely felt throughout the Western States. The order for his removal found him in the midst of preparations for battle; surrounded by troops full of faith in their leader and themselves, and eager for an opportunity to vindicate it by their acts. It was the most trying position in which a popular General and a formidable army could be placed,-but both have come out of it with conspicuous honor to themselves and the country-New York Times.
THE WIFE OF SENATOR ANDREW JOHNSON FLOGGED BY TENNESSEE REBELS. A Tennessee paper says that Andy Johnson is very bitter against the Secessionists. Whether he is so or not, he has certainly had enough to make him bitter. A band of the Rebels went to his house in East Tennessee, with the avowed intention of hanging him, and, not finding him at home, they cut a small hickory with in the woods, and scourged with it the body of his wife. Who could wonder if the outraged husband were to raise his clenched right hand toward God's firmament, and swear to wage a war of extermination against the infernal miscreants!-Louisville Journal, Oct. 18th.
The Norfolk Day Book of November 12th has a dispatch from Richmond stating that Col. Corcoran, three captains and eighteen lieutenants, all captured at Manassas, have been selected by lot to be hung as retribution for the hanging of the captain and; crew of the Southern privateer Savannah. Mr. Ely drew lots for Col. Corcoran, who is now imprisoned in Charleston. In case the court at New York condemned the crew of the Savannah to death, these federal officers will be at once hung.
A SECESSION LADY. The Provost Guard have much trouble with the Secession ladies at Alexandria. The ladies there have no hesitation in openly proclaiming their Secession proclivities. One of them, who was called upon by a captain in Col. McLean's regiment, and remonstrated with for her violent language to one of the guard, replied that if she had her way, she would kill all of the Union troops. "But," continued she, " I never said a word to your guard-I was talking to a nigger-and I can whip the nigger who told you what I said!” Philadelphia Press.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Commercial says that the greater portion of the army sympathize with the slaves, who they know are used against them whenever the masters find an opportunity, and who never let a chance pass for ministering to the comfort of the Union troops, pointing; out forage or concealed arms, and giving valuable information. Those who entered the army with " Southern Rights" ideas, are now the loudest advocates of sequestration and freedom.
OBITUARY.
Died, in Newburyport, Nov. 12th, CARRIE, daughter of PHILIP H. and OLIVE RICHARDSON, aged 21. For a number of years, Carrie has had no sympathy with the prevailing or popular religion of the country. Her religion was Humanity; consequently she was deeply interested in the progress of the Anti-Slavery, Temperance, Woman's Rights and other great enterprises, whose object was to liberate the captive, raise the fallen, comfort the sorrowing, and to benefit the human family. Her disease was such, that she was out ten days before her death. She frequently spoke of her departure as one would who was about taking a journey to meet very dear friends. She left in writing words of consolation, advice and affection to her parents, sisters and friends, and requested her sister to sing and play the same music they had so often enjoyed together, remarking that her body would be absent, but she would be with them from day to day. She was a firm believer in Spiritualism, and requested the statement to be made at the funeral service that she died a believer in liberal Christianity as taught by Theodore Parker. She said that it would be her wish that Mr. Higginson and Miss Hardinge should be present at her funeral, but, knowing the difficulty of obtaining their services, she left a request that Rev. J. E. Bruce of this city should officiate. Mr. Bruce has recently been obliged to leave his people for the reason that he would open his mouth for the dumb, and speak for the oppressed; and the fact of her request shows that her dying testimony was in favor of the old-fashioned Christianity as taught by Jesus. The remarks of Mr. Bruce were timely and very appropriate; the singing by her young friends was calculated to soothe the afflicted. At her request, she was buried in the "morning," and was followed to the Oak Hill Cemetery by a very large company of friends of both sexes. Her bodily presence is not with us, but the sweet and Christian influence of her example is before us, having a calm and heavenly influence on her large circle of friends, who mourn not as others who have no hope. R.
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FOURTH SERIES.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FOURTH SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES continue weekly at TREMONT TEMPLE. 
The lecture on Tuesday Evening, Dec. 3d, will be by
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:-
" 10-DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
" 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
" 24-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
" 31-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
January 7-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in
Portland, Maine, Sunday, Nov. 24.
Hallowell, Maine Monday, Nov. 25.
Skowhegan, Maine Wednesday, Nov.27.
Cornville, Maine Friday, Nov.29.
Athens, Maine  Sunday, Dec. 1.
Palmyra, Maine Tuesday, Dec 3.
East Pittsfield, Maine Wednesday, Dec 4.
Newpor, Maine Thursday Dec, 5.
Carmel, Maine Sunday Dec, 8
Etna, Maine Monday Dec, 9
Hampden Corner, Maine Tuesday Dec, 10
Bucksport, Maine Thursday  Dec,  12
Orland, Maine Friday 13.
Ellsworth, Maine  Sunday Dec,  15
A. M. POWELL will speak at
Canaan, N. Y., Sunday, Dec. 8.
NOTICE:-A meeting will be held at the house of Dr. Knox, 59 Anderson street, Dec. 2d, to commemorate the death of John Brown.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Plymouth, Sunday, December 1st. Subject "Compromise." Text What God hath put asunder, let not man put together." 
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the <Illegible> treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
Reference:-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tar ball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to P. M.
TERMS REDUCED,
AT the Round Hill Water-Cure in Northampton, Mass., to $7 and $10 per week. Open Summer and Winter.
DR. HALSTED'S success in the treatment of Woman's diseases is well known. The cure is speedy and reliable. Those brought on beds, even, are soon enabled to walk. Over four hundred cases of spinal diseases, paralysis and loss of the use of limbs have been restored; and numerous cures have been made of various stubborn difficulties which had lingered without help for years. For the success in treating more ordinary complaints, and the great favor given the Turkish Chemical and other Baths, see circular sent gratis.
Needing a little change, and desirous to confer as well as to receive benefit, Dr. H. will make a few professional visits, travelling expenses being paid, without charge.
Northampton, Oct. 30.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M.D., and
MRS. MARGARET B.BROWN, Accoucheuse, 
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10,A.M. to 4, P.M. 
Boston, Oct, 4, 1861. 3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE CONFLICT.
BY R. BURGESS, V.D.M.
Suave mari magno turbantibus sequora ventis, 
E terra magnum alterius spectare laborem.
LUCRET.
I know ’tis safe, on every score,
To stand aloof from stormy seas; 
But still, I see the farther shore, 
And, all compos'd, the tempest roar, 
Our nation moored in halcyon peace.
Yea, though I hear the wide world's wail, 
When opes in storm the seventh seal,
With voices, lightnings, thunders, hail,-
I joy to see the tyrants quail,
To hear the thunder, peal on peal!
“Twas meant for these-and fiercely driven 
Like shatter'd ships adrift at sea,
No rest to them shall e'er be given,
Before the thunderbolts of heaven, 
Before its red artillery!
Nay, more-let half the world unite
With England, France-a hopeful pair!
Let them beware of treasured spite!
Remember Balaklava's fight, 
Italia's Lion-Russia's Bear!
Cheer up! Our God is for the right!
Our God is for the brave and free!
While for the slave He stirs his might,
And ne'er shall end the bloody fight,
Till sounds the trump of Jubilee!
Not while the blood of martyrs cries,
Like rivers shed o'er all the land,
Or cries in vain-not till we rise,
A nation, humble, potent, wise,
Prepared for God to fall or stand!
Not while the half of all our priests,
With half our sects, for blackest crime,
A crime that shames the very beasts,
Shall plead-and make their solemn feasts
On blood and tears, as bards on rhyme!
Not-while our bravest are betrayed;
Not-while our hosts return the slave;
Not-while we scorn the black man's aid;
Not-till our pride is all allay'd,
Or buried in a bloody grave!
Boston, 15th Nov., 1861.

For the Liberator.
THERE IS HOPE.
In answer to "Is There Hope?" in the Liberator of Nov. 15.
There is hope!-yes, there surely must be,
Though Humanity, weary and faint,
With long vigils, still wait the decree,
That shall nobly erase all complaint.
But that hope is not based on the truth 
Of those who have worshipped so long
At the altar of Baal and self,
That their conscience and manhood are gone;
But because that Omnipotence reigns,
There is hope for a brother that pleads;
God will in his time break the chains-
He will bind up the heart that now bleeds.
Oh! let us still hope and still pray,
That the glorious time we soon see,
When a voice like a trumpet may say,
"Neath our banner all men are now free!"
Etna, (Me.)Nov.18,.1861. LIZZIE H. WHITTEN.

From the New York Independent.
THE WATCHERS.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Beside a stricken field I stood; 
On the torn turf, on grass, on wood,
Hung heavily the dew of blood.
Still in their fresh mounds lay the slain; 
But all the air was quick with pain, 
And gusty sighs, and tearful rain.
Two angels, each with drooping head 
And folded wings and noiseless tread, 
Watched by that valley of the dead.
The one, with forehead saintly bland, 
And lips of blessing, not command, 
Leaned, weeping, on her olive wand.
The other's brows were scarred and knit;
His restless eyes were watch-fires lit,
His hands for battle-gauntlets fit.
"How long!"-I knew the voice of Peace: 
"Is there no respite?-no release?-
When shall the hopeless quarrel cease?
"Oh Lord, how long!-One human soul 
Is more than any parchment scroll, 
Or any flag the winds unroll.
"What price was Ellsworth's, young and brave?
How weigh the gift that Lyon gave?
Or count the cost of Winthrop's grave?
"Oh brother! if thine eye can see,
Tell how and when the end shall be;
What hope remains for thee or me."
Then Freedom sternly said: "I shun
No strife nor pang beneath the sun,
When human rights are staked and won.
"I knelt with Ziska's hunted flock;
I watched in Toussaint's cell of rock:
I walked with Sidney to the block.
"The moor of Marston felt my tread;
Through Jersey snows the march I led;
My voice Magenta's charges sped.
"But now, through weary day and night,
I watch a vague and aimless fight
For leave to strike one blow aright.
"On either side my foe they own:
One guards through love his ghastly throne,
And one through fear to reverence grown.
"Why wait we longer, mocked, betrayed,
By open foes, or those afraid
"To speed thy coming through my aid?
"Why watch to see who win or fall?-
I shake the dust against them all;
I leave them to their senseless brawl."
"Nay," Peace implored: "yet longer wait;
The doom is near, the stake is great;
God knoweth if it be too late.
"Still wait and watch; the way prepare
Where I, with folded wings of prayer,
May follow, weaponless and bare."
"Too late!" the stern, sad voice replied;
"Too late!" its mournful echo sighed;
In low lament the answer died.
A rustling as of wings in flight,
An upward gleam of lessening white,
So passed the vision, sound and sight.
But round me like a silver bell
Hung down the listening sky to tell
Of holy help, a sweet voice fell.
"Still hope and trust," it sang: "the rod
Must fall, the wine-press must be trod;
But all is possible with God!"

NOVEMBER.
The mellow year is hastening to its close;
The little birds have almost sung their last;
Their small notes twitter in the dreary blast-
That shrill-piped harbinger of early snows;
The patient beauty of the scentless rose,
Oft with the morn's hoar crystal quaintly glassed,
Hangs, a pale mourner for the summer past,
And makes a little summer where it grows.
In the chill sunbeam of the faint, brief day,
The dusky waters shudder as they shine;
The russet leaves obstruct the straggling way
Of oozy brooks, which no deep banks define;
And the gaunt woods, in ragged, scant array,
Wrap their old limbs with somber ivy twine.
<c02>
The Liberator.
IN MEMORIAM.
I have just heard of the death of our dear and honored friend, FRANCIS JACKSON. It was not unexpected, for his physical strength had long been failing. The vital forces rallied wonderfully, from time to time, a constitution naturally strong being aided by the temperate habits of his life; but the friends who saw him often have felt, for months past, that he would not much longer remain visibly present among them. Yet, though the thought of separation had long been familiar, the tidings oppressed me with a sense of bereavement.
Thirty years ago, I realized that I was bound to the early, uncompromising Abolitionists in bonds stronger than any mere natural ties; and looking round upon what still remains of that noble and faithful band, I say in my soul, "Behold my brethren! for whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." I said, what remains of the noble band. Alas! though I believe the departed are still working with us, I cannot feel otherwise than sad to see how rapidly the tried and true are falling around me. There is something of melancholy in the reaping of grain, though we know full well that there is within the gathered sheaves the germs of future life and harvests yet to come.
As the evening shadows lengthen on our earthly pilgrimage; separations become more and more frequent. Every circling of the seasons, within the last ten years, has left vacant the places of some whom I reverenced for the love and truth made manifest in their lives. All of us in Boston cherish the memory of dear CATHERINE SARGENT, whose unpretending goodness concealed itself in "life's shadiest coverts." Every Saturday, some poor widow in her neighborhood received a joint of meat for a comfortable Sunday's dinner"; her fingers were always busy making garments for poor invalids; her purse was always ready to help the fugitive slave, or to sustain those who were pleading for him. Almost her last words were directions concerning garments for the poor, which failing strength compelled her to leave unfinished. But the world knew nothing of all this. It was imperfectly known even to the few friends whom she cherished with unwearied kindness; for her spirit was at home in the Valley of Humility. She would have disclaimed, most sincerely, any power of penetration, yet few detected shams so easily, and" what within was good and true, she saw it with her heart." Her natural relations with the world brought her into frequent communication with the conservative and the worldly wise; but her honest soul recognized the presence of evil, whatsoever gloss might varnish its surface, and no fog of sophistry could obscure her perception of plain, simple truths. They told me that after death her aged countenance became youthful, and shone with a heavenly expression. I, who knew her intimately, did not wonder at this reflection of angelic radiance.
Then ELLIS GRAY LORING, in the ripeness of his years, with stores of intellectual acquisition garnered up for noble and beneficent uses, passed suddenly away from us. For more than a quarter of a century, he was always true to the cause of the slave, which he aided by wise counsels and liberal donations. His private relations were the beau-ideal of love and friendship. He was always sincere, reliable, for giving and affectionate. The bond between him and Francis Jackson was very strong. Their intellectual paths diverged widely, but each loved and honored perfect uprightness and truth in the other. 
Next, the large-hearted, open-handed CHARLES F. HOVEY departed from us. He had no faith in much that is believed by the theological world, but he was always striving to obey those great principles of truth, justice and humanity, which constitute the essence of Deity. He took fatherly interest in the great numbers of people he employed. If a poor seamstress was. absent from her accustomed seat on account of illness, he personally administered to her comfort, and ordered her wages to be continued till she was able to return to her work. He thoroughly believed in the brotherhood of mankind. Nothing pleased him more than to have his domestics at the same table with him. Had Christianity been as it was in the days of the twelve fishermen, he would undoubtedly have been a member of the community. As it was, he judged ecclesiastical shams somewhat severely, while he worshipped God in the form of love to his neighbor, and especially recognized as such those who had "fallen among thieves." In his reverence for principles, he was more religious than he knew of.
Then the mighty spirit of THEODORE PARKER dropped the earthly garment, which perpetual energetic use had worn out before its time. He wielded the hammer of Thor in our moral battle, while his great heart was filled with love for every little child.
Then was parted from our side that lovely and beloved companion, ELIZA LEE FOLLEN. At the very outset of our great struggle with despotism, she stood bravely by the side of her noble husband, and both laid unreservedly upon the altar of our unpopular cause all their uncommon powers of mind, all the sympathies of their great warm hearts. Allied by birth to wealth and conservatism, she kept alive her natural affections, without losing a ray of her spiritual life. To her latest hour, she remained steadfast and earnest in her advocacy of the Anti-Slavery cause. Amid the raging of mobs and the cold scorn of world lings, she was always cheerful and strong, full of faith that right must prevail, and that it was a blessed privilege to work and suffer for that result. Always and every where she was "fervent in spirit, and spoke and taught diligently the things of the Lord." That soft white hair, and those large blue eyes, that looked out upon the world so honestly and lovingly, are before me now. It is a lovely vision; like an angel's face, surrounded by fleecy clouds.
Her dearly beloved sister, SUSAN CABOT, through all the long years, was her faithful helper in all good words and works. To her skilful fingers we owed many of the most beautiful and tasteful articles sold at our Fairs, and her natural vein of facetiousness enlivened us all, even in the darkest and most wearisome hours. By an argument clothed in a pun, she overcame my extreme reluctance to have my likeness engraved among a circle of Anti-Slavery women. She summed up the matter in her witty way, by saying, "When a righteous cause is unpopular, it is a duty to give your countenance to it." Truly, these excellent and highly endowed sisters were "lovely in their lives," and it may almost be said that " in their deaths they were not divided." She dreaded the first anniversary of Mrs. Follen's departure, and said she wished she could sleep through it Before the day arrived, Death, the beneficent "brother of Sleep," laid his hand gently upon her eyelids, and she awoke no more to a sense of earthly sorrows.
I forget when we missed Mrs. REMOND from the band of the faithful; but well do I remember her intelligent remarks, her lady-like deportment, and that handsome brown face with its lustrous dark eyes.
Lately, news reaches us that we have lost NATHAN WINSLOW, the unwavering friend of our principles, and a munificent patron in our early days, when liberal donations were scarce.
More recently still, a dear young spirit has crossed the dark river. LUCIA WESTON, whose image presents itself to my memory, in its youthful beauty, fresh as a rose in June. She was one of a pleasant band of talented and devoted sisters, who simultaneously laid upon the altar of universal freedom their rare endowments, moral and mental. To a cold taken in working for oar our Fairs she probably owed the disease which terminated her mortal life. Very pleasant and dear was she to us all; ever to be remembered and blessed as a fragrant flower blooming on the rugged and toilsome pathway of reform.
And now there is hidden from our sight the countenance of FRANCIS JACKSON, on which sturdy honesty and practical good sense were so plainly written, that 
<c03>
no passer by could mistake the inscription. When Boston "gentlemen of property and standing," in defence of King Cotton, mobbed a meeting of Anti-Slavery women, in 1835, the manly soul of Mr. Jackson was roused to outspoken indignation. In a memorable letter, he invited the persecuted friends of an unpopular cause to hold their meetings in his house, if the enlightened city of Boston could furnish them with no more convenient place of gathering. Some people reminded him that the same spirit which hurled brickbats at women was capable of demolishing his dwelling. He replied, "I shall place no value on my house, if free speech cannot be uttered there." From that period to the hour of his death, he was the indefatigable and generous friend of the Anti-Slavery reform, and of others kindred with it. It would not be easy to number the fugitive slaves he helped with his money and his counsel; and every friend of the slave found a welcome in his hospitable mansion. He was more thoroughly a democrat than any man I ever knew. Of course, I do not call him so in the party sense of that term. The words Christian and Democrat have both been applied to such base purposes, that they have become "damaged phraseology," as Theodore Parker was wont to say. But democrat, in the good sense of the term, he was, most thoroughly. He was instinctively a friend and brother of the people, without reference to nation or complexion. By an ungentle occupation, he had industriously worked his way upward in the social scale. He became wealthy, and influential men trusted him greatly, on account of his sterling good sense and strict integrity. I His brother William became a member of Congress, and bore himself bravely and honestly in the midst of: that truckling, compromising body. Prosperity and honors never excited in Francis Jackson a thought of concealing that he and his family had been working men. He never obtruded it ostentatiously, as some people do, in proof of their own wonderful capabilities. He alluded to it, if the conversation naturally suggested it, or he forgot it, just as it happened. To him it was simply a fact of no importance. The manner in which he habitually ignored mere artificial distinction would have seemed very absurd and undignified to self-conscious world lings. I once met at his house an English traveller of considerable pretension, who was very desirous to have it known that he was acquainted with Lord Brougham. His conversations with that distinguished personage were aired upon every occasion for the benefit of listeners, and there was always a superabundant sprinkling of his title" ."I said to his lordship, my lord, when I last had the honor of meeting your lordship, your lordship was pleased to remark," &c. It chanced that this lord worshipper had been riding in the dust, and upon entering the house, he asked for water to wash. The domestic went up stairs to see that water and fresh towels were in readiness. Whether Mr. Jackson was aware of her mission, I never knew. Probably he was not. There was in the kitchen a sink used solely for personal bathing, and a clean, coarse roller was suspended above it. When the domestic returned to escort the gentleman to his room, she found him wiping his hands on the kitchen roller. What the English traveller might say to "my lord" about American customs, when he next "had the honor of conversing with his lordship," never occurred to Mr. Jackson's mind, neither did he care to have him know that there was plenty of fine damask towels in his house. He forgot all about it, just as he might have forgotten if his guest had been a dusty fugitive slave. Ah! the honest, great soul! so strong in simplicity and truth! How I love and reverence his memory!
I saw him several times, during the months preceding his departure from this world. I always found him calm and collected, willing, nay desirous to go. When I expressed a hope that he would recover, he replied, " You ought not to wish it. Why should I outlive my usefulness? My work here is done. Ellis Gray Loring, my brother William, Charles Hovey, Theodore Parker, and a host of other faithful friends are waiting for me on the other side. I don't want to keep them waiting." When I said that the effects of his labors would remain long after he had left the world, he replied, "I hope so. As I sit here in my chamber, unable to move about, I have abundant time for reflection. The years of my life pass in review before me. I find much that I could mend with the light I now have, and some things I am ashamed of. Why, in my youth, I spent a deal of time and money in militia trainings! What foolish business that was! What I fall back upon as my greatest consolation, in these hours of retrospection, is what I have done for the slaves; and what I am most thankful for in my pilgrimage is the friendships I have formed with abolitionists. They have increased my respect for human nature, and intercourse with them has made my soul larger and freer. "When I saw him a few days before his death, he raised his pale, emaciated face, and looked at me earnestly, as he asked, "Do you believe this dreadful war will end in the emancipation of the slaves?" When I told him that I did think so, he answered," I hope so; for I love my country, and no otherwise can it be saved." Freighted with that sublime hope, the soul of the just man went to his home above.
During the interval I have mentioned, we have lost many efficient helpers, who never belonged to our Society, but were always ready to give us sympathy and aid. To allude to them all would fill columns. Among those to whom I was personally attached, I most frequently remember Miss MARY OSGOOD, of Medford. She was well known as a lady of great learning, singularly racy conversation, and marked individuality of character. It was exciting to come in contact with her immediately after some fresh compromise of principle by politicians. On such occasions, she obeyed the injunction of the most vigorous of our poets:-
"Keep back no syllable, of fire!.
Plunge deep the rowels of thy speech!"
Her great contempt of insincerity, and shams of all sorts, produced a degree of bluntness, which to strangers seemed like roughness; but within the apparently hard shell there was a very soft kernel. She sympathized with suffering as earnestly as she battled with wrong. Religion, education, reform, all agencies that help on the progress of the human race received from her most liberal and efficient aid; and when she died, all the poor in the town mourned for her, as for a sister.
Among these memories, I cannot pass by Mrs. ABBY B. FEANCIS, wife of Dr. FRANCIS, of Cambridge, whose name and influence were freely used in our cause. Physical debility and suffering crippled her energies for years, but she was always ready to use all the strength she had for the relief of the poor and the t oppressed. She died when the lurid signs of civil war first began to appear on the political horizon. Her last intelligible words to the devoted daughter, who was watching over her, were, "Oh, Abby, what will become of the poor slaves?"
Can a cause that lies so deep in thinking minds and feeling hearts fail of its accomplishment? Assuredly not. To doubt its triumph would be to doubt that a just God rules over human affairs. The New York Herald exults over the fact, that the Garrisonian Abolitionists are growing old and dying off. It apparently comforts itself with the idea that the pestilent heresy of our Declaration of Independence will pass away with them. Such a hope is unphilosophical and delusive. Those who work for conscience sake never work in vain. Scattered seeds of truth are never wasted. After the twelve apostles were persecuted unto death, the doctrines they preached became the religion of nations; and from the ashes of Huss and Wickliffe rose an army of Puritans, to whom England is mainly indebted for her civil and religious freedom. L. MARIA CHILD.
To this list of departed worthies, who have been taken from active labor in the cause of the oppressed within the period designated by Mrs. CHILD, and in this part of the country, may be added the names of SARAH H. ELRLE and EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON of Worcester, and SAMUEL PHILBRICK.
<c04>
DOINGS IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
The correspondent at Port Royal of the Times thus reports progress on the contraband question:-
"The battle of Port Royal was terminated at about 3 o'clock on Thursday last; on Saturday, at the same hour, I saw eighty fugitive slaves, contraband of war, who had escaped from their masters, and hurried within the Union lines. This was on the southern headland of the bay, and on the northern side there are half as many more. They report that the rest are coming. They declare that, since last March, they have been waiting and watching for the Yankees. And this is in South Carolina-this is where the blacks are so contented, where they were so attached to their masters, where we were defied to seduce them away. No attempt has been made, or will be made, to entice them, much less to excite an insurrection, but those who come in will be welcomed, will be clad and fed, and set to work for the National cause. I talked for an hour with various of them. They were all men or boys-of every age-some had been house servants, some field hands, some were stupid and stolid in an extraordinary degree, but they had very definite ideas relative to the Yankees. Through their jargon, at first nearly unintelligible, I was able at last to get at those ideas. They saw my difficulty in apprehending them, and said they could not talk plain, but it was all "here," pointing to their breasts. They said they believed the Yankees to be friends; that they came in to work, to do whatever they were bidden; they had expected us, but not dared to speak of it to their masters; they had seen the fight from up the river, and hurried down as soon as it was over. They all report that since last March they have been waiting for us; they all declare, that so far as they know, all the blacks are anxiously "waiting for us; their only uneasiness was on account of the wives and children they had left behind, but when told they should see these again, their fears were at once allayed. So here is a mighty engine put into our hands, one that may well be used to weaken the enemy. A careful, merciful use of it may prove to the rebels a warning at once, and a rebuke. If traitors are deprived of their property, and all loyal men indemnified, and no outrages permitted, a lesson of the real intention of the North may be taught, and a significant indication of its fearful power be afforded."
A little later, the same correspondent adds:-
"This account of the feelings of the. blacks, and of the attempt of the South Carolinians to compel them to accompany their masters [by shooting them] has been confirmed in various quarters, and tallies exactly with what I was told yesterday by some negroes whom I saw at Seabrook, a hamlet about six miles from Hilton Head. At that place, some two hundred negroes had gathered during the day, and continued to come in until long after I had left at nightfall. They were men, women, and children, and of all ages. All reported the same story, and told it without any apparent concert. They came from across Skull Creek, which divides Hilton Island from the main land; many were from the Pinckney estate, but they came from several plantations, and agreed that their masters had endeavored to take them along in the flight that seems to be general in the whole neighborhood. The negroes, however, assured me. that they refused to fly, and in several instances the white men shot at them. I heard of two blacks who were wounded. The rest were indignant; they declared that all would come in to the National forces who could get away; and that none would accompany their masters unless absolutely forced. They manifested the greatest elation at their escape, and like those whom I first questioned, the day after the fight, declared that the whole black population had long expected the coming of the Yankees, and were everywhere anxious to hurry to our lines. There was a jubilee last night in the negro quarters at Seabrook, dancing and singing around fires that they built, and inside of the captured Fort Walker a religious meeting was held, and thanks offered to God for their deliverance. A hundred or more are already at work landing the cargoes of the vessels, or assisting in whatever labors are assigned them. There can be no doubt that the negro question is destined immediately to assume in this quarter proportions and aspects utterly unlike any that it has presented else where. The blacks throughout the State will desert their masters wherever our army appears, and if those masters are so insane as to attempt coercion, results appalling to contemplate must ensue. No shadow of inducement has thus far been held out to the slaves by the National forces. They have come to us without any invitation; they express a willingness to work; they have already given valuable information, acted as guides, and in the labors to which they are put will prove of prodigious assistance. But the utter and speedy annihilation of slavery in South Carolina seems "as certain as that these infatuated Secessionists continue to hold out against our arms."
But the Herald ("Saul also among the prophets") outdoes all other "incendiary" journals in the premises. Here is an extract from its correspondent's letter, dated Hilton Head, Nov. 14th:-
"Contraband slaves still flock into the camps, and at once find profitable employment, and plenty to eat from Uncle Sam's representatives. It is highly amusing to see these poor creatures, after their day's work, give expressions of their exuberant spirits at the change in their condition from that of the animal to that of the human being. At night groups of them gather together; they dance, sing, and otherwise enjoy themselves, and seem grateful to our troops for their unexpected delivery from the hands of their tyrant masters."
Is not this atrocious? What can the Herald mean by "agitating the nigger question," in such a reckless, dangerous manner! Has it not a thousand times assured its readers that those "tyrant masters" were the excellent of the earth, whom every slave loved as the apple of his eye, and whom he could by no lure be induced to abandon? Yet here it talks of their change "from the condition of the animal to that of the human being," and represents them as over-joyed at the transmutation! Can such "incendiary" babble be tolerated? Should not the old sinner of the Herald have a snug berth in that Fort Lafayette to which he is so eager to hurry all who favor abolition?-New York Tribune.

THE CONTRABANDS AT BEAUFORT.
The N. Y. Evening Post, in the letter of its correspondent on the Great Naval Expedition, has the following account of the behavior of the negroes about Beaufort:-
* * * Early in the morning after the victory, the plantation negroes began to come into camp, and with the genuine African instinct for trade, each had provided himself with a turkey, a shoulder of bacon, or two shoulders, and a brace of hams in the shape of a struggling porker, which he bore kicking and squealing under his arm. It was amusing to see the pertinacity with which the fellows would cling to their prize; even while waiting to be questioned under guard of a file of soldiers. The instant one was spoken to, the bit of wide-awake or the rimless crown of straw which did duty as a hat would be jerked off with characteristic obsequiousness, the negro stand scraping and bowing, answering meanwhile his catechism, as well as he could with the noisy and struggling' beast distracting his attention.
Several who came in brought wagons loaded with knapsacks and other accoutrements, which they had picked up on the way. All seemed ready to work; and those who were fortunate to have possessed themselves of some stray horse or a pair of plantation mules found abundant occupation.
As our troops were at first too busy in making good their position to attend to anything else, and the Quartermasters had already more upon their hands than they could attend to, the negroes who appeared were not encouraged to remain, but at once sent back, on one pretence and another, to take care of themselves. But by the morning of the second day, fifty were already, gathered at head-quarters, and signs of a much greater influx, were abundant.
Those who remained were put under the charge of Capt. Goodrich, the Quartermaster of General Wright's brigade, who saw that their wants were well attended to, giving up an old building to their accommodation.
Our troops were accompanied in their first recon naissance into the island by Dr. J. J. Craven, the efficient surgeon of the third brigade, who reports the negroes on the plantations further inland as almost wild with delight at the advent of our troops and the hasty flight of their masters, which they described with the utmost gusto.
"O Lord! massay" said one, "we're so glad to
<c05>
see you. We'se prayed and prayed the good Lord that he would send yer Yankees, and we knowed you'se was coming."
"How could you know that?" asked Dr. Craven. "You can't read the papers; how did you get the news?"
"No, massa, we'se can't read, but we'se can listen. Massa and missus used to read, and sometimes they's would read loud, and then we would listen so, [making an expressive gesture, indicative of close attention at a key-hole.] When I'se get a chance, I'se would list'n, and Jim him would list'n; and we put the bitsn together, and we knew'd the Yankees were coming. Bless the Lord, massa."
Another stout fellow asserted that the good Lord had appeared to him in the shape of a "Yankee," who assured him that his hour of deliverance was at hand.
The poor, trusting creatures never seemed to question that a war which they had heard was all about them, must mean their deliverance from a bondage with which they do not seem to have been sufficiently in love, to follow the fortunes of their fleeing masters.
A driver's whip which was picked up, and which the correspondent of the Evening Post now has in his possession, was shown one of them, and he was asked if he knew what it was.
"Golly, massa!" said the negro, with a suspicious, sidelong look at the familiar whip he saw raised aloft, "Guess dis nigger knows what dat dere is," and he proceeded to explain the use to which it was applied.
When some doubt was expressed as to the negro statements in regard to numbers, one of them answered:-
"We can't read, but we can count."
"How did you learn to count?"
"Picking cotton, massa, We'se all got to count 
when we pick cotton, massa."
There seems to be abundant work for them to do in picking cotton on Hilton Head Island, which our troops have occupied, and it is hoped that their services will be in some way turned to account for this purpose.
Acres of it, already white for the harvest, were found within less than a mile of Fort Walker, and will be lost unless speedily attended to.
Several buildings filled with unginned cotton were also found further back toward Skull Creek, and on the islands beyond that stream similar deposits could be seen. A heavy smoke which was seen at a distance, the negroes reported to come from a lot of cotton which had been fired by the retreating rebels.
A French traveller, formerly attached to the Crimean army, happening to be" on one of the vessels which captured Port Royal, writes to one of his friends in New York city a letter, from which the following extract is taken:-
"And now, my friend, let me say a word of that burning question of slavery, which, happily for the fame of our common country, and for the interests of the French planters themselves, we disposed of thirteen years ago. I say happily for the French planters, for I was six months ago in one of the emancipated colonies, and I could ascertain with my own eyes that she produces now three times as much sugar as before, the emancipation. Excuse me if I refer to that event, but I cannot forbear thinking that if the rich soil which I tread was cultivated by free hands, it would in a few years, like the French colonies, yield three times as much as it does now. The negroes who flock from all parts of the country to meet their liberators, and who are now surrounding the staff of General Sherman, have as intellectual an appearance as any French negro of my acquaintance. I have just talked to a French creole from Louisiana, who goes as a body servant to New Orleans every year with his master. He had a basket of oranges under one of his arms, and a dozen of unfeathered chickens on the other, which he wanted me to buy. Seeing that I was talking French to one of the officers, he understood me in that language, that is to say in Creole, a kind of brogue with which my numerous travels have made me familiar. You cannot imagine how interested I was with his conversation. There was such a feeling of gratitude in his whole countenance, such a contentment beaming in his eyes, that notwithstanding the warmness of his nature and the simplicity of his language, I could not help being moved to tears. He said to me that every negro in the South turned every day his eyes towards the horizon to see whether he could not discover the Star Spangled Banner looming in the distance, and the Yankees coming to deliver them. Every negro, male or female, is conscious of the struggle now going on between the North and the South, and relies upon its results for the recovery of his freedom. The expedition of Port Royal, for instance, was know by them as well as by Jeff. Davis himself; and though they could neither read nor write, they knew by the conversation the rebels had between themselves, perhaps through other channels unknown to me, the place of landing of the expedition, and more particularly the name of the officer who commanded it. It seemed, however, that they have not a very exact idea of time, for when I asked the creole negro how long he had been waiting for Commodore Dupont's arrival, he told me he thought he would have come six months ago, in July last. Though perfectly ignorant of the material means of action of the blacks of the South, I think that there is in them a hidden force calculated to display itself sooner or later, which, if the American government chose to use now, would undoubtedly transform itself into a mighty instrument of war."
The negroes have somehow got the idea that they are advancing their own cause by keeping quiet! They know, most of them, all that is going on, and what it is for. They believe it is for their freedom. News travels very fast with them. They usually know of an event that has taken place sooner than the whites. They are wide awake nights! They are very still and quiet, and sleepy in the day, manifesting no interest in what is going on. but at night they are on the alert for news. There is one negro in that vicinity-I have his name, but for his sake I shall lisp it to no one-who, for his natural intelligence, shrewdness and activity, is of great value. His master was offered a very large sum for him before the war broke out. He has great influence over the slaves, who have unbounded confidence in him. My informant had a conversation with him not many days ago. It was relative to the opinions and feelings of the negroes:
"I tell’em ," said the negro," that they must be quiet. I says to ’em, keep yer eyes wide open, and pray for the good time coming'." And then, sai my informant, the man with true eloquence-feeling every word he uttered-exclaimed:
" I tells ’em that if the Souf whips, it's all night wid yer: but if the Norf whips, it is all day wid yer!"
"Do they believe that?"
"Yes, Massa, all believe it. The black men are all wid yer, only some of ’em isn't bery well informed, but they will all be wid yer. Massa thinks they isn't wid yer, but they is."
So, under the all-controlling hand of Providence, this slave bides his own time of deliverance, and counsels his fellow suffering bondmen, looking and longing for the hour, to be quiet-to wait with patience. It is the burden of many a poor negro's prayer that the North may conquer. There may be those who will look with indifference upon this narrative, or perhaps treat it with contempt, but to me it is one of the sublimest of pictures. Counselling them to be quiet-to wait!-Corr. of Boston Journal.
The following extracts from a letter from Port Royal will show what the contrabands think of the Union demonstration on South Carolina:-
"From the statement of one negro, the Southerners tried to make, them believe that we would kill them all. But ’Mars, one of the contrabands, said, ’Nigger don't, believe 'em. I'se contraband; lots of niggers comin'.' The slaves swim the rivers to come to us. Another contraband said, ’I'se run when de shot cum, but I'se come back now.' I asked another if he did not want to go back to his master where his wife was? ’No sah!' said he, ’I'se free now.,' We are now (11th) encamped on Gen. Drayton's plantation. He has about 200 negroes, large and small, so I am told by a patriarchal negro of 80 years, who makes one of the number. I asked him what they said about us. Well, said he:’ Dey tell us de Yankees kill we; den dey say de Yankees sell we, but for my part I don care if dey did, kase I ole and -don't make much differ now; "de ole man got no chile to gib he as much as water. I hab seventeen fine children, but de ole man got none now; dey sell dem all-sell all my fine boys and gals-all my children like sheep.' I asked if they believed we would sell or kill them; he promptly answered No; that if the negroes believed it, they would not have staid.
<c06>
"The negroes are told the same thing on the main land, but still they hide in the woods, and run to us.
"It seems that the valiant South Carolinians have a terrible scare on them. Thirty miles from here, away on the main land, we hear of their running off, telling their negroes to hide in the bush until they come back, for fear that the Yankees may kill them; but the negroes, by tens, by twenties, and by hundreds, run off to us.
"I ask many of them how they like to be free; this few of them fully understand; they say they like us, and are glad we came, ’bekase,’ said’ one, ’now we get our own time.' This is the language of most. Low as the idea seems, still it is a primary step, and one of no small importance. And they seem infatuated with the idea that their days and nights and labor are their own; the products of their toil belong to themselves. ’And now.' said an old woman,’ Ole Massa sell no more my children; dey all’; longs to me.'
"Some of the fruits of our victory are 3,500 negroes on this island in our possession, transformed by a rebellion and a victory from slaves into freemen, free to do and own themselves; others are flocking to us to join the army of freemen."
The negroes at Port Royal were giving new evidences every day of a decided change in heart, as well as improvement in their condition. One of them who came alongside of the Baltic was dressed in a superfine suit, which, he said, formerly " longed to massa, but that gem’an having quit, he had ’sumed the style to prevent moths eating it up" The same negro was poorly shod. He professed great piety, and insisted upon shouting "thanks to the good Lord that he now enjoyed legion as he never did before." He was profoundly displeased because somehow "massa had ’prived him of his faithful Bet"(his third wife). He left,. saying, "Good day, massa, I bring a fat turkey to-morrow."
"The island is entirely deserted by the South Carolina chivalry, leaving their negroes in possession of their plantations, crops and everything. The slaves seem much pleased with the result of the battle of the 7th inst. They say their masters, before the fight boasted loudly that they would "blow the d-d Yankee fleet out of water,"." but" when the fight war again' on and right after,. O Lor', massa, you’d order a seen ’em run!"

MORE ABOUT THE CONTRABANDS.
FORTRESS MONROE, Nov. 19.
Since the arrival of the large number of negroes two weeks ago-upwards of one hundred in three days-few have come in, though extensive preparations were making among the negroes to follow those who had gone before them. This is owing,. probably, to the execution of the purpose among slave owners to destroy the boats accessible to the negroes along the river and inlets of the Chesapeake, its tributaries, and James River. But they will come. The destruction of them may interpose obstacles, and delay their departure;: but the negro will find means to make his escape, for if he has a talent for anything, it is for running away. It must be confessed that he could not have a much stronger motive than the purpose which is said to exist in Virginia, to sell the negroes to the South- a purpose arising from the necessity on the part of the owners to raise the wind, and the growing insecurity of that description of property. Reckoning negroes by the former tariff of slaves, General Wool must now have several millions of this kind of property. As yet, I have not seen or heard of any proclamations, addresses or other public declarations in this department on the subject. The practice is simple, straight-forward, and quite sufficient for reasonable men. All who come are received, clothed, fed and maintained in a generous, just and systematic manner the negroes are made to work, receive $10 per month, beside rations-$2 in cash; the rest, over and above the cost of their clothing, goes into a common fund to support those who cannot work. Nothing is said about the future; nobody is particularly exercised about what is to become of the negroes. Everything goes on smoothly, and each day is doing something to solve the problem so interesting, and so liable to be interfered with by doing too much, especially in the way of proclamations and the like. I submit, whether a better plan can be devised for treating the negro question that this. It will work equally well elsewhere. Let practical men treat it as a practical question-a problem, in the solution of which its natural gravitation ought to satisfy all fair-minded men. 
The Kansas City (Mo.) correspondent of the Boston Traveller says:-
"Contrabands still continue to arrive. Some twenty have passed through this town within four days, and information has been received of several parties on the road. In view of the defenceless condition of the State, an offer has been made the Executive of a colored regiment for the border. A thousand able bodied men can easily be raised. They are eager to enter the army. Gov. Robinson, it is stated, has forwarded a request to the War Department for permission to employ them. Two regiments of colored men have been offered to the Governor from Cincinnati, for service in New Mexico. The acceptance of these has also been urged upon the Secretary of War. We need them just as much as Gen. Sherman."
The same correspondent writes:-
Captain John Brown, Jr.'s company of Mounted Riflemen joined the command to-day. They numbered 60 men,. and were under command of Lieuts. Bostwick and George H. Hoyt (formerly of the Suffolk Bar). Capt. Brown is recruiting., and will be here soon. As they marched up Main street, they sung the "John Brown" song in splendid style., and with great effect.
It was. a moment in my life worth being proud of when, later in the evening, the same lyric was sung in front of the Colonel's tent, and our gallant leader came out and responded to the enthusiastic cheers of the new comers. Col. Jennison gave him his programme, in the course of which he said:-
"Old John Brown when living was the only man he took stock in, and when he first took arms under him, he vowed never to lay them down until; the last slave -was free in the United States. He had but six men when he commenced, and the nation against him. The time had come. He meant to work, and if the Government objected to decisive action, or sought longer to evade the true issue and strike at the cause-Slavery-they could have his commission, but he. meant to go in them on his own hook; all is regiment were Abolitionists, and if there were any others, he didn't want them in it. The rights of Union men must be respected, but the last thing? valuable to the rebels and of use to us will be taken. If a rebel's slave comes into our camp, it must be protected to the last bullet and the last man. Nor was he too good to fight by the side of the contraband, and he could find no better use for rebel arms than to put them in the hands of black men."
This is a specimen brick from the speeches which were made. Col. Anthony, as also Lieuts. Bostwick and Hoyt and your reporter, made speeches.
Speaking of contrabands, our stock has been increased by the addition of some twenty since Sunday.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there, are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
JOHN S. ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6 TREMONT STREET,
BOSTON.
