<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
TERMS -Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.52. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1864.WHOLE NO. 1768.
Selections.
"SPEECH OF HON. EDWARD EVERETT.
At the recent meeting of the Massachusetts Electoral College-after the members bad recorded their voted in favor of Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson -on motion of Hon. Levi Lincoln, a complimentary resolution to Hon. Edward Everett was unanimously adopted, who responded as follows:-
Gentlemen of the Electoral College:
I receive the resolutions you have just been pleased to adopt as a new mark of your personal and official kindness, rendered doubly welcome by the venerable years, so freshly arid gracefully worn, and the Mekong and meritorious services of our honored associate, by whom they were offered. But the occasion is too serious for any further remarks personal to myself.
Assembled at this time, in obedience to the will of the people of Massachusetts, signified by an almost unprecedented majority, we have completed, as far as this State is concerned, the august act of the 8th of November last. In connection with the electoral colleges of our sister States, we have this day given the final official utterance to the voice and will of the people of the United States, expressed in an election which, in many respects, has no example in the history of the world. Never before has been held an election throughout a territory like that which stretches from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, organized in twenty-three republican States associated in one federative republican Union, meeting on the same day, in their respective towns, cities and villages throughout the land,-with such mighty issues stake,-an election held after the agitations of a strenuous canvass,-amidst the feverish excitement and under the heavy burdens of war, and that a civil war. which has clothed almost every family in the country in mourning,-an election held under such circumstances, without the display of military force, without tumult or violence, without so much as a riot at the polls which has come to the knowledge of the public, and resulting in the reelection of the Chief Magistrate of this imperial democracy,- that, I must own. in my judgment, stands without a parallel in history in affairs of this kind, at the height of the moral sublime.
Nor is the sequel of this great civic act less grand and auspicious than its consummation. A contested election certainly does not often present a free country in the most favorable light. From the asperity of the canvass, one might nave anticipated, at its close, that the successful party would break out into extravagant exultation, and the unsuccessful party give loud vent to the anger and bitterness of defeat But far otherwise; with rare exceptions on the part of individuals and presses, the victors have evinced a patriotic moderation, to which their opponents have responded by magnanimous acquiescence. Who, may therefore reasonably calculate on the efforts of good men, on all sides, to restore to our Moved and bleeding country the only thing that is cow wanting to put an end to this fratricidal war, and bring about an honorable and a permanent peace, viz: an era of good feeling and "a determined unity of sentiment" on the part of the loyal Slates.
Nor do I despair of the success of these efforts. The state of the country now is very similar to what it was in the spring of 1861. We had then passed through a severely contested election, in which four different electoral tickets had struggled for the mastery. Public opinion was in fact more divided on fast occasion than on this, and the result was proportionally less calculated to be satisfactory to the defeated parties. Notwithstanding this, at that fated signal gun at Sumter, the people, forgetful of all party divisions, sprung as one man to the defence of the country. All felt that the war was forced upon us; that it could not be declined; all felt that an insult too intolerable to be borne was offered to the national honor; that the attempt to dismember the Union of half its territory, to give up the outlets of its inland seas, and of the mighty rivers that drain its central basins, the fortresses that guard our shore and protect our coasting navigation, to give them up not merely to a usurping foreign power, but to half a dozen separately feeble States, likely to be re-colonized, at no distant day, by the European governments to which they so lately belonged-all reflecting men felt that this was a" blow aimed at the national life, which was to be warded face. This was the sentiment of all good patriots off and repelled at all hazards and at every sacrifice. This was the sentiment of all good patriots of whatever party, and they rallied with one heart and as one man to the defence of the outraged flag and the imperiled Union.
But now came the great trial of popular government. In the conduct of a protracted war, difference of opinion as to men and measures was necessarily evolved. Such is ever the case even in times of profoundest peace. What wordy contests have we not, within the experience of some of us, bad upon such questions as the Cumberland road, internal improvements, the bank of the United States, the Congress of Panama, the tariff, the distribution of the surplus revenue,-questions some of them so obsolete, that this generation hardly knows what they mean; and yet the mighty powers of Webster, Clay, Cal bourn and their associates were mainly exhausted on these questions. Half the pages in the volumes of their speeches are filled with discussions, in which parliamentary talent is displayed in its highest forms, on subjects which, compared with the tremendous issues of the present day, are scarcely more interesting than the predictions of the weather in last year's almanac. If such subjects, in time of peace, can array the intelligent citizens of a free country in apposing parties, under the lead of the giant minds of the land. if on issues like these Presidential candidates could be chosen and defeated, administrations formed and broken up, what diversities of judgment, what violence of dissent, what vehemence of antagonism, what bitterness of party opposition must not be called forth, by the exigencies of a war like that in which we are now engaged, involving questions so difficult, interests so momentous, forces so gigantic!
In this condition of the country and of the public mind, a Presidential election, such as I have described, had to be met; and I am free to express the opinion, that the manner in which it has been met, conducted, and decided, reflects as much credit on the community as any event in our history. The political storms in the natural world, which sometimes sweep forest, and cornfield, and the abodes of men before them, it has roared and passed by, and left not a trace behind.
The tumult of the elements is hushed; the air is still; and if the clouds are not wholly scattered, they are arched all over with the gracious how of promise. The noble fabric of State stands as it stood before the election; not a timber in the frame-work strained, not a stone in the foundation loosened. The
<c02>
rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon the house, but it fell not, for it was founded on a rock; yes, upon the rock of ages; and here neither the arts of treason, the arms of rebellion, no, not the gates of hell itself shall prevail against it.
Passing, as the country has, unscathed through this fearful ordeal, coming out of this marvelous election with the kindest feelings on the part of the triumphant majority toward the patriotic masses lately opposed to them, why should we not again, as one man, rally to the support of the Government? There is now really out one question which divides those who hold, in good faith, that the military power of the rebellion must be subdued and the Union preserved at all hazards. I allude, of course, to the policy of emancipation; and will not our opposing friends who so warmly disapprove that policy, and who think it creates an insuperable obstacle to the restoration of the Union, reconsider that opinion, on perusal of the remarkable letter of the second officer of the Confederacy written on the 5th of November, three days before the election-a private letter, but now published by himself; by far the most important utterance, on this subject, which has reached us from the South? In this letter, Mr. Stephens (the ablest civilian in the Confederacy) assigns the reasons why he desired the election of General McClellan. In that event, he assumed that an armistice would take place, and a convention of the States be held.
If that body failed to come to an amicable agreement, to acknowledge the independence of the South, and " General McClellan should renew the war, with the avowed object of restoring the Union with the old Constitution and all its guarantees," [which by his letter of acceptance he was pledged to do,] " at that moment," says Mr. Stephens, "or as soon as possible, our recognition abroad would come. The silent sympathy of England, France, and other European powers, at present with Lincoln, arises entirely from their mania on the subject of Slavery." Here follows an omission in Mr. Stephens's letter, made as he himself intimates from public considerations. The passage omitted no doubt enforced the idea, that if the North continued the war in order to restore the Constitution with guarantees of Slavery, Europe would instantly recognize the Confederacy, as an independent power. Mr. Stephens then proceeds as follows:
"Lincoln had either to witness our recognition abroad, the moral power of which alone he saw would break down the war, or to make it an emancipation war. He choose the latter alternative, and the more readily, because it chimed in so accordantly with the feelings and views of his party. This, in my opinion, is the plain English of this whole matter, and just so soon as McClellan should renew the war to restore the Union and the old Constitution with slavery, would England, France and the other European powers throw all the moral power and influence of their recognition on our side. I am not certain that they would not go further rather than see the old Union restored, if it should become necessary; but it would not become necessary."
In these explicit terms, the second officer of the rebel government, speaking no doubt on the strength of communications from their agents abroad, and holding back what he deemed it not prudent to divulge, not only treats the emancipation policy of the President as a necessary military measure, but maintains that that alone had prevented the great powers of Europe from recognizing the independence of the South, and if necessary throwing their swords into the scale to secure its establishment!
May we not reasonably hope, in view of such opinions and disclosures from such a quarter, that this policy will cease to divide opinion at the North, and that we shall again, as in 1861, present an undivided front in defence of the integrity of the Union? Heavy, I know, is the burden, costly the sacrifice, grievous the trial imposed upon us by the war. Heaven is my witness that I would willingly have laid down the poor remnant of my life to avert it.
But it is plain that Providence has laid upon our generation the solemn duty of maintaining this august nationality; and we have now to choose between allowing the Union, like mediaeval Germany and Italy, to be broken up into scores, I might say hundreds of petty States, involved in eternal border wars, wasting, desolating and barbarizing each other, and ending at last in the establishment of half a dozen military despotisms, or maintaining at whatever cost and by whatever sacrifice this admirable framework of government, the rich legacy of our Fathers, the priceless heritage of our children, and which, till this cruel rebellion had shown itself, the happiest device of human wisdom, by which the home-bred blessings of local administration can be combined with the safety and power of a great empire.
Again thanking you, gentlemen, for the marks of kindness with which you have honored me, and congratulating you on the manner in which your duties have been performed, I bid you each and all an affectionate farewell.

ADDEESS OF MORTON McMICHAEL.
Extract from an eloquent address delivered before the Electoral College of Pennsylvania, by Morton Mc-Michael, Esq.:-
It is no exaggeration to assert that no people were ever before called upon to pronounce upon issues so vast and vital to themselves, and so world-wide and all-embracing in their relations to others, as those which were presented to the people of the United States on the 8th of last November. The present destiny of the model republic of the earth, the future destiny of millions now living in distant regions, and millions yet to be born in the coming ages, were then to be decided. Who shall complain if we boast that never was a public opinion formed more thoughtfully and wisely, or a public award proclaimed more resolutely and calmly? The spectacle of that memorable day was, indeed, full of moral sublimity. In the midst of an unparalleled excitement, after all that was mean and sordid and mercenary in our frail human natures had been constantly elicited, and when evil passions had been goaded to their fiercest extremity, men quietly repaired to the polls, and there, without tumult or turbulence, settled questions which had for months, yea, for years, intensely agitated all minds and bosoms; and, by their violent disturbance, shaken our civil and social fabrics to their very centres.
I say settled, gentlemen, because from that day's decision there can be no appeal. It was no hasty, impulsive, or unconsidered conclusion, but a sober, solemn, and deliberate judgment, All the issues had been fairly made up; all the pleadings carefully prepared; all the evidence thoroughly examined; all the arguments closely canvassed. In the broad blaze of the intellectual noon of the nineteenth century, while every civilized nation looked on with earnest attention, before the majestic tribunal of a self-governing people, the imposing trial was had whether freedom, humanity, and progress should be our onward guides to the future, or whether, resum-
<c03>
ing the exploded forms of a corrupt and imbecile past, and consenting to be again marshaled by the debased apostles of effete and cruel institutions, we should relapse into barbarism. Let God be praised that the tribunal was equal to the mighty work assigned to it, for never was verdict more complete, deserved, and emphatic than that which was then rendered.
I do not propose to reopen the controversy which, so far as the great mass of the American people are concerned, was thus finally closed. As a preliminary, however, to the votes we shall directly cast, it may not be amiss briefly to state the significance which, as I understand it, the citizens of Pennsylvania, in whose behalf we are to speak, attach to the record we are about to make. That record intended to show:
That, as the Southern rebellion was commenced and has been continued utterly without justification, the war it has compelled us to wage must be prosecuted, at whatever cost, until the treason has been wholly subdued, and the flagrant traitors signally punished:
That the Union, in support of which the loyal portion of the American people are contending, is, in the highest sense, a National Union, and can never be surrendered upon any assumption of States rights, or upon any pretext of States wrongs:
That, as slavery, through its baleful agencies, provoked, promoted, and now sustains the rebellion, and from its very essence cannot coexist with republican government, therefore the peace for which we are struggling, as well as the future honor, dignity, and safety of the nation, demands its total extirpation:
That, as means to this end, not less than for reasons more instant and urgent, the proclamations and other measures of emancipation adopted by the National Administration, whether through its civil or its military instrumentalities, have been just and necessary, and that to remove all further difficulty the National Constitution should be so amended as to prohibit involuntary servitude, except for crime, on all soil now occupied by any of the United States, and in all territory now belonging to or henceforth to be acquired by them.
There can be no doubt, I think, that these propositions were sanctioned and accepted by the people of this Commonwealth at the recent election. There can be no doubt, I am confident, that their suffrages on that occasion were meant to testify their gratitude, respect and esteem for the good and faithful Magistrate whom they have a second time aided in calling to preside over the nation. I believe that nowhere, not even in his own cherished Illinois, where he has been so long known and loved, is there entertained for Mr. Lincoln a warmer or more affectionate attachment than that which we Pennsylvanians feel. His honesty, his tenderness, his benevolence, his geniality, have won our kindliest regard for his personal character, while his sagacity, his foresight, his steadiness of purpose, his remarkable aptitude for business, his large comprehension of affairs, his uncomplaining endurance of labors such as few besides himself have been called to undergo, and his unwearyingly patience under trials which none besides himself could have borne with equanimity, have secured our strongest admiration for his qualities as a statesman and his capacity as a ruler. Having faith alike in his skill and his integrity, wherever he has offered to lead we have been content to follow-advancing as he advanced, pausing when he paused-and vindicated our reliance. Weighed in the balance of an enlightened patriotism, he has not been found wanting by a single scruple; measured by the standard of eminent public service, he rises to the loftiest height, and presents the finest proportions.

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
God bless Abraham Lincoln! We never said it more heartily than on reading the noble Message to which Congress and the Country have just lent listening ears. A document more full of sound sense, high-toned patriotism, fidelity to moral principle, Christian courage in the Good Cause, has never come from his homely pen. Like gold cast upon the counter, it falls upon the country with a true and genuine ring. Its closing portions, wherein the President deals with the war, and the war's great outgrowth of moral questions, will touch patriotic pulses to unwonted quickness. If there be any evasion, any delinquency, any compromise hidden in this Message, our eyes are not sharp enough to see it. Coming to us at too late an hour to print, and only in time to be hastily read before these commenting lines are given to the types, we arrest our press just long enough to say that the Message seems completely satisfactory in all points which it touches. We congratulate the President, Congress, and the Country on the great and wise policy with which the Administration now confronts the Rebellion and Slavery. Instead of the late rumors of parley with the traitors, and of universal amnesty designed to shelter the guiltiest of the enemies of mankind from the whip of justice, we find the President sensibly saying, "It seems to me that no attempt at. negotiation with the insurgent leader would result in any good.... It is an issue which can be tried only by war, and decided only by victory." That is the whole case in a nutshell. No white flags! No commissioners of talk! No embassy of dalliance! Nevertheless, fair terms are offered to rebels who surrender. "They can at any lime have peace" says he, "by simply laying down their arms, and sub-milling to the national authority under the Constitution." That sentence is pure wheat, winnowed of all chaff of compromise. Then as the door which the President so long ago opened by his partial amnesty "is still open," he says, adding with an emphasis which recalls Gen. Butler's speech concerning the 8th of January, " but the time may come, probably will come, when public duty shall demand that it be closed, and that, in lieu more rigorous measures than heretofore be adopted. "Then he earnestly urges Congress to present to the legislature the proposed amendment of the Constitution prohibiting Slavery. But the fairest handwriting of all is at the very close -worthy of golden letters and of perpetual memory; "I repeat the declaration made a year ago, that, while I remain in my present position, I shall not attempt to retract or modify the Emancipation Proclamation. Nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that Proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS. MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO RE-ENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THEIR INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT." This is eloquent majesty of speech! This is heroic dignity of soul This is unblemished moral grandeur; of position Such words have immortal life. They will go down as a heritage to future generations. O, great, struggling, conquering Nation!: The way. to Peace; now opens! The President of the United States stands pointing his finger to Liberty and Justice! Never before seemed he so noble in our eyes! GOD BLESS ABRAHAM LINCOLN!-N, Y. Independent.
<c04>
ELECTION OF MR. LINCOLN.
In 1860, Mr. Lincoln had three rivals in the field; this year he had but one. He owed his election in 1860 to the schisms in the Democratic camp. If the Southern States had then been content to go for Douglas-the nominee of the Northern Democrats-the Democrats would have carried the day, and the history of the Republic would have flowed, for some years at least, in the old channel. As it was, the obstinate determination of the Southern States to accept no candidate who would not advocate the territorial rights of slavery through thick and thin, broke the Democratic party to atoms, and split the Union into two warring sections. At the recent election, the issue was of a simpler kind. There were but two candidates, and the people had merely to choose between them. The Democrats endeavored to rally upon McClellan; but a large section of the party, led by such men as Major-General Dix, declared for an unconditional prosecution of the war, and voted for Mr. Lincoln. Under these circumstances, it is rather surprising that they brought so large a number of voters to the ballot than that the aggregate majority for Mr. Lincoln is so large. In 1860 the total number of voters in the loyal States was 3,800,000. If the same number voted on the 8th instant, a majority of 400,000 for Mr. Lincoln would -leave a minority of 1,700,000 for McClellan. It is not likely, however, considering the manifold effects; of this war on the citizen roll, that the number would be nearly so large. Of course, the smaller it was, the more significant is Mr. Lincoln's majority.
We heartily join with all who have faith in popular institutions, and all who are zealous for their honor, in offering our warmest congratulations to the people of the Northern States on the peaceful issue of this great contest. Certain it is that no such struggle was ever waged before in any nation on earth. There have been Presidential contests in the States themselves when party spirit ran high, and when vast consequences were supposed to be at stake, but the fiercest of these encounters must cede to that of 1864. On this occasion the battle has been fought out between two parties. There has been no waste of strength on either side. The result has shown that, although a large majority of the people were in Mr. Lincoln's favor, there was a formidable minority prepared to contest his claims. The election has taken place amid all the passions which civil war necessarily excites. In acquitting themselves of the duties incident to a more embarrassing position than any men were ever placed in before, the Administration have done some things which their warmest supporters will not wholly defend, arid which might justly be regarded as keen provocations by their antagonists. Add to these considerations that suspicions and fears of military interference have been rife, exaggerated perhaps for electioneering purposes, and that nothing less than the fate of the Republic was believed to hang upon the result. Yet this great contest, in which millions took part, was conducted over a vast territory, and in the midst of the excited populations of great cities, not only without any notable disturbance, but, so far as we have yet, learned, with out the slightest disturbance of public order. So long as such results are possible, we may fling back upon those who have used them the taunt that Republican institutions have failed. Taken in all its bearings, this election of 1864 is the severest test to which they have hitherto been subjected, and they have stood it in a way which may well excite the profound admiration of the world, and the jubilant thanksgivings of those whose unhesitating faith has been completely verified. An informant who never fails to record any fact, or even fiction, of sin sister import, was unable down to the morning of the 10th to allege that the Government had anywhere made use of the military to limit the freedom of election. All that can be adduced is General Butler's assumption of the command of the Federal troops in New York on the election day, and his issuing a. proclamation engaging to protect the right of suffrage. The General's name is in bad odor on this side of the water, and we admit that it is only by straining the Constitution that Federal troops can exercise functions of any kind at the ballot-box, the duty of protecting the voters belonging solely to the Stale authorities. Still, it clear that no interference of any kind took place. It may seem strange that General Butler should have been sent to take command of the troops in New York during the election, but an obvious explanation is forthcoming. Major-General Dix had taken a very prominent part in the contest. His recent address to the Democratic party, and his speech at the recent meeting of "War Democrats," rendered him a very unfit man to be entrusted with Federal duties on the day of election. He was therefore very properly put aside, and his place filled by General Butler, who, though a politician of no doubtful bias, had at all events taken no part in the electioneering campaign. Thus the very fact which is adduced, as we may suspect, to exhibit the Federal Government in an odious light, is itself an illustration of its anxious desire to abstain from even apparent provocation. As for the people, both parties, Republicans and Democrats, have acted nobly. They have evinced a calmness, a moderation, a self-restraint, a respect for law, which attest the highest political virtues, and offer the Surest pledge of their continued freedom and greatness.--Manchester, (Eng.) Examiner.
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE.
One of the strongest evidences of the great change which has been wrought in the public with reference to the question of Slavery is, that the New York Herald gravely advises the Democratic party to take, the broad; ground of the ultra and entire prohibition of Slavery. The Herald, however lacking in moral principles, is not devoid of political sagacity. Haying been the obsequious and pliant tool of the slaveholders ever since it had an existence, it now bas the wit to see that the times have changed, and it is no longer inclined to serve a power that can no more reward its vassals. Its advice to the Democratic party is significant:-
"Abraham Lincoln, elected President in 1860 upon the platform of the exclusion of slavery from the Teritories, is re-elected in 1864 upon the plat form of the absolute extinction arid perpetual prohibition of slavery over every foot of soil Within the jurisdiction of the United States. It is, altogether probable, tools that before the close of Mr. Lincoln's second term, the institution of slavery will have ceased to exist from the Potomac river to the Rio Grande. The course of events is drifting strongly in this direction. What, then, is the great fact to which the Northern remnants of the Democratic party, demolished by slavery, should turn their attention? It is that their vocation, as the servants of their former Southern pro-slavery masters, is gone; that there will be no more debasing concessions to slavery required, no more groveling in the dust to Southern pro-slavery politicians for a
<c05>
sop among the fat things of the government kitchen, no more Chinese sprawling Sat on the ground to the three-tailed mandarins of the empire for their favor. All this is done away with. They could not see it- they of the Albany Regency at Chicago; but they can see it now, unless they are all as blind as poor old Buchanan was in 1360. What, then, should be the new departure of the Northern Democracy? They should take the initiative in Congress, and co-operate in the States for that amendment of the Constitution which will remove this stumbling-block of slavery entirely out of the country, forever and ever. This done, the opposition elements of the Union restored can easily organize a victorious national party upon the great practical issues touching our foreign and domestic affairs that, will then come into the foreground. On the other hand, while the Northern Democracy continue to cross themselves, and mutter their old party prayers before the grinning skeleton of Southern slavery, they can do nothing. We advise the forlorn Democracy to look about them carefully, and they will see that they are behind the times, and will never catch up by standing still."

SLAVERY.
It is too manifest to admit of denial, that the popular voice of the loyal States has been announced against the continuance of the slave institution in any State of the Union. Whether this be wise or foolish, humane or fanatical, just or unjust towards rebel States, constitutional or unconstitutional under our federative system, the fact of such a distinctly expressed judgment by the people remains no less uncontrovertibly.
And this is not all. The people have created the requisite legislative forces, or agencies, to carry this decision into execution, so far as constitutional form "s needed. They have elected a House of Representatives for the Congress that shall convene after the 4th of March next, having more than two-thirds -the requisite constitutional number-in favor of submitting to the States the proposition, already passed the Senate and pending in the present House, for a constitutional amendment abolishing slavery. The Administration will push hard to carry that measure through the present House; and if it fails, an extra session of the new Congress will be urged for the early adoption and submission of it to the several State Legislatures, wherein the same party has been made strong enough by the popular elections to carry the amendment into effect.
This is, and we have always so maintained, the only proper way, if any way exists consistent with the Federal Constitution, for abolishing slavery, if the people want it abolished. And since the people manifestly have so ordained, it is useless to resist the event, except on the ground of its costing, besides this form of voting by the loyal States, a continuance of the war until it shall be decided that the South can be subjugated.
For, amend the Constitution, on paper, as we may, if the amendments are not to be enforced upon the rebel States, and this only by subjugating those States, they will prove useless-a Pope's bull against a comet.
So then the judgment of the people may be said at this time to have been virtually pronounced in favor of the total abolition of slavery, and, as an involved necessity, of continuing war until such abolition shall be practically completed throughout the Southern States. The people have put a party in power to abolish it in form, and to continue the war as a means of abolishing it in fact. To such results Eighteen Hundred Thousand voters, constituting the Democratic party voting for McClellan, have not been, are not. and never will be committed. If the dominant party can work out this expensive problem during the four years of the new Administration, they will do it, and be entitled to the credit or discredit of the act. If they fail so to do, at the end of four years the people may have experienced a change of views, revoke their edicts of abolition and war, and ordain a new and better covenant which shall give the nation peace, and, perhaps, the States unity. It is a gloomy future to look into-full of blood and bankruptcy.-Portland (Copperhead) Advertiser.

THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE.
The Proclamation of the 1st of January, 1863, gave slavery its death-blow. Before the lapse of a year, Congress will have rendered the recovery of the barbarous system impossible. And the righteous decree, which but expresses the will as well of the nation as of the civilized world, will soon be carried into full effect by the national arms. Slavery is dead! Would that we could add, that the prejudices engendered by the in human "institution" have ceased also to live! Unhappily, this unworthy peculiarity of the American mind still exists, North and South, to a degree that calls for greater exertions on the part of the friends of the oppressed than they have hitherto made, if they would overcome it. His emancipation from moral bondage is far more difficult and remote than is his emancipation from physical bondage. Yet it is clear to every reflecting mind, that unless he emerges from this war a free man, in the full sense of the term, the lapse of a few years will see him driven into a condition to which even the old system of slavery would be preferable. Unless with the boon of freedom are also given the means of guarding the inestimable privilege against its foes, and the foes of liberty and equality, it is to be feared that the black man's emancipation will never realize the promises which it would otherwise give. Unless thus guarded, the future furnishes no certain assurance that the cause of freedom will long survive the efforts and sacrifices made in its behalf. Unless the glorious and beneficent work is perfected by making our brethren freemen in fact as well as in name, it is to be feared that the friends of freedom, white as well as black, will fail to secure the grand ends at which they aim, and failing, be alike left to the tender mercies of their enemies.
 The claim of the black or colored man to a participation in the political privileges of American citizen is founded on considerations which will suggest themselves to every unprejudiced mind, capable o reflecting on the subject. He desires to preserve the freedom which the nation has justly grantee him. He desires to secure to himself and his country the countless blessings, moral and material, which the abolition of slavery, carried out to all it logical consequences, will assuredly bring in its train. He desires that, when the arbitrate of bullets shall have been succeeded by that of ballots, the political weight of the southern enemies of freedom shall be more than counterpoised by that of its friends, and that what was won by volleys will be secured by votes. He desires the privilege, that he ma; be enabled to give grateful aid to those who aided him: and for the reason, that if he did not desire 5t,the fact would be in itself a proof that he did not deserve it.
We repeat, then, that the immortal decree which proclaimed freedom to the slave, imposed upon its authors additional obligations of the most important
<c06>
character, a failure to fulfill which may possibly render the first great step nugatory for good. The
work to be done, the sacrifices to be made, to render this freedom all that is properly associated with the name, in the face of opponents whose prejudices and interests make them as unreasonable as they are unappeasable, will call into active and untiring exercise every benevolent and ennobling quality. And in casting the mind's eye over the broad expanse of the nation, there are signs and tokens on every hand to be seen which inspire us with joy and hope. The minds and hearts that conceived the grand idea of liberating 4,000,000 of their fellow mortals from the most terrible species of bondage that the world has ever known, will, we feel the utmost confidence, eventually bring their stupendous work to a successful consummation.
Considering the anticipations we indulge in as regards the nation at large, we may cease to regret that those immediately within our view, who appear in the vestments of authority, and who claim to be the true exponents of Union sentiment, should have caught no portion of the spirit of the age which so generally inspires the country, but should, in spite of their assumptions of pre-eminent loyalty, display prejudices and aversions which can only be consistently held by rebels and pro-slavery men.-New Orleans Tribune.

THE CHIEF-JUSTICESHIP.
That the appointment of Salmon P. Chase to the chief seat in the Supreme Court of the United States would be received by us with more than ordinary pleasure, it is hardly necessary to say, for the high estimate in which we hold his intellectual and moral qualities have never been concealed. In that pleasure, a very large proportion of the people will sympathize, we know. On this point we are not left to conjecture, nor to the ordinary deduction that, inasmuch as Mr. Chase has for many years filled positions of high responsibility and trust, always with honor to himself and with the popular approbation, therefore his farther advancement must be looked upon with favor; for we know from the testimony of men impartial, peculiarly fitted to form a correct estimate of the popular judgment, and who have recently travelled widely over the Northern States, that it was a universal and foregone conclusion among thoughtful and loyal men, that the vacant Chief-Justiceships should be given to Mr. Chase. That the President has thought fit to so bestow this office is, therefore, properly a matter of public congratulation, and Mr. Lincoln will receive the thanks of the country that his judgment is so perfectly in accord with the popular wish.
Mr. Chase was known for his eminent legal attainments and his high standing at the bar, long before he rose to any political distinction. From this, indeed, his course in early life cut him off completely; for he so identified himself with the Abolitionists of a quarter of a century ago and more, that political advancement was then impossible. But it was not merely the humanitarian aspect of the question that induced him thus early to identify himself with the anti-slavery party; he discerned that in the growth of the slave power, and its constant encroachments upon constitutional liberty, lay our future danger, and that out of this little cloud, seemingly then not bigger than a man's hand, was to come the tempest that was to try the strength and endurance of our republican form of government. In the course of time political parties came to him, and, while his early principles have never been forgotten or denied, he as a popular representative, as Governor, Senator, a powerful candidate for the Presidency, and as a Cabinet Minister, has led the advanced column of the steady progress of popular love of Liberty and true Republican Government, which has so far carried the nation triumphantly through the most trying and terrible war the world has ever seen, waged on the clearest issues ever accepted by any people. To no man in the country, probably, has constitutional law, its relations to the absolute right of the citizen and the reserved rights of States, been a subject of severer and deeper study than to Mr. Chase. The natural bent of his intellect and the habits of his life have alike fitted him for judicial position. In the coming events, when the Civil and Military powers have done their part, there will still remain an important work for the Judiciary to do in the reconstruction of the Union, and in settling upon a sure foundation those great principles upon which the Republic is to be rebuilt. To no hands could it be so safely in trusted as to those of Mr. Chase. It was not merely proper that the new Chief-Justice should be a man learned in the law; it was absolutely essential to the perpetuity of the Government that he should also be a statesman of wide and comprehensive views, and one whose mind is habituated to the contemplation and study of the new order of events which are crowding so thickly upon us. Never since the Union was formed has the office of a Chief-Justice required more varied or more eminent qualities of head and heart; never has the appointment to that distinguished position needed more careful consideration, or demanded a wiser adjustment of all the relations involved in the selection. In the choice he has made, Mr. Lincoln has bestowed it upon the man who, among all his compeers, stands out, by common assent, as best fitted by nature and education to fulfill its duties.- N. Y. Tribune.
The appointment and confirmation of Mr. Chase, yesterday, to the chief place on the Supreme Bench, will every where be well received among the friends of loyalty and liberty, and happily settles a vexed question as to this most important "of all posts, next to the Chief Executive of the nation. It was necessary that the Chief Justice should be a sound and able lawyer, skilled in the Courts; Mr. Chase is all that. It was desirable that its arduous duties should not be complicated by the failing physical powers of some one far past the noon of life; Mr. Chase possesses the splendid prime of a vigorous manhood. And more than this, it was necessary in the present life-struggle of the nation, that there should exist no bias in behalf of the waning cause of Human Chattelism. Since judges are mortal, and their sympathies tinge their decisions, slavery has all too long possessed this advantage in the Supreme Court. There is no longer a refuge for the monster at the feet of the Chief Justice of the United States. Mr. Chase is happily fitted by his antecedents for decisions that shall strengthen Liberty, and vindicate her irreconcilable quarrel with the man-stealers. His is no eleventh hour conversion to the doctrines the events of this war nave brought this nation to sustain. For thirty years he has stood as the counsel of Freedom in our courts and before the people, every where and at ail times hostile to the nationalization of slavery, expressed as well by his position in the political movements of the country as in his efforts at the bar. The country is to be congratulated in a choice which so closely allies him with the final ending of the present conflict of principles, as ended it will be for Liberty and Humanity, the Executive, the Military and the Judiciary of the nation, now standing arrayed on the side of Freedom.-Chicago Tribune.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all
the inhabitants thereof,"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, far the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OP THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN EVEY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It Is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commander! of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAM.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FAREWELL ADDRESS OF PROFESSOR GOLDWIN SMITH.
His Impressions of the Country and its Cause.
An informal meeting of the Union League Club was held in New York, Tuesday evening, 13th inst., to meet the distinguished Professor of Oxford, Goldwin Smith, it being his last evening in America, After spending some time in conversation and the interchange of civilities, the members gathered in the parlors, where Mr. Erastus C. Benedict, at an impromptu call of the President, Mr. Johnathan Sturgis, made a happy and appropriate valedictory address to Mr. Smith, to which he replied with remarkable fluency and eloquence, as follows:-
"Gentlemen: Accept my hearty thanks for the words which Mr. Benedict has spoken in your name. This is my last evening in America-the last evening of three months which the kindness of my American friends has filled with happiness, and rendered fruitful in pleasant memories to be carried back to my English home. I trust that I have received from my visit not only great enjoyment, but some instruction, every facility for which has been afforded to me in the most cordial manner, so that I should be a dull learner indeed if I went away wholly uninformed. I have, had the advantage not only of seeing all that a stranger could see within the limits of my tour, but the still greater advantage of conversing with many eminent men, from whom I have obtained knowledge and food for future reflection, not with regard to American affairs and institutions alone. I have fulfilled the chief object of my voyage by witnessing the conduct of this nation at a great political crisis-a crisis unequalled, perhaps, in its importance, both as a test of national character and as an event in the history of our race.
The acquaintance with America which I carry away is in the highest degree imperfect, yet it is such as I could never have obtained by reading; and it will enable me, I trust, to read for the future with more intelligence and more profit on the most interesting and important subject which the whole range of history and politics affords-the destiny and hopes of man in this new world.
On the point of my departure, I find myself, and not for the first time, a guest in the house of the Union League. Under ordinary circumstances, I should not have thought of entering a political club or receiving attention from a political party. But it is not in ordinary circumstances that we are now placed. The party whose guest I am is not contending for any of those political objects of a merely sectional kind in which a stranger has no share, or in which he would shrink from showing his interest. It is not contending only for the salvation of this country, though that would be an object which might well enlist the sympathies and excuse the zealous participation of an Englishman who believes that the destiny of England is intimately bound up with yours. It is contending for a cause dear and vital to the whole race of man. I do not feel that a stranger, by coming to this club, displays want of good feeling even towards the southern portion of your nation. For this war is carried on not to subjugate or oppress the people of the southern states, but to cast out the demon which possesses them, to overthrow the tyrannical oligarchy which crushes them, to restore them to a right mind, and make them really true.
I came to America, however, believe me, with no intention but that of seeing your country, gaining such information about it and its inhabitants as I could, witnessing the Presidential election, and verifying the views I had formed as to the progressive character of the history of man. Or, if I had any other object, it was that of simply indulging my own feelings of anxious interest and ardent sympathy. Nothing was further from my thoughts than to address any public assembly, or to take part in public discussions of any kind. If I have been drawn into any public utterances, it has been solely from the desire of contributing, as far as lay in my power, to allay the feeling which I found prevailing against England, and which I believed to arise, in part at least, from a misconception as to the real attitude of the main body of our people. I trust I am not wanting in appreciation of the greatness of my country any more than in loyal attachment to her interest and honor. But the greatness of the English race in England is bounded by the narrow circumference of a famous island: or, if it extends beyond, it must be by the possession of conquests which history teaches us are always precarious, and of dependences which, as a little reflection will show us, must in the end become free. Here the greatness of our race need know no bounds but those of a continent which, in extent and in the variety of its resources, is in itself a world. Some English writers and statesmen appear to think that the true policy of England is to treat America as a natural enemy, and to conspire even with a power so alien to English principles as slavery, for the destruction of her unity and strength. I am one of those who believe that this policy is at once malignant and chimerical, and that the opposite policy, that of endeavoring to promote the lasting unity of the two nations, and to make your greatness ours, is presented to us by true wisdom as well as by generous sentiment and the tie of blood. And such I believe to be the view of the English people, to whom, and to my sovereign, not to any order, or class, or interest, I owe, as an Englishman, loyalty and allegiance. It was inevitable that, in speaking of so delicate a subject as the relations between the two nations, I should run the risk of exposing myself to some unfavorable criticisms and constructions; but with our incurring some risk, things worth doing can very seldom be done. I do not hesitate to claim that at least as indulgent a sentence shall be passed on my endeavors, however weak and ill-directed, to promote peace and goodwill, as on the persistent efforts of powerful organs of the British press to put enmity between kindred nations, and to sow the seeds of a disastrous and fratricidal war. I even venture to suggests that the writers in the Times, and its confederates of our press, if any sense of responsibility, if any feeling of humanity resides in their hearts, may hereafter be thankful to those who, without detracting from the popularity or the profits of literary incendiarism, have exerted themselves to prevent the actual conflagration; a conflagration in which, possibly, not the habitations of the people or of liberals alone would have perished.
Perhaps the wish may be father to the thought; but it has appeared to me that, for some time past, the feeling in this country against England has been growing less bitter, not withstanding the occasional recurrence of causes of offence, and in spite of the persevering efforts of individual writers and speakers on both sides of the water to keep animosity alive. Whether I am right as to the present tendency of public sentiment, I do not know; but I am sure that I am right as to its ultimate tendency. In the long run, the more powerful and the deeper forces assert their ascendancy over the less powerful and the more superficial. The less powerful and more superficial forces are those temporary misunderstandings and transitory disputes, which, aggravated by invectives and calumnies equally ephemeral, have put enmity between kinsmen. The more powerful and deeper force, which will ultimately assert its ascendancy, is the unity of our race combined with the unity of our language, and still more with the essential unity of those principles of government and religion which we together represent, and which it is our joint mission to propagate over the world. In truth, I believe that the special resentment of Americans against England for her want of sympathy with them under this trial, itself proceeds from outraged affection, and is a proof of the peculiar tie which has bound and will again bind the nations to each other. We do not expect sympathy from a mere stranger, nor feel special resentment against him when it is withheld. I know of no better way of accounting for the fact that the greatest offence committed by France, such as the direct solicitation on interference under color of mediation, addressed by her to the maritime powers, is passed over with apathy, or easily condoned, while the least offence committed by England, even of a negative kind, seems to produce extraordinary irritation in the minds of your people. The more powerful and deeper force, I repeat, will assert its ascendancy in the long run; and those politicians of either nation, who choose to trade on the passing estrangement between them, may look perhaps for quick profits, but they most not count upon permanent honor or enduring gratitude. For them there will be no statue when, in happier times, and after noble efforts made side by side in the cause of religion and humanity, we together build the Walhalla of the Anglo-Saxon race.
Some natural enemies England has, and I fear partly deserves to have, on this side of the Atlantic. Here, as in Europe, hereditary bitterness, the offspring of centuries of religions war and persecution which raged throughout European Christen-
<c02>
dom, and brought misery alike upon the Catholic in Ireland and the Protestant in Spain, still fills the Irish breast. Few have felt more warmly or spoken more plainly than I have upon the subject of Irish, wrongs. Those wrongs will be redressed, and some progress towards redressing them has already been made, by the exertions of the Liberal party in the British Parliament and nation. They would not be redressed, but exaggerated <Illegible> by stirring up another war of races and religions in Ireland, and filling the unhappy island again with fire and blood.
In one respect, if I may venture to say so, Americans are apt even to do England too much, honor. They are apt to think, or to speak as if they thought, that the past errors or offences of English governments would cover the errors or offences of an American government at the present day. In this case of the Florida, for example, the erudite and eloquent chairman of your Committee on Foreign Relations has deemed it worth his while to appeal to instances, or alleged instances of British aggression, drawn most of them from times anterior to the growth of a sound international morality in Europe, and connected in some cases with names, such as those of Drake and Chatham, which belong to your history as well as to ours. I know that this has been done not by way of counsel to America, but by way of retort to a portion of the British press, which, by its previous demonstrations of enmity, had manifestly forfeited all claim to the moral censorship of your actions, and might perhaps have been safely left to rail without reply. But the tendency of such a line of argument, besides increasing the amount of irrational irritation, is, however unintentionally, to confuse the national conscience in regard to a question nearly touching the honor of the nation, and to lead America to put on the cast off precedents of old European governments as though they were a new robe of honor. Most unhappy would it be for England if either by bad example, or through the perversion of your national judgment by the ungenerous language of a part (remember that it is a part only) of her press, she shall have really made the hard path of honor harder to you on this occasion. For surely it is not too much to say that had the Florida and her crew been at once restored to the jurisdiction from which they had, as the American press and nation have honorably admitted, been wrongfully taken, an effect would have been produced upon the world greater than that of any victory. And those, be they the English rulers of former days, or actors nearer to the present time and scene, who have conspired to incline the mind of America to the less noble side, have done their utmost to pluck a wreath of true and rare glory from her brow.
And now, with one foot as it, were on the deck of an English vessel, let me presume with all deference to offer you a single word of advice, in case occasion should ever arise, in regard to your mode of dealing in controverted matters with the English nation. Englishmen, unfortunately, have some qualities which are not calculated to make them popular among other nations, and perhaps their popularity among their European rivals has not been increased by that which seldom does increase popularity-a somewhat disproportionate amount of success. But as a nation they are not regardless, perhaps they are more regardful than most other nations, of justice and of honor. If England has done you, if ever she should hereafter do you a wrong, approach her as one man of honor would approach another by whom he felt that he had been aggrieved, with a frank, manly and courteous request for reparation, but without acrimony or petulance or angry imputation of motives which can lead to no practical result, and which, after all, may be undeserved. Depend upon it, your application made in this spirit will meet with no ungenerous response, even though compliance with it should be difficult and onerous; and there will be many in England who will esteem it their highest duty to their country to second a fair claim courteously preferred to the extent of their power. And oh! persuade your government, if you can, to exercise a due control over the language of its subordinates, and not to suffer questions, a wrong solution of which may entail untold calamities on the two nations and on the world, to be prejudiced by any one who has not to bear the full responsibility of the result. One word more. You know that no syllable, even of hypothetical hostility, much less of menace to Americans, would ever pass my lips: but I ought not to permit any American to be misled by anything that has fallen from me, or from more influential writers or speakers, as to the divisions of sentiment which prevail among Englishmen with regard to the American question, and which it is necessary to explain lest you should suppose that the whole body of the English people is animated by the hostility towards America expressed by such organs of mere class feeling as the Times. If any dominant class or party in England were to attempt to use the power of the State for the purpose of doing you a wrong, we should be divided, and you would have a zealous, and, as I think, not an insignificant party on your side. But let the honor of England be touched, and we are a united nation.
Gentlemen, the moment of parting would be to me one of sadness-of sadness greater than I should care to say-if I did not promise myself a quick return. Next summer, I trust, will bring me here again to witness the further progress of this great revolution, which will by that time, let us hope, have passed out of the period of war, and arrived at the period of reconciliation, the goal of all your efforts; and, at the same time, to renew my intercourse, too soon interrupted, with the kind friends whom it will be my delight to think that I leave behind, and shall find again here. Till then, may every blessing which the gratitude of a guest parting from the most hospitable and generous door can involve upon his host rest upon the land in which an Englishman finds a second native country, and an ever open home!"

GOOD ADVICE.
Fred. Douglass, in a recent lecture in Baltimore, gave the following excellent advice to the colored people of Maryland:-
"I now desire to make some remarks to my colored friends. By the adoption of the new constitution, your condition is radically changed. You are in one sense free. But you must not think that freedom means absence from work. Bear that in mind. I would impress it upon your minds, that if yon would be prosperous, you must be industrious. I would advise those living in the lower counties of Maryland to stick to their agricultural pursuits. I believe $150 in the country is better than $400 in the city. There they can live more economically, and there are not so many temptations to lead them astray. If the colored people of Maryland flock to this city, crowding alleys and by-streets, woe betide them! Sad indeed will be their fate. They must stick to the country, and work. They must be saving of their funds, and endeavor to buy land. They must continually strive to become landholders. Nor is this sufficient. They must build up schools and educate their children. Hitherto you were wont to pride yourselves on your muscle. He who could shoulder the heaviest burden was the greatest man in the neighborhood. But you need something else now. You must have mind. You must make yourselves capable of thinking as well as digging. If we wish to enjoy the same privileges as the white man, we must labor to become his equal. We must educate ourselves. Let us resolve to point the finger of scorn at every colored man who refuses to send his children to school. You will find that the more intelligent and refined you become, the more your white brethren will respect you. I hold that all men are equal naturally, but not practically. We need not strive to conceal that we are inferior to the whites practically. They have their Clays, Websters and Calhouns. We have not. They can build ships, while we can scarcely build a canoe, and it will be lopsided. In fact, in all the arts and sciences they are immeasurably our superiors. Now if we will be studious and faithful to our interests, it will not always be so. The black man is just as capable of being great as the white. All he needs is an effort,-a persistent, untiring effort. You have now the opportunity, and I trust you will improve it."

GEORGE THOMPSON AT THE WEST. At Chicago Mr. Thompson spoke four times. The fourth of these addresses was delivered at a meeting of colored people, and was upon the "Black Laws" of Illinois.
At Milwaukie be spoke twice. The first lecture, before the Young Men's Association, Nov.26th, drew a crowded house. The Daily Life says: "The lecture was one of the best which has ever been delivered in this city, and elicited frequent applause. He again lectured on Sunday evening at the Spring Street Congregational Church on, the slavery question, and was most enthusiastically listened to and applauded."
<c03>
The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1864.
OUR NEXT VOLUME.
It has been erroneously stated in certain quarters, that the Liberator and Anti-Slavery Standard are to be united on the ensuing 1st of January. Such a union has, indeed, been under friendly consideration; but no such conclusion has been reached. If possible, it is desirable and fitting that both journals should continue until the JUBILEE BELL is rung in the land, proclaiming freedom to all the inhabitants thereof. They were both established to effect the utter overthrow of slavery; they have had essentially the same experience, and gone through the same trials and vicissitudes; and now that the great victory is manifestly nearly accomplished, they should have the satisfaction to record the consummation of their labors, before tiring from the field. But, so enormously enhanced is the price of paper, and also of printing, that we have left to us no other alternative than to increase the subscription terms of the Liberator, of discontinue it at the close of the present volume. Our subscribers, (faithful and kind in every emergency, though far from being numerous,) we are confident, will readily meet the small advance to be made in the price, rather than to have our flag go down at this time; especially as that advance will not make up the difference between the old state of things and the new. We shall still have to struggle against wind and title, in order to keep our barque afloat. Those of our friends with whom we have consulted unanimously advise us to put the terms of the paper at $4.00 per annum; but we are very reluctant to do this; and have concluded, therefore, to make the trial at $3.50, instead of $3.00 as hitherto. We shall be sorry to oblige any to withdraw their patronage on this account; but we importune none to continue their subscriptions, and make no claims upon any for their considerate regard. Whatever is done we wish to have done for the cause's sake, and not on personal grounds.
SCHILLER'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited, with careful Revisions and new Translations, by Charles J. Hempel, M. D. In Two Volumes. Philadelphia: I. Kohler, 202 North Fourth Street. [With a Portrait of Schiller.]
In acknowledging our indebtedness to the publisher for these two large and handsomely bound volumes, we can do no less than to call the special attention to them-at this gift season of Christmas and New Year-of all admirers of literary genius and dramatic power. The fame of Schiller is world-wide, and his merits are accepted as of a very high order. He needs no eulogist. This is the first time his complete works have been presented to the American public in the English language; and public and private libraries should be supplied with them. The editor has performed his task with great fidelity. In his Preface he says he has been animated by a double impulse of patriotism: first, the desire of perpetuating the works of a noble and pure-minded author, whose influence it has been felt by every civilized nation of Europe as a living power for the outworking of a higher freedom and a more exalted humanity; and, secondly, the hope of contributing his share, were it ever so humble, to the warm sympathy and honest respect with which the American heart most naturally beats for the genuine qualities and the intellectual and artistic wealth <Illegible> the German people. He believes that the more a closely the different portions of the great Anglo-Saxon family are united in one common bond of political and social sympathy, the more richly the blessings of political and social freedom will be enjoyed by the whole human family; and the study of the works of Schiller cannot fail to cement a union of the German and American nations, which the necessities of commerce, the achievements of science, and the inevitable results of emigration have so happily inaugurated, and bid fair to consolidate upon the everlasting rock of Destiny.
"In the life of Schiller," says Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton, "the student may gather noble and useful lessons of the virtue of manly perseverance-of the necessity of continued self-cultivation-of the alliance between labor and success, between honesty and genius; so in his poems there is that which no deficiency in the translator can prevent from being living and distinct; a great and forcible intellect ever appealing to the best feelings-ever exalting those whom it addresses-ever intent upon strengthening man in his struggles with his destiny, and uniting with a golden chain the outer world and the inner to the celestial throne."
The first of these volumes contains Schiller's poetical and dramatic works; the second, his history of the revolt of the United Netherlands-siege of Antwerp-history of the thirty years' war-and prosaic writings. The amount of reading matter is very large.
THE GYPSIES OF THE DANES' DIKE. A Story of Hedge-Side Life in England, in the year 1855. By George S. Phillips-(January Searle.) Boston: Ticknor & Fields.1864.
A neatly printed volume of 416 pages, embodying much that is droll, grotesque, coarse, and gossippy-a gallimaufry which the author commingles his own experiences and ad ventures among a colony of Gypsies, who were encamped in the celebrated Danes' Dike, and along the heights overlooking the German Ocean. He says that his book, although the characters, incidents and actions represented in it are, for the most part, fictitious, may be accepted, in truth and honor, as a literal reflex of wayside life in England. It is dedicated to Professor Longfellow.
OUR YOUNG FOLKS. An Illustrated Magazine for Boys and Girls. Number 1, for January, 1865. Edited by J. F. Trowbridge, Gail Hamilton, and Lucy Larcom. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. This new magazine will please all the "young folks"-and the old folks too. Its typographical appearance is very neat, (though we see no good reason, for preferring the old to the handsome modern-faced type,) its illustrations well executed, and its contents interesting. Here is its varied table: 1. Hum, the son of Buz, by Harriet Beecher Stowe. 2. The Volunteer's Thanksgiving, by Lucy Larcom. 3. Thumbling, from the Finnish. 4. The Read-Coats, by Gail Hamilton. 5. The Color-Bearer, by J. F. Trowbridge. 6. The Little Prisoner, by Edmund Kirke. 7.Thomas Hughes (with an engraved portrait). 8. Physical Health, by Dr. Dio Lewis. 9. Andy's Adventures, by J. F. Trowbridge. 10. Winning His Way, by Carleton. 11. New Year's Carol, by John Weiss. 12. Farming for Boys, by the Author of "Ten Acres Enough." 13. Afloat in the Forest, by Maine Reid. 13. Around the Evening Lamp.
Terms $2,00 a year. Single numbers 20 cents. All subscriptions payable in advance.
As this magazine has no rival in the field, its merits will unquestionably secure for it an extended patronage.
HARPER'S MAGAZINE. The January number of this popular magazine is received. It contains a quantity of embellishments and excellent reading matter. The following is the table of contents:
A Tour through Arizona; Heroic Deeds of Heroic Men; After the Storm; Scenes in the War of 1812; O Don't become a Nun, my Dear; Tom's Education; The Life of Flowers; Sheridan's Battle of Winchester; Nora and I; The Sunbeam; Janie Thompson's Lovers; Armadale; An American War Correspondent in England; Our Mutual Friend; Monthly Record; Literary Notices; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer; Fashions.
This magazine furnishes a fund of useful and entertaining reacting, at a low price.
<c04>
LETTER FROM PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
LONDON, Nov.25, 1864.
As to your Presidential election. I never had any doubt at all how it would go, but I congratulate you on the great majority, and on the infatuation of the opponents. I trust with Mr. Sumner that it is the funeral of the old misnamed Democracy, which by cringing to the South has brought on-you all this misery I also look with high hope to the profound discouragement which such a defeat will cause to the rebels.
Andrew Johnson's speech which I received by your kindness, filled me with delight. I at once sent it to the Morning Star. I since have it in two other American papers. My first feeling was a fervent hope that Mr. Lincoln is going to turn over a new leaf. My second, observing how cautiously Johnson says it is only by his own authority, and how Seward keeps up his ambiguous tone, was, that it seems as if the President was glad to catch as many votes as he can, from the Radicals through Johnson, from the Democrats through Seward. I was doubly delighted by the tone of Johnson's act. But, on the whole, as I cannot believe that the President will disown Johnson as he did Fremont, I am filled with hope that Freedom, now a reality in Tennessee, will constrain Kentucky. The guerillas in Tennessee seem to me the true deliverers of the slaves. Is it not dreadful if white Unionists must thus suffer before justice is done to the blacks?
I thank you for Gen. Banks's speech. It claims that Louisiana shall be a pattern of future reconstruction; hence it is important enough to deserve a mature review from some of our Anti-Slavery Societies. I can but touch on it here. I am glad that Gen. Banks desires freedom, and denies that he has been establishing serfdom; nor is it to the purpose to doubt or to admit his excellent motives-the sole question is the value and the security of his work. (In passing, I must say that his statements about the West Indian Islands are flatly contrary to everything which I read and believe.)
Gen. Banks vindicates his work from being serfdom by a gross fallacy. He says serfs can be sold with the land; his blacks cannot be sold at all. Nay, but when men are attached to the soil and forced to labor, (which can only be by the whip, even if out of sight,) they are serfs; and when the soil is sold, they are virtually sold with it.
I am not anxious to defend our country, if he retort that the English peasantry are virtually not serfs. The essential differences are:-1, that we have no traditions of slavery in the recent past, nor any whip, but poor-laws which vex rate-payers in proportion as the peasant is depressed; 2; that the laws are not made by the masters alone; 3, that the race is not discriminated by color; 4, that two-thirds of the progeny of the peasants regularly pass off into other employments.
Ours is, in my opinion, an unjust system; but unless involved in a horrible revolution, we cannot cut the knot of it; we must slowly untie it as we best may. You have paid the price; you have but to say the word, and establish justice. Gen. Butler was doing it. But the President "prefers gradual emancipation," and, with Gen. Banks, he gratuitously imposes this half measure. Thus he sedulously keeps up a relation between the old evil system and the new system, for fear you should not imbibe enough of the poison; and when he has a clear moral and legal right, and therefore is under clear moral duly to pronounce unconditional freedom, (as Andrew Johnson has at last done,) he confers freedom by the vote and will of the local whites; and actually boasts that the new Constitution reserves a right (!) for the local whites to deal out political privilege to colored men who shall seem individually to deserve it!!!
Mr. Garrison conceives that only a doctrinaire democrat can object to this; but why are the ignorant white men of New Orleans, &c., (whom W. H. Russell of the Times newspaper describes as bloodthirsty ruffians,) to be more worthy of the franchise than those colored men of education who have been defrauded of the rights guaranteed to them by treaty with France?
Worse than all is the artificial character of the nursing system as described by Gen. Banks. You will need great armies of occupation over Alabama, Texas, Georgia, the Carolinas, &c., for two, three, four years, in order to carry out this Louisiana process. And all for what? To bring about the result, that the colored race shall ultimately receive as much political power as the local whites think they deserve!
Meanwhile, the local whites will keep them disarmed, of course, and go armed themselves; and then nothing can hinder irresponsible tyranny and national disintegration; and you will artificially build a separation of the races at the very crisis when you might rid yourself of this curse by a single bold word, such as Butler or Johnson would speak.
Any arbitrary measures needed by immediate military necessity I could not criticise; but Gen. Banks falls back on "education" as necessary! as if the poor whites were highly educated -and he proposes his scheme as a type for imitation, calmly expecting you to go on expending fifty millions sterling a year on great armies of occupation. Will not such an attempt give you, four years hence, a Copperhead President? I fear so, if you allow it.
Yours, heartily, F. W. NEWMAN.
To EPES SARGENT, Boston.
REMARK. Professor Newman, in endeavoring to be just, is still querulous and narrow.-[ED. LIB.
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION BEFORE THE CABINET. The Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, freeing three millions of bondmen, will rank as one of the great edicts of history. It therefore eminently deserves the attention of artistic genius, and we are gratified to know that a competent hand has put on canvass the scene when the remarkable document was first brought to light. Carpenter's picture of "The Emancipation Proclamation before the Cabinet," now on exhibition at Williams & Everett's, 234 Washington street, is an admirable representation of the meeting at which President Lincoln had his proclamation before the members of the Cabinet. The President and his constitutional advisers are grouped around the council board in thoughtful, yet unconstrained attitudes, and the large size of the figures gives to them a life-like appearance otherwise unattainable. The likenesses are excellent. The features of the President, Secretary Seward, Chase, Stanton, Blair, Welles, Bates and Smith are delineated with great clearness, and their individuality is unmistakable. The accessories of the picture are literal, it having been painted in the Cabinet room of the White House, and the furniture represented is that introduced in Jackson's time, and now familiar to all visitors to the national "sanctum sanctorum." The picture is well worth seeing, not only as the representation of a great event, but as a work of art.


ERRATA. In consequence of absence from the State, we were able to read but a small portion of the proof of the inside form of last week's Liberator; hence, much to our annoyance, there were numerous typographical and other errors unconnected, some of them of a ludicrous nature. For instance-in a brief notice of Rev. Calvin Fairbank, we wrote, "He desires to visit such places in New England as may extend invitations to him." It was printed imitations! Again, we referred to his " dreary years of imprisonment in Kentucky." It was printed dreamy! Anything but that! Types are often made to perform very queer freaks In an old newspaper, the following correction appeared:-" In our last number, for storm-destroying porringers, read worm-destroying lozenges "!
TERMS ADVANCED. In accordance with the necessities, of the case, the Anti-Slavery Standard has advanced its subscription price, for the coming year, from $2,50 to $ 3,00
<c05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXIII.
NEW YORK, Dec-15, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Some things Which I saw last week in Washington and the way thither, will form the staple of my present letter. I arrived at the Capital the day after the opening of Congress, and the same on which was promulgated the noblest of the President's Messages. It was whispered even then that Mr.Chase would be made Chief Justice, and the joy of this event was communicated to the public before my stay was over. Amid such happy auspices for the nation, it was impossible not to be favorably impressed with the ordinary sight at the seat of government-the magnificent Capitol, still incomplete, but undisturbed in its erection by the nearest howling blast of war that has caused the citizens at its base to quake with reasonable fear-the gorgeous hall of the Patent Office, with its flanking galleries of models rejected and accepted, whose number alone, to a thoughtful mind, is the grandest testimony in Washington to the success of our republican experiment--the Post-office, Treasury Department, and other public buildings, which are worth to the country far more than they cost, and upon which the architect, the stone-cutter and the statuary have labored faithfully and enduringly. All these things, with the general novelty of the city to your correspondent, would have filled pleasantly whole days in place of the few hours which it was practicable to assign to them. But the object of my visit was with the people rather than with marble and granite, and with the lowest grade of society rather than with the highest.
The readers of the Liberator and the Standard are tolerably familiar with the work of the Pennsylvania Freedmens Relief Association, from the occasional contributions of its Secretary, who kindly acted as guide and companion in my recent trip. Together we inspected the five schools of his establishment, and of these I should like to convey some idea to you. They are, to begin with, open to the children of the free and the freed without distinction. The tuition is absolutely without cost to the pupils, though their parents would frequently be glad to pay for the privilege: it is deemed just that they should be placed, in this respect, upon the level of the school-children of the North. Where there is the ability to purchase the text-books, this is commonly encouraged; for thus it is found that they are more highly prized and more carefully kept. There are three instructors, all women, to each school-a principal and two assistants; of these one is colored. The apparatus of the schoolroom is such as you are familiar with in Massachusetts. Besides books, maps, blackboards, etc., an important feature is the melodeon, which affords vent to the musical genius of the race, and is an invaluable aid to good order and education. It was a rainy day on which we made our tour, and there was nothing strange if this affected attendance and toilets; but I believe the decency of apparel could have been compared to advantage with that of most country schools in the free States, and I have seen many worse individual cases in your public schools in Boston. Our foreign population do not exhibit half the pride, proportionally to their means, which the people of the District had manifested in the dress of their children. The genuine pleasure which these experienced in learning was very apparent to the beholder, apart from the heartiness with which they sang their exercise-
"One, two, three! Don't you see Where we love to be!"
You will readily believe that the intellectual and social lessons of the school room go out from it to the homes from which the scholars emerge. The alphabets repeated in the cabin to the parents, who are all the more willing on this account to put their boys and girls to school; and whatever of integrity, propriety of demeanor and utterance, self-respect and self-confidence is inculcated in the latter place, is naturally reflected in the former. So that this work of elevating the colored people, though directed upon the rising generation, operates effectively upon the adults. The simple instrumentality which I have described will enable the colored man everywhere to compete with his white fellow-citizen, and to exemplify his fitness to possess those rights which are now cruelly withheld from them.
Of the teachers who have ardently embraced this holy cause in the District, one can only speak in terms of admiration. They sacrifice much in the way of home comforts and society, to brave the jeers of the incredulous and the abuse of the malevolent. They are worthy peers of their sisters, who, on the more exposed frontiers, exhibit a heroism which is not surpassed on the battle-field. I say this not alone of the teachers of the Pennsylvania Association, which is only one among many, though honorable in rank. Nor must I omit to speak of the young men of the city-mostly clerks from the Treasury Department- who have inaugurated and sustained for a half-year past a system of colored evening schools, to their infinite credit. Mr. Needham, of the Post-office, is regarded as the pioneer in this movement; and Mr. E. A. Newton, formerly of Boston, bears in it a highly useful but characteristically modest part. Then there are numerous Sunday-schools, which are often managed by the same ladies whose week-days are consumed in the free schools first- mentioned. Lastly, for my observations at the Capital, on Wednesday evening of last week I attended a meeting almost unmixed colored, in one of the churches, to consider the proposition of the New York Association in regard to establishing a High School. The speakers on that occasion were chiefly of the same hue as the audience, and were all men of uncommon ability, -absolutely, I mean,-as speakers and thinkers. They discussed more particularly the advantages of education and the obligation of their brethren to help themselves. One of them, a minister, made bold to liken the free colored population to the pigs which he used in former times to carry to market. On first tying their legs and putting them into his cart, they made a vast ado with struggling and squealing; presently, soothed and shaken down comfortably by the motion of the team, they relapsed into quiet, which was only interrupted by some deep rut or jolting stone; and arrived at market, when their bonds were cut, they did not know enough to rise, and had to be kicked up! (Cries of "That's so!"-"That's the truth!")
You will perhaps take greater personal interest in a meeting which was held in Baltimore as I was passing the night in that city on my way to Washington. The men whom you saw last June, and to whom Maryland will ever be grateful for a free Constitution and her rescue from slavery, joined by other philanthropic and substantial citizens, have organized themselves into an association for the intellectual and moral improvement of the people of color. I was reminded of the early gathering of the anti-slavery enterprises at the North; and it was refreshing to see evidences of the same devotion to principle, the same earnestness, the same solid worth and salt of the community combined to complete the imperfect emancipation of the State. This was the second time they had come together in their corporate capacity, and they were hardly more than organized, but already they had raised over three thousand dollars by subscription-enough to ensure the trial of at least one free school for the ensuing year. I look for great results from this undertaking, now in its small beginning. It will be the nucleus for similar schools all over the State, and it is resolved that friend or foe who watches the consequences of abolition in Maryland shall not have cause to lament on the one hand, or insolently exult on the other. 
Great is the value of an Executive who takes no backward step in the career of freedom. Fortunate is it for the country's future that the Supreme Court is redeemed to the side of civilization. Indispensable are the victories of our defenders by land and sea. Yet greater, more fortunate, and not less indispensable the effort to educate the despised color in our land; to give it a chance to secure itself from outrage and
<c06>
inequality before the law; to extend the vindication of the theory of self-government by demonstrating the capacity of the blacks for the responsibilities of citizenship. The interest of every white man is involved in the condition of the negro hereafter as it has been heretofore. Unless we vigorously, comprehensively assist him, and conjure him to raise from his helpless ignorance, we only prolong the burden which we have borne by reason of our injustice to him, Let us recognize our indebtedness, with a determination to wipe it out. Call it economy or philanthropy -it is not charity. The most we can do will be less than we ought. The cry of the black Ajax is heard for light: we must heed it, or grope ourselves.
M. DU PATS.
"TABLE TALK."
On Sunday evening last, at the Melodeon, Ralph Waldo Emerson delivered the fourth lecture of his present course, entitled " Table Talk." The house was filled, in spite of unpleasant weather and very bad walking. Among the good things that Mr. Emerson said were the following:-
The pain of loneliness is to be heeded, like the toothache, not because it is pain, but because it expresses a certain want, a need of help, which should be supplied.
The problem of the talker is the same with that of the orator, the art of managing minds. The orator's task is to warm a poor, thin, down-looking audience, and make them rich and happy in the thought that they are in the right, and the absent majority in the wrong. The business of the talker in a parlor is to move and persuade his smaller audience.
Oratory is the art of saying everything, without being sent to the Bastile, in a country where it is forbidden to say anything.
Conversation, when best, is a series of intoxications. A wise man joins it to play and be played upon. Madame de Stael was the most distinguished converser of her time. She valued nothing but conversation. But her skill in it was such, that, on one occasion, those who listened to her were unconscious of a thunder-storm.
Sincere and happy conversation doubles our power, The effort to make our thought clear to our friend spurs the mind to action, and arouses resources in ourselves that we knew not of. Conversation fills all gaps, supplies all deficiencies. At dinner, a servant whispered to her mistress, " Please, Madame, tell them one story more. We have no roast to-day."
Some people talk only for victory. Some mar their talk with untimely jokes. True wit never raises a laugh. Beware of naming health or sickness before a valetudinarian. Some persons are mere faggots of exasperated nerves, and will mercilessly rehearse the whole catalogue of their ailments, if you give them the opportunity. Seek conversation only with the sane. A good heart is the best preparation for it.
Society in towns is infested by persons who, seeing that sentiment pleases, affect the frequent expression of it. The sentimentalist loses her soul by imitating soul. This patient thinks her disease health. If one sentimentalist should be matched with another, and left without other audience, they might begin after a while to suspect something wrong.
The law of the feast is beauty. Everything is there unseasonable which is private to two or three. Tact avoids misplaced privacy. Let nature bear the expense of conversation. Avoid fault-finding, A lady said of some censorious tattlers-I don't care for-what they say, but for what makes them say it.
Stay at home in your mind. Don't recite other people's opinions. The way to have large occasional views is to have large habitual views.
Questions between egotisms can never be settled. The English are more Englishmen than they are men. The triumph of culture is to overpower nationality by importing the best specimens of every country. It is an illusion which the form of our planet permits, that our own country stands at the top of the world; but the wise man will not fail to draw right distinctions.
Mr. Emerson's lecture next Sunday evening will be on "Books."-C. K. W.

LETTER FROM SOJOURNER TRUTH.
ORANGE, (N. Y.) Dec. 10, 1864.
I send you, herewith, a letter recently received from SOJOURNER TRUTH, giving an account of her interview with President Lincoln, in which, no doubt, many of her friends will be interested. Accompanying her letter was a very interesting one from Capt. Geo. B. Carse, commanding Dept. V. R. C, Govrt. Farms, Virginia, in which he speaks of the great service rendered to the Freedmen and their families by Sojourner, who visits them in their cabins, takes her knitting, and instructs them how to sew and knit, make bread, and perform all the various household duties of which those who have been field hands are very ignorant. I will cheerfully take charge and forward any thing Sojourner's friends may wish to send her. ROWLAND JOHNSON.
FREEDMAN'S VILLAGE, VA., NOV. 17, 1864.}
DEAR FRIEND-I am at Freedman's village, After my visit to the President, I went to Mrs. Swisshelm' and remained there three weeks, and held two meetings in Washington, in Mr. Garnet's Presbyterian church, for the benefit of the colored soldiers' aid society, both of which were largely attended. I then spent a week on Mason's Island, with the Freedmen there; held several meetings, and was present at the celebration of the emancipation of the slaves in Maryland, and spoke upon that occasion.
It was about 8 o'clock in the morning when I called upon the President, in company with Mrs. C. On entering his reception room, we found about a dozen persons waiting to see him; amongst them were two colored women, some white women also. One of the gentlemen present knew me, and I was introduced to several others, and had a pleasant time while waiting, and enjoyed the conversation between President and his auditors very much. He showed as much respect and kindness to the colored persons present as to the whites. One case was a colored women who was sick, and likely to be turned out of her house, on account of her inability to pay her rent. The President listened to her with much attention, and replied with kindness and tenderness that he had given so much, he could give no more, but told her where she could get the needed aid, and asked Mrs. C. to direct and assist her, which she did.
He was seated at his desk. Mrs. and myself walked up to him. Mrs. C. said to him, "This is Sojourner Truth, who has come all the way from Michigan to see you." He then arose, gave me his hand, and said, "I am glad to see you." I said to him, "Mr. President, when you first took your seat, I feared you" would be torn to pieces; for I likened you unto Daniel, who was thrown into the lions' den; for if the lions did not-tear you to pieces, I knows it would be God that had saved you; and I said if he spared me, I would see you before the four years had expired. And He has done so, and I am now here to see you for myself." He congratulated me on my having been spared. I then said, I appreciate you, for you are the best President who has ever taken the seat." He replied thus:-" I expect you have reference to my having emancipated the slaves in my Proclamation; but," said he, mentioning the names of several of his predecessors, and particularly Washington, they were just as good, and would have done just as I have, if the time had come. And if the people over the river," pointing across the Potomac, "had behaved themselves, I could not have done what I have." I replied, "I thank God you were the instrument selected by Him and the people to do these things." I presented him with one of my shadows and songs, for remembrance. He then showed me the splendid Bible presented to him by the colored people. You doubtless, have seen a description of it. I have seen it
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
for myself, and can say, it is beautiful beyond description. After I looked it over, I said to him, "This is beautiful; and to think that the colored people have given this to the Head of the Government-and to think that Government once sanctioned laws that would not permit its people to learn enough to be able to read that book! And for what? Let them answer who; can." I am proud to say that I never was treated with more kindness and cordiality than I was by that great and good man, Abraham Lincoln, by the grace of God President of the United States for four years more. He took my little book, and with the same hand that signed the death-warrant of Slavery, he wrote as follows:
"For aunty Sojourner Truth."
October 29,1864. A.LINCOLN.
I then took my leave of him, and thanked God from the bottom of my heart that I always have advocate this cause, and done it openly and boldly; and now I shall feel still more in duty bound to do so. May God assist me! I have obtained a little house here, through the kindness of the Captain of the Guard, and think I will remain, and do all 1 can in the way of instructing the people in habits of industry and economy. Many of them are entirely ignorant of house keeping. Any favors in the way of nourishment, and some sheets and pillows, will be very acceptable, and may be forwarded to Washington, addressed to me, care of Captain George B. Carse, Freedman's village, Va. Give my love to all who inquire after me. Sammy and I are both well and happy, and feel that we are in good employment and find plenty of friends. 
Your friend, 
SOJOURNER TRUTH.
THE NATIONAL LEAGUE.

EXECUTIVE BOARD NATIONAL EQUAL RIGHTS} LEAGUE, PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 24, 1864.}
To the Colored People of the United States:
In our late National Convention, held in Syracuse, N.Y., we formed a National Equal Rights League. The objects to be accomplished through the League are set forth in the first section of the Constitution in these words: " The objects of this League are to encourage sound morality, education, temperance, frugality industry, and promote everything that pertains to a well-ordered and dignified life; to obtain, by appeals to the minds and consciences of the American people or by legal process when possible, a recognition of the rights of the colored people of the nation as American citizens." These objects, as well as the mode of their attainment and the advantageous results which must follow, are worthy most certainly of your serious attention and consideration. The mode of achieving these objects, as recommended by our National Convention, is two fold.
We have the National Equal Rights League, with its officer and Executive Board. The province and work of this branch of our organization are altogether national. Its jurisdiction is commensurate with and bounded only by the limits of our country. The language of the 5th section of the Constitution, in defining the duties of the Executive Board, is: "They (the Executive Board) shall hire an agent or agents who shall visit the different States of the nation, accessible to them, and call the people of the States together Convention or otherwise, and urge them to take the steps necessary to secure the rights and improvements for the attainment of which this League is formed." The other branch of our organization is the State Leagues auxiliary to the National League, together with their subordinate organizations. In regard to these, the 7th section of the Constitution contains the following words: "Persons in the different States friendly to the purposes of this League, (the National,) may form State Leagues auxiliary to this, with such subordinate organizations as they may | deem proper," provided that no distinction on account of color or sex shall be permitted in such auxiliaries or subordinate organizations. Such Leagues may at their discretion employ agents, and issue such documents as they way deem conducive to the ends for which this League is formed. They shall collect and pay into the treasury of the National Equal Rights League such sums as may be assessed upon them by vote of the majority at the annual meeting, and shall co-operate with that Association in all movements which it shall inaugurate for the accomplishment of the purposes for which it was formed."
Thus it will be seen that the two great branches of our national organizations are the National League and the State Leagues, together with their subordinate organizations auxiliary thereto.
The lift and power of the national branch of our organization depend upon the formation of State Leagues, while the State branch depends upon the inclination, the purpose, and the action of the people in the various States.
To you, then, the people of the country, belong the duty and responsibility of carrying forward on its errand of justice, humanity and freedom the great national enterprise, inaugurated at our late National Convention.
Shall the National Equal Rights League be sustained? Shall we labor, concentrating our influence and our means in this organization to achieve the objects and reposes which it contemplates? All will agree that we need such an organization among us. All must acknowledge the importance and necessity of doing all in our power, by united and persistent action, to obtain a full recognition of our rights as American citizens. And all must admit that this, more than all other periods in our history, is the time to enter upon some well defined, energetic and manly course of action looking to the attainment of a full recognition by the General and State governments of equality for us before American law.
To-day two hundred thousand choice colored men are clothed in the uniform of the American Union; already by the brave and gallant use of the musket and the sword on many bloody battle-fields, have they challenged the admiration of mankind as they have fought side by side with their -white fellow countrymen, to maintain the integrity of the Union and the authority of the government. 
White the devotion, the gallantry, and the heroism displayed by our sons, brothers, and fathers at Port Finds on, Fort Wagner, Petersburg, and New Market Heights are fresh in the minds of the American people, let us spare no pains, let us not fail to make every effort in our power to secure for ourselves and our children all those rights, natural and political, which belongs to us as men and as native-born citizens of America. This we owe to ourselves-certainly, we owe it to our children. Let not theirs be an inheritance of degradation. And who shall say that we do not owe it to the noble men who represent us in the American army and navy? Shall they return, after weary months and years of laborious service, as soldiers and sailors, bearing the scars of hard-earned victories, to tread again the old ways of degradation and wrong! It must not be.
It may not be amiss, in this connection, to remind you that our fathers were not behind other men in the Revolutionary war and the war of 1812, in exhibitions of patriotism and courage in the defence of this country. Indeed, history records the fact that the very first man who fell in our Revolutionary struggle was colored man; and one of the facts that make the 5th of March, 1770, memorable in our Revolutionary annals is this one-Crispus Attucks, who stands as the representative of a host of colored Americans who gave their lives in defence of the country.
It is true that these men and their descendants, if for no other reason, certainly on account of the gallantry, the courage, and the loyalty displayed by them, Reserved not only the grateful acknowledgment of the nation, but a full and practical recognition of their rights.
But we know too well by our bitter experience of wrong and degradation, how they were treated after those wars. Wisdom, then, dictates that we should profit by this lesson.
When this our present war shall have ended, it will

<c02>
be our duty to see to it that we have indeed a standing place under American law.
Let us, therefore, proceed at once to call State Conventions and form State Leagues, and with vigor and purpose enter upon the work of accomplishing the objects of our National League. Let our friends and brothers of the Atlantic States vie with those of the far off West in this glorious work. Let New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan lead the way in the prompt and energetic formation of State Leagues, through which we may bring to bear upon the people and legislatures of those States, by appeal and argument and memorial, our united and earnest protest against a further continuance of legislative proscription founded on color.
JOHN M. LANGSTON. President. DAVIS D. TURNER, } ST. GEORGE R. TAYLOR, } 
COLORED PEOPLE AND THE PHILADELPHIA CITY RAILROADS.
At a meeting of the Board of Presidents of the Philadelphia City Passenger Railway Companies, held a few days ago, the following petition, signed by numerous well-known citizens, was presented:
To the Board of Managers if the various City Passenger Cars:
The Colored Citizens of Philadelphia suffer very serious inconveniences and hardships daily, by being excluded from riding in the City Passenger Cars. In New York City, and in all the principal Northern cities, except Philadelphia, they ride; even in New Orleans, (although subject to some proscription,) they ride in the cars; why then should they be excluded in Philadelphia, in a city standing so preeminently high for its Benevolence, Liberality, Love of Freedom and Christianity, as the City of Brotherly Love? Colored people pay more taxes here than are paid by the same class in any other Northern city. The members of the "Social and Statistical Association," although numbering less than fifty members, pay annually about Five Thousand Dollars into the Tax Collector's Office.
Therefore, the undersigned respectfully petition that the various Boards of the City Passenger Cars rescind the rules indiscriminately excluding colored persons from the inside of the cars.
The petition was accompanied by the following appeal:
To the Board of Presidents of the City Passenger Railroads. GENTLEMEN: The undersigned Committee, appointed by the Social, Civil and Statistical Association of the Colored People of Pennsylvania, who appeared before you, something over two years ago, with a petition, signed by three hundred and sixty highly respectable citizens of Philadelphia, praying that the rules indiscriminately excluding colored people from the inside of the cars be rescinded, would most respectfully again urge the claims of their cause by re presenting the same petition, with an additional appeal annexed thereto.
We have never understood that the matter was finally disposed of by your Body, but simply postponed. Hence we trust our earnest efforts at this time will not be regarded by you as unduly obtrusive, especially when you shall have considered such facts as we are about to bring before you.
Since our petition was first presented, New York has removed every vestige of proscription from all her city passenger cars, although the rules of their roads, long before this final change, carried colored people generally without proscription, excepting two roads. In these exceptional cases, they could ride in cars especially designated by the words " Colored people are allowed, &c."
Can it be possible that there is more prejudice, and less humanity, in Philadelphia than in New York? "We cannot think so, and our experience in this very matter of procuring signatures to the petition now under consideration fully justifies us in assuming this ground.
We applied to men who had never rendered themselves publicly obnoxious by advocating anti slavery or abolition views; men filling the highest positions in the churches, in the legal profession, in the mercantile calling, and in the editorial vocations, and to our great gratification we rarely applied in vain.
Amongst the signatures may be found a number of Episcopal clergymen. Not a man of that order to whom we applied hesitated a moment about signing it, but all freely gave their names.
Also amongst the names may be found the pastors of nearly all the leading Methodist churches in this city, who, with one accord, cheerfully furnished their names and the names of the churches over which they presided, to give additional weight thereto. Every Baptist clergyman also to whom it was presented gave his name, and unqualified approval of the measure.
Other denominations to whom it was presented signed with equal freedom, so far as they were called upon. Hence we take it for granted that, so far as the public are concerned, should the oppressive and proscriptive rules be changed to-day, the great majority of the citizens of Philadelphia Would acquiesce in the change.
And, we would further add in this connection, we are fully persuaded that if the Board should feel inclined to test this question by allowing any ordinarily decent women to ride on any one of the roads, by an impromptu vote of the passengers, two-thirds would side with the women, as often as the trial might be made.
But, you may ask, "Will not the vulgar and the lower order of society rebel against colored people riding? " We reply, no. No sooner here than in New York, Washington or New Orleans.
The truth is, the colored people, in meeting with insult and vulgar epithets from the vulgar, cannot fail to observe that these abuses are, in a great degree, traceable to severe and inhuman rules of this kind.
Nobody insults a colored man or woman in the Tax Receiver's office, however full it may be. Nobody insults a colored man or woman in entering a store, even though it may be the most fashionable in the city. Why, then, should the fear exist that live very people who are meeting colored people in various other directions, without insulting them, should instantly become so intolerably incensed as to indicate a terrible aspect in this particular? They say, fearless of successful gainsaying, that the rules of which the colored people of Philadelphia complain, in point of severity stand unparalleled, compared with the legislation of any other large city. The fifteen hundred soldiers who lay in pain at the Summit and Satterlee hospitals a few weeks since, received but few visits from their colored brethren, simply because the rules enforced in these cars would not allow decent colored people to ride; and eight or nine dollars per day, the usual charge for carriage hire, was beyond the means of the masses to pay. Yet we repeat, by the regulations of the City Passenger Railways, not one mother, wife or sister could be admitted, even to see a United States soldier, a relative, although the presence and succor of such mother, wife or sister might save a life. It is well known that through the efforts of the Supervisory Committee of this city, ten or eleven regiments of colored men have been raised for the United States service; and not a few of those men have already won imperishable honor on the battle field. Nevertheless, thrice the number that has been thus raised for the defence of the country are daily and hourly compelled to endure all the outrages and inconveniences consequent upon rules so severe and inexorable as those which have hitherto governed the roads of Philadelphia.
In conclusion, permit us to express the earnest hope that our efforts will this time meet with a more favorable result than before, and that many weeks or months shall not have passed, ere such change will be made as shall remove the cause of complaint for the future. Yours respectfully,
 WILLIAM STILL, }
 ISAIAH C. WEARS, }
 S. M. SMITH }Committee.
 I. C. GIBBS,
<c03>
THOMAS WHITSON. The graphic sketch of our strongly beloved and deeply lamented friend Thomas Whitson, in our last number, was from the pen of Theodore Tilton, and should have been credited to the New York Independent. It condensed into a short compass whatever was needed to be said of the remarkable character and noble worth of the departed whose memory will long be held in loving remembrance by all who knew him.
ANOTHER TRIED FRIEND OF FREEDOM AND HUMANITY DEPARTED, The intelligence reaches us of the decease of the venerable and much esteemed JOHN. WIGHAM, (tertius,) of South Gray Street, Edinburgh, Scotland, in his 81st year. He was an honored member of the Society of Friends-a life long friend of the poor at home and the enslaved abroad-and a truly good man. We were most kindly entertained under his hospitable roof, during our last visit to Edinburgh, as have been many others from America. His family have been foremost in the Anti-Slavery cause in Scotland, and still continue their interest in its triumph in this country.
A PHILANTHROPIST GONE. Myrtilla Miner, who founded the first free colored school in Washington, years ago, when her heroic benevolence subjected her to mob violence and to social insult, died in that city on the 17th inst. of consumption. She was a most intelligent, accomplished and noble woman, and a heroine of heroines.
AN INTERESTING PAMPHLET. We have received, in a handsome pamphlet form, the Proceedings of the National Convention of Colored Men, held in Syracuse, N. Y., on the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th October; with the Bill of Wrongs and Rights, and the Address to the American People. These are deeply interesting, and evince talent of a superior order on the part pf those who participated in them.
The March composed by J. S. Jacobs, with reference to the 55th Massachusetts (Colored) Vols., and their leader, Col. A. S. Hartwell, (who was recently wounded in three places at the battle near Pocatalico Bridge,) as advertised in another column, is a creditable performance, and will doubtless find a ready sale. The likeness of Col. H. is a very satisfactory one.
George Thompson has returned from his tour to the far West, where he was every where received with marked respect and warm applause; and having taken rest for a day or two, has gone to New Jersey and Pennsylvania to deliver a series of lectures-expecting to be in Boston on the 27th inst. He will lecture in Portland, before the Independent Association, on Friday next, 30th inst.
An arrangement has been made by which the Reconstruction Act of last session is to pass, and receive the signature of the President, provided that Louisiana is exempt from its provisions. That State is to be re-admitted at once, the Senators and Representatives receiving seats in Congress.

WAR WITH ENGLAND.
One would think that Uncle Sam had about as much fighting on his hands as he could take care of, and pay the expenses of, but it is evident that certain politicians desire to get up a war with England. It is very true that Her Majesty's Ministers have behaved very badly since the rebellion commenced, and that our Canadian cousins are not doing what they should do to prevent piratical raids across the border. But that is no reason why the two great nations should be involved in a third war. I remember a beautiful incident narrated by Daniel Webster. "When Lord Ashburton and myself," said the Farmer of Marshfield, " sat down at opposite sides of the table, entirely alone, as both had desired to consider the Northwestern boundary difficulty, I said to his lordship at the outset,' My lord, I wish to propose to you at the commencement of this discussion this simple resolution, to be adopted before we go further, namely: that the question at issue between your country and mine shall be settled amicably, and that the enemies of the institutions and religion of both shall not be allowed the delight of seeing both doing their utmost to destroy each other.' With the deepest emotion Lord Ash Burton replied:' I heartily accept the resolution,' and at the same time grasped my hand across the table." Now could we have a Secretary of State again who would act as Daniel Webster then acted, and could such a spirit pervade the hearts of those in authority on both sides of the Atlantic and of the Lakes, we should not hear of another war with Great Britain.- Washington Corr. of Boston Journal.

PRESENTATION OF AMERICAN BOOKS TO PROF. GOLD WIN SMITH.
The collection of historical, statistical and other books presented to Prof. Goldwin Smith by their authors or publishers, through Mr. H. T. Tuckerman, has elicited the following reply:
NEW YORK, Dec. 8, 1864.
"DEAR SIR: My most hearty thanks are due to you, and to all those who have united with you in this act of courtesy and kindness towards your English guest.
No gift could be more welcome to one so deeply interested as I am in all that relates to American history, intellect and character. I shall regard these books partly as a trust placed, by you and your friends, in my keeping; on my shelves they will be open to all who may wish to consult them; and I shall be most happy if they are the means, in my hands, of diffusing a better knowledge of America than, to the misfortune of both nations, but especially o' mine, has hitherto been possessed by most English critics of American affairs.
My visit to America is now drawing to a close; and this pleasant gift crowns three of the happiest and most instructive months of my life. I shall bear with me to England the memory of great enjoyment, a most grateful sense of the overflowing kindness which has everywhere surrounded me, and a desire stronger, if possible, than ever to see friendship reign between the beloved land of my birth, and the almost equally beloved land which I am now leaving.
I am, dear sir, very truly yours,
GOLDWIN SMITH.
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN, Esq."

DEATH OF MRS. FARNHAM.
Mrs. Eliza W. Farnham, well known throughout the nation as a philanthropist and an author, died this morning at the residence of Mr. B. F. Voorhees in this city. Mrs. Farnham war born at Rensselaerville, Albany county, New York, in November of 1815. Her maiden name was Burans, and she was married in Illinois to Mr. T. J. Farnham, a traveller and writer, in 1836.
In 1844 Mrs. Farnham returned to New York, where she took a deep interest in the philanthropic movements of the day, and particularly in prison reform. In consequence of her energetic yet benevolent character, she was appointed matron of the Sing Prison, where her administration was remarkable for its blending of strict discipline with the utmost show of kindness. While in this employment, Mrs. Farnham published an edition of Sampson's Criminal Jurisprudence, and also a book of sketches of western life, called " The Prairie Land."
In 1848 she was called to Boston to take charge of an institution for the blind; but her husband having removed to California during the excitement created by tfie discoveries of gold, she soon after followed him to that State, and remained there till 1856. On her return to New York, in that year, she published "California In Doors and Out," a vigorous and somewhat impressive portrait of the peculiarities of life on the Pacific shores. Mrs. Farnham next devoted herself to the study of medicine, partly with a view to practising it as a profession, and partly to assist her in a scheme of female emigration which she had projected. In 1859 she organized a society to aid destitute women in going to the West and to California, and in furtherance of its ends she went many times to the West, and once, we think, around the Cape to San Francisco.
Mrs. Farnham's last book was called " The Era of Woman," to which she had dedicated the best energies of her mind for twenty years, and to her labors on which she probably fell a victim at last. It was an earnest and vigorous defence of the capacity of the female sex, in which she endeavored to prove that it is not only the equal but the superior of the male sex. Her argument was not logically convincing, though it was set off with much learning, and enforced with a burning enthusiasm. Women will certainly long owe her a debt of the deepest gratitude for her indefatigable labors in their behalf; Mary Wolstonecraft, Margaret Fuller, Mrs. Child, have none of them written more ably than she on the subject; and we doubt whether any woman ever felt more strongly. If her conclusions are not always right, the spirit in which she wrote was admirable, and even sublime.-N.Y. Evening Post.
<c04>
The Independent is a noble newspaper, and a moral power, in the land: qualities which make it a mark for the malevolence of time-serving journals, and a terror to halting politicians. Its columns pour into circulation Mr. Beccher's pulpit coinage-all issued upon a golden basis of truth and principle, which the country will take without a limit. Its contributors are courageous writers and thinkers, divines, scholars, poets harmonizing in their ideal of a Christian platform of government, and preaching the gospel of the future rather than, of; the past. The editor- Mr. Tilton-writes with more feeling than flourish, and meets with fair and fearless discussion every question which enters the moral and political arena. In the recent canvass, no pen was felt with greater force, and even the touch of Quakerism in his character emphasizes the tone of his uncompromising voice for the Bight. A poet and lover of poets, he gives to more than one department of this great newspaper the charm which taste, culture, and even genius only bring. Mr. Tilton is one of the "uncollected" bards of the country; but we think of no other, unless it be, perhaps, Miss Priest or Miss Larcom, whose verse so unquestionably deserves, though it has not received, the honors of American typography, and the "blue" or the "green" and gold which do so adorn the beautiful in words. But the purpose of this paragraph is to remind the reader of certain enlargements and improvements in the Independent, for the year to come- and after New Year's we hope to meet it in a fairer dress, more in keeping with the editorial taste which conducts it, and the wish of its cultivated readers.- Taunton Gazette

GEN. SHERMAN AT SAVANNAH -DEFEAT OF HOOD'S ARMY!
NEW YORK, Dec. 20. The Herald's Fort McAllister correspondence says when Gen. Shermen arrived in front of Savannah, he had a drove of 1200 head of cattle, though he started with only 200, and had fed his army on full rations on a march of over 200 miles. He also gathered on the way over 7000 able-bodied negroes, and so many horses, mules and wagons as to embarrass him. His army, during a considerable portion of the march, extended over a breadth of country 60 miles wide 40 miles at times intervening between the right and left wings. The whole loss of men from wounds, sickness, captures, straggling and other causes up to the time of arriving in front of Savannah, was only about 1000. The average daily march was 12 miles.
When Savannah was invested, the city was unprepared for a siege, and could not hold out more than a few days. Gen. Slocum's corps hold all the approaches on the north side of the city, including all the railroads leading out of the town. Gen. Howard's corps connect with his right, and swings around to the Ogechee River at Fort McAllister.
The total number of rebel officers captured yesterday was 3 colonels, 1 lieutenant-colonel, 7 majors, 46 captains, 157 lieutenants, and 2 surgeons; also 3 brigadier generals, viz., Johnson, Smith, and Ruckner. All the prisoners are corralled in a stone quarry some few hundred yards from the capital; the Penitentiary and all the public buildings are full. Half of the prisoners are barefooted.
NEW YORK, Dec. 20. The Times' Nashville despatch says, Gen. Thomas is pursuing the enemy to Duck River. We have nearly all Hood's artillery. All the rivers are high, and the bridges in front of Hood are destroyed. We have captured 9000 prisoners, including 3000 wounded at Franklin.
We have also taken four Major Generrls. Hood had 65 guns, 54 of which we have. The rebel killed and wounded is little less than our own Our loss is not much less than 3500. Forrest gave Murfreesboro another trial, and was repulsed by Rousseau and Milroy.
The rebel Gen. Johnston says their loss at the battle of Franklin was 5000, while ours was 1900.
Gen. Stoneman has given Breckinridge a clearing out in East Tennessee, near the Virginia line, killing, wounding and capturing a large number, and capturing most of his artillery.
The New York Herald says, "Hood's army has been crushed as a pyramid of confectionary might be by the blow of a sledge-hammer."
GARIBALDI. An English secessionist, who had represented Garibaldi as speaking adversely to the cause of our Government, is set right by Garibaldi himself, who says in a recent letter:
"My opinion on the American question is well known. Not only do I hope from it the abolition of slavery, but I consider the question to be one affecting all mankind; and woe to the world if the North do not come out victorious from this struggle!"
SLAVERY IN DELAWARE. The Wilmington (Delaware) Republican, in an article noticing the increase of emigration to Delaware, and inviting Northern men to settle there, says:-
"The days of Slavery in Delaware are numbered. Two years more, and we hope to see it banished from our soil, and then our State will take her place among her free sisters. Maryland has set us a noble example. She has cast off the foul shackles which have clogged her progress, and henceforth is destined to a glorious future. Delaware will soon follow."
THE VOTES OF CITIES. At the late Presidential election, Lincoln carried eight of the large cities, and McClellan seven. The Lincoln cities were-Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago, St. Louis, Baltimore and Indianapolis. For McClellan- New York, Brooklyn, Albany, New Haven, Buffalo, Milwaukie and Louisville.
CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE. Hon. Salmon P. Chase has been appointed and confirmed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. This choice will be hailed with joy by all the friends of Freedom in the land. Abraham Lincoln has done just the right thing at the right moment.-Concord Dem.
The way the negro guards talk to the southern chivalry which Gen. Butler has put to work in the trenches: " Hurry up dar-hurry up, Lieutenant! Go on dar-goon wid dat are shubble, Major! Take up dat are pick, Cappun, and get to work libely, or I'll blow you out ob de ranks!"
The resolutions in the South Carolina Legislature, objecting to the usurpations of Jeff. Davis, were presented by Mr. R. Barnwell Rhett, whose extreme State Rights doctrines received no more honor in the Confederacy than in the Union he has labored so hard to destroy.
DICTATOR DAVIS. Some of the rebels begin to charge upon Jefferson Davis the ambition to make himself Dictator of the Confederacy. What else could they expect of a man who set up business as a rebel and a traitor?
DEATH OF MRS. CHOATE. We learn with regret the death, at Dorchester, after a brief illness, of Mrs. Choate, the widow of the late Hon. Rufus Choate, and daughter of the late Hon. Miles Olcott, of Hanover, New Hampshire.
Gov. Pierpont of Virginia, says a Washington despatch, in his message delivered at Alexandria on Tuesday, took high ground in favor of emancipation, and advised that negro testimony be received in the Courts.
In General Sherman's army, the soldiers who voted for President supported Mr. Lincoln almost to a man.
Gold was twenty-four times as valuable as Confederacy currency in Richmond, at the beginning of November. It is now forty times as valuable. Gen. McClellan's defeat is the cause of the fall in that currency. When the General was defeated by the rebels in the field, it improved their prospects; when by the federals at the polls, it obscures those prospects.
The bill to restore the disqualification for conveying the mails on account of color has passed the U. S. Senate-yeas 21, nays 5.
A call and draft for 300,000 troops, to make up the deficiency occasioned by credits on the last call, has been ordered by the President.
The Augusta (Ga.) papers assert that with the exception of the Richmond Enquirer and Sentinel, the press and people of the rebel States are unanimously opposed to putting arms in the hands of the slaves to fight against the North.
Five Persian merchants residing in London have each sent 100 to the" Freedmen's Relief Committee" in Montreal, for the benefit of our freedmen. Such a contribution for such an object does great honor to these Parsees,-fire-worshippers of the East.
The total amount paid by the city of New York on account of claims arising out of the riot in June, 1863, up to Nov. 29th ultimo, was 1,444,738 22. The outstanding claims will probably amount to $400,000.
Official documents on file at Washington, it said, show that during the rebellion 40,000 more Southern whites than blacks have received assistance from the Government.
Egypt raised one hundred million of dollars worth of cotton last year.
The population of Boston, according to a census just taken, is 164,788, exclusive of the persons in the Any and navy. This falls short of the last census.
AU FAIT. The act of the Board of Trade the other day, in revising the committee of arrangements to extend the hospitalities of the merchants of Boston to the gallant Capt. Window.-Boston Herald.
<c05>
THE THIRTY FIRST NATIONAL ANTISLA VERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY was organized for the immediate and total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted, "without compromise and without concealment," for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvelous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States, and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION. But slavery is not, yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so-called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation everywhere should the American Anti-Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long-desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time- let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the "self-evident truths" enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence!
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Maria Child,. Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth von Arnim,
Sarah Shaw Russell, Abby H, Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May, Eliza Aplhorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah H. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam, Abby Francis,
Mottle Griffith, Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson, Katharine EarleFarnum,
Evelina A. Smith, Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford, Ellen Wright Garrison.
Caroline M. Severance,

CASE OF THOMAS F. SMALL.
In addition to the sums already acknowledged as received for the benefit of Thomas F. Small, amounting to $18, I have since received the following:-
From Hon. Gerrit Smith, Peterboro', N. Y., $10 00
W------M-----, Northampton, Mass., 2 00
Anonymous, Salem, 5 00
Wm. P. Atkinson, Cambridge, 3 00
Anonymous, Brookline, 1 25
Andrew L. Haskell, Boston, 3 00
Mrs. L. Maria Child, Wayland, 5 00
J-----M------, Northampton, 2 00
Ladies' Union Bazaar Asso., New York, 10 00
Mrs. Ellis Gray Loring, Boston, 2 00
Dr. Jarvis Lewis, Waltham, 2 00
Geo. A. Philbrick, Seabrook, N. H., 2 00
S. Waterhouse, Ellsworth, Me., 1 50
Anonymous, Fall River, Mass., 1 00
Total thus far received, $67 75
ROBERT F. WALLCUT.
Boston, 21st Dec., 1864.

OBITUARY.
Among our obituary notices last week was that of Griffith M. Cooper, of Williamson, Wayne county, New York. His somewhat eventful life makes him worthy of more than a passing notice. He was a son of the late Commander James B. Cooper, and brother of the late Commander Benjamin Cooper, and has a brother who still survives him in the U. S. Navy. He held a commission during the Algerine war, and the war with Great Britain in 1812-15, and took an active part in both. He and his father both commanded gunboats during the action in Long Island Sound between our flotilla and the British men-of-war Maidstone and Sylph, off New London, Conn. After the war, he became a convert to the doctrine of peace, and a member of the Society of Friends, a metamorphosis which has no parallel in the history of our navy. Being a man of great natural ability, he goon became a preacher, and a very influential member of that Society. When the great fraud upon the Seneca Indians in the State of New York was attempted by the Ogden Land Company, he became the champion of their rights, and, with the aid of the Society, succeeded in baffling both the Land Company and the administration of Martin Van Buren, which took sides against the Indians, and undertook to confirm the treaty expelling them from the State, which has since been decided fraudulent and invalid by the Supreme Court of the United States. So potent was his influence in that case, that the Company indirectly offered a large reward to induce him to cease his efforts. By the Indians he was denominated "The Indian's Savior."
When the agitation of the slavery question was forced upon the public, he became a champion of peaceful emancipation. His public speaking on slavery and peace did not please the conservative portion of his denomination, and he was expelled for the advocacy of the very principles which they professed as a body. His voice was still raised against the wrongs of slavery, and no benevolent enterprise appealed to him in vain. Notwithstanding the war excitement, he died, as he had lived, an opponent of both war and slavery.-West Branch, (Pa.) Bulletin.
DIED-In Haverhill, Dec. 6, MOSES MERRILL, Esq., aged 88 years, 2 months, and 24 days. He was the oldest man in town, with the exception of the Hon. Moses Wingate. He had been failing for some time past, and the last time he was down to the village was on election day, when he cast his vote for Abraham Lincoln.
<c06>
A PICTORIAL DOUBLE NUMBER.-THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL and LIFE ILLUSTRATED, for January, appears with 32 quarto pages, and a beautiful illustrated cover. It contains Portraits of Tennyson, Silliman, Sheridan, Cobb, Phillips, Susanna Wesley-mother of John- an Indian Chief, Franz Muller, Miss Muggins, Miss Fury, the Princess of Wales, Florence Nightingale, A Group of Warriors-Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Pizarro, Cromwell, Charles XII., Frederick the Great, Scott, Wellington and Napoleon, with ETHNOLOGY, PHRENOLOGY, PHYSIOGNOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, and PSYCHOLOGY. No. 1, Vol. 41st. Published at 20 cents a Number, or $2.00 a year, by Messrs. FOWLER A WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York.
Dec. 23-2w

55th MARCH,
WITH lithographic likeness of Col. A. S. Hartwell, 55th Mass. Vols., who was severely wounded while commanding a brigade at the battle of Honey Hill, S. C. The likeness is pronounced by the friends of Col. Hartwell to be a perfect success. Published and for sale only by the author,
J. S. JACOBS,
No. 8 Dix Place, Boston.
Extract of a letter to E. W. Kinsley, 37 Franklin st., Boston, introducing Mr. Jacobs:-
"Mr. Jacobs was formerly leader of the Band of the 24th Mass, Regt., and has been one month with the 55th as teacher of the Band, &c. Mr. Jacobs has done the good thing by us, and when better times come, we hope to have him here again. A. S. HARTWELL,
Col. 55th Mass. Comm'ng.
Hilton Head, S. C., June, 1863."

MR. GARRISON'S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.

LUCIFER MATCHES.
THE philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorus and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is Necrosis, the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of these cases, mostly young women, have been treated in the New York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?
Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous cases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,-
This Child was Burned to Death
BY LUCIPER MATCHES
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE,
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of dollars.
FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry sticks together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned
TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils,) scientific chemists have, for more than a quarter of a century, been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,-
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors.
Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs to a
SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST,
who has produced, to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the need of a world's gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combinations, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?
A MATCH INODOROUS AND SAFE.
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.
NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHORUS
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building.
In order that the
PEOPLE OF AMERICA
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent here, and an association formed under the name of
The Universal Safety Match Co.,
who now offer to the citizens of the United States
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE, and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or Wind-Defier,
which neither wind nor rain can extinguish.
A fair trial will verify the truth of our statements.
JOHN P. JEWETT,
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company, 
NO, 18 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
P. S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to wax compositions. Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest and must perfect WAX tapers ever produced.
Dec. 9.-4wis.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary's Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this road thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary's Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and even frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there a not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a, beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, house utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary's Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
SHALL WE NOT SHOW THEM?
BY ALMIRA SEYMORE
Shall we not know them in that world of beauty,
The newer presence of the perfect God,
Them who with us the paths of daily duty
In tender trust and loving waiting trod?
Their hearts were knit to ours by ties so tender-
Glance, voice and step, to memory how dear!
We gave a dearer self when called to render-
Shall we not know them as we knew them here?
Thus asks the heart in its oer-mastering yearning;
Asks of the seed in earth, insect in air;
Then to the page of revelation turning,
Seeks for an answer traced by Gods hand there.
"Peace, troubled soul!"-why vex thyself with questions
Whose details here may not be understood?
Listen to Faiths unfaltering, sweet suggestions-
Our Father is All-powerful and All-good.
He framed these forms so dear to mortal vision-
Garbs of the spirit for the tour of time-
He knit these ties that cannot know division;
The promise gave of Endless Life sublime!
Who has done this we know will still befriend us;
With Him, unquestioning, our hope shall rest;
If faithful, still His love and care attend us,
And what He laves must finally be blest.

VISION AND SONG.
BY S. B, COOKINS
VISION.
Hark! what is that sound that now hunts on the ear,
While every blanched vision speaks horror and fear?
Behold the dread pageant! look up! look afar!
What specter is this riding forth in his car?
Mark that visage, on which "Death and Hell" have been writ,
That breath which exhales from Perditions foul pit!
Each hair is a viper, each eye is a flame,
That glows with the lava of hell, whence it dame!
A hand red with gore wares a falchion on high,
Another directs the fierce steeds as they fly.
His pathway is strewn with the wounded and dead,
All mangled and crushed neath the horses fierce tread:
The groans of the dying, the shriek of despair,
Pursue his career, and float up on the air.
Great God! what is this? He comes! lo, he comes!
The Demon of War-to our land-to our homes!
But gay, who is this that pursues in his train,
As he thunders along oer the blood-deluged plain?
From the regions of bliss comes a Spirit of Light,
And follows the War Fiend, unseen in his flight,
As, blind to its horrors, and deaf to its roar,
Through the conflict he rages, still thirsting for gore!
Ha! what has the Seraph fast bound to his car?
What drags oer the plain the foul Demon of War?
What meteor shines through the war-clouds deep gloom,
Like stars that shall gleam through the darkness of doom?
What music, that floats oer the dissonant roar,
Like Miriams anthem on Arabys shore?
That meteor-chain which he drags at his car,
Unseen by the death-dealing Demon of War,
Is formed of the fetters, all riven and torn
From limbs that in anguish their burden had borne;
That gleam, far outshining the clear Stella light,
That bagnios in glory the dome of the night,
As morns flaming sword, as it gleams up the way,
And Erebus drives from the portals of Day,
As the glimmer of manacles, broken and spoiled,
Late worn by the children of Ham, as they toiled;
That paean, more glad than creations first song,
Which voices of angels in chorus prolong,
Whose melody chimes through the battles loud roar,
Is the clink of the fetter-A FETTER NO MORE!
As stars sang together, ere Times Morning Day,
When Old Night and Chaos were hasting away,
An anthem of praise to Omnipotent Might,
Which spake to the orbs, and, behold! there was light!
But grander the theme, and more joyous the lay,
On a Nation regenerate-born in a day;
Thus from the dread war-cloud, enshrouding the plain,
Over dying and dead, comes the fetters refrain:

SONG OF THE FETTER.
In a cavern dark and cold,
Where the Allegheny rolled, From Times early morning, there I lay;
Then click, click, click,
Came the shovel and the pick,
Where the labor of the free bears the sway,
And bore me from my dark home away.
From the deep mountain gorge
To the furnace and the forge,
In the white-glowing heat, there I lay;
Then cling, cling, cling,
I made the anvil ring,
Then hastened oer the sea far away
To the land of the heathen, far away.
On the mountain, by the lake,
In the jungle, in the brake,
With the tiger and the asp, there I lay;
Then "clink, clink, clink,"
Said the rivet and the link,
"We came from a land far away,
From the land of the Christian, far away."
In the ships foetid hold,
Dark as cavern home of old,
Among the dusky forms, there I lay;
With rattle, rattle, rattle,
As I held a human chattel,
And bore him oer the sea far away,
To the land of the Christian, far away.
On the slavers burning deck,
Amid the squalid wreck
Of mother, sire and son, there I lay;
While with groan, groan, groan,
Did the captive sigh and moan
For his home and country, far away,
For the home of his childhood, far away.
On the shore, in the pen,
In the sight of Christum men,
On the ankle and the wrist, there I lay;
Then knock, knock, knock,
Came the hammer on the block,
And I hastened to the cotton-field away,
Where Mammon, lust and I bore the sway.
On the bayous mucky bank,
In the rice-field, low and dank,
On the captives stalwart limbs there I lay;
While with sigh, sigh, sigh,
Did the dusky heathen cry,
To the gods in the mountains, far away,
To the gods of the heathen, far away.
Then came the cannons roar,
Came the slaughter and the gore,
And rent my clasp asunder where I lay;
And a spirit from above,
By the magnet of his love,
Drew me off through the carnage, far away,
Through the din of the battle, far away.
Then loud the chorus rang,
Through the battles fearful clang,
Mid the onset of the true and the brave,
Ye are free! free! free!
Let the glory ever be
To Him who destroys but to save,
And all honor to the true and the brave!
-Chicago Tribune.

A SUGGESTION FOE DAVIS.
[By the editor of the Richmond Sentinel-perhaps.]
Jeff. Davis, our slaves, who their blessing well know,
Will be sure not to fight when we needem,
If theyre told that good service, instead of reword
Will bring them the curse of their freedom.
Let us look t other way, then, and take the free blacks,
From their sad degradation to saveem,
Put them in our armies, and if they fight well,
For their highest reward well enslaveem.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR
PAEKER FRATEENITY LEOTURES
The ninth lecture of this course was delivered on Tuesday evening, Dec. 13th, by the Bey. Jacob M. Manning. His subject was "Victory through Sacrifice."
Two guests, unbidden, meet with us to night-Exultation and Anguish. Our sorrow is mixed with joy, our joy with sorrow. Sacrifice and victory contend for the mastery in our souls. We have victory, in the field, at the polls, in die White House. Well may it astonish those who feared that a Republican government could not have the permanence and stability of a Monarchy. Those who called our Government a despotism have been hurled back from the throats at which they clutched. The souls under the altar have ceased to cry, " How long, O Lord, how long?" The blood of the martyrs is avenged; the moral tempest has past out of the sky, and peace promises soon to descend upon us. Mr. Lincoln, who, three years ago, said he would sacrifice the blacks to save the Union, now says he should deserve to be damned to all eternity for such an act; and most of us are sufficiently orthodox to agree with him. No wonder that Mr. Phillips has taken his harp from the willows, and sung us one of the songs of Zion.
The greatest of our victories has been achieved at the polls and at the White House. The Washington of Abraham Lincoln is a redeemed and sanctified city, and has become the fortress of liberty." The Federal Government has conquered itself, and its old traditions. There is no slavery in the Territories, and there is soon to be none in the Slave States. Maryland, Missouri and Louisiana have arisen from their defilement, and put on the white robe of liberty, and the area of slavery has been reduced to Kentucky and Delaware. The blacks, lately so despised, now wear the glorious armor of the Republic. By an -overwhelming vote, the people have declared emancipation to be the policy of the nation. The integrity of the Union is to be held inviolable, and Abraham Lincoln has recommended an amendment of the Constitution at once. The rebellion is dwindling and failing every day; and now that Salmon P. Chase stands high priest in the temple of Justice, the decisions of the future are safe. Beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of them who have brought us these glad tidings! Who now calls Lincolns administration a failure? Only Mr. Jefferson Davis and a few copperheads, now more appropriately called soreheads.
But our victories have cost something. Oh, what have they not cost! How many young and noble lives! Our tears flow as we think of the successes of our arms. Our battles are sacrifices rather than victories. Battle is always a terrible sacrifice. War is carnage and devastation, carrying woe to unnumbered hearts. The overthrow of a giant wrong, and a step forward of Gods justice in the world, are its only justification. The victory of right over wrong may reconcile, but must not blind us to the accompanying sacrifice. Such are the light and shade of the great picture of to-day.
Could this vast expenditure have been avoided? This is now the question. Had we been base hirelings, treacherous to liberty, had we thrown away our manhood, had we followed the counsel of the non-resistant, we might have avoided it. Otherwise, there was no escape from the course we have taken The Divine teacher who said, "Resist not evil," said also on one occasion, "He that hath no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one." Men believe now in the Jesus who made a scourge, and drove the evildoers out of the temple.
But for this war, the South would never have ceased to despise us. She has had a wholesome lesson. The war, instead of intensifying the hatred of the Southern people against us, has caused them to respect us. Like peevish children, they have been whipped into good nature. When the process is finished, the golden era of good feeling will begin. Meantime our great sacrifice has softened our hearts, and we are ready to say to the repentant rebel that he shall not die, but live.
In past times, the Northern men who went South learned first to despise labor, and then to live by oppression. Without the sacrifices we have endured, that corruption would still have continued. Now, the effect will cease with the cause.
Again, this war was needed to show us the real importance of the black race to our country. The rights of this race are to be vindicated, and their condition improved. Our armies were slow to learn the rights of the negro, but, like Banquos ghost, he would not down. At first, the blacks were driven from our camps; but when the danger increased, we called for their help, and well have they answered the call. If there are any who still object to arming the negroes, they are talking in their sleep, and will by and by wake up like Rip Van Winkle, and find that the world has moved on while they have slept. It was decided to let the negro step half way up to manhood. Now his splendid fighting is by degrees prevailing with us to let him finish the ascent. The spell of slavery is broken. The consciousness of manhood awakes in the black sentinel who finds himself in a position of authority over his rebel master. The blue coat of the soldier has redeemed him from the fear of the white man. These things are practically convincing us of what we so long held as mere theory, that all men are born free and equal, and that the blacks are as much entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as the whites. 
The sacrifices we have made were necessary to teach us the value of liberty. Before the war, we began to undervalue that which cost us nothing, and to put on the aristocratic airs of a monarchy. The value of a thing is the cost of its production. Freedom formerly seemed to us to cost nothing. Woe, and blood, and taxes, have broken the spell of our ignorance, and we see, with the cost, the priceless value of freedom. Not all, even yet, have their eyes open. There is one man among us who still believes that the American people have made an idol of liberty. The relation of sacrifice to the attainment of freedom and truth seems to be that of cause to effect. Great truths are dearly bought, grasped in the struggle of the soul, buffeting with adverse wind and stream.
We should not indulge a retributive spirit, hut prudence and duty require that we should have full assurance that the source of our calamities is destroyed. Though the struggle between liberty and treason is nearly over, it yet remains to be completed.
The true hero of the war is the honest and loyal people. After all, that man best serves his country who recognizes two hostile principles, right and wrong, and devotes himself to defend the former and oppose the latter. We must not forget that it is sometimes a sacrifice to live. It is no credit to a man to die because he is afraid to live. When Hamilton accepted Burrs challenge, he acted a cowardly part. Mr. Buchanan and his followers of the Chicago platform would have sold the nation for the sake of peace, and they absurdly claim to have been actuated by the spirit of the Gospel. McClellan probably considers himself a martyr, a burnt-offering. But an honest man like Stonewall Jackson, though upon the wrong side, throws shame on these time-servers. For three years McClellan was written up, but on a certain day he was written down.
We have seen wonderful changes. Is it not wonderful, that men known all their lives for their hatred of abolitionism should now scramble upon its platform, and blow through a trumpet their own names as workers in that cause? The men who blew their blasts of warning before the rebellion began were the true heroes. Yet much credit is due to those who have now turned from old alliances, and ranged themselves on the side of the country; and much unstoried and inconspicuous devotion will prove to have: been the best. The end is not yet, nor can we triumphantly reach the end except by a continuance of the same means. 
<c03>
We have reflected Abraham Lincoln, but he is only a man. His foolish scheme of colonizing the blacks, and his weak dallying with Kentucky, should teach us not to depend too much upon him, His appointment of Mr. Speed as Attorney General is a hopeful sign, showing, that he is not too old to learn, bat his attitude to the blacks is negative rather than positive. He has stricken off the chains of the slaves, but he seems disposed to leave: them a landless, nonvoting, dependent class. Plainly, he needs more discipline to make him understand that the black is a man like the rest of us. The negroes should have their rights, as well as be relieved from their wrongs We have censured Wendell Phillips for his severe, criticism; but it would be well for the country if he could be an inmate of the White House, and lecture the President half-an-hour every morning before breakfast. (Loud applause.) 
As to our military position, it is eminently hopeful. Sherman has gone into the wolfs den, as Putnam did, and like Putnam he will succeed. Soon we may expect to hear his signal, telling us to drag out the wolf by the heels. Butler has already taken New York. Ear old Ben! Shakespeare would say. New York will try to forget that day, but history will compel her to remember it. There is a lesson in Butters New York campaign which we may well lay to heart; namely, how an armed force can overawe a city or a State, and how easily a military leader could supplant our free institutions by a despotism. But our soldiers are also citizens, jealous of their liberties; and if all our Generals were as patriotic as Butler, we should have no reason to fear such a danger. Keeping this possibility in mind, we may expect the nation to come out of this crisis more Republican than ever.
Great problems crowd upon our future. Our young men should recognize the fact that vast responsibilities and peerless opportunities are before them. The South is to be regenerated. A literature truly democratic is to be cultivated in both sections of our country. The free-school system of New England is to be extended through all the States. The churches are to be delivered from the nightmare of tradition. Plymouth rock is moving on towards the banks of the Potomac, and slavery is to be utterly obliterated. 
If there was one reason for beginning the war, there are a thousand for carrying it on. Shall success crown the treason of Davis, Lee and Breckinridge, while those who suffered for country and right are crowned with thorns? Let us provide that no dishonor befall the noble dead. Their valor and devotedness require that we complete their work. Let us resolve that they shall not have died in vain. The greater our sufferings, the greater our glory, if we transmit an undivided nation to those who come after us. Let the result of this rebellion ever be a terror to despotism Let us make no pause before the full completion of the work before us.
Mr. Mannings admirable lecture received close at tension and hearty applause.-C. K. W.

RATIONALIST THEORY OF THE CHURCH AND ITS MINISTRY.
Church, from the Greek Kurios, Lord, kuriakos Lords, signified primarily the Lords house, or house of public Christian worship, and is still used in that sense. Houses of public Christian worship are called churches, as St. Pauls church in London, St. Peters in Rome, etc. It also means a body of professed Christians, as the church of England, the church of Rome, the Methodist Episcopal church of the United States, and a religious society worshipping together, independent, as among the Independent Congregationalists, or in connection with other similar bodies of the same order, as a Presbyterian, Catholic or Episcopal church of any particular place. In this article, it is proposed to treat of the church considered as a religious society.
The Christian church is intimately connected with the religion of Jesus, and is the great distinctive institution of Christianity. It unites Christians together in religious bodies, and thereby enables them to co-operate effectively with each other in promoting all the public objects of Christianity. The church is not a political society; it does not concern itself with the political interests and duties, of men, except as they are involved in moral and religious questions. It is a religious society, and concerns itself entirely with questions of morality and religion. Its object is to teach and maintain the true religion. The Christian church commences with Christianity, and its history and fortunes are the history and fortunes of Christianity itself. Other religions are State institutions. This was the case with ancient Judaism; and this is the case with Mohammedanism. Both those religions are maintained and administered by States, and no man in the States to which they belong is at liberty to neglect them. Christians are tolerated under Mohammedan rule, as subject nationalities, but are not fully incorporated into Mohammedan States. The Christian church is also made a State institution in Catholic, and in some Protestant countries; but in the United States, all churches are independent of the State. This method is conformable to the primitive societies of Jesus and the apostles, and has great advantages. But it also imposes great obligations. The entire responsibility of supporting public religious worship and instruction is with the churches, and it is their duty to meet it This is not always done; and when done, is not al ways done properly. The Catholics have the contributions of ages appropriated to the support of religious institutions; new organizations have every thing to provide.
Christian Rationalism makes no war on the church in any of its denominations. It regards all churches as so many religious societies, having common rights, and owing mutual love and good will to each other like sister States. Republican States have no necessary hostility to kingdoms and empires; neither do kingdoms and empires rightfully disturb republics all co-exist and co-operate together, in the family of: nations, and each acknowledges the obligation to serve and benefit all the rest, to the utmost extent in its power. Such, according to the Rationalistic theory are also the relations and duties of churches. There is one great difference between States and churches States have different territories; churches, in many cases, have the same.
A few Rationalists repudiate the ordinances of baptism and the Lords supper, and most repudiate the festivals of the ancient churches; more general rally baptism and the Lords supper are retained, ant the celebration of the nativity of Jesus, while other church festivals are discarded, and deemed inexpedient. The Sabbath is almost universally respected by Rationalists, and its due observance, both as a day of weekly rest and of public religious worship and instruction, zealously encouraged. AH these institutions are received on the ground of their uses and adaptation to serve the human race. The sacraments of baptism and the Lords supper are believed by most to have great uses, and to be incapable of being given up without great loss. The Sabbath is one of the most beneficent of all human institutions, and commands the love and reverence of all good men None of these institutions require any help from superstition. They are infinitely better and more be deficient without any superstitious encumbrances than with them. Any additions to them from superstition are burdens not to be tolerated.
The Roman Catholics makes their church a close corporation, and claim to have received it from Jesus and the apostles as such. If they did, this is nothing in its favor. The only material question is, the right and the good. Does their church best maintain the rights of men, and most effectually promote right am noble acting? If it does, it is the chief of churches and is entitled to receive the preference of all good men. If it does not, others may be preferred.
The Church of England follows hard after the Roman Catholic, in perpetuating the principles and methods of the past,-and adopts some things from the present which the Roman Catholics repudiate It makes much of supposed apostolic precedent and
<c04>
patristic authority; "These; are of little account does of the Church of England contain the greatest intelligence, piety, and virtue? Is it the most effective instrument to make men noble and godlike If it is, it; may have the preference to all other churches-not otherwise. Churches, like trees, and like Christianity itself, are to be tried ultimately, and to stand of or fall by their fruits.
There are three different systems of church polity; 
I The Episcopal; II. The Presbyterian; III. The Congregational.
The Episcopal system organizes-individuals into churches, under pastors; pastors and churches into dioceses, under bishops; dioceses and bishops into provinces under archbishops, etc; This is the system of the Roman Catholics, Episcopalians, etc. 
The Presbyterian system organizes individuals into churches, under sessions of elders and pastors, church sessions and ministers, into presbyteries, and presbyteries into synods and General Assemblies. AH the judicatories of the Presbyterians are under moderators, with; no diocesan bishops or provincial archbishops, and no general superintendents The Congregational system organizes individuals into churches, and in some cases unites churches and pastors into district and State associations and conventions; but has no generally accepted systems of association or centralization. 
Most churches claim to accept the sacred Scriptures, and after them the writings of the earliest church fathers, as infallible rules of faith and order. Rationalists accept no writings, ancient or modern as infallible or supreme rules of all religious faith, and acknowledge the supreme authority of no apostolic or patristic usages and precedents any farther than they are founded in reason and expediency, am adapted to do good according to them. Expediency is the supreme "law of church polity and discipline, and all church action. The question with Rationalists is, not by whom opinions and methods were introduced, but on what grounds of evidence opinions rest, and what good, or evil, usages effect. As far as the earliest opinions of Christians were correct, Nationalists have no difficulty in receiving them; as far as they are incorrect, they have as little hesitation in rejecting them. So, as far as the earliest church usages were beneficial, and still continue so, Rationalists are pleased to adopt them, and hand them along. Whatever is injurious they reject.
Rationalists concede to none special divine rights, but to ail the common rights of humanity, and hold all amenable to the common laws of truth, justice, and mercy. The assumed divine right of certain churches against others they regard and treat as they do the assumed divine rights of kings and nobles against the people whom they oppress
Rationalists find the same basis for the church as the State, the necessities of men. Hen must have States to secure their highest well-being, and they must equally have churches. Both grow out of the social relations of men. Men have natural, inalienable rights to institute States, and perfect them to the greatest extent in their power; they have just the same natural, inalienable rights to institute and perfect churches. Men have natural rights to adopt the best possible polities in churches. 
The question with Rationalists is not what polity is oldest, but what polity is best; not what polity the apostles instituted, and what variations and additions were admitted by the earliest Christian fathers, but what polity and discipline the highest usefulness of churches demands. These questions may be determined, to some extent, by reasoning from general principles, but mainly by experiments.
Any polity is better than none, and scarcely any is so bad that in good hands it cannot do much good; but what is best, on the whole, has required the experiments of many centuries to show, and is not yet clear to all inquirers. In good hands all organizations will be useful. Generally that will be best which is best administered, and that which is best adapted to secure the best administration is really the best.. 
The Episcopal system of church polity, under reasonable restrictions, has some advantages over the two others; and has not been successfully assailed in modern times. It is at present gaining on both the other systems, and bids fair to leave them far behind. Insulated and independent Congregationalism cannot begin to compete with it. If successful competition be possible. it must be by associated Congregationalism; and this is not yet fully tried. Most Congregational churches are but slightly connected with each other.
Some Rationalists abandon baptism and the Lords supper, in the manner of the Quakers; but more generally Rationalists retain this ordinance and baptism, and purpose improved methods of using them, so as not to minister to superstition. The same may be said of the festival of the nativity of Jesus. This is rejected by some; but the greater number cheerfully accept it, and deem its discreet and pious observance both proper and useful. 
Many Rationalists have opposed church creeds and confessions of faith. Creeds and confessions of faith do no harm if they are correct. The mistake has been, to make faith transcend the bounds of knowledge, and embrace matters that are absurd and false. This must be corrected. Creeds and confessions of faith cannot be laid aside, but as knowledge advances will be continually enlarged. No arbitrary rules of faith, however, can be admitted. Every man must be allowed to determine the highest and deepest questions of facts and principles with the utmost freedom, and to hold the truth as he finds it.
The end of churches is the promotion of the highest possible virtue and happiness of all their members, and by their co-operating together for the purpose, the highest possible virtue and happiness of the world.
The duties of churches are first to their members, and, secondly, to the world. For the accomplishment of these ends, a professional ministry is of the highest necessity. It is important as an office of continual instruction and admonition, aiming to lead the members in the best and noblest ways of well doing. It is also a bond of union and fellowship, and an office of supervision, consolation, advice and encouragement of great use to many. From the false position in which the ministers of most churches are found, on great questions of improvement and reformation, many have judged the ministerial profession at fault, and thought that it might be dispensed with to advantage. Blind and erring guides are indeed worse than none; and when Christian ministers array themselves on the side of accepted errors and popular sins, they do great harm. So do others who occupy positions of trust and power. But the true criterion by which to judge of the Christian ministry is not the false and erring minister, but the faithful and true one. The church wants faithful and true ministers, to be shepherds of the people, and lead them into the green pastures and beside fields of religious knowledge. These it must have, and will have; and these perform invaluable services for their flocks and the world. Their positions give them great influence, and they are in many cases the lights of their times, and of all succeeding times. The highest and noblest ministries are yet to appear. Luther, Calvin, Wesley and Jonathan Edwards are to be far exceeded by Christian ministers yet to arise. 
The world has in all ages been cursed with ministers of religion who fail to understand the duties of their high profession, or the true interests of their people, and who carry on their business on the same narrow and selfish principles as the worst keepers of drinking and gambling saloons and houses of public amusement. Such ministers killed the prophets, procured the crucifixion of Jesus, have burned and otherwise tortured innumerable Christian martyrs, and are the moat inveterate and detestable of all Gods enemies. The ministerial profession is an excellent cloak for selfishness and hypocrisy, and is put to great use for that infamous purpose. But this is no reason why the; true ministry should be disparaged. It is an incidental accompaniment of the Christian 
<c05>
ministry, attending it through the dark stages of its early progress, but destined with higher religious knowledge to be cast off and discontinued. Let us hope that the day of these sacred abominations it nearly over, and that the brighter and better day of pastors who shall feed men with knowledge, and not murder or defame its promoters, is at hand. 
Yours, most truly,
LEICESTER A. SAWYER.

CORRECTION. I observe two typographical errors in my article on Rationalism in the Church in last weeks Liberator. In the second paragraph, orthodoxy occurs without the h. This, however, will be readily supplied. The other is more material. It is in the third paragraph, near the bottom of the first column, and is as follows: "It [Rationalism]finds some Scriptures] to be supernatural divine inspirations." It should read-"It finds none to be. supernatural divine inspirations." With this correction, allow me to add, "that the Scriptures have many divine lessons, and many inspirations of God, so called,; but no supernatural ones. Inspiration of God, however, is a rhetorical figure, not a literal fact. God is not breathing being: [neither are ideas literal inspirations, or of a nature possible to be received from without. The doctrine of inspiration by God and other spirits originated in a dark age, and has outlived its day. It was common both to the ancient Greeks and Hebrews, but does not "enter into the reported teachings of Jesus, nor is it found in the modern science of the mind and its. phenomena. 
Yours, most truly,
L. A. SAWYER.
Boston, Dec. 12,1864.

TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION
BOSTON, Dec. 7,1864.
To Frederick U. Tracy, Treasurer, and the Assessors and other Authorities of the City of Boston, and the Citizens generally:-
The question of freedom in a free country is, in a most wonderful manner, becoming developed, through the fulfillment of our obligations to the colored race. Nobleness of soul has burst forth through conventionalism, customs and habits. Latent principles, embodied in the Declaration of Independence, are now demanding thought and practical application 
The question of suffrage now stands before the country as a gigantic subject. By whom, for whom, and to whom this right belongs; and how to be exercised-what qualifications, what restrictions-calls for thought of not only the professed legislator, but the moral conservatism and political economist. Our last election, when our ballot-box was guarded by military power, though unseen, and our noble soldiers gave their votes, though absent from home, was significant of an advanced step on the subject; and we confidently affirm that, as we have moved, go shall We move, until the word MALE shall be expunged from our statute books: and persons, individuals, not sex, be standards. 
Three-fifths representation was rendered obsolete, through emancipation of color, based on principle. Male representation will share the same fate, through emancipation of sex, based on moral and intellectual growth.
Each one of us is on trial; events are shaping themselves for the highest expression of philanthropy-of love to the neighbor. Permitting the ignorant, the imbecile, the intemperate an equal footing at the ballot- box with the noble, the brave, the true, not only degrades suffrage, but places over us rulers who are no aw unto themselves.
So, cheerfully, hopefully and trustingly, I enter again my protest against taxation without representation; and can say what my eyes do see even now is marvelous; and so, from year to year, until more marvels occur.
E Pluribus Unwind has a deeper meaning; and Freedom will yet be scanned as to height and depth, as well as to length and breadth; for moral plummets will continue to sound depths which were supposed fathomless, and the present method of suffrage will follow slavery in due time.
This is respectfully submitted.
HARRIOT K. HUNT. 32 Green street.

SUGAR FROM CORN
The public will be interested to learn that the claim of Prof. Gosling (a German Chemist, residing, we believe, at Cincinnati) to the discovery of a new process whereby crystallized sugar can be made from corn starch, is about to be put to a practical test. It was said that the Professor had succeeded by this process in obtaining three and a half or four gallons of beautiful white syrup from a bushel of corn; and had at last solved the problem which has heretofore puzzled the chemists all over the world, by discovering a method of turning this syrup into granulated sugar, similar to the product of the cane. The production of the syrup is doubtless true, although we may be a little skeptical in regard to the quantity said to be obtained from a bushel of corn. This syrup is beautifully white, and can be used even in tea without darkening the infusion. Moreover, the process is said to be so simple that it can be carried on in a small way in the kitchen of any farmhouse, with only the ordinary household utensils. If this syrup can be crystallized like the saccharine matter from cane, then the whole world may well be called upon to rejoice over the discovery. A company of wealthy gentlemen in this city have purchased the secret, we understand, for $400,000, and having taken the steps to obtain a patent, propose to erect a factory to test its usefulness. We have also been told, although we have not the means at hand to verify the information, that an old process is on record for making syrup from potato starch, which is very similar to the discovery above noticed. The whole question is one of great interest, and will excite much public attention.
The Buffalo Commercial Advertiser, which has heard something about Prof. Goesslings patent, is very much elated. The editor says of the New York refiners who have taken hold of it,-
They propose to enter at once upon the manufacture of syrup and sugar from corn by the new process, upon a large scale, and to introduce its manufacture throughout the country as fast as expedient. Experiments have already succeeded in the production of at least three and a half gallons of syrup from a bushel of corn, and of a quality which is pronounced by the most critical judges to be equal in every respect to the best syrups heretofore produced at the New York refineries from sugarcane. An equivalent amount of granulated, first quality sugar, it is also claimed, can be produced, but we understand that the present company will confine its efforts to the production of syrup. Active preparations are being made, however, to enter upon the extensive manufacture of sugar, and it is expected that the company will be prepared to put the new staple into market during the present winter.
The results which are destined to flow from this new discover}- are so vast and of such national importance, that they will readily suggest themselves to reflective minds. The Northwestern States of America are the greatest sources of the worlds production of maize or Indian corn. Their vast prairies are capable of producing an almost unlimited supply of cornet and under the process of development to which they have been subjected, the problem has arisen, as to how their golden harvests shall best be secured to the world, and made available in the great economy of life.
The corn crop of the West, limitless as it may be In the future, is now destined to become the source of the worlds supply of sugar, or its equivalent of syrup, and the West the repository of untold wealth. The new era of sugar manufacture will, to a great extent derange the old currents of trade. The West will become a great sugar-producing, as well as a great corn-growing region. Its great staple will be compacted both in bulk and value, for the manipulations of commerce. The sugar consumed by one West will be cheapened by escaping east- ward freight on the corn required to produce it, and the westward freight on the manufactured staple.
It cost $6000 to telegraph the Constitution of Nevada to Washington. It occupied twenty-four hours in transmission.
<c06>
"THE LIE DIRECT."
RICHMOND Va Dec. 2, 1864
To the Editor of the Dispatch:
In the New York Daily Tribune, of November 25, appear two or three columns, to be the account of what one Edward Strike aloes J.R. Gilmore, saw, and said, and did on the occasions of his recent visit to the mi! A portion of this account appeared in the Dispatch of the 30th lute. The statement is only filled with falsehoods of the grossest character which must be apparent to every reader, but in every particular the single one of his being at the Libby is utterly without foundation. The whole story is a lie and us well, if not better, know to be such by "Kirke" than anybody else.
I have conferred with Judge Ould on the subject and he joins me in starvation it as a sham less publications.
TH.P. TURNER
Major Community Military <illegible>.
THE NEW CHIEF JUSTICE Our best hopes are realized in the appointment of Salmon P Chase as Judge Taneys successor upon the, bench of the Supreme Court of the United States. President Lincoln has done himself high honor, and richly earned the gratitude to the country, by this act. His personal preferences may have been in another direction, but he has recognized the eminent fitness of Mr. Chase for the position, and the marked expression of popular feeling in his favor, and has yielded to those circumstances in the spirit of a statesman and patriot. It was more necessary to Mr. Lincolns reputation there to Mr. Chases that the appointment should made. The occasion required, and the country demanded, that the best talent should be selected for this high position; and it is well for all parties that there has been no disappointment.
To say that Mr. Chase is among the foremost men of this generation in intellect and acquirements is to repeat what every one knows. He adds to these qualities an ardent attachment to those advanced ideas of human liberty and the rights of men to self-government which are the basis of all enlightened states men ship on the Western continent In the vital questions which are to come before him in his new position, he will be true to these convictions. His appointment signalizes, we trust, the wresting of the last citadel of our government from the hands of that slave oligarchy which so long perverted it from the principles which it was founded to establish and promote-Roxbury Journal.
SECRETARY STANTON. We are not surprised to learn that President Lincoln has no intention of parting with the services of this, the first in efficiency of all our Cabinet officers. We have never joined in the newspaper howl against Secretary Stanton, for the reason that we have always believed hint to be one of the ablest, most honest, industrious and patriotic men in the nation. Spite of all the clamor that has been raised against him, our people are now fast settling into this opinion. Mr. Stanton has his faults. We presume he is more impulsive in speech and less courted ness in manner than is desirable on all occasions. But he offsets these blemishes with a hundred strong traits of character which adapt him to the present crisis. Among these are rapid thought, comprehensive judgment, bold and decided action, combined with indefatigable industry, and an integrity against which no breath of suspicion was ever uttered. He may go too fast and no far, on some occasions; but better this than a persistent cold-blooded hesitation which is forever allowing the golden moment to pass unimproved.
To see the press of the country, and a few mourning politicians at Washington, attempting to supplant such a man to make room for political adventurers, or tools of partisan cliques, is enough to arouse the indigestion of every patriot.-Roxbury Journal.
In the North Carolina Legislature, resolutions had been introduced favoring the sending of Commissioners to Washington to negotiate peace.
Resolutions had been introduced into the South Carolina Legislature, deprecating peace negotiations until the dissolution of the Union is conceded;
Governor Bonham, in his message to the South Carolina Legislature, opposes peace without independence
The Richmond Dispatch is bitter on the Southerners in New York and at the North, and says that if the Confederacy triumphs, they cannot expect to return to the South.
In the rebel Senate on the 30th, Mr. Orr submitted a report, denouncing the capture of the pirate Florida.
In the rebel House, Mr. Foote had offered a resolution that Congress has no authority to interfere on the subject of emancipation, as recommended by Davis. Also a resolution against separate States negotiating for peace, but favoring a convention to the purpose of securing peace through a more vigorous prosecution of the war.
THE ELECTION. Referring to the local aspect of the late Presidential election, the New York Tribute says:-
"We were disagreeably disappointed in the amount of the vote that could he rolled up against us by Gov. Seymours friends. They naturalized some twenty-five or thirty thousand for the occasion, all follow whom went, of course, for McClellan. Those who could not be naturalized voted in our city without. No one can honestly pretend that there it any such legal note as was polled in our 14th ward, for instance; and the same is less conspicuously true of other benighted wards of this city and Brooklyn. We have lost no American vote, but the naturalized and especially the Irish vote of our whole State is not only much large but more unanimous than ever before. It is a shame that New York should make such a record for herself in such a contest; but the blame does not rest on those who have done their utmost for the National cause."
The Chicago Tribune makes the following observation respecting the election in that city:-
"In the American and German wards, the Republican majorities are largely increased, while in the Irish wards the Copperheads have gained even at their enormous and unprecedented majorities for the man in 1863. For example, the 5th Ward Bridge port) gave Douglas 214 majority in 1860. In gave Sherman, in63, 504, and now rolls up for "Make Lellan" 623 majority. The 6th Ward to has increased its Irish majority of 440 for Sherman to 527 for Mike Lellan." The 26th Ward, in spite of the splendid fight made in the east precinct, increases, the Copper head majority nearly one hundred over the Sherman vote. But the "Irish element" me its match in the remaining North Side wards, where the study Tectonic race abound."
NO PROFIT. The N.Y. Tribune, claiming a larger circulation, including its daily and weekly editors than any paper in that city, and enjoying the most extensive advertising patronage, states as follows respecting the profit of newspaper business during the past year:
"The Tribune has for the last year been published without profit to its proprietors, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other material at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our weekly edition, the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars: while our large receipts from advertising have been wholly absorbed by the extraordinary expenses for correspondence, telegraphic news, &c. devolved on us the war."
No daily paper in that or any other city has enjoyed better opportunities for a profitable business, and the fact above stated show, the embarrassments under which it must be conducted in such times as these.
HEAVY SNOW STORM IN THE NORTH WEST:-Never, within the memory of the "oldest inhabitant" has Winter commenced in the North West so <illegible> in the present year. Since the beginning of November, frequent snow storms have visited many localities, and the prevailing weather has been decidedly windy. On Sunday last, a heavy fall of snow occurred over the greater part of Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota. Along the line of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railway, snow fell to such depth as to seriously interfere with the movement of trains, for miles the trains have had to plough their way through large snow drifts, and to overcome all the obstacles of mid-winter in a climate that, if no plat, is certainly very far from torrid. The snow covers, to a greater or <illegible> thickness, the whole of the State north of the Wisconsin, and a considerable extent this side.
TAILORS LABOR AGENCY LITERARY INSTITUTION, NEWINGTON CAUSEWAY. On Thursday evening, Miss Sarah P. Remond, formally of Massachusetts, United States, gave a most admirable address before the members of the above Literary Association, on "American Slavery and the President Crisis". To as extensive knowledge of the moral and physical aspects of Southern American slavery Miss Remond unites graceful manners with chaste and vigorous eloquence. The lecture was in every sense a decided success, and elicited the heartiest demonstration of approval from an overflowing audience. J. A. Duns Esq., president of the institute, took the chair.-London Star, Nov. 12.
Forty two of our poor starved martyrs died at Annapolis on Tuesday, mostly of chronic diarrheas. They were placed in their graves with military honors.
