THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
321 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTION & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 8. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1575.
<c01>
Selections.
LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM.
BROUGHAM, November 20.
SIR-I feel honored by the invitation to attend the Boston Convention, and to give my opinion upon the question, "How can American Slavery be Abolished?" I consider the application is made to me as conceiving me to represent the anti-slavery body in this country; and I believe that I speak their sentiments as well as my own in expressing the widest difference of opinion with you upon the merits of those who promoted the Harper's Ferry expedition. and for the fate of those who suffered for their conduct in it. No one will doubt my earnest desire to see slavery extinguished; but that desire? can only be gratified by lawful means-a strict regard for the rights of property, or what the he declares to be property, and a constant repugnance to the shedding of blood. No man can be considered a martyr unless he not only suffers, but is witness to truth; and he does not bear this testimony who seeks a lawful object by illegal means. Any other course taken for the abolition of slavery can only delay the consummation we so devoutly wish, besides exposing the community to the hazard of an insurrection, perhaps less hurtful to the master than the slave. When the British emancipation was finally carried, it was accomplished by steps, and five years elapsed between the commencement of the measure in 1833 and its completion in 1838.
The declaration of the law which pronounced a slave free, as soon as he touched British ground, (erroneously ascribed to the English courts under Lord Mansfield, but really made by the judges in Scotland.) may seem to be inconsistent with the principle now laid down. But I am bound to express my doubts if such a decision would have been given, had Jamaica touched upon the coasts of this country. It is certain that the judges did not intend to declare that all property in slaves should instantly cease, and yet such would have been the inevitable effect of their judgment in the case supposed, which somewhat resembles that of America.
In the elevation of your new President, all friends of America, of its continued union, of the final extinction of slavery by peaceful means, and of the utter, immediate extinction of the execrable slave trade-all friends of the human race must heartily rejoice. They will, let us hope, find in him a powerful ally, as his country may expect to find an able, a consistent, and an honest ruler.
I have the honor to be your faithful servant, 
BROUGHAM.
JAMES REDPATH, Esq., Boston, U. S.
REPLY.
BOSTON, January 28th, 1861.
To HENRY, LORD BROUGHAM:
MY LORD,-I have received your reply to our question-"How can American Slavery be Abolished?"
I take exceptions to its erroneous ethical teachings, and appeal from Brougham, the English Lord, to Henry Brougham, the tribune of the English people, to sustain me.
I appeal from the nobleman whose letter is now quoted, with eager approval, by every pro-slavery journal of our cities, to the popular orator whose words, radiant with the light of Heaven, have so often confounded the most cunning sophistries of the allies of the oppressor. I appeal from the Lord who so recently has said:-"No one can doubt my earnest desire to see slavery extinguished, but that desire can only be gratified by lawful means-a strict regard to the rights of property, or what the law calls property, and a constant repugnance to the shedding of blood,"-to the noble young Englishman, of lowly birth, who thrilled two continents with these eloquent words:-
"Tell me not of rights-talk not of the property of the planter in his slaves. I deny the right; I acknowledge not the property. The principles, the feelings of our common nature rise in rebellion against it. In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim. There is a law above all the enactments of human codes-the same throughout the world, the same in all times-such as it was before the daring genius of Columbus pierced the night of ages, and opened to one world the sources of power, wealth and knowledge; to another, all unutterable woes. Such it is at this day. It is the law written by the finger of God on the heart, of man; and by that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they shall reject with indignation the wild and guilty fantasy, that man can hold property in man."
When you have pronounced your judgment, my Lord, on this point, I may sustain certain other exceptions, not above noted, by equally excellent authority. 
I have the honor to be,
Your obedient servant, 
JAMES REDPATH.
AMERICAN SLAVERY-BROUGHAM VERSUS JOHN BROWN.
To the Editor of Reynold's Newspaper:
SIR-A rather remarkable correspondence, which took place between Lord Brougham and certain young American Abolitionists, having been published, perhaps you will permit me to make it the subject of a few comments, seeing that it throws some light on the nature of the great evil of America, and also on the character of the venerable and versatile nobleman in question. The young Americans who reside in Boston, United States, addressed to Lord Brougham a letter, dated November 2, 1860, inviting him to attend a conference, which was appointed to be holden in Boston on the "3d of December next"-that is, one month and a day after the penning of the epistle to the noble lord-for the purpose of discussing, and, if possible, solving the problem-"How can American Slavery be Abolished?"
The invitation, in itself, is highly creditable to the young Bostonians. It proves what you have always asserted, that the real democracy of America is opposed to slavery. It also shows that the question has now taken such deep hold on the minds of the thinking and humane portion of the community, that it cannot any more be let alone, until the accursed plant be eradicated from the American soil.
It is, however, to the opinions elicited from Lord Brougham, with reference to the slavery question, that I would particularly draw attention. The venerable nobleman, according to his wont, takes the opportunity of giving his correspondents a regular lecture on the subject, implying, if not intimating, that they are ignorant of the nature of martyrdom, the rights of property, the duty of legality, and the methods best calculated to effect the abolition of slavery. Lord Brougham differs from his correspondents in their estimate of brave old Captain John Brown, who, with some two dozen of followers, plunged the whole of the slave States into a 
<c02>
perfect panic, by his attempt at Harper's Ferry, Virginia, in 1859.
Now, nothing is more obvious than that two opinions may be entertained, even amongst honest and ardent abolitionists, as to the expediency of Brown's undertaking. There may be plausible grounds for maintaining that he compromised the cause to which he was devoted by his rashness-that he shed the blood of whites without helping to break the bonds of the blacks-and that, by exciting the alarms of "moderate" men, he created a feeling against the abolitionists, and thereby strengthened the hands of the defenders of the abominable thing. All this, I say, is possible and plausible. Still, it must be borne in mind, that these same "moderates," who are to be found in every country, are always alarmed at every movement which threatens to interfere in the least degree with their own ease or interest, no matter what the crime may be against which it is directed. According to the "moderate men," the conscience and the divine indignation which Deity has implanted in the human soul, for the purpose of impelling men to action against iniquity, are never to be invoked or employed against anything higher than petty larceny, or, at the very utmost, against imbecile individual felony. Thus, if the "moderate men" would have their way, every form of scoundrelism in which a powerful class may have vested interests would be protected by a lease which would only expire with the final winding up of all earthly things. 
No one-not even Lord Brougham, nor, indeed, the miscreants who put Brown to death-questions the honesty of the stern old Puritan. The very worst that his murderers have urged against him is that he was a remorseless fanatic, who would not hesitate to involve the whole Union in a civil war for the accomplishment of his object—-namely, the emancipation of the American negroes. 
But, though the sincerity of Captain Brown is admitted. Lord Brougham denies his right to the name of "martyr," because, says his lordship, (and let the reader mark the reason.) "No man can be considered a martyr unless he not only suffers, but is witness to the truth: and he does not bear this testimony who seeks a lawful object by illegal means." 
This statement is positively startling from its all-pervading stupidity. Anything more transparently self-contradictory and absurd never issued from the mouth of a fool. There is in it a sophism so clumsy and ineffectual as to force the painful conviction upon one's mind, that the once vigorous intellect of Brougham is in its dotage-that he has drained his intelligence to the dregs-and that, for the sake of his reputation, the best thing which could happen to him would be to get him to restrain pen his pen and his tongue for the remainder of his life.
Grant that his lordship's definition, or limitation, of what constitutes a martyr is correct, and not only is poor Brown precluded from being one, but almost the whole bead-roll of martyrdom will be reduced to a complete blank. Neither Christ himself, nor any of his apostles, is entitled to the name of martyr, if Lord Brougham's dogmatic enunciation be right; for, though the Roman Pilate declared that he could find no fault in the Saviour, that was because of Pilate's ignorance of the Jewish law. The chief priests and the Pharisees and lawyers speedily showed the reluctant judge that they had a law which authorized the infliction of death upon the prisoner at the bar. 
Lord Brougham seems to admit that it is "lawful" to seek the abolition of slavery, but he contends that this object must, to ensure the approbation of good and intelligent persons, be sought by "legal means." 
Now, Lord Brougham knows that in the slave States it is not "lawful" to seek the abolition of slavery, and that no means which can be employed against slavery are deemed "legal." In all of the slave States it is held illegal to speak, or write or publish a book, or pamplet, or newspaper article against slavery. In some, if not in all of the slave States, it is declared to be a felony, and punishable with death, to speak or write a word which tends to imperil the safety of the accursed institution. So that, according to Lord Brougham, nothing ought to be done or said against slavery in the Southern States, until it shall have pleased Providence to work a miracle by which the slave-owners may be converted into abolitionists. 
Of course, our Nestor's argument applies to other slaveries than that of the negro's; so that Garibaldi ought to have waited until Francis Bourbon and his councillors had invited him, before proceeding upon his now immortal Sicilian expedition. 
On the subject of "property," Lord Brougham is, if that be possible, more weak and absurd than he is upon martyrdom. He tells his Bostonian correspondents that "a strict regard" must be paid to the "rights of property, or what the law declares to be property." So that if Lord Brougham had been the "property" of some Virginian Legree, it would be wrong in his friends to effect his deliverance in any other manner than by the payment of the price demanded by his owner. But a discussion of such drivel is an insult to the common sense of your readers. If the letter of Lord Brougham had been the production of an obscure person, it would be regarded as the effusion of an imbecile or a Lord Robert Montagu. But, coming from a man of Lord Brougham's celebrity, its viciousness ought to be exposed; for, unhappily for the well-being of mankind, there are still in the world multitude of persons on whose minds the authority of name has more power than the deductions of reason-just as, in the estimation of the flunkeys, a deformed abortion of monkey upon a throne would be more adorable than the Deity himself	, if clothed in the garb of common mortals. NORTHUMBRIAN. -Reynold's Newspaper, London, England. 

BOSTON ROWDYISM CONTAGIOUS.
The Albany Knickerbocker, in noticing the rowdy disturbance at the recent Anti-Slavery Convention in that city, says:-
The crowd outside organized a meeting, and called an ex-Judge to address them. Groans were given for Mayor Thacher and Fred Douglass, when a squad of policemen was obliged to eject them from the building. They hung about until the Convention adjourned. 
The audience then dispersed. A large crowd of "roughs" and others had assembled outside. All the police on duty at the Hall, numbering some sixty men, formed a "body-guard" to the Mayor, Fred Douglass, George W. Putnam, and the female orators. They took the sidewalk up to the Delavan House, while the rabble took the street. On the way up, the mob made all sorts of threats, and applied all manner of vile epithets towards the Mayor, Fred Douglass, and those in charge of the police. On reaching the Delavan House, the greatest excitement prevailed. Many of the crowd expressed a willingness to tar and feather Douglass, &c.
The rabble showed their teeth in all possible ways, but nothing serious resulted from it. They occupied the main floor of the Delavan House, where they, in
<c03>
their drunken frenzy, cheered for the Union, the Crittenden amendment, and many other things. They also vowed that the Abolitionists must not undertake to hold any more meetings here. If they do, they will be mobbed. 
It is said that the crowd burned the Mayor in effigy after this. 
The Syracuse Journal, in its account of the shocking blasphemies and disgusting orgies indulged in by the recent Belleverett and Democratic pro-slavery mob in that city, says:-
Prominent in the procession were two large-sized effigies, one intended to represent a man, and the other a woman; both bearing placards with these words:-
REV. SAMUEL J. MAY 
and 
SUSAN B. ANTHONY
squelch'd! 
The procession, we learn, was formed and conducted by Emory Ormsby, as Chief Marshal, and Charles Manahan and Moses E. Hart as Assistant Marshals. It proceeded through several streets, the rabble "making night hideous" with their shouts, hootings and screechings, mingled with disgusting profanity and ribaldry. After parading some of the principal streets, the procession repaired to Hanover square, the centre of the business part of our city, and there performed the most revolting, blasphemous and beastial orgies, preparatory to burning the effigies. Spectators of the scene at this time inform us that a noted character named Hart pronounced a eulogy upon the "defunct Abolitionists," indulging in many blasphemous and impious expressions, and concluding with a mock prayer!-that among the infamous performances indulged in was the representation of improper familiarities between the effigies, even going so far as to represent the act of sexual intercourse! The effigies were then burned up, amid the rejoicings and applause of the motley assemblage, and cheers for the "Constitution and the Union!" The mob, after another parade, dissolved at a late hour. 
Such were the outrages upon public decency committed by the self-appointed custodians of the good name and reputation of the city of Syracuse.-Syracuse Journal. 
The Syracuse Courier & Union, (Democrat,) like its namesake in Rochester on a similar occasion, justifies the doings of the mob, and considers that "the Jerry Rescue has been signally avenged."- Rochester Express. 

THE INFAMY OF BOSTON.
The city of Boston is getting to be as great a disgrace to Massachusetts as South Carolina is to the United States. She is ruled by a class of men who have as little sympathy with democratic principles as a South Carolina slaveholder; men to whom the accident of having had an ancestor in the Mayflower is prized like a patent of nobility, and regarded as giving some additional purity and excellence to their blood, which entitles them to look down upon less fortunate individuals as unfit to be anything but "mudsills" of society; men with whom wealth and family connection override every other consideration; a small aristocratic clique, of considerable literary and artistic culture, but without one throb of sympathy for the great movements of the day for the elevation and improvement of the masses of mankind, or who, if they engage in the promotion of some of them, do so with a kind of patronizing condescension, as though they were doing a great favor to some inferior class, which it was all very well to educate up to a certain degree, but in whom it were arrogance and presumption to question the doctrines they had been taught, and almost high treason to dispute the authority of the governing class; a bigoted aristocracy, who think they have a sort of divine right to govern the State of Massachusetts. This class, representatives of which are scattered throughout the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, for many years governed the State with undisputed sway. They made the laws; they distributed the offices among the members of the favored families. But in the State their power has been taken from them. The members of this old aristocracy have no longer any hold upon the hearts of the people, though we see them continually perking up their heads, and under various disguises seeking to wriggle themselves again into power. But, in Boston, they are still the controlling power. There the old aristocracy, concentrated in its last stronghold,-from which, however, the Irish are fast driving it,-still has its sway, and, soured by disappointment and defeat, while it can only snarl impotently, like old giant Pope in Pilgrim's Progress, at those who represent the age in nation and State, still exerts its despotic power within the narrow precincts that remain to it. There it imposes a social ban upon every young man who refuses to speak its shibboleth. There the young Phillips, when he spoke his first manly and enthusiastic utterance for free speech in the city he loves so well, and there the noble Sumner, when he devoted his scholarship and eloquence to the cause of human liberty, were ostracised and expelled from good society. There Garrison was mobbed. There meetings of ladies were interrupted and broken up. There, there is but one free and independent press, uninfluenced by the spirit of trade or the fear of the social stigma -the Liberator. All the rest are either the organs and tools of the aristocracy, or dare not speak above their breath in opposition to it. There a Christian minister, in one church, upholds slavery as a blessing from God, and in another prayer was sent up to God for his special interference to close the mouth of a minister whose doctrines the prevailing sects have not the learning or the ability to confute; and so they pray, as an Indian to his fetish, that a hook may be put into his mouth, and that he may be taken away into the outer darkness! There a mob enters into the meeting of a long-established religious society, interrupting it with its ribald laughter and hisses, and attempts to take the life of the speaker on his way home. There a regular organization exists for the purpose of suppressing free speech, and of mobbing certain speakers, the object of their hatred. There, as the high authorities in Jerusalem, the Scribes and Pharisees, set on the rabble against Him who exposed and denounced their wickedness, so do the wealthy, and influential, and respectable, and well-dressed gentlemen urge the lower classes of society to violence and outrage. 
The municipal government of Boston fails entirely in the object for which governments are established-the protection of the citizen in his rights. The aristocracy there assume the right of dictating what topics are proper for public discussion; but, having no power legally to prevent it, they stimulate the rabble to put it down by violence, and the city government is their accomplice. On the 3d of December, the authorities allowed a mob to break up a public meeting, and refused to protect those who had called it in their undoubted right to carry out
<c04>
their object. The present Mayor, Wightman, adopts the same course. When called on to know whether he will use his authority to suppress apprehended violence, to protect a portion of those who pay the taxes to support the government, in the discharge of the right of free discussion, he gravely tells them that he " does not consider any action necessary;" that it is for the callers of the meetings, and the owners of the building where they are to be held, "to decide whether they will be of such a character as to render a breach of the public peace probable. If you anticipate any result of this nature, the responsibility will rest upon you, as you cannot be justified in wilfuliy putting the peace of the city in peril." 
In a conversation with the agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, he said that he knew nothing of the character of the meeting, or of the threats to "summarily abate" such assemblies as a "nuisance;" but if the originators of the meeting, and the Trustees of the Tremont Temple, thought that anything would be said during the sessions of the convention disrespectful to the government, (!) or likely to peril the peace of the city, they would be responsible for any disturbance or violence which might follow; that since, in the present excited state of the public mind, it was evident an anti-slavery meeting could not be held in Boston without serious, and perhaps violent opposition, they ought not to hold one-and if it was held, and such opposition was provoked, he should arrest those who called and conducted the meeting as the aggressors upon the public peace; that he cared nothing about the legality of the meeting, but that certain things beyond the reach of the law must be controlled by other means, which it might be his duty to employ!
And when applied to for protection against expected disturbance at one of the meetings in Music Hall, he replied-"If you have reason to expect a disturbance, you are not authorized to hold the meeting." 
Such is the outrageous conduct of the highest official in Boston. It is a direct invitation to mob violence and outrage. It is a renunciation of his most sacred duty. It is a mean, contemptible, dastardly attempt to crush out the men who attempt to exercise the right of free discussion in the capital of the Commonwealth. It is a carrying out of the principles of the aristocratic clique, that nothing must be said in Boston they do not approve, and to set themselves up as the censors of public speech.
This conduct is a disgrace not only to the city of Boston, but to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The liberty of speech is guaranteed by our Bill of Rights to every citizen upon every subject. There is no set of men whatever that have the right to define or restrict its limits. If any local authority fails in the duty of infacting the citizen, it is time for the State to interfere, and see that his present of this extended to him. It is time that the power of the aristocratic clique should be taken from them in the last place where they have retained their authority. They should no longer be permitted to disgrace the State, to violate the most sacred principles of our institutions, and to prevent the free exercise of the fundamental right of speech and discussion. We hope the measure introduced into the Legislature for taking the appointment of the police out of its present hands will promptly pass, and that these officers will be appointed and controlled by those who will protect every citizen, however unpopular his opinions may be to a bigoted and arrogant aristocracy.-New Bedford Republican Standard.

FOOLS NOT ALL DEAD YET. 
The so-called Union men in Boston have got an idea into their heads that one way to heal the present difficulties is by mobbing abolitionists. They have incited a vile and disreputable mob to break up by violence the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, which body has a corporate form, and has been in existence twenty-nine years. Mayor Wightman was in league, and acted a most disgraceful part. All these men are short-sighted as moles and owls. Every abolitionist in the country is chuckling over the awful mistake they have made. When will people learn that trying to close anybody's mouth by force is a very silly way to save the Union, or anything else worth saving? Bless their addled pates! don't they know that the style of argument adopted towards the abolitionists at Tremont Temple, last week, has done more to make abolitionism a power in the country, than all the ravings and spoutings they have uttered for a quarter of a century? The "friends of conservatism and order" in Boston, (Heaven save the mark!) have sown the wind-let them not be astonished if they reap the whirlwind!-Portland Courier. 

SLAVERY TRIUMPHANT. 
Acting upon the advice vouchsafed by the Boston Post, Courier, Pilot, and Barnstable Patriot, the proslavery rowdies of Boston, with the connivance and consent of the Mayor, mustered in strong force on Thursday, of last week, and succeeded in breaking up the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. 
This was not unexpected by the friends of Free Speech, when it was remembered that the mob of the 3d of December had been unrebuked, if not absolutely commended, by the so-called respectable press of that city,-only one daily paper having the manliness and courage to speak of the proceedings on that occasion in terms of deserved rebuke. 
This act has fixed an indelible brand of infamy upon the aiders and abettors of the riot, and blasted forever the hitherto fair fame of Boston, as the emporium of decency and civilization. Scenes, disgraceful in the extreme, rowdiness without a parallel, save in the history of Philadelphia and Baltimore, were enacted in the presence of the police and under the eye of the Mayor, and yet no attempt was made to check the tumultuous and ferocious demonstrations! Men of solid character, of unstained reputation, peaceable lives, and non-resist-ants in practice, were insulted by the very scum of Boston, intermingled with the sons of "the first families" and clerks from stores, whose owners were largely interested in trade with slaveholders and their allies. 
Guiltiest among the guilty was the imbecile and pusillanimous Mayor, who sought to lay the blame of this disturbance upon the victims of lawless violence, and with a falsehood upon his lips undertook to drive the lawful occupants of the Tremont Temple from the room that they had hired, and were peaceably using. A baser and more rascally usurpation of power has never been chronicled.
We do not; know whether it is possible for Northern doughfaces to eat any more dirt at the bidding of their Southern masters, but, certainly, the gentlemanly and other ruffians of Boston, have shown an extraordinary willingness to make every effort in that line which can be expected. Let us see if the baseness and toadyism thus exhibited are appreciated by the slaveholding ruffians in the Southern States. Up to the present time, they do not seem 
<c05>
to have manifested much gratification at the success of their Northern allies in suppressing free speech, and we do not believe they will be satisfied, unless an abolitionist or two are hung or burned in the metropolis of New England-the Athens of America. -Sandwich Advocate. 

THE BOSTON MOB.
BOSTON, Jan. 30, 1860.
DEAR EDITOR-Boston, during the week past, has been the theatre of no little excitement; and while, with no small degree of truth, it may be said, she is both good in greatness, and great in goodness, yet, like the great luminary of the day, she has her dark spots; and when the history of the week just past shall be written, and it shall be said, as it must in truth be said, that Boston, in the last half of the nineteenth century, under the auspices and control of her Mayor, gagged her citizens, native born, and shut up one of her public halls against free speech, it will cast a shadow upon her record dark and ignoble. This one fact, however, is patent in Massachusetts, and in this city even today, (for Boston repudiates the act of her Mayor,) that there is no one principle or right which her citizens would sooner don the plume, and shoulder the musket to defend, than that of free speech.
Massachusetts does not endorse William Lloyd Garrison nor Wendell Phillips; neither does she Yancey of Alabama, or Keitt, or Rhett of the "Kingdom!" of South Carolina: yet she would tolerate either one of them to appear upon her soil, and speak his honest convictions. What have we to fear from truth, or error even? Let mind meet mind, and there need he no fear of results. This is the true theory. Daniel Webster once said, "The principle of toleration to which the world has come so slowly, is at once the most just and the most wise of all principles." And who does not or may not see that it is? Just establish the principle that Tremont Temple, or any other building, shall be closed against freedom of speech, or any subject of public interest, and the reign of intolerance begins; and when shall the end be? Suppose, instead of Mayor Wightman's beginning with Wendell Phillips, he (Mr. Phillips) should begin with Mayor Wightman! Suppose, instead of going up into Tremont street, and putting an end to an Anti-Slavery meeting in Tremont Temple, the powers that be (and it's hard to tell where the power will be) should go down into Faneuil Hall, and eject certain " Union Savers " out into the cold! Where is the difference; and who is to discriminate?- Correspondence of Yarmouth Port Register.

BOSTON AND NEW BEDFORD. 
The Boston Post thinks that the remedy for mob law in Boston is for the "Abolitionists to hold their meetings where they would be welcomed-as New Bedford for instance, or Worcester." 
If Boston were private property, if its franchises belonged to the little coterie of snobs and aristocrats who don't want anything said, except just what pleases themselves, and suits their kid-glove notions of decorum and propriety, this suggestion might appear reasonable. But it is not so. The soil of Boston is a part of the soil of Massachusetts. Her citizens are citizens of Massachusetts, and entitled to the free exercise of the rights secured by her Constitution, and to the protection of the legal authorities who are appointed to secure the citizen from interruption and violence in the exercise of those rights. We can never give it up so. We demand the same security for free speech where it is unpopular as where it is popular. It is no crime for any man to criticise or to assail the Federal Government or Constitution of the United States. If he can persuade a majority of the people that it ought to be changed, he has a perfect right to do so. 
It would be well for Boston and her authorities to imitate the example of New Bedford, in some respects at least. When Mr. Foss, an agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, spoke here a short time since, on the John Brown anniversary, we believe, there were some threats of disturbance. But our Mayor, who is a member of the same political party as the Post, gave it to be understood that be should preserve order at all hazards, and allow of no mob violence. The consequence was that everything passed off quietly. Those who wanted to hear Mr. Foss went, and those who did not went away. He said his say, and left it to produce what impression it would, without being aided by the sympathy which is evidently awakened by martyrizing. We have yet to learn that the peace and safety of the country were endangered by Mr. Foss's speech. The Bostonians would have been wise had they pursued a similar course.-New Bedford Standard. 

MAYOR WIGHTMAN. 
It seems the Mayor did not openly, while in the meeting, give the rioters countenance. He had, however, led them to understand that they should be allowed to break up the gathering, the stigma of which his tardy, if not forced repentance is insufficient to efface. He seems to have entered the Tremont Temple with the intention of carrying out the purpose of the rioters in dispersing the Abolition Society, but to have faltered and changed his course after reaching the platform. 
There was a certain resolute will and business efficiency about Mr. Wightman, when in the Alderman's office in Boston, which led us to form a favorable opinion of his character. He exhibited neither of these qualities on the present occasion. The North-street mob, who elected him, controlled him at one moment; he gave the Abolition Society their way the next. Those who know him best speak of him now as dominated by an intolerable conceit, which renders him the biggest kind of a bore.—Roxbury Journal.
Wightman is an interminable talker, and a notorious bore to all men who have any business with him. I think you cannot help admiring his position. I will not stop to comment on it; but, since the days of Watchman Dogberry, I think we have not had a richer specimen of a perfectly useless guardian of the public peace. Wightman is an old Whig turned Democrat, and this, as you know, is the worst kind of a politician. There is always a trifling hope for a Whig who, although he may aid the Democrats, refrains from absolutely throwing himself into their arms. That is to say, they generally retain some trace of respectability, which leads them to keep tolerably good company and wear clean clothes. But when a man goes clear over, like Wightman, and surrounds himself with a gang of roughs, shoulder-hitters, and gamblers, instead of gentlemen, there is, of course, no help for him. He is, in the expressive language of the day, "a goner." When I saw Wightman come into the Temple, I thought he would disperse the mob, as he used to do the House of Representatives, by making a speech. He has a great knack in this way. 
<c06>
I have seen men, overtaken by one of his speeches, as they were hurrying to escape, fall benumbed and senseless. The Clerk of the House, I recollect, used to employ the page to stick pins into one of the fleshy parts of his (the Clerk's) body, in order that he might keep awake. Members would fall forward, flattening their noses in the most grotesque way against their desks; and on one occasion, when Wightman closed his speech, there was not a member awake to move an adjournment, and the Speaker had to take a wink from the Sergeant-at-Arms, who had kept his faculties about him by the use of a smelling-bottle. But he was remarkably silent when he appeared in the Temple, and it would have been better for him if he had been altogether so.-Boston correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune. 

THE BOSTON MOB. 
The movements of this respectable body, in their efforts to suppress free speech, has awakened a degree of feeling in the community which we trust will not be allayed until we have some guaranty that their services will not be called into requisition very soon. The high-handed abuse of power by Mayor Wightman, in ordering the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society to leave Tremont Temple, instead of protecting them in their legal rights, shows that we have as much to fear from despotism at home, as from secession in the Southern States. The respectability of those who acted in concert with the Mayor is fully endorsed by the fact, that they had their head-quarters at the Tremont House. Their connection with the secessionists is attested by the fact that Lucius Slade, who acted so prominent a part, wrote to the secessionists of Atlanta that no John Brown meeting could be held in Boston. Their union-loving is shown by their sending Edward Everett, Robert C. Winthrop, and their coadjutors, to Washington, within about two months after an election in which they came within about 120,000 of having a majority, to represent the sentiments of Massachusetts! We should be very sorry to see the Republicans compelled, in selfdefence, to adopt so bad a policy as that shadowed forth in the "Metropolitan Police Bill" proposed, but think that much good may be done by the Legislature in giving these gentlemen a thorough airing, through their investigating committee. 
We have no doubt that Winthrop would like to regain his former position in the political world-which he held until he attempted to crush, Charles Sumner-and that	 Edward Everett would be glad to do something that would wipe out the stain which has borne him down, ever since he apologized to his Southern masters for expressing indignation at the brutal assault on our Senator-but hardly think that two months are sufficient for the people of <illegible> in the recent election. 
They seem to think that, because they have plenty of money, and can control the Irish voters in our large cities, they can rule the land. We have no fears that the anti-slavery principles of the people can be wiped out by mob law; but we know that it is the duty of every good citizen to frown upon such attempts to abridge the freedom of speech and the press as have been made; and we believe it to be the duty of our Governor and Legislature to see to it that this spirit is thoroughly quelled, before a single soldier is sent out of the State.-Northampton Free Press. 

RUM AND ROWDYISM. 
The regular annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, which met pursuant to a regular call, in the Tremont Temple, on Thursday last, was broken up in a disgraceful manner by a mob. Such scenes are a disgrace to the city. Mayor Wightman pursued about the same course as his predecessor, and said he was unable to protect the building. The mob was composed mainly of his supporters, and he connived at their misdoings.- They knew what they were about, (these rummies and rowdies,) and that there was no danger of their being interfered with in their mean work. We are sorry to learn that adopted citizens were among the foremost in breaking up this meeting. If so, "they know not what they do." Have they forgotten Mount Benedict, and that they are setting an example which may recoil upon themselves? It was a disgraceful affair,-an outrage upon the dearest rights of freemen,-and deserves the reprobation of all liberty-loving men. Where shall this thing end?-Boston Temperance Visitor.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVOCATION. 
Never was a grosser outrage perpetrated upon the right of free speech than that tolerated by the Mayor of this city, in allowing a disorderly crowd of halfgrown boys and men, chiefly of Irish origin, to interrupt, and finally suppress, the proceedings incident to the twenty-ninth anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on Thursday last. Hundreds of the idle and vagabond wretches that always abound in large cities were in attendance, and by their singing, hoorrahs, cat-calls, &c., &c., prevented all speaking or other deliberation. The Mayor strenuously forbade the police doing anything, unless actual blows were exchanged, or blood flowed; consequently, while numerous policemen were in attendance, nothing was done towards arresting the well-known ringleaders of the mob.-The ladies were grossly insulted, peaceable men injured, the meeting broken up, and, finally, in the evening, the hall was closed by order of the Mayor. Wendell Phillips's house was surrounded by the mob in the evening, but aside from imprecations, no injury was done. The Mayor acted most pusillanimously, showing more symypathy with the rioters than regard for his official duty; and does not escape the censure of the press, save that of the Courier and Post, as might be expected.-Bath Sentinel. 

PRO-SLAVERY BOSTON. 
It was Mr. Giddings, we think, who once said that Boston was the most pro-slavery city in the Union, and she would hold on to her pro-slavery notions long after every other city on the continent of America had given them up. The correctness of Mr. Giddings's remark Boston is fast proving. Last week, a pro-slavery mob assembled in Tremont Temple, where the Anti-Slavery men were peaceably holding a meeting, and by their outrageous proceedings broke up the meeting. The Mayor of the city, Wightman, practically joined the mob, instead of taking measures to protect the meeting. Freedom of speech was once a universally conceded right; now its practical meaning in Boston is the right to speak as the mob directs, and not otherwise. The efforts of the Boston sympathizers with treason, and their clamors to stifle the freedom of speech, are disgraceful to all concerned, and instead of calming down the public excitement, will only add fuel to the fire. A mobbed anti-slavery man is a martyr,
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and as the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, so the mobbing of Phillips and his set of radicals will only eventuate in increasing the sentiment which they represent. Mob Wendell Phillips twice a week for a month, and at the end of the month he would be at the head of the most powerful party ever known in Massachusetts-Biddeford Union.

MIRE AND DIRT.
A Cambridge correspondent of a Haverhill paper, in the following speaks the sentiments of the more sensible people in the State,-especially those outside the moral and law-abiding modern Athens:
"As the doings of the disgraceful mob in Boston, on Thursday, is the theme of conversation just now, allow me to say that I was present in the afternoon at Tremont Temple, and an eye-witness pretty generally of the ruffianism which finally triumphed through the craven sycophancy.of the police, and the pliant flunkeyism of Mayor Wightman. A more perfect pandemonium could not have been let loose in South Carolina than on this occasion. 'The hub of the universe' was in labor surely, and brought forth mire and dirt with a vengeance. It was more violent, rowdyish, and rascally in some of its elements, than the wretched raid upon the John Brown meeting, its forerunner. There was more of the filthy and boyish element in this last demonstration- the Beacon street' gentlemen of property and standing,ï¿½ the stock-jobbers and importers, and their dandy clerks, and the' all up' tigers of North street, evidently were in admirable fusion on this occasion. The papers scarcely exaggerate the' noise and confusion,' but with the exception of the Transcript, neither of the Boston papers has much to say in the way of rebuke against the ignoble and dastardly outrage upon law and order, and free speech. No press in New England, in a time of trial, is so servile as that of the' city of notions.'
"I trust now the Legislature will ignore utterly any repeal of the Personal Liberty Law, and that the Metropolitan Police Bill may be passed at once. Let every man in the Legislature who votes against the hitter be marked, labelled and branded as a traitor to all time. Let Boston, and its legislative and all other puppies, yell and howl. Pass the bill, we say, and then let us see if that flunkey city, its flunkey Mayor, and a flunkey press, can succeed in defying the State, insulting its own magnificent Governor, and cheering the traitorous barbarian Pickens, of South Carolina, as was done at the Tremont Temple on Thursday."

FREEDOM OF SPEECH IN BOSTON.
The telegraph brings news of the breaking up of a meeting of John Brown sympathizers, who had gathered in Boston to celebrate the anniversary of his death. We are told that those who were foremost in breaking up the meeting were of the "highest respectability," men of wealth and standing. And many Northern journals countenance their acts, and stigmatize the meeting as one of "dangerous fanatics." But what of that? What if the movers in the meeting were Abolitionists and Garrisonites? Haven't they a right to freedom of speech? And who is to be the arbiter?. who is to decide whether or not a man is too fanatical to be allowed to hold to his own views, and promulgate them too, if he can influence others to become his followers? These things are done in the South, and we all cry out against it as a wrong and a tyranny; in how much do the motive and the principle differ when put into practice in the North? Suppose a meeting was called in Cleveland, of all whose sympathies were with the secessionists of the South; is there a decent Republican journal that would advise or countenance any body of men, however "respectable," in breaking up that meeting by force? And if freedom of speech is to be allowed to one, why not to all? Whether the meeting is unwise or not, affects not the principal of free speech. We care not whether the intruding party upon the meeting at Boston was composed of millionaires or beggars, it was a mob, and, as such, deserving the execration of the whole North-Cleveland Leader.
Before our Massachusetts friends talk much more about mob rule in the South, they will do well to "set their own house in order." If we understand the facts in this case, there is a suspension of freedom of speech in Boston. No one will accuse us of any particular sympathy with the principles of the men who were endeavoring to hold the meeting. But It is easy to see that if a mob, however <illegible) of the kind, they may break up a meeting of any kind. The convention undertook to hold its meeting in a public hall, in an orderly manner. It should have been let alone by those who did not approve of the objects of the meeting. It should have been protected against the mob by the municipal authorities- Providence Journal.
Boston was again most thoroughly disgraced last week by a "respectable mob," which broke up the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. They have, however, dirtied themselves for nothing, as they will see eventually. -Bellows Falls Times.
Boston has again permitted a mob to break up an anti-slavery meeting. Such an outrage upon the freedom of speech is only worthy of South Carolina-Portland Transcript.
The Charleston (S. C.) Courier, having a telegraphic account of the mob which broke up the Tremont Temple meetings in Boston, heads it "The Power of Slavery." The title is the most appropriate and truthful that could have been chosen. The mob was the legitimate result of the demoralization which inevitably follows the advocacy of slavery.

BEECHER ON THE TIMES.
Henry Ward Beecher's lecture in Boston, Tuesday evening, was both racy and timely. Following hard after the mob demonstration, that portion which touched upon free speech was greeted with the heartiest applause. On this head the lecturer said:-
"The method of suppressing free speech, it appears, is to be by mobbing it. The object of a magistracy in Boston is to say to persons who propose to discuss the questions of the day ï¿½If any lewd fellows of the baser sort disapprove of what yon say, I shall hold you responsible for all their iniquities.' The propagator of such a doctrine should have been made prime minister to Ahab. When you have succeeded in this thing, and New England has got all the staves together, and she is a barrel without bung, head or tap, I will come and look at her. Then we will loose the old State Bill of Rights, then we will take up the old Commonwealth's Constitution, then we will gather up all the remnants of our former glory, take them to Bunker Hill, build a bonfire, and he of Virginia, the great Mason, shall touch it off In 1856, they all complained that we preached politics in the pulpit. By the way did you ever see anything killed deader than that? Who was right? The real trouble was, we didn't begin soon enough. Some men think the pulpit should be like a ship of war, with guns only at the stern, to rake down the sins of the past , Is it a mere retrospective glass in which men are to see Babylon and the flood"
On the current topic of the compromises, the lecturer was not at all ambiguous. We copy from the Boston Journalï¿½s report:-
The speaker then proceeded to denounce all compromises, as, according to his theory, they are useless. The true way is to let the seceders alone, and South. Carolina will soon be like a woodchuck in a hole stopped at both ends. No compromise can effect a permanent settlement. He also opposed the repeal of the personal liberty laws; if they are constitutional, they ought to stand; if they are not let the courts dispose of them. In conclusion, he said: "My friends, I would not be supposed to be bitter, and, therefore. I am slightly merry on the subject. But I love liberty; I was born New England; I am Puritan-born: I never knew anything adverse to these things. For the sake of every creature that lives, I plead for their sakes in the slave' States, just as much, as for those of the old Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I plead for liberty; for those that are in oppression, I plead that you shall you have courage to accept your purity opportunities and its consequences, as God shall offer them, that your purity, honor and faith may be tested, for the sake of God, yourselves and your country."
<c02>
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
At Music Hall, on Sunday, February 17, on. "Progress."
In accordance with his regular engagement, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq. addressed the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society in Music Hall, Sunday forenoon, 17th inst. There were four thousand persons present, many unable to find seats. Mr. Philippe spoke 'upon' Progress,' from the following text:-
"And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years; few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attended unto the days of the life of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage."
Thus spoke a prince, who had won from his elder brother both birthright and blessing-who had seen "the angels of God ascending and descending "-was able to say, " With my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I am become two bands "who had seen God face to face, and still livedï¿½to whom was pledged the Divine promise, " I will make of thee a great nation; in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed"-whose ears had just drunk in the glad tidings of his favorite son, " Joseph is yet alive; he is governor over all the land of Egypt." Thus often timid and disconsolate gray hairs bewail their own times. To most men, the golden age is one long past. 
But Nature is ever-growing. Science tells us every change is improvement. This globe, once a mass of molten granite, now blooms almost a paradise. So in man's life and history. One may not see it in his own short days. You must stand afar off to judge St. Peter's. The shadow on the dial seems motionless, but it touches noon at last. Place the ages side by side, and see how they differ. Three quarters of the early kings of France died poor and in prison, by the dagger or poison of their rivals. The Bonapartes stole large fortunes and half the thrones of Europe, yet all died natural deaths in their beds, and though discrowned, kept their enormous wealth. 
When the English marched from Boston to Concord, they fired into half the Whig dwellings they passed. When Lane crossed Kansas, pursuing Missouri ruffians, he sent men ahead to put a guard at every border ruffian's door, to save inmate and goods from harm. When Goldsmith reminded England that "a heart buried in a dungeon is as precious as that seated on a throne," there were one hundred and sixty-nine crimes punished with death. Now, not only England, but every land governed by the English race, is marked by the mildness of its penal code-only one, two or three classes of offenders being now murdered by law. 
It is not yet fifteen years since the first Woman's Rights Convention was held. The first call for one in, Massachusetts, a dozen years ago, bore a name heard often in manful protest against popular sins-that of Waldo Emerson. But in that short fifteen years, a dozen States have changed their laws. One statute a year old, in New York, securing to married women control of their wages, will do more to save New York from being grogshop and brothel than a thousand pulpits could do. When Kansas went to Topeka to frame a Constitution, one-third of the Convention were in favor of giving woman the right to vote. Truly, the day breaks. If time served, I could find a score of familiar instances. It is enough to state the general principle, that civilization produces wants. Wants awaken intellect. To gratify them disciplines intellect. The keener the want, the lustier the growth. The power to use new truths in science, new ideas in morals or art, obliterates rank, and makes the lowest man useful or necessary to the State. Luther and 'Raphael, Fulton and Faust, Howard and Rousseau, ' mark the ages, not popes or kings. A Massachusetts mechanic, Eli Whitney, made cotton king; a Massachusetts printer, William Lloyd Garrison, has undermined its throne. Thus, civilization insures equality. Types are the fathers of democrats. 
It is not always, however, ideas or moral principles that push the world forward. Selfish interests play a large part in the work. Our revolution of 1776 succeeded because trade and wealth joined hands with 'principle and enthusiasm, a union rare in the history of revolutions. Northern merchants fretted at England's refusal to allow them direct trade with Holland and the West Indies. Virginia planters, heavily mortgaged. welcomed any thing that would postpone payment of their debts-a motive that doubtless avails largely among secessionists now. So merchant and planter joined heartily with hot-headed Sam Adams, and reckless Joseph Warren, penniless John Adams, that brilliant adventurer, Alexander Hamilton, and that young scapegrace, Aaron Burr, to get independence.(Laughter.) To merchant, independence meant only direct trade-to planter, cheating his creditors. 
Present conflict of interests is another instrument of progress. Religious persecution planted these States. Commercial persecution brought about the Revolution-John Bull's perseverance in a seven years' war fused us into one nation-his narrow and ill-tempered effort to govern us by stealth, even after the peace of 1783, drove us to the Constitution of 1789. 
I think it was Coleridge who said, if he were a clergyman in Cornwall, he should preach fifty-two sermons a year against wreckers. In the same spirit, I shall find the best illustration of our progress in the history of the slave question. 
Some men sit sad and trembling for the future, be cause the knell of because the knell of this Union has sounded. But the heavens are almost all bright-and if some sable clouds linger on the horizon, they have turned their silver linings almost wholly to our sight. Every man who possesses his soul in patience sees that disunion is gain, disunion is peace, disunion is virtue.
Thomas Jefferson said, "It is unfortunate that the efforts of mankind to recover the freedom of which they have been deprived should be accompanied with violence, with errors, and even with crime. But while we weep over the means, we must pray for the end." We may see our future in the glass of our past history. The whole connection of Massachusetts colony with England was as much disgrace as honor to both sides. On the part of England, it was an attempt to stretch principles which were common sense and justice applied to an island, but absurd and tyrannical applied across the ocean. It was power without right, masked in form. On the side of the Colony, it was petty shifts, quibbles, equivocations, cunning dodges, white lies, ever the result of weakness. While England was bull-dog, Massachusetts was fox. Whoever cannot take his right openly by force, steak what he can by fraud. The Greek slave was a liar, as all slaves are. De Tocqueville says, "Men are not corrupted by the exercise of power, nor debased by submission; but by the exercise of power they think illegal, and submission to a rule they consider oppressive." That sentence is a key to our whole colonial history. When we grew strong enough to dare to be frank, we broke with England. Timid men wept; but now we see how that disunion was gain, peace and virtue. Indeed, seeming disunion was real union. We were then two snarling hounds, leashed together; we are now one in a true marriage, one in blood, trade, thought, religion, history, in mutual love and respect; where one then filched silver from the other, each now pours gold into the other's lap; our only rivalry, which shall do most honor to the blood of Shakspeare and Milton, of Franklin and Kane.
In that glass we see the story of North and South since 1787, and I doubt not for all coming time. The people of the States between the Gulf and the great Lakes, yes, between the Gulf and the Pole, are essentially one. We are one in blood, trade, thought, religion, history; nothing can long divide us. If we had let our Constitution grow, as the English did-as oaks do, we had never passed through such scenes as the present. The only thing that divides us now, is the artificial attempt, in 1787, to force us into an unripe union. Some lawyers got together, and wrote out a Constitution. The people and great interests of the land, wealth, thought, fashion and creed, immediately laid it upon the shelf, and proceeded to grow one for themselves. The treaty power sufficed to annex a continent, and change the whole nature of the gov-
<c03>
ernment. The war power builds railroads to the Pacific. Right to regulate commerce builds observatories and dredges out lakes. Right to tax protects manufactures; and had we wanted a king, some ingenious Yankee would have found the right to have one clearly stated in the provision for a well-regulated militia. (Laughter.) All that is valuable in the United States Constitution is a thousand years old. What is good is not new, and what is new is not good. That vaunted statesmanship which concocts constitution never has amounted to anything. The English Constitution, always found equal to any crisis, is an old mansion, often repaired, with quaint additions, and seven gales, each of different pattern. Our Constitution is a new clapboard house, so square and sharp it almost cuts you to look at-staring with white paint anti green blinds as if dropped in the landscape, or come out to spend an afternoon. (Laughter.) 
The trouble now is, that, in regard to the most turbulent question of the age, our politicians and a knot of privileged slaveholders are trying to keep the people inside of this parchment band. Goethe said, "If you plant an oak in a flower vase, one of two things will happen-the oak will die, or the vase break."   Our acorn swelled; the tiny leaves allowed themselves under the calm eye of Washington, and he laid down in hope. By and by, the roots enlarged, and men trembled. Of late, Webster and Clay-Everett and Botts-Seward and Adams-have been anxiously clasping the vase, but the roots have burst abroad at last, and the porcelain is in pieces. (Sensation.) All ye who love oaks, thank God for so much! That Union of 1787 was one of fear-we were driven into it by poverty and the commercial hostility of England. As cold masses up all things, sticks, earth, stones and water into dirty ice; heat first makes separation, and then unites those of the same nature. The heat of sixty years' agitation has severed the heterogeneous massï¿½wait awhile, it will fuse together all, that is really one.
Let me show you why I think the present so bright, and why I believe that Disunion is gain, peace and honor.
Why is the present hour sunshine? Because, for the first time in our history, we have a North. That event which Mr. Webster anticipated and prophesied has come to pass. In a real true sense, we have a North. By which I do not mean that the North rules, though, politically speaking, the crowned and sceptred North does, indeed, take her scat in that council where she has thus far been only a tool. But I mean that free men, honest labor, makes itself heard in our State. The North ceases to be fox or spaniel, and puts on the lion. She asserts and claims. She no longer begs, cheats or buys.
Understand me. In 1787, slave property, worth, perhaps, three hundred million of dollars, strengthened by the sympathy of all other capital, was a mighty power. It was the Rothschild of the State. The Constitution, by its three-fifths slave basis, made slaveholders an order of nobles. It was the house of Hapsburg joining hands with the house of Rothschild. Prejudice of race was the third strand of the cable, bitter and potent as Catholic ever bore Huguenot, or Hungary ever spit on Moslem. This fearful trinity won to its side that mysterious omnipotence called Fashionï¿½a power which, without concerted action, without either thought, law or religion on its side, seems stronger than all of them, and spares no foe but wealth. Such was slavery. In its presence the North always kneeled and whispered. When slavery could not -bully, it bubbled its victim. In the convention that framed the Constitution, Massachusetts men said, as Charles Francis Adams says now, "What matters a pitiful three-fifths slave basis, and guaranty against insurrection, to an institution on its death-bed-gasping for its last breath? It may conciliate-is only a shadow-nothing more-why stand on words?" So they shut their eyes, as he does, on realities, and chopped excellent logic on forms.
But at that moment, the devil hovered over Charleston, with a handful of cotton seed. (Applause ) Dropped into sea-island soil, and touched by the magic of Massachusetts brains, it poisoned the atmosphere of thirty States. That cotton fibre was a rod of empire such as Caesar never wielded. It fattened into <illegible>court, market-place and college, and leashed New York and Chicago to its chair of State. Beware, Mr. Adams!  "He needs a long spoon who sups with the devil." In the kaleidoscope of the future, no statesman eye can foresee the forms. God gives narrow manhood but one clue to successï¿½utter and exact justice; that He guaranties, shall be always expediency. Deviate one hair's breadthï¿½grant but a dozen slavesï¿½-only the tiniest seed of concessionï¿½you know not how many tall branches of mischief shall grow therefrom.
I need not go over the subsequent compromises in detail. They are always of the same kind: mere words, Northern men assured us-barren concessions. "Physical geography and Asiatic scenery" hindered any harm. But the South was always specially anxious to have these barren "words," and marvellously glad when she got them. Northern politicians, in each case, were either bullied or cheated, or feigned to be bullied, as they are about to do now. And the people were glad to have it so. I do not know that the politicians re a whit better now than then. I should not be willing to assert that Seward and Adams are any more honest than Webster and Winthrop and certainly they have just as much spaniel in their make. 
But the gain to-day is, we have a people. Under their vigilant eyes, mindful of their sturdy purpose, sustained by their determination, many of our politicians act much better. And out of this popular heart is growing a Constitution which will wholly supersede that of 1787.
A few years ago, while Pierce was President, the Republican party dared to refuse the appropriations for support of government-the most daring act ever ventured in a land that holds Bunker Hill and Brandy-wine. They dared to persevere some twenty or thirty days. It seems a trifle; "but it is a very significant straw. Then for weeks when Banks was elected; and a year ago, again, the whole government was checked till the Republicans put their Speaker in the chair. Now the North elects her President, the South secedes. I suppose we shall be bargained away into compromise. I know the strength and virtue of the farming West. It is one of the bright spots that our sceptre tends there, rather than to the seaboard. Four or eight years hence, when this earthquake will repeat itself, the West may be omnipotent, and we shall see brave things.
But now, spite of Lincoln's wishes, I fear he will never be able to. stand against Seward, Adams, half the Republican wire-pullers and the seaboard. But even now, if Seward and the rest had stood firm, as Lincoln, Sumner, Chase, Wade, and Lovejoy, and the Tribune have hitherto done, I believe you might have polled the North, and had a response, three to one, "Let the Union go to pieces, rather; than yield one inch." I know no sublimer hour in history. The sight of these two months is compensation for a life of toil. Never let Europe taunt us again that our blood is wholly cankered by gold. Our people stood, willing their idolized government should go to pieces for an idea. True, other nations have done so. England in 1640-France in 1791-our colonies in 1775. Those were proud moments. But to-day touches a nobler height. Their idea was their own freedom. To-day, the idea, loyal to which our people willingly see their Union wrecked, is largely the hope of justice to a dependent, helpless, hated race. Revolutions never go backward. The live force of a human pulse-beat can rive the dead lumber of government to pieces. Chain the Hellespont, Mr. Xerxes-Seward, before you dream of balking the Northern heart of its purpose-freedom to the slave! The old sea never laughed at Persian chains more haughtily than we do at Congress-compromises. 
I reverently thank God that he has given me to see such a day as this. Remember the measureless love of the North for the Union-its undoubted faith that disunion is ruin and then value as you ought this last
<c04>
three months. If Wilberforce could say on his deathbed, after fifty years toil, "Thank God, I have lived to see the day that England is willing, to give twenty million sterling for the abolition of slavery," what ought our-gratitude to be for such a sight as this? Twenty millions of people willing, would only their leaders permit, to barter their government for the hope of justice to the negro!
But you will tell me of dark cloudsï¿½mobs in every Northern city. Grant it, and more. When Lovejoy was shot, at Alton, Illinois, while defending his press, and Faneuil Hall was closed to his friends, William Ellery Channing, William Sturgis, and George Bond, the saints and merchants of Boston, rallied to the defence of free speech. Now, we hold meetings only when and how the Mayor permits, (hisses and great applause,) yet no merchant prince, no pulpit hero rallies to our side. But raise your eyes from the disgraced pavements of Boston, and look out broader. That same soil which drank the blood of Lovejoy, now sends his brother to lead Congress in its fiercest hour; that same prairie lifts his soul's son to crush the Union as he steps into the Presidential chair. Sleep in peace, martyr of Altonï¿½good has come out of Nazareth! The shot which turned back our Star of the West from the waters of Charleston, and tolled the knell of the Union, was the rebound of the bullet that pierced your heart. 
When Lovejoy died, men used to ask, tauntingly, what good has the anti-slavery cause done what changes has it wrought? As well stand over the cradle, and ask what use is a baby! He will be a man sometime-the anti-slavery cause has got to be twenty-one years old.
 This hour is bright from another cause. Since 1800, our government has been only a tool of the Slave Power. The stronghold of anti-slavery has been the sentiment of the people. We have always prophesied that our government would be found too weak to bear so radical an agitation as this of slavery. It has proved so-the government is a wreck. But the people have shown themselves able to deal with it; able to shake this sin from their lap as easily as the lion does dew-drops from his mane.
Mark another thing. No Northern man will allow you to charge him with a willingness to extend slavery. No matter what his plan, he is anxious to show you it is not a compromise! and will not extend slavery one inch! Mr. Dana is eloquent on this point, Mr. Adams positive, Mr. Seward cunning, Thurlow Weed indignant. (Laughter.) Virtue is not wholly discrowned, while hypocrisy is the homage laid at her feet. With such progress, why should we compromise?
Everybody allows, North and South, that any compromise will only be temporary relief. The South knows it is a lie-meant to tide over a shallow spot. The North knows it too. The startled North, in fact, now says: "Yes, I'll continue to serve you till my hair be grown, then I'll bring down the very temple itself." That is what a compromise really means. The progress is seen in this. The South always has said: "Yes, give me so much; I will not keep my part of the bargain, but hold you to yours, and get more the moment I can." Hitherto the North has said yes, and her courage consisted in skulking. Seward would swear to support the Constitution, but not to keep the oath. I use his name to illustrate my idea. But it is always with the extremest reluctance I bring myself to see a spot on the fame of that man, who, at his own cost, by severe toil, braving fierce odium, saved our civilization from the murder of the idiot Freeman. 
But you may also ask, if compromise be even a tempory relief, why not make it?
1st. Because it is wrong. 
2d. Because it delays emancipation. To-day, England, horror-struck that her five million operatives who live on cotton should depend on States rushing into anarchy, is ransacking the world for a supply. Leave her to toil under that lash, and in five years South Carolina will be starved into virtue. One thousand slaves are born each day. Hurry emancipation three years, and you raise a million human beings into free-born men. 
3d. Compromise demoralizes both parties. Mark! the North, notwithstanding all its progress, does not now quit the South. In the great religious bodies and the State, it is the sinners who kick the virtuous out of the covenant with death!  Mr. Dana, in his recent speech, does not secede because unwilling to commit the three constitutional sins. The South secedes from him because he will not commit one more.
4th. Compromise risks insurrection-the worst door at which freedom can enter. Let universal suffrage have free sway, and the ballot supersedes the bullet. But let an arrogant and besotted minority curb the majority by tricks like these, and when you have compromised away Lincoln, you revive John Brown. On this point of insurrection, let me say a word. Men talk of the peace of the South under our present government. It is no real peace. With the whites, it is only that bastard peace which the lazy Roman loved-ut se apricaret-that he might sun him himself. It is only safe idleness, sure breeder of mischief. With the slave, it is only war in disguise. Under that mask is hid a war keener in its pains, and deadlier in its effects, than any open fight. As the Latin adage runs-mars gravior sub pace latetï¿½war bitterer for its disguise. 
Thirty years devoted to earnest use of moral means show how sincere our wish that this question should have a peaceful solution. If your idols-your Websters, Clays, Calhouns, Sewards, Adamses-had done their duty, so it would have been. Not ours the guilt of this storm, or of the future, however bloody. But I hesitate not to say that I prefer an insurrection which frees the slave in ten years to slavery for a century. A slave I pity. A rebellious slave I respect I say now, as I said ten years ago-I do not shrink from the toast with which Dr. Johnson flavored his Oxford port, "Success to the first insurrection of the blacks in Jamaica!" I do not shrink from the sentiment of Southey, in a letter to Duppa-"There are scenes of tremendous horror which I could smile at by Mercy's side. An insurrection which should make the negroes masters of the West Indies is one." I believe both these sentiments are dictated by the highest humanity. I know what anarchy is. I know what civil war is. I can imagine the scenes of blood through which a rebellious slave population must march to their rights. They are dreadful. And yet, I do not know, that, to an enlightened mind, a scene of civil war is any more sickening than the thought of a hundred and fifty years of slavery. Take the broken hearts; the bereaved mothers; the infant, wrung from the hands of its parents; the husband and wife torn asunder; every right trodden under foot; the blighted hopes, the imbruted souls, the darkened and degraded millions-sunk below the level of intellectual life, melted in sensuality, herded with beasts-who have walked over the burning marl of Southern slavery to their graves, and where is the battle-field, however ghastly, that is not white-white as an angel's wing, compared with the blackness of that darkness which has brooded over the Carolinas for two hundred years? Do you love mercy? Weigh out the fifty thousand hearts that have beaten their last pulse amid agonies of thought and suffering fancy faints to think of; and the fifty thousand mothers, who, with sickening senses, watch for footsteps that are not wont to tarry long in their coming, and soon find themselves left to tread the pathway of life alone-add all the horrors of cities sacked and lands laid waste-and then weigh them all against some young girl sent to the auction-block, some man like that taken from our Court House and carried back into Georgia; multiply this individual agony into four millions; multiply that into centuries; and that into all the relations of father and child, husband and wife; heap on all the deep moral degradation both of the oppressor and the oppressed, and tell me if Waterloo or Thermopylae can chum one tear from the eye even of the tenderest spirit of mercy, compared with this daily system of hell amid the most civilized and Christian people on the face of the earth! 
No, I confess I am not a non resistant. The reason
<c05>
why I have advised the slave to be guided by a policy of peace is because he has had, hitherto, no chance. If he had one-if he had as good a chance as those who went up to Lexington years ago, I should call him the basest recreant that ever deserted wife and child, if he did not Vindicate his liberty by his own right hand. 
Mr. Richard Dana, Jr., says in such a contest his sympathies would be with his own race. (1) I confess mine would be with the right. I feel bound to add my doubt whether a slave insurrection would be a bloody one. In all revolutions, except the French, the people have always shown themselves merciful. Witness Switzerland, St. Domingo, Hungary, Italy. Tyranny sours more than suffering. The conservative hates the abolitionist more than we do him. The South hates the North. The master speaks ten bitter words of the slave where the slave speaks five of the master.
But I was speaking of compromise. Compromise degrades us, and puts back freedom in Europe. If the North manfully accepts the Potomac for her barrier, avows her gladness to get rid of tyrants, her willingness and her ability to stand alone, she can borrow as much money in Europe as before, and will be more respected. Free institutions are then proved breeders of men. If instead of this the North belittles herself by confessing her fears, her weakness, her preference for peace at any price, what capitalist will trust a rope of sand a people which the conspiracy of Buchanan's Cabinet could not disgust, nor the guns of Carolina arouse?
Will compromise eliminate all our Puritan blood-make the census add up against us and in favor of the South-write a new Testament-blot John Brown from history-make Connecticut suck its idle thumbs like a baby, and South Carolina invent and save like a Yankee? If it will, it will succeed. If it will not, Carolina don't want it any more than Jerrold's duck wants you to hold an umbrella over him in a hard shower. Carolina wants separation-wants, like the jealous son, her portion, and must waste it in riotous madness before she return a repentant prodigal. 
Why do I think disunion gain, peace and virtue? 
Let us rise to the height of our position. This is revolution, not rebellion.
Suppose we welcome disunion, manfully avow our real sentiment, "liberty and equality," and draw the line at the Potomac. We do not want the border States. Let them go, be welcome to the forts, take the capital with them. (Applause and hisses.)  What to us is a hot-house city, empty streets, and useless marble? Where Macgregor sits is the head of the table. Active brains, free lips and cunning hands make empires. Paper capitals are vain. Of course, we must assume a right to buy out Maryland and Delaware. Then, by running our line at the Potomac, we close the irrepressible conflict, and have homogeneous institutions. Then we part friends. The Union thus ended, the South no longer hates the North. Cuba she cannot have. France, England and ourselves forbid. If she spread over Central America, that will bring no cause of war to a Northern confederacy. We are no fillibusters. Her nearness to us there cannot harm us. Let Kansas witness that while Union fettered her, and our national banner clung to the flag-staff heavy with blood, we still made good George Canning's boast, "Where that banner is planted, foreign dominion shall not come." With a government heartily on his side, and that flag floating in the blessings of twenty million of freemen, the loneliest settler in the shadow of the Rocky Mountains will sleep fearless. 
Why, then, should there not be peace between two such confederacies? There must be. Let me show you why:-
1st. The laws of trade will bind us together as they now do all other lands. This side of the ocean, at least, we are not living in feudal times, when princes made war for ambition. We live in days when men of common sense go about their daily business, while frightened kings are flying along the highways. Leave neighborhood and trade alone, and we shall be at peace. Observe, only Northerners are lynched at the South now. Spaniards, French, Scotch are safe. When English Captain Vaughan is tarred and feathered, the Mayor offers a reward, and the grand jury indict. After a fair, sensible disunion, such as I have described, a Boston man will be as well off as Captain Vaughan. 
At any rate, disunion could not make the two sections any more at war than they are now. Any change in this respect would be an improvement. If the North and Mexico had touched boundaries, would they ever have quarrelled? Nothing but Southern fillibusterism, which can never point North, ever embroiled us with Mexico. To us in future the South will be another Mexico-too weak, too intent on her own broils to attack us.
The South cannot make war on any one. Suppose the fifteen States hang together a year-which is almost an impossibility-1st, they have given bonds in two thousand million of dollarsï¿½the value of their slaves-to keep the peace.
2d. They will have enough to do to attend to the irrepressible conflict at home. Virginia, Kentucky, Missouri, will be their Massachusetts-Winter Davis, Blair and Cassius Clay, their Seward and Garrison.
3d. The Gulf States will monopolize all the offices. A man must have Gulf principles to belong to a heal thy party. Under such a lead, disfranchised Virginia, in opposition, will not have much heart to attack Pennsylvania. 
4th. The census shows that the border States are pushing their slaves south. Fear of their free Northern neighbors will quicken the process, and so widen the breach between gulf and border States by making one constantly more and the other less slave States. Free trade in sugar bankrupts Louisiana. Free trade in men bankrupts Virginia. Free trade generally lets two-thirds of the direct taxation rest on the numerous, richer and more comfortable whites of the border States; hence further secession. Such a despotism, with every third man black and a foe, will make no wars.
Why should it attack us? We are not a cannon thundering at its gates. We are not an avalanche overhanging its sunny vales. Our influence, that of freedom, is only the air, penetrating everywhere, like heat, permeating all space. The South cannot stand isolated on a glass cricket. The sun will heat her, and electricity convulse. She must outwit them before she can get rid of ideas. A fevered child in July might as well strike at  the sun, as the South attack us for that, the only annoyance we can give her,-the sight and influence of our nobler civilization.
Disunion is gain. I venture the assertion, in the face of State street, that of any five Northern men engaged in Southern trade exclusively, four will end in bankruptcy. If disunion sifts such commerce, the North will lose nothing.
I venture the assertion, that seven at least of the Southern States receive from the government more than they contribute to it So far, their place will be more profitable than their company.
The whole matter of Southern trade has been grossly exaggerated, as well as the importance of the Mississippi river. Freedom carves her own lines of iron. Facts show that for one dollar the West sends or brings
(1) The following is the paragraph in Mr. Dana's address, referred to by Mr. Phillips:-
"An appeal to arms is a war of the races. They meet on the equality of the battle-field, and the victory goes to the strongest; and I confess that, when I consider what the white race is, and what the black race is, what civilization is, and what the white race is and always has been, and what the black race is  and always has been,-and this doctrine of the races has impressed itself on my mind much more than before, from what I have seen of all races during the last year and a half,-I confess that, in a contest like that, my duty and my sympathies would go with my own race. I know it is a contest for freedom, but it is a contest for life and for freedom of both sides, because slavery is to end when war begins. One race is to go up, and one to go down. It is a question of extermination, or banishment, or subjugation, or all three. And I have not arrived at that degree of philanthropy that I desire to see the black race controlling all that vast country, and our own white civilized race drives out, subjugated, or exterminated."
<c06>
by the river, she sends and brings four to and from the East by wagon and rail.
If, then, Mississippi and Louisiana bar the river with forts, they will graciously be allowed to pay for them, while Northern railroads grow rich carrying behind steam the small portion of wheat, bacon, silk or tea which would otherwise float lazily up and down that yellow stream.
The Cincinnati Press, which has treated this subject with rare ability, asserts that, excepting provisions which the South must, in any event, buy of the West, the trade of Cincinnati with Southern Indiana alone is thrice her trade with the whole South. As our benevolent societies get about one dollar in seven south of Mason and Dixon's line, so our traders sell there only about one dollar in five. Such trade, it cut off, would ruin nobody. In fact, the South buys little of us, and pays only for about half she buys. (Laughter and hisses.)
Now we build Southern roads, pay Southern patrol, carry Southern letters, support, out of the nation's treasures, an army of Southern office-holders, waste more money at Norfolk in building ships that will not float, than is spent in protecting the five great lakes, which bear up millions of commerce. These vast pensions come back to us in shape of Southern traders, paying, on the average, one half their debts. Dissolve the Union, and we shall save this outgo, and probably not sell without a prospect of being paid.
Southern trade is a lottery, to which the Union gives all the prizes. Put it on a sound basis by disunion, and the North gains. If we part without anger, the South buys, as every one does, of the cheapest seller. We get her honest business, without being called to fill up the gap of bankruptcy which the wasteful system of the slave labor must occasion. In this generation, no slave State in the Union has made the year's ends meet. In counting the wealth of the Union, such States are a minus quantity. Should the Gulf states, however, return, I have no doubt the United States treasury will be called on to pay all these secession debts.
Disunion is honor. Take Mr. Richards H. Dana, Jr., as example, a name historic for generations, a scholar of world-wide fame. He finds in the Constitution the duty of returning fugitive slaves, all alike, "the old and the ignorant, the young and the beautiful, to be surrendered to the master, whether he be man or brute. Mr. Dana avows his full readiness to perform this legal duty. All honor at least to the shameless effrontery with which he avows his willingness. He paints the hell of slavery in words that make the blood cold, and then boasts-this Massachusetts scholar, gentleman, his friends would call him-boasts that no man can charge him with having ever said one word against the surrender of fugitive slaves! Counsel in all the Boston slave cases, he "never suffered himself to utter one word which any poor fugitive negro, or any friend of his, could construe into an assertion that a fugitive slave should not be restored"!
He unblushingly claims merit for himself and Massachusetts-(I have no doubt in the scornful South he will have "his claim allowed")-that he and Massachusetts have constantly executed laws which offended their sense of honor, and ran counter to their moral sentiments," which he considers a "painful duty." To be sure, Mr. Dana has discovered in his wide travels and extensive voyages a "peculiar" class of people, narrow-minded, very little read in Greek, who think, poor simpletons, that this slave-hunting is a sin. But then, Aristotle did not look at things in this light. He took broader views, and proves conclusively that three virtues and one sin exactly make a saint, and Mr. Dana is too good a churchman to dispute with Aristotle. He sees no reason why, notwithstanding this clause as to forcing our fellow-men back into hell, "a conscientious man" should not swear to obey Constitution, and actually obey it. Now Mr. Seward and Mr. Joel Parker, who both believe in the fugitive slave clause, and willingly never to enforce it, have each given public notice they will not enforce it. Mr. Dana will swear, and perform too. They will swear, but not perform. Their guilt is perjury, his is man-stealing. On the whole, I should rather be Seward than Dana; for perjury is the more gentlemanly vice, to my thinking. Perjury only filches your neighbors rights. Man-stealing takes rights and neighbor too.
After all this, Mr. Dana objects to the Crittenden compromise. Something short of that he can allow, because he does not call these other offer, Adams's and such like, "compromises"! It seems he objects more to the word than the thing But the Crittenden proposal he is set against for a reason which may strike you singular in a man willing to retain slaves-but then we are bundles of inconsistencies, all of us. But this slave-hunter cannot abide Crittenden because, listen because he thinks "an investment in dishonor is a bad investment! An investment in infidelity to the principles of liberty is a bad investment"! Hunt slaves? Yes, it is a duty. Give some territory to slavery, and peril the Republican party? Never, it is a "bad investment" DeQuincy says: "If once a man indulges in murder, very soon he comes to think little of robbing; from robbing he comes next to drinking, from that to ill manners and procrastination. Once enter this downward path, and you know not where you'll stop." Mr. Dana has, however, taken warning, and stops at man-stealing. 
Some of you will call this personality. I will tell you some time, when the hour serves, why I use personality. Enough now to remind you his clients are wealth, culture, power and white blood. Mine are four millions of human beings, standing dumb and suppliant on the threshold of Christianity and civilizationï¿½and hundreds of fugitives trembling at every motion of the door-latch. Whoever perils their safety, or holds back the day of their redemption by ingenious sophistry, base word or base act, shall always find in me a critic. Let no man call me harsh-I only respect with emphasis words such men are not ashamed to speak. Southern Legrees can plead, if not excuse, yet some extenuation. But when a Massachusetts Republican, a Massachusetts lawyer, a Massachusetts scholar avows such sentiments, he puts himself below the Legrees. Blame not this plainness of speech. I have a hundred friends, as brave souls as God ever made, whose hearths are not as safe after honored men make such speeches.
Faneuil Hall, too, kneels patient for its burden, and by its President that meeting says to the South, "Only name your terms-that is all we will trouble you to do." Like Luther's priest, who, when Catholics told him to pray one way and Protestants another, ended by repeating the alphabet, and begging God to frame a prayer agreeable to himself; so our Boston orator offers the South carte blanche-the whole bundle of compromises-" will she only condescend to indicate her preference?"
Mr. Dana is a man above the temptations of politics. The President of the Faneuil Hall meeting has no political aspirations-an independent gentleman. Such speeches show how wide the gangrene of the Union spreads. Mr. Dana's speech was made, he says, in the shadow of Bunker's Hill, in sight of the spot where Washington first drew his sword. The other speech was borne to the roof of Faneuil Hall by the <illegible> of a thousand merchants. Surely, such were not the messages Cambridge and our old Hall used to exchange! Can you not hear Warren and Otis crying to their recreant representatives: "Sons, scorn to be slaves! Believe, for our sakes, we did not fight for such a government. Trample it under foot. You cannot be poorer than we were. It cannot cost you more than our seven years of war. Do it, if only to show that we have not lived in vain."
The address of Mr. Phillips occupied about an hour in its delivery, and was listened to with absorbing interest by the immense audience-frequently interrupted with expressions of warm approbation and, in one or two instances only, of disapprobation. At the close of the services, a great concourse of people assembled in front of the Music Hall entrance, in Winster Street, actuated by curiosity to see the eloquent orator; but he quietly entered a carriage on Bromfield Street, and was driven to his residence in Essex St, without any further demonstration of good or ill will.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1861.
THE PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW.
During the present session of the Legislature, numerous petitions from various parts of the Common wealth have been presented against slave-hunting in Massachusetts under any circumstances, and for and against the repeal of the present Personal Liberty Law. On Tuesday last, the Joint Special Committee to whom the subject had been referred, made a unanimous repot, in the course of which they declare that "every man on the soil of Massachusetts is prima facie free. And this presumption should not be cut down without the most plenary and convincing proof to the contrary. The protection of personal freedom is the primary object, of government, and should never be subordinated in deference to the rights of property." They conclude by proposing the following explanatory enactment:-
An Act concerning Habeas Corpus and Personal Liberty. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:-
Sec.1. The writ of habeas corpus shall in all cases, except those mentioned in the thirtieth and thirty-second sections of the one hundred and forty-fourth chapter of the General Statutes, be returnable before the Supreme Judicial Court, or some justice thereof, in term time or vacation.
Sec.2. When any trial shall be had upon a writ of habeas corpus, under the nineteenth section of the one hundred and forty-fourth chapter of the General Statutes, issues shall be framed under the direction of the court, and the rules of evidence, procedure and decision, shall be those of those of the common law.
Sec.3. Nothing contained in the statutes of the Commonwealth shall be construed to authorize the taking of any person by writ of habeas corpus out of the custody of the United States Marshal, or his deputy, holding him by legal and sufficient process, issued by any court or Magistrate of competent jurisdiction provided, however, that this shall not affect the authority of the Supreme Judicial Court, or its justices, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States and of this Commonwealth, to investigate and determine upon the validity and legal effect of any process which may be relied on to defeat the writ, or any other matter properly arising.
Sec.4. Nothing contained in the sixty-second section of the one hundred and forty-fourth chapter of the General Statutes shall be construed to authorize the punishment of any person, who, without any false pretence or unlawful intent, claims another person as a fugitive from service or labor.
Sec.5.Nothing contained in the one hundred and forty-fourth chapter of the General Statutes shall be construed to prohibit or limit the right of any officer, court or magistrate to call out the militia for the prevention or suppression of any it, tumult or mob, as provided in the thirteenth and one hundred and sixty-fourth chapters of the General Statutes; or to excuse the officers or members of the volunteer militia from obeying any such lawful order, or to render them liable to any penalty for executing the same: provided, that the militia shall never be used to hinder the service of any lawful process of this Commonwealth. 
Sec.6. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
As this enactment will do nothing to "conciliate" the Southern traitors, and as no Court in Massachusetts has yet decided any part of the existing Personal Liberty Law to be unconstitutional, we trust the Legislature will let the Law remain precisely as it stands, unless to put an end to all slave-hunting.

THE PIONIER.
In the last number of the Boston Pionier, its Editor, KARL HEINZEN, announces that in consequence of the present disturbed state of the South and the dangers to which his readers in that part of the country are exposed, he is reluctantly obliged to strike off all his Southern subscribers from his list, till better times shall give freedom of the press to the South as well as to the North. This curtailment, of course, is not unattended with pecuniary loss, and in order to meet it, Mr. Heinzen appeals to his friends in the Free States to come to his assistance in swelling his subscription-list. If the appeal proves unavailing, the paper will have to be reduced in size, its attractive features diminished, or some such retrenchment exercised, in order to reduce expenses.
In this strait, for the prevention of such a contingency, we are happy to be able to recommend the Pionier to all our readers who are acquainted with the German tongue. Besides its typographical comeliness and accuracy, they will find in the Pionier all that constitutes a free and independent journal-great liberality of thought, fairness towards opponents, a manly and fearless utterance on all subjects that are of interest of humanity, and a comprehensive and philosophical treatment of the Slavery question, such as is to be found in no other foreign paper in this country, nor indeed in any but a very small minority of the American press itself. Our readers have already been presented with some of Mr. Heinzen's editorials, and can judge from them of the tone of the paper and its clear sighted Editor. The Pioneer contains, besides, interesting correspondence from Europe, a weekly feuilleton, the leading news, &c. &c.
The Pioneer is a quarto sheet, published weekly at $4,00 a year. The office of the Editor is at No. 1, Oak Street, Boston, and his address is Box 196, Boston P.O.

LINCOLN AND HAMLIN.
During the past week, President Lincoln has been journeying from his home at Springfield, Illinois, on his way to Washington for inauguration. He has been every where received with the most enthusiastic popular demonstrations-at Cincinnati, Columbus, Cleveland, Indianapolis, Troy, Albany, New York city, &c. He expects to arrive in Washington on Saturday. He has made several speeches (in response to various addresses) marked by brevity, good temper, a hopeful spirit, a wise circumspection, firmness of purpose, and an erect vertebrae.
Mr. Hamlin, Vice President, on his arrival at Worcester, on his way to Washington, was greeted by some fifteen hundred people, whose demonstrations of respect and esteem were so hearty and long-continued that he was forced to make his appearance on the platform of the car, and speak a few words. He said:
"Men of Massachusetts: Your generous tones speak truly for the heart of this ancient Common wealth. You, men, who are gathered here, are the best representatives of the blessings of an intelligent, productive free labor, and the sentiments of your hearts are worthy of the ancient fame of the Old Bay State. I know you are sometimes charged with being too fanatic, and I fear your complaint is chronic. (Cheers and laughter.) It came from old'76, and I have no apology to offer for you. ('Good.') I sympathize with it too deeply. (Enthusiastic cheers.) Friends, maintain, like men, the principles of the Old Bay State, and all will be well. Maintain the dignity of free labor.('We will,’) and all will be well. Liberty was rocked in the cradle in Massachusetts (cheers); and, my friends, stand by it in its old age, and see that it receives no blow, and you will –“
The speech was brought to a close by the starting of the train, amidst enthusiastic cheering.
This shows a strong backbone on the part of the Vice President, which we hope will not be in the least weakened on his arrival at Washington.
Never was there a speech delivered or reported under more embarrassing circumstances than that of Mr. C. C. Burleigh, at the Tremont Temple, Jan. 24th, which we have placed on our last page. As spoken-so uproarious were the rioters present-not one word in twenty was heard by the audience; and yet-being wholly unpremeditated-it was made with the utmost self-possession and fluency, Mr. Yerrinton, the matchless reporter, taking it down verbatim, though Mr. Burleigh, owing to his copiousness and rapidity, is a most difficult speaker to report at any time.
NO CAUSE FOR THANKSGIVING!- In the heading of the article by 'C.K.W.', published last week, criticising the recent sham Union-saving meeting at Faneuil Hall, a very infelicitous typographical blunder was made-namely, ‘Thanksgiving in Faneuil Hall,' instead of Flunkeyism, &c. A very different estimate!
<c02>
EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE
Probably, never before has private epistolary correspondence been so largely occupied with the condition of the nation as at the present time-the views presented being as diverse as the writers are numerous. Having accidentally seen two or three letters written only for private perusal, we have been permitted to make the following extracts for publication. The first is from a lady in Boston to a distant friend, with reference to the meeting in Music Hall, last Sunday:-
"It seems to me this struggle of slavery to maintain itself is with that justice which is the very foundation of the Throne of God, and no soul that is alive to the immortal interests involved in this conflict can be indifferent to it, whether in the body or absent. Yes, I believe there was joy in heaven when Mr. Phillips plead so eloquently this morning at Music Hall for the 'four millions of dumb suppliants at the doors of our civilization.' There was a magnificent audience, every seat filled on the floor, the platform, and in the two tiers of galleries. And as the TRUTH,' very salt, and very bitter, and very good,' came forth from his brave lips, in ‘winged words,' to enter thousands of hearts for power, persuasion, and motive, the occasion became one of those solemn and sublime ones that reveal to us the grandeur and the immensity of the human soul. It is wonderful, at these meetings, how the wrath of man is made to praise God. You may know that Mr. Phillips is engaged to speak every fourth Sunday for the Society to which Theodore Parker preached in Music Hall, and this is the third time he has spoken since the mob that broke up the John Brown meeting on the 3d of December. The first time in great peril of his life, which the police interfered to protect. And so the second. To-day I did not see any policemen, but there was the mob, in the galleries and in the street, restrained, as in is believed, for this time, in view of the inquiries now before the Legislature as to the necessity of a police appointed by the State. But here these hundreds and hundreds of young men are, thoughtless, curious, and it may be spiteful; but their ears are taken captive by the matchless eloquence of Mr. Phillips, and though they come to scoff, new and better feelings must in many instances spring up; such is the power and potency of the heavenly influences of right, justice and truth. I think no heart could be too hard and stony not to feel a bound of sympathy in that vast assembly to-day when Mr. Phillips, after telling how Mr. Dana said at Cambridge, the other night, his sympathies in case of a slave insurrection would be with his race Mine, I thank God,' said Mr. Phillips, ‘would be with the right!'
“I meant to have made out more clearly what thousands of listeners, new ones, are attracted to Music Hall, now that the merchant princes and the Everetts and Winthrops have decreed the crushing out of free speech in Boston; and the more they cry out,' Phillips ought to be hung! ‘Shoot him!' the wider he is heard. The stillness was very great to-day, and I do not think a word was lost through inattention, every body was so intent and eager to know what he would say."
The next is from an estimable lady in the Empire State to a friend in Boston:-
"Have our national affairs really come to a crisis, or is there to be all this fuss, to end, after all, in some miserable, mean compromise? Are not the Crittenden amendments enough to make one sick, if it were not for the hope that their very barefacedness may arouse something of a right spirit? I hope it will be bloodless.' No Union with Slaveholders!' So let it be. Let them go in peace: it cannot last long for them. Their beloved institution will soon destroy itself, and them too. Slavery or Christianity must give way; they cannot endure together; and I cannot believe that any part of this civilized land is to be given up to Barbarism. But a sore day must come to the land of Slavery, and the further it is put off, the sorer it will be.
The thought of civil war is shocking indeed, but perpetual Slavery is even more dreadful. What is Slavery but continual war? The weak and down trodden ever struggling even for the breath of life, and that crushed out beneath the iron heel of despotism. O that our rulers may be wise and good-that the free men among us may be strong and determined-that not a word of such compromise and concession as slave institutions would require may be listened to for one instant!
I have burned with indignation at the insults offered to our Anti-Slavery friends, who have been trying to lecture in this State. Verily, the gag law seems to be in full force. If the little band are so insignificant as their opposers are sometimes pleased to term them, why are they so afraid of them? Why not let them have quiet possession of the halls they hire and pay for, and say their say, as well as Republicans, Democrats, or any other party? They ‘were born as free as Caesar'-why should they not share Caesar's rights?”
The next is also from a noble woman:-
“I long to know what these six or seven months have done to you, and for you, in body and soul. I hope they have only added strength and elasticity to both, and that this will find you bright and well, peaceful and hopeful-not afraid in these times when the fruit of an awakened conscience threatens to be civil war. But that is not our responsibility: we must do what is right. If the recreant North could only feel this, that the consequences are in God's hands; if only the race of noble men was not so nearly extinct, we might hope for a glorious result from all this turning and overturning.
'God's ways seem dark, but, soon or late,
They touch the shining hills of day;
The Evil cannot brook delay—
The Good can well afford to wait!
Give ermined knaves their hour of crime;
We have the future, grand and great,
The safe appeal of Truth to Time!' "
The last is from a much respected Vermonter:
"How are the friends of Freedom? Do they feel like submitting to the dictation of a mob, backed by the black-hearted cowardice of a Boston Mayor? I hope, in the name of God and humanity, the North will never yield to the demands of Slavery, and patch up a miserable Union by Compromise, and leave for our children that come after us, a work that we ought to do; and leave to them an inheritance worthy the wisdom of the nineteenth century. The war between Freedom and Slavery must be fought. We may shirk the responsibility, and go into our graves cowards; but the Spirit of Liberty will still live to fire the hearts of the good and true in the future, and thus the conflict will be continued, so long as the tears of the slave fall upon the chains that bind him. With some little charity for the faint-heartedness of the political leaders, and a strong faith that truth and justice will finally triumph, I can hope on, and hope ever."
Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, has been making a Presidential journey to Montgomery, for inauguration. The despatches say: "His trip from Mississippi was a continued ovation. He made twenty-five speeches on the route, and was met eighty miles off by a Committee of Congress, and two military companies, and on his arrival a cannonading commenced.
"President Davis spoke. He felt proud to receive the congratulations and hospitality of the people of Alabama. He briefly reviewed the position of the South. He said the time of compromise was passed. They were now determined to maintain their position. May all who oppose us smell Southern powder, and feel Southern steel. If coercion was persisted in, he had no doubt of the result. We will maintain our right of government at all hazards. We ask nothing-we want nothing. We will have no complications. If other States join our Confederacy, they may freely come on our terms. Our separation from the old Union is complete. No reconstruction now can be entertained. In case of necessity, he said he would again enter the ranks as a soldier."
President (!) Davis has since delivered his inaugural address at Montgomery, in the course of which he reiterates the same sentiments-affirming the secession to be final and absolute.
<c03>
PROTEST OF COLORED CITIZENS.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:— That the public may posted with regard to the effect produced upon the colored citizens of Massachusetts, by the propose Crittenden Compromises, I submit the following summary from the doings of the Legislature and the <illegible> Convention for record in the Liberator.-W.C.K
On Wednesday, February 6th, 1861, Mr. Brannird of Lee, on leave, presented a memorial from J. Sella Martin and 125 other colored citizens of Boston, which was read, as follows:—
To the Honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives the Commonwealth of Massachusetts: 
“We, the undersigned, do respectfully memorialize you honorable body to the following effect:—
That as citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts who have heretofore felt perfectly secure in the enjoy me of the rights pertaining to such citizenship, who have a ways looked to your honorable body as the defender of the rights of the minority when they are threatened by the actions of the majority,-would, in view of your determination to send commissioners to Washington, to repressor this State in the convention there assembled, the callers which have in view an alteration of the national constitution, pray your honorable body to keep in view the following facts:-
That Virginia, who invites Massachusetts to join her in convention with the above view, disfranchises her colored citizens.
That this is coupled with certain propositions, one of which is as follows: That " the elective franchise and the right to hold office, whether Federal, State, Territorial or Municipal, shall not be exercised by persons who are in whole or in part of the African race." 
That therefore your honorable body instruct the commissioners appointed in behalf of the State, to oppose and vote against every proposition which may have in view or which may be perverted to the disfranchisement of the colored citizens of this Commonwealth.
We, the undersigned, colored citizens of Massachusetts, memorialize your honorable body to this effect-
1. Because we feel deeply humiliated, as Americans, to know that fellow-countrymen could be guilty of even conceiving the injustice contained in the proposition referred to.
2. Because the application of the injustice would bear directly upon loyal citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, who have never abused the right of franchise or any trust imposed upon us by the State.
Mr. Branning, in behalf of the memorialists, referred to the various statements of numerous petitioners for the Crittenden compromise; but, come weal or woe, he did not believe that Massachusetts would ever submit to any proposition to disfranchise her colored fellow-citizens. And since the first blood which was spilt in the cause of the revolution was that of a colored man, upon that very State street of which we hear so much, that blood of Crispus Attucks would cry from the ground to the Legislature to see to it that his race does not suffer injury from their hands. 
The memorial was referred to the Committee on Federal Relations, with instructions to report forthwith, for the action of the Commissioners from Massachusetts in Convention at Washington.
Mr. Albee, of Marlboro', from the Committee on Federal Relations, February 7th, reported a resolve, as follows:-
Resolve in relation to proposed amendments to the Constitution.
Whereas, In the opinion of Massachusetts, no amendment of the Constitution of the United States is necessary to afford to the people of the slaveholding States adequate guarantee for the security of their rights-and
Whereas, Virginia has proposed, as a basis of settlement of our national difficulties, the propositions known as the Crittenden Compromise-and
Whereas, said propositions contain principles in conflict with the principles which Massachusetts has firmly upheld, and which she is determined to maintain-therefore,
Resolved, That Massachusetts is unalterably opposed to incorporating into the Constitution of the United States, the propositions known as the "Crittenden Compromise."
The resolve was read a second time, under suspension of the rules.
Mr. Albee said this resolve was all that the committee could fully agree upon, and it was reported with the understanding that each member of the committee should offer such others as he pleased. Accordingly, he moved to offer two resolves as follows:-
Resolved, That our commissioners at Washington are hereby instructed to use every effort to prevent the adoption of the Crittenden compromise, or any similar propositions, by the convention now in session at Washington, D.C.
Resolved, That the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of these resolves to each of our commissioners now at Washington.
Mr. Banfield, of Roxbury, gave notice that he should move to amend by the following resolution:-
Resolved, That the measures proposed by one of our Representatives, Mr. Charles Francis Adams, being in our opinion calculated to remove suspicions and allay fears, however ill-founded, and to remove a particular subject of controversy, and not being justly liable to the objection of violating any political principle, meet with our approbation, and we believe will be sustained by the people of Massachusetts.
On Tuesday, February 12th, when these resolves came up on special assignment, the whole subject, on motion of Mr. Banfield, of Roxbury, was LAID ON THE TABLE. 
On Thursday, February 14th, a large meeting, composed of colored citizens from the various portions of the Commonwealth, was held at Joy Street Church.
Dr. J. B. Smith, of New Bedford, was called to the chair, who, in course of remark, said they had placed too much confidence in the non-slaveholding States, and placed too little reliance on themselves. They had nothing to live for if their liberties are further infringed. He would submit to no more oppression on the part of this barbaric nation. (Applause.) 
Prayer was offered by Rev. L. A. Grimes.
Resolutions were offered by George T. Downing, declaring that no compromise would settle the questions now agitating the nation-nothing but the abolition of Slavery itself; that the colored people will never be driven from the United States by any compulsion; insisting on the retention of the Personal Liberty Law on our statute book, and proclaiming that they will continue to demand from the Legislature of Massachusetts the most absolute equality in every respect before the laws.
Rev. J. Sella Martin addressed the meeting in support of the resolutions. He denounced bitterly the provisions of the Crittenden compromise. It is not claimed that the votes of colored men have brought on the present difficulties, but the North wish only to offer up as a sacrifice those few colored men who have received a portion of the common liberty. He thought it was not only the object of the South to injure the, negro, but also to injure the white man. They have already despoiled the black man, and now they want to bring to their feet the white man of the North. He thought there is danger that the convention at Washington would, in its secret sessions, adopt this compromise, and force it upon us. He would not submit to any forced expatriation, but would stay until he was carried away, or stand and drive back the driver if need be. They had appealed to the humanity of the country as Christians and peaceable citizens, and if we must go, we will leave our blood behind. (Applause.) There never was a darker hour for the colored people in this country than now, and they should speak earnestly to their fellow-citizens, and let them know if they are struck down, it shall be with a protest upon their lips; and if they die, it shall be like martyrs. And the God who has punished other nations for their inhumanity may enforce the penalty of national sins with annihilation. 
George T. Downing submitted the following
APPEAL TO THE WHITE CITIZENS OF THE STATE.
We have not the strong arm of power; we have not wealth and its influences; we cannot DEMAND, save in the name of justice. In the name of justice, WE DO DEMAND at least a hearing. We appeal!
It is an appeal of men to men, of Americans to American fellow-countrymen, of citizens to citizens. In the name of humanity, patriotism and philanthropy-under the obligation of all these ties-we appeal; hear us for the sake of justice.
These are to us anxious moments, and therefore we appeal. There are men in power-influential men—laboring to disfranchise us; yes, to disfranchise us loyal citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; to disfranchise us not for any crime or improper acts of ours, but to satisfy a party that we have never wronged—a power outside of the State.
Men of Massachusetts, they are striving to compass this design whether, you would or not.
In this hour of darkness and danger, we appeal to 
<c04>
you, fellow-citizens, to bear in mind the following facts:-
Virginia invites Massachusetts and other States to a convention, with a view, as alleged, of settling the present national difficulties.
The proposed basis of settlement is the "Crittenden compromise,” the seventh clause of which, if adopted, deprives us of the right of voting in Massachusetts. The eighth looks to our expatriation; and it seems to be a studied design on the part of those who really understand this compromise to keep the people ignorant of the purpose to disfranchise and expatriate us. We know that a great number of those in this State who signed petitions in favor of said compromise, were ignorant of the purport of these clauses -we have reasons for believing that a large MAJORITY were. What is our guilt in the use of the ballot? We have voted in common with you, white fellow-citizens of Massachusetts. The common vote is responsible for whatever good or evil may have resulted from the ballot-box.
You, white fellow-citizens, constitute a very large majority of the voters. You have filled all the offices in the control of the ballot-box. Therefore, if we are to be disfranchised, because of the present difficulties, will it not be punishing us for what you have done?-that is, if the present difficulties owe their existence to the vote of Massachusetts; and if the difficulties are not traceable to the vote of Massachusetts, why should effects be made to disfranchise us?
Therefore we appeal to you to stand by us, and see that we are not unjustly punished; for the right to punish us in this respect, grants the right to punish he entire State of Massachusetts by disfranchisement. 
But we do not believe that those urging these propositions design mainly to strike at so small a political power as ourselves, but at the white citizens of the States of New England. They would humiliate the New England States because of their fidelity to that portion of the Declaration of Independence which declares "That all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed," in the understanding of which the New England States include the colored citizen. Nor can we conceive of a just government where all citizens are not thus included. And we are further confirmed in our views of the intention to humiliate Massachusetts, from the fact that the instigators of these propositions, finding no warrant in the Constitution as handed down to us by its fathers, suggest this method of corrupting that Constitution, and thereby interfering with the rights of the State, which alone is competent to say who shall vote. 
And now, fellow-citizens, we appeal to you, because the first great end of government is to protect and secure the interests and liberties of the weak against cupidity and despotism. 
We are weak-you are strong. We are few in numbers-you are numerous. O, men of Massachusetts! tell us not that there are two kinds of rights; rights of the rich, which you respect because you must; rights of the poor, on which you trample because you dare. 
We appeal to you, because we love old Massachusetts, whose sympathies and-with a few exceptions-whose actions have always been for the right.
Many of us are native-born citizens of the State; we appeal to you to protect us in the enjoyment of the little property which we have wrung, as it were, from adversity itself.
We appeal to you not to crush out nor drive away the patriotism which ever clings to native land, nor the reverence which ever worships at the grave of our fathers. Freedom has been your legacy from birth; by some of us it has been achieved. We know what oppression is; protect us from this political oppression. 
For if our hopes are blasted in the State which we have considered the asylum of the oppressed, you drive us to desperation. 
Some of us have experienced the unutterable anguish of leaving our dear ones for the sake of freedom.
We appeal to you to secure and protect us in the freedom which we have sought. Let us not be exiled from the State of our adoption. 
We have appealed with the feeling of men-through the relationship of social beings-through the patriotism of the citizen-now we appeal in the name of the Christian religion: will you protect us in the enjoyment of it in our native land? Drive us not to an inhospitable land, either soon to die of fever or deteriorate in intellect, under the influence of a superstitious religion. The injustice against which we protest is so self-evident that we have not deemed it necessary to argue. We have confined ourselves to an appeal to you as men-as fellow-countrymen and as Christians-in the name of social justice-in the name of American patriotism-in the name and by the sacred memory of the entombed fathers-in the name of the great God, before whom we must all appear, hear us! Speak out, Massachusetts! you are the acknowledged head of New England. The movers in this injustice will not disregard the voice of New England.
Wm. Wells Brown thought they had been rather early in their address: neither the Peace Convention nor Congress would ever adopt the Crittenden compromise, and should it be adopted by them, it must be submitted to the people. It is well to see where we are, but not be too hasty. Michigan to-day has resolved not to abolish her Personal Liberty Law. (Applause.) He never felt more buoyant than at this time. They had only to sit still, and the law of progress shall give the black man his freedom. The mobs of the cities are but the last struggles of the tyrant. He would not be afraid to have it known that the meeting was to be held, and if the mob had come here, it would only help to carry out the plan of redeeming the city from its present police system. (Applause.) He did not believe that the address ought to go out yet, because there is now no occasion for it. The question cannot come before the people until next autumn. 
Mr. Downing was convinced that Mr. Brown had fallen into an error. He believed the question was one of the greatest importance, and had no doubt that the North would sacrifice the whole race of colored people to save the Union.
Rev. Mr. Martin spoke in favor of the appeal. He thought the people of Massachusetts need to be informed of what is in the Crittenden Compromise. They are not aware that it so deeply affects the rights of their fellow-citizens. 
Mr. John T. Hilton was convinced that action is needed. The North had always obeyed the Slave Power, and he could not but have fears at the efforts which are now being made. 
Mr. Brown thought the meeting was very timely, but did not wish the address issued at this time.
Mr. John J. Smith thought everything looked dark. They could expect nothing from the free States, and we must make an appeal in season. 
Mr. Robert Morris was confident that, ere three years, colored men would be in the Legislature, so convinced was he that Massachusetts is advancing in aid of the colored people. He thought the colored people were the most to blame, that they do not help themselves as they ought.
The resolves and address were adopted, and the meeting adjourned.

FROM A TRUE-HEARTED AB0LITIONIST.
NEWBURY, Geauga Co., Ohio, Jan. 28, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON-The world moves-for which I feel to thank God, and take fresh courage.
This afternoon, with the consent of the leaders in the Orthodox Congregational Church in this place, Darius M. Allen read for the service, Wendell Phillips's Speech, in Music Hall —“THE LESSON OF THE HOUR." It was listened to by a good audience, which seemed to appreciate its burning truths. When I remember that, but a few years since, my sainted father-now in his eighty-sixth year-was rebuked, and looked upon as a fanatic, for pleading the cause of the oppressed in their religious (?) meetings, and being one of the first to vote the Liberty Party ticket, the change seems great, and should encourage all, even those who have but one talent to improve it, for the speedy redemption of millions in worse than Egyptian bondage. 
There has been good Anti-Slavery work done here the past few year. H. C. Wright, A. T. Foss, Parker Pillsbury, have laid their battle-axe at the root of the hideous tree of slavery; and D. M. Allen has contributed much to keep the ball of reform in motion by his uncompromising lectures.
When I arrived here the last of December, Rev. Mr. McCormick was giving a course of seven lectures on slavery. They were well attended, and must bring forth fruit. He is of the Gerrit Smith school. In his last lecture, he gave his view of the different phases of the Anti-Slavery movement, and I think did justice to the hated Garrisonians. He denied the popular charge of infidelity preferred against them, and affirmed that their platform resolutions proved them believers in Christianity; and also said that the Covenanters were with them. But we need more true Anti-Slavery work here. We wish the Lecturers and Reformers to remember us. The string of the door latch of our humble abode will not be pulled in, so
<c05>
long as one slave is left in his chains, or the gallows and war curse God's green earth. 
We are hoping to see and hear that indefatigable, self-sacrificing advocate of human rights, Abby Kelley Foster, before she returns to Massachusetts. The Western Reserve will, in the future, rise up and call her, and her devoted husband, blessed for their labors here in past years. The Bugle is a child of their own creation and nursing. It has already done much service. May it continue to grow in strength, and may its circulation increase, until truth, and freedom shall prevail universally!
We have two meeting-houses here-one, free to all sects and all lecturers. A High School is kept in the vestry of the Congregational church, and is in a flourishing condition. The Lyceum holds its meetings once a week, in which the most radical questions are discussed. But as well as I love this, the home of my adoption, surrounded by some forty of my own kindred, I have been with you in spirit the past week at your annual meeting of the State Society. I have a strong desire, to be with the devoted men and women in their danger and persecution, who, like Christ and the early apostles, have stood up in the face of this corrupt generation, and proclaimed God's everlasting truth. 
But I have already trespassed too long on your patience, and will only add my hope that our Southern paupers may be taken at their word, and be left to take care of themselves and their "peculiar institution." Have we not already maintained them, and done their dirty work, long enough? So it seems to 
R. H. OBER.

CONTRIBUTIONS AND PLEDGES
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at Annual Meeting and subsequently.
CONTRIBUTIONS.
Chas. Buffum, $5.00 Nathan Winslow, 7.50
Bourne Spooner, 3.00 George Atkinson, 2.00
Jonathan Buffum, 2.00 Geo. W. Cheney, 1.00
J.R. Hayward, 1.00 James Griffin, 1.00
Cash, 0.10 David Lee Child, 1.00
Henrietta Sargent, 5.00 L. Maria Child, 1.00
Mary May, 2.00 John T. Hilton, 1.00
Dr. J. M. Aldrich, 20.00 Wm. H. Logan, 2.00
Mrs. Wm. Ives, 3.00 Jas. Savage, Jr., 2.00
R. Howland, 5.00 Sarah J. Douce, 0.50
Mrs. H. Castell, 1.00 Lewis McLauthlin, 2.00
Augustus Steinheart0.50 N. H. Cook, 1.00
Robert Johnson, 1.00 David Merritt, 2.00
Friend, 1.00 Caroline Wellington, 3.00
Richard Hinchcliffe0.75 Dr. H. O. Stone, 5.00
W. D. Scrimgeour, 1.00 Abram Folsom, 5.00
John Hill, 0.25 E. L. Hammond, 2.00
Hamor Gledhill, 1.00 T. B. Moses, 5.00
Charles Richardson,3.00 Miss Catherine Clapp, 2.00 
Isaac Austin, 2.00 Francis Jackson, 5.00
Martha B. Goodrich,5.00 Jacob Leonard, 0.50
Cornelius Cowing, 1.00 Mary E. Alden, 0.50
Carlus Cook, 1.00 
Collections by Josiah Hayward, Salem.
J. H. Battles, 2.00 L. H. Chase, 2.00
Geo. Andrews, 1.00 C. Babcock, 3.00
Wm. Ives, 2.00 Mrs. Sarah Hayward 1.00
T.H Frothingham, 1.00 Perley King, 1.00
Daniel G. Haskell, 1.00 Abner Sanger, 5.00
Josiah Hayward, 1.00 $20.00
Collected by F. Hinckley, Hyannis.
Francis Hinckley, 5.00 Eli Hinckley, 5.00
David Hinckley. 5.00 J. C. Crocker, 1.00
Warner Hinckley, 3.00 A. D. Makepeace, 0.50
$19.50
Tickets sold, 36.48
PLEDGES.
Francis Jackson, $200.00 Mary May, 50.00
Samuel May, Jr., 50.00 Samuel Dyer, 5.00
Edmund Jackson, 50,00 Samuel Barrett, 20.00
Josiah Henshaw, 10.00 Sarah H. Young.M D., 5,00
N. T. Allen, West Mrs. SarahJ.Nowell10.00
Newton, 2.00 E. L Hammond, 5,00
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
REDEEMED PLEDGES.
H. D. and G.Draper,$50.00 Weymouth Female
M.A. &W. Dutcher, 100.00 A. S. Society, 50.00 
E.D. and Anna T. Benj. Snow, Jr., 100.00 
Draper, 50.00 Josiah Henshaw, 20.00 
Mrs. L. A. Reed, 10.00 Mrs. H .C .Fifield, 5.00
Benjamin H. Smith, 3.00 Mrs.Eliz'thNickerson,3.50 
C. B. McIntyre, 2.00 Rev. Jas. F. Clarke,
H. W. Carter, 2.50 (wedding fee,) 10.00
DONATIONS.
Weymouth Female A. S. Society, 30.00 Richard Clap, 20.00
Mercy P. Osborn, N. H. 5.00 James Jackson, 3.00
COLLECTIONS BY C. C. BURLEIGH.
Knightsville, 1.23 Central Village, 1.32
North Chester, 0.45 South Danvers, 1.79
Middlefield, 1.34 Millbury, 1.76 
Matthew Smith, 1.00 Leeds, 0.63 
Cheshire, 2.76 Chester Factories,2.00 
Goshen, 0.86 Montgomery, 0.88 
Canterbury, 2.10 Westfield West
Westminster, 2.80 Farms, 1.24 
Putnam, 3.29 Southampton, 1.04 
Canterbury North Society, 0.42, Ashfield, 2.50 
West Whately, 0.89 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, Feb. 19, 1861.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
COLLECTIONS FOR TRACT FUND, BY CAROLINE F. PUTNAM.
West Cambridge, Ms., Mrs. Jas. C. Schouler,1.00 
W. C. Currier, 1.00
Fall River, Ms., Nath'l B. Borden, 2.00
Ladies' Fugitive Aid Soc.1.00 
Miss S. D. Harris, 1.00
Others, 0.45
Salem, Ms., Mrs. Lucy G. Ives, 1.00 
Barnstable, Ms., Mrs. Alice H. Easton Thacher, 1.00
Others, 0.95
Dennis, Ms. Mrs. Lane, 1 00
Others, 1.55
Harwich Ms., Friends, 2.80
Osterville, M. s., Friends 4.09
Hyannis, Ms., Mrs. Sylvester Baxter, 1.00 
Others, 2.20 
Centreville, Ms., Capt. Lewis Crosby, 1.00
Mrs. Ferdinand G. Kelley, 1.00
Mrs. Russell Marston, 1.00 
Franklin, Ms., Rev. Wm. Thayer, 1.00 
Others, 4.43
Warren, Ms., Miss Sally Putnam, 1.00
Southbridge, Ms., Friends, 0.85 
Valley Falls, R. I. Mrs. Jane C. Chase, 1.00
Mrs. E. F. Dexter, 0.25
Mannville, R. I. Mrs. A. Carter, 0.25 
East Greenwich, R. I. G. W. T. Allen, 1.00 
Miss Mary Casey, 2.00 
Thos. R. Tilley, 1.00
Others, 4.45
Washington, R. L, Caleb Kilton, 2.00 
Mrs. Jane Kilton, 1.00 
B. H. Horton, 1.00 
Mrs .Whitman, 1.00
Others, 1.25
Total, $52.91
COLLECTIONS BY AARON M.POWELL.
Pleasant Valley, N. Y. 1.16
Homowack, N.Y., 1.49
Ellenville, N.Y. 2.83
Milton, N.Y. 0.52 
John Young, Milton, 0.40 
Edmund Willetts, Roselyn, L. I., 1.00 
West Winfield, N.Y. 1.76 
Messrs. Hitchings, West Winfield, N.Y., 0.75 
Canastota, N.Y., 8.81 
Fairfleld, N.Y., 1.14
G. W. Cole, Fairfleld, N. Y., 1.00 
Mrs. V. Rice, N.Y., 1.00
T. A. Rice, N.Y., 0.25
L. L. Kelsey, N.Y., 1.00
Middleville, N. Y., 2.26
Poland, N.Y., 1.00
COLLECTIONS BY SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
Buffalo, N. Y., $48.93
Lockport, N.Y., 16.77
Albion, N.Y., 3.57
Rochester, N.Y., 42.51 
Utica, N.Y., J. Anna Rice $1, Job Porter 3, J. C. Long 5, Thos. Williams 5, others  95c.14.95
Rome, N. Y., 4.80 
Cortland, N.Y., 16.75
Oswego, N.Y., 5.70 
Port Byron, N. Y., J., Mitchell 5 25, A. A. 
Armstrong2. Robert 
Sawyer 50c. others
4.90, 12.65
Auburn, N..Y., 18.00
Albany, N.Y., Gerrit Smith 10.,D. Harrower 2.50, B. B. Wood 3,
Wm. A. Deitz 5, Mrs.
Badgely 1, SusanGreen-
wood 1, Lydis Mott 5, 
S. B. Anthony 5, others 6859, 100.79
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
<c06>
The Anderson slave case in Canada has been finally decided. The decision of the Court of Queen's Bench has been sustained, and the prisoner discharged on a technicality. Great joy was manisfested at Toronto, especially among the colored population.
Capt. Vaughn of the British ship Kolas, has been tarred and feathered at Savannah by a mob for allowing his negro stevedore to sit down with him at the dinner table. The British Consul at Savannah has offered a reward of $1.000, and the Mayor of the city one of $500, for the discovery of the perpetrators of the outrage. A few scenes of this kind will land to difficulties with the British Government which some body will be sure to be punished for.
There seems now to be no danger of at collision at Pensacola. The rebels there have all dispersed, fearing that they would be fired upon by the Macedonian and Brooklyn. Had the forts in Charleston harbor been fully reinforced in time, quite probably we might have seen the same result there.
The Worcester Spy has intelligence of the late arrival at Port au Prince of the vessel chartered by James Redpath to take colored emigrants to Hayti. The emigrants are pleased with the country.
Fort Sumter has as yet received no reinforcements, some 20 women, wives of soldiers there, with 17 children, have arrived at New York. They report the fort to be manned by 75 soldiers and 30 laborers-a majority of them foreigners-one- half Irish and quite a number of others Germans. The South Carolina troops at the forts and batteries around it, within range, number 3,000.
A despatch from Washington announces that the Cherokees have rebelled and seized Fort Gibson. These Indians are slaveholders, and like their white confederates, are of course staunch friends of "liberty," and particularly for the liberty of making free with Uncle Sam's property. 
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for March, 1861. Punctual as ever, and full of diversified and interesting matter, this monthly makes its appearance, with the following table of contents:—1. German Universities; 2. The Professor's Story; 3. Gymnastics; 4. Landlocked; 5.Two or Three Troubles; 6. Harbors of the Great Lakes; 7. The Man who never was Young; 8. The Men of Schwyz; 9. A Nook of the North; 10. Behind the Mask; 11. Diamonds and Pearls; 12. Reviews and Literary Notices; Recent American Publications.
THE BOSTON MOB. Mayor Wightman will find fresh matter for his perusal and edification on our first page. We solicit of our readers special attention to the timely discourse of Rev. Mr. Hall, of Dorchester, on this subject, on our last page. Get the entire discourse, in pamphlet form.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Music Hall, Sunday morning, Feb. 24.
ANDREW T. FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A.S. Society, will speak at 
Milford, N. H., Sunday, Feb. 24.
Lowell, Sunday, March 3.
MISS SALLIE HOLLEY will lecture on slavery in Milford, Mass., on Sunday afternoon, Feb.24.
NOTICE.-The Ladies of the Twelfth Baptist Society, (Rev. L. A. Grimes, pastor,) will hold a Fair, Feb, 25th, 26th and 27th, in the Hall on Court Street Block, opposite the Revere House.
Open from 10, A. M., to 10, P. M.
They will have for sale, a variety of Children's Clothing, and also useful and fancy articles. There will be Refreshments for sale in an adjoining room.
They hope for the sympathy and patronage of their numerous friends, and the public of Boston and vicinity.
Admittance, 25 cents; season tickets, 50 cents.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.;
John M. Ta rball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me. 
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A.M., till 2, P. M. Nov.230-3m.

$40 PARKER $40 
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They Were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street. 
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere. 
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine. 
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (conservative.)
2. 
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)  3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.) 
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACK WOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00 
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood’s Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Review, 5 00
For Black wood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N.B. The price in Great Britain of the five Periodicals 
Above named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
Fourth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers,
A.J.DAVIS & CO.,
274 Canal street, New York.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM.C.NELL,
F8 221 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the.Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much, admired. F8 tf

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No.77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board Terms moderate.
Jan.11. S.NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
A PARODY.,
AIR-"The morning light is breaking."
I.
The signs, there's no mistaking,
Betoken judgments near,
The captive's chains are breaking,
Sweet Freedom's trump we hear:
Each hour the skies grow darker-
More bright the lightings flash,-
Soon men in men who barter
Shall cease to wield the lash.
II.
Each breeze that sweeps the Union
Brings tidings from the South,
That she has no communion
With Freedom's open mouth;
She threatens she will leave us,
Unless we will be dumb,-
But let this never grieve us,
Nor cause us to succumb.
III
Let us in Freedom's armor,
Undaunted, meet the foe,-
Mechanic-tradesman-farmer,-
All who can strike a blow;
For weapons, Truth's smooth pebbles,
With justice for our sling;
Ere long from all our troubles
A sweet release we'll bring.
IV.
The slave, from bondage leaping,
No more shall wear the chain,-
Our land rich blessings reaping,
Freed from her darkest stain;
Millions of voices sounding,
Shall then proclaim, "We're free!"
Through all the earth resounding-
"Tis Freedom's jubilee."
Boston, Feb. 13, 1861.
JUSTITIA.
A. HYMN,
Suggested by the Rev. Dr. Van Dyke's Sermon on Slavery, and
dedicated to the use of Democratic Churches.
Oh, Lord! as Abraham did of old-
In Genesis we read the story-
Thy creatures we have bought and sold,
And scourged them on their way to glory!
Chained in our public marts they lie,
With brutes we put them on a level;
We recognize no marriage tie-
But they are black-and so the devil!
'Tis said their lot in life is hard,
Thus sowing what another reaps:-
Lord! thou wilt not their case regard;
Thy justice now forever sleeps!
Thou gav'st them to do our work-
'Twere better mouths had not been given;
If souls within their bodies lurk,
We'll fit those sable souls for heaven!
They're driven through our streets in pairs,
With gyves upon each sable wrist:
Lord! what a Christian look is theirs!
Why wilt men on their rights insist?
The slave-whip is their word of God,
The overseer its best apostle:
Oh, Lord! wilt thou, with chastening rod,
Smite all who would our system jostle!
The "Fugitive" from bondage fleeing,
Perchance, of freedom having learned,
Must be returned to thraldom, seeing
ONESIMUS was thus returned!
Ah me! ST. PAUL is such a blessing
To those who bind their fellow-men!
A fellow-creature's worth possessing-
Where we have one, Lord! give us ten!
Lord! if we mourn, 'tis that so few
Enjoy this glorious means of grace;
But yet, 'tis all that we can do,
To hold this black and sinful race.
Grant us, in that bright world above,
A slave on every saint to wait;
Surround us with Thy partial love,
And save from Abolition hate.
May all be plunged in hell's abyss,
Who prate about the rights of man;
Around them fiery serpents hiss,
And devils howl, as devils can!
Give us but time, and all mankind
We'll Christianize with whip and chain;
So may the glory all be Thine,
And evermore Thy kingdom reign!
Marathon, Jan. 21, 1861. M. L.H.
MR. PUNCH ON SECESSION.
Secede, ye Southern States, secede,
No better plan could be,
If you of niggers would be freed,
To set your niggers free.
Runaway slaves by federal law
At present you reclaim;
So from the Union straight withdraw,
And play the free-soil game.
What, when you've once the knot untied,
Will bind the Northern men?
And who'll resign to your cowhide
The fugitive again?
Absquatulate, then, slick as grease,
And break up Unity,
Or take your President in peace,
And your humble 
But if your stomachs proud disdain
That salutary meal,
And you, in passion worse than vain,
Must rend the Commonweal,
Then all mankind will jest and scoff
At people in the case
Of him that hastily cut off
His nose to spite his face.
-London Punch, Jan, 1861.
COMPROMISE.
Aye! fail ere Freedom's work is done,
Falter before the Southron's rod,
Betray the victory we've won,
And Compromise the truth of God!
Drag Freedom's banner in the
To endless scorn consign her name;
For transient peace and hollow trust,
Barter the Future's hope and fame!
The law that sways the Universe,
The lesson that in history lies-
Woe follows wrong-sin works its course-
Annul it with a "compromise"!
Delay no longer in the plot,
The scroll of Time is slowly penned,
The hosts of coward names must blot
Its record, ere the chapter end.
Ho! Freemen of New England's hills,
Ho! Freemen of the prairie West,
Ho! Freemen where the golden rills
Leap from the Rocky Mountain's crest,
Traitors and cravens league to sign
Your sanction to the lie of lies,
That Slavery's title is divine,
Freedom's is bought by compromise.
Mount vault keeps Washington,
Italia holds his only peer;
Seward's prophetic glow is gone,
And Crowin's mirth is palled with feat;
The Cameron's ancient fire is dead,
Adams is proved a recreant son,
And Crittenden has tears to shed
For porjared States-for Freedom, none!
-N.Y. Tribune.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF CHARLES C. BURLEIGH,
At the Meeting of the Massachusetts A.S. Society, at the Tremont Temple, Thursday Afternoon, Jan. 24,1861.
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
MR. CHAIRMAN,-I am glad that in this series of resolutions that are before us[see Liberator, Feb. the key-note has been struck as it has been by the quotation of those memorable words of Daniel Webster,-words, the utterance of which may well be heard as against even the later utterances of his lips. I am glad that we begin by reminding the people of this country, that the anti-slavery movement has for its motive power the religious sentiment: that it is not a mere debate about policy, not a mere agitation of the questions of expediency and inexpediency, but that it goes down to the very depths of the moral and religious nature of man. We come to the people with the question, Is IT RIGHT?-not, Is it politic?-not, Is it expedient? Whatever claims our investigation by reason of its bearings upon this cause in which we are engaged, we submit to this test. When men ask of us conciliation, and compromise, and concession, when men ask of us to lean this way or to lean that, in order that we may thread the mazes of our own path more easily, our answer is-Do you propose a right measure? Do you propose a compromise that involves no surrender of principle? Do you ask of us concessions of that which does not right a wrong, which does not clash with the religious nature of man? And if any man says no to that, we tell him that we have no ears to listen to the allurements of compromise, to the requirements of concession. We tell him, if our concession and compromise, on terms involving a surrender of moral and religious principle, are necessary to the preservation of the Union, then let the Union go! (Loud applause and hisses.) If these are necessary for the preservation of the peace of the country, then we are not the appointed conservators of the peace of the country. We stand on a platform at least as high as that old heathen philosophy which said, "Let justice be done, though the heavens fall." (Cheers and hisses.) Not that we have any fear of the falling of the heavens when justice is done, because we know that justice is the very pillar that supports them, and that all your compromises and concessions which surrender the principles of right, are but so many more pits dug and mined under the foundations of our security. If there is to be safety, if there is to be prosperity, if there is to be well-being to the Commonwealth and to the world, it is to be found in obedience to the law of right, in strict adherence to the requirements of duty; and I have been almost amazed-and had it not been that I have seen the effect of mere politics, and especially politics in a country ruled by the Slave Power, upon the moral condition and even the intellectual condition of men, I should be more than almost, altogether amazed-when I have seen men, considered as high in intelligence, men standing in exalted social positions, men occupying political stations of eminence, influence and power, absolutely seeming to forget this vital truth, that there is no peace, no prosperity, no enduring security for the Commonwealth in any measures that set right aside. Here we have been told that, for example, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and other of the Northern States of this Confederacy, ought to abolish or repeal certain statutes which they 
have enacted, known familiarly as Personal Liberty Bills-enactments passed to secure the liberty of Northern citizens against the dangers to which they are exposed by reason of the eagerness of the servants of the Slave Power to do true allegiance to the despot whom they serve. Now, we answer, in regard to these Personal Liberty Bills, that they have been enacted simply at the behest of right. They claim nothing from the North but what belongs to the North; they propose to do nothing for the inhabitants of the Northern States but what they have a right to demand at the hands of their Government, and, therefore, to surrender them would be to sacrifice RIGHT to mere expediency. Yet there are men,-men who have occupied high political stations-who tell you that it is the part of policy, the act of wisdom, to sacrifice these bills; and in order that they may make some impression upon your minds, they draw comparisons between the legislation of Massachusetts, for example, and the legislation of Carolina. You read in your newspapers, not long ago, the letter of one of your distinguished citizens recommending the repeal of the Personal Liberty Bill of Massachusetts, and backing up that recommendation with just the comparison to which I have now alluded. Speaking of that statute of South Carolina by which the free citizens of Massachusetts are consigned to the Charleston jails, retained there during the stay of the vessels which brought them to the port in the prosecution of their lawful business, and then, unless the expenses of the injustice that has been done them are paid out of their own pockets, consigning them to sale, upon the auction-block, into slavery, in defiance of the Constitution, and right, and decency, and Republicanism;-and the Hon. George Ashmun tells you that here is a parallel to your legislation in Massachusetts for the protection of the personal liberty of the citizens of this Commonwealth! What we have to say in answer to such a suggestion as this is, that the man who is so morally blind that he cannot see any difference between the statute of Carolina, defying the Constitution to consign men to slavery, and the statute of Massachusetts,
under the Constitution, guaranteeing to men the protection of the Commonwealth for their liberty-the man who cannot see any difference between these two is too blind to be a guide to anybody who is not so blind as to be unable to discern the character of his guide, and so tumble into the ditch with him, in the first step of their onward progress. (Applause.)
No,-no,-we do not mean to accept the advice of men who cannot discern the difference between protecting liberty and consigning free men to slavery; who cannot discern the moral difference between standing up for the right, and perpetrating the most high-handed of wrongs.
Then, again, as another method of allaying the excitement of the country, preserving the peace of the Union, and alluring back the seceders to the Confederacy, we are recommended to consent to a certain compromise line, as it is called-the running of a line between slavery and freedom from the banks of the Mississippi away to the shores of the Pacific, and saying to the slaveholder, "All south of that line is yours; we guarantee
it to you forever; your title thereto shall never be disputed." Our answer to such a proposition as this, is just like the other,-that it involves a surrender of RIGHT. Slavery has no right any where, to begin with. That is the position we started with, as a Society, when this Society was first organized. We began with the proposition, that slavery has right anywhere; but in certain parts of the country, it has what it calls legal guarantees, legal recognition and protection, and there we cannot reach it by legislative enactments,-can reach it only by the power of talk; and we have all learned that it has a power, much as men may affect to despise it For what else has created the alarm and excitement of the slave land? She dreads New England talk far more than she dreads unconstitutional enactments, whether of State or National Legislatures. She is afraid, not of what Abraham Lincoln may she knows that if he had the will to hurt her, he has not the power, with Congress and the Supreme Court against him; but she says she takes the election of Abraham Lincoln
as an indication of the state of public opinion at the North, and that public opinion what she is afraid of. Afraid of it, not in its silence, but in its out speaking. She is afraid, in short, of New England talk. But, as I was saying, we insist upon it, that though slavery is entrenched behind legislative barriers, or constitutional barriers, in certain States of the Union, so that we cannot come at it, every where that we can come at it, it is not only our right, but it is our duty to do so. Whatever the people of Massachusetts, by their; 
Legislature, have a right to do within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, that, we say, ought to be
<c03>
done; and just that, we say, the Legislature of the Union has a right to do within all the territory of that Union, for which the Constitution authorizes the Congress to make all needful rules and regulations.
Now, we say that the Legislature of Massachusetts has no right to tolerate slavery in Massachusetts; that it is not a matter at the discretion of the Legislature; that the great, eternal principles of justice have already prescribed to that body the course which it must pursue; and even if the Constitution of Massachusetts had been silent on the subject, and even if the Supreme Court of Massachusetts had not anticipated all legislative action by deciding that slavery is contrary to the common law, and cannot exist at all but by positive institution-even if these obstacles were not in the way of any attempts to introduce slavery, still, it would be the duty of the Legislature of Massachusetts to prevent the introduction of slavery here. Then, as the only Legislature that has authority to make regulations for the Territories of the United States in the Congress of the United States, we hold that in relation to those Territories, it sustains precisely the same relation to slavery which the Legislature of Massachusetts sustains to it within the boundaries of Massachusetts. It is, then, a matter of duty. Every man has a right to be protected, under the Legislature which governs the land he lives in, from all manner of wrong. If a man goes into the Territories of this Union, which are under the government of Congress, he has a right to be protected by the Congress of the United States against any wrong which is attempted to be inflicted upon him, no matter in the name of what authority. So, if a slaveholder attempts to treat a human being as a slave, in any of these Territories, it is not a matter, properly speaking, at the discretion of Congress, whether it shall protect him or not. It is bound, by that law which is paramount to all law-by the eternal right-to protect him.
We are asked, therefore, when we are asked to run a compromise line between slavery and freedom to the Pacific, simply to surrender a large part of this country to slavery, and thereby to abdicate the throne, so to speak, of that country, in the name of freedom. We are asked in that case to bind ourselves, not merely that we will not exercise our rights, but that we will not do our duties. We are asked to promise that we will permit wrong and outrage, robbery of the hire of the laborer, robbery of the culture of the intellect, robbery of the sanctity of the home and the domestic relations-that we will permit these wrongs to be perpetrated, unchecked, unforbidden, all over the broad region which now belongs, or may come hereafter to belong, to this Confederacy; and thus we are invoked at once to consent to a positive wrong to-day, and to hold out a premium for yet more extended wrong hereafter; to offer to the slaveholder and to those who, in the service of slavery, are willing to engage in expeditions of piracy and land-robbery, a premium to go into the neighboring provinces of weaker nations, and appropriate province after province of territory to this Union, in order to curse it with the institution which has blighted and cursed our own land so long.
If we were disposed to confine ourselves to the simple question of expediency, we might quote the language of Virginians in regard to the effect of slavery upon their own State, as an all-sufficient reason why slavery should not be permitted to spread into any other part of the country under the authority of Congress; for Virginians themselves have told us that alone to the withering and blasting effects of slavery is due the fact that Virginia now presents to the eye of the traveller the spectacle of a country desolate and seared as by the avenging hand of Heaven, where once was cultivation and a thriving population, where once was the hum of life and busy industry; and they conclude the catalogue of the evils which slavery has brought upon the land, by telling us that it has been a blight and a mildew to every country which its touch has once cursed.
Now, we say that it is not merely inexpedient thus to blight and blast the fair territories of the Northwest, but that we have no right to rob posterity of the heritage which they are expecting at our hands-a heritage of a land uncursed with slavery, where the poor man may "eat his bread in the sweat of his face," without, at the same time, eating the bread of social degradation, and without being shut out from the pale of what is called "good society," because he is not able, or, if he is able, is not willing, to be a pauper, dependant upon other men's toil for his subsistence. We have no right, therefore, to make any such compromise. Yet men talk about this matter-your politicians and statesmen, as they call themselves, or as they are called-talk about this matter just as if it involved no moral principle; just as if our right to give up to slavery this unmeasured expanse of territory were quite as good as a man's right to alienate half his farm to his neighbor who wants half his land; just as if we had the same right to doom our fellow-men to bondage, and hold them as the instruments of servile toil, as we have to consign to the labors of the field the domestic animals which we rear for that purpose!
We insist upon it, therefore, that the question shall be continually called back to these principles of justice; we insist that men shall first answer the questions we propound-Is it right?-Is it in harmony with that highest of all laws, the law of the living God?-and unless they can answer these questions in the affirmative, we stand opposed to all compromise, to all concession.
But if I chose to add other considerations of expediency to these of right and justice and duty, I might answer to those who demand concessions to the South from the North, that the very arguments which they use in favor of their demand are, to my mind, the most convincing and unanswerable arguments against concession. For, look you! we are told that if we do not yield this, that and the other, concede this and that, to slavery, then the slaveholders will secede, and make a new Union. In other words, if they cannot rule, they will rend asunder; if they cannot have absolute dominion, then they will leave nothing, so far as they can effect it, for our dominion to be exerted over. Now, we want you to tell us,-each man for himself,-is that the manifestation of a temper of mind which shows its possessor fit to have power trusted to him? If the slaveholder now, with no more power than he has already, is so insolent and arrogant, and so regardless of all considerations of reason and right, is that an argument why we should make him more powerful, why we should confer upon him the ability to manifest his arrogance yet more injuriously, as well as insolently? The more men exhibit insolence, the more they manifest a disposition not to be governed by right, but by will, by selfishness, by regard to mere sectional interests,-no, to the interests of a clique, a class, a petty oligarchy, a mere scanty minority of a single section,-just the more, we say, do they show themselves not fit to trusted with more power; and therefore any power which we can lawfully withhold from them, we intend to withhold. I should feel just as much morally responsible for putting deadly weapons into the hands of maniacs, as for putting any such power into the hands of men who show that they are not governed by reason, and determined not to obey the requirements of duty. If the appeal to me for concession should come in this wise; if men had said-"These slaveholders will not insist on having anything more than is right, and are willing to enter into a deliberate and careful investigation of this question with you, and in a perfectly peaceable way canvass the whole subject; therefore I think you may reasonably trust them; they are reasonable men, who mean to do right,"-then I might have listened to their propositions; then I might have thought there would be some safety in trusting them. But when they declare, "If we are successful at the polls, you must submit, but if you are victorious, we will not submit," I consider that as simply saying, "We are not fit to govern, because we are not willing to obey rightful rule." That settles the question in my mind, and there is an end of all entertaining of propositions to compromise from that quarter.
Besides, I know very well, from the very lesson of this revolution in the Southern country, that compromise will buy that of which I desire to make
<c04>
it the price. It will not buy peace to the country, permanence to the Union, the tranquillizing of affairs, so that business may go on smoothly, and a large percentage be made upon investments, simply because concession will be an invitation to fresh demands. I know you do not mean to go on conceding forever,-to crawl in the dust, and put your necks under the very feet of the Southern oligarchy, in order that you may continue the Union in existence,-to yield every thing which the Slave Power will inevitably demand, if you begin by yielding. If you do so, then you thereby invite fresh demands. Of course, you will only make yourselves weaker to resist when that time comes when you will resist at last-for you must come to the point of resistance finally; and it is better, since that must be, that you should begin now, for it better to brace your feet while you stand on the summit of a hill than to wait till you are half way down, and then, on the slippery declivity, try to prevent yourself from being dragged to the bottom.
There is neither policy nor right to justify the course that is recommended to you. I would say-Repeal no Personal Liberty Bills-run no compromise lines across the country. I would say-Enact no statute, the aim of which is to buy concession. This is the ground which the North ought to occupy. She ought to turn upon the slaveholder and say, "We have done nothing wrong; we have done nothing we did not mean to do; we have done nothing but what we have done deliberately; we have done nothing but what has been the full purpose of our hearts to do; and now, if you will secede because we have done our simple duty; if you will secede because we have simply asserted our own rights, then you must secede, for we will never buy you back; we will never give you bribes to accept the favors and the advantages which the Union confers upon you; we will never treat you, as the weak, indulgent mother treats the spoiled child, hiring him to be good. If you desire to reject the advantages of the Union, if you desire to cut yourself off from that which has been the source of whatsoever prosperity you have derived from the Union, then do it on your own responsibility, and take to yourselves the natural consequences of what you have done."
There are those who imagine, or who affect to imagine, that secession will be ruinous to the interests of the North. Our answer is, when God required us to do right, he knew that right is the way of policy as well as of duty, and He will see to it that those who do right will not suffer evil consequences from right doing. But then, it is not merely the trust which the religious nature gives us in the omnipotent protection of God, but it is the manifest revelation of the putting forth of that omnipotence on behalf of the doer of right which we have all seen in the providential dealings of God with nations. Here is our North. Why need it be afraid of any consequences of the withdrawal of the South from it? Here we have our more than eighteen millions of people; here we have all those characteristics of mind and heart, all those intellectual qualities, all that energy of character, all that force of will, all that shrewdness and practical common sense, all that executive talent and business energy, which have made the North what she is, in spite of the incubus of Southern slavery hanging upon her energies; and why need we sit down and fold our hands in despair, because South Carolina wakes up some morning, and says we shall no longer pay her postage bills?-because Georgia says we shall no longer hear, from the Senate, those " doleful sounds from the Toombs" that have been ringing in our ears so long? Why should we be troubled, because the paupers have attempted to set up for themselves? I tell you, the energy of the North, and this immensity of intellectual and physical power, will make themselves felt to-day and to-morrow, and all days in the future. Whether Carolina seeks to share in the advantages of that exhibition of those qualities or not, it will make no essential difference to the strength and prosperity of the North.
Why, Mr. Chairman, this is not the first time we have heard of a dissolution of the Union in this country. The Union was dissolved in 1776, when this side of the dissolved Union had only about three millions of people; and yet the country contrived to live and to grow; and what is it now, compared with that time! We have more than six times the population which the whole country had then; we have increased, in still larger proportion, in material strength and wealth; we have our steam power and our telegraphs, our railroads and our manufacturing capital and instruments; we have our utilized water-power all over the land, our ships upon all the seas. We are, in regard to all the elements of material prosperity, immensely further advanced than at the time of the American Revolution. We have, then, no reason to apprehend the ruin of the North, because the North will not consent to be dragged to ruin in common with the South; because she says to the South-"If you will go on trampling upon God's law, violating the rights of your fellow-men, 'treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath,' and calling down upon you the righteous judgments of God, the anticipation of which made Jefferson say, in his time,' I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that His justice will not sleep for ever';-if you will continue in that downhill road to perdition, then we will stand firm here; and if you strain so hard upon the cord that binds us as to snap it, upon your own heads be the consequences of the plunge!"
Moreover, we believe that not only can the North stand under all the consequences of disunion, but that to the very interest which the slaveholder is endeavoring to strengthen by disunion, that step will be utterly fatal. We believe that slavery cannot survive a dissolution of this Union. We believe, as Arnold, of Tennessee, in former times, and as Johnson, of Tennessee, in our day, and as other distinguished men of the South have said, again and again, that the dissolution of the Union is the abolition of American slavery, and the instant this Union is dissolved, and the slave States withdraw from the Confederacy, that instant the Canada line comes down to the Virginia border. That instant, slave property becomes next to valueless all along the frontier, and the belt across the country in which slave labor is valueless, in consequence of the facilities for the escape of slaves, will be widening and widening, until the frontier States will be enveloped by it, and the belt will become a cloak, which will fairly invest the slave land, and a garment for slavery, which, like the shirt of Nessus, the old hero of mythology, shall be death to him that wears it. We believe it will not be long before slavery is done away with in the border States, as a consequence of disunion; and when slavery is abolished, their interests will draw them Northward, and there will be another secession. Those States will imitate the example which South Carolina has set, of seceding from the Union, which South Carolina has established. And the same process will go on through the entire range of
frontier States; and so, step by step, this simple force, if no other, would crowd slavery out, until it stood, with tottering step, upon the borders of the Mexican Gulf, and then, toppling over, sunk beneath the waves, to rise no more.
But we believe this force will not be left alone to produce this result. It will be aided by another. The dissolution of the Union is a withdrawal of the obligation, on the part of the North, to put down slave, insurrections, and is therefore a lifting of the pressure which has borne down the elastic energies of the slave for so long. We do not say that the consequence will be the overturn of the slave system by the energy of insurgent slaves. We do not say that the slaves are strong enough to break the strength of the oppressor and his allies, even, after the dissolution; of the Union. But this we say, that the slaves will be strong enough to cause such a general feeling of alarm, uneasiness and apprehension, that men will deem it better to forego the fancied advantages of slaveholding than
to continue living in an armed camp, with sentinels at their outgoings, and deadly weapons at their beds' heads, uneasy dreams by night, thoughts of alarm by day for the safety of their families. They
<c05>
will far rather surrender slavery, and come back into the Union, than to continue to live such a life. I remember-and
I suppose history is written for our instruction-that when 
Nat Turner raised an insurrection against the Slave Power of Virginia, though it was confined to a small corner of that Commonwealth, though it was suppressed by the strength of the United States, though Virginia had the whole North to back her at that time,-yet that insurrection of Nat Turner almost frightened Virginia into emancipation. At the very next session of the Virginia Legislature, an act of emancipation was introduced and pressed to a vote, and was lost by only a very majority against it. I say, if that insurrection of Nat Turner, so limited, under such unfavorable circumstances, with the whole Union banded together to suppress it, could nevertheless almost bring Virginia into emancipation, is it not reasonable to believe that when the strength of the North shall be altogether withdrawn, and insurrections are up here and there and yonder and every where, they will bring the slave States into emancipation, especially when the motive to hold on to slavery is continually weakening, by continual escapes, by taxation, and by the reduction in the value of property in slaves?
These are some of the considerations that lead me to the emancipation of the slaves will be one of the inevitable consequences of a dissolution of the Union-that we have only to "stand still, and see the salvation of God"; that we have only to look on calmly and quietly, in the exercise of a " masterly inactivity," in order to see the power that has so long overshadowed the land dwindling and shriveling up, and finally sinking away to nothing. (Loud applause.)
THE RECENT MOB IN BOSTON.
Extracts from a Sermon, entitled "Truth not to be Overthrown nor Silenced," preached at Dorchester, Sunday, Jan. 27,1861, by Rev. NATHANIEL HALL, printed by John Wilson and Son, 22 School Street, Boston, and published by request:-
As, three days ago, I sat on the platform of the Tremont Temple, and 
took in the scene there before me, and saw in it more than the eye perceived, I felt then and there that text and subject were given by Providence, which I might for no reason refuse. Do any deem it a theme unbefitting the pulpit? Let me say, I know of none more fitting, connected as it is with the very existence of the pulpit, or of the freedom which alone makes its existence worth any thing. There is not a pulpit in Massachusetts, in New England, upon which a threatening shadow has not fallen from that scene of outrage. Such shadow has fallen thence upon you and me, and each one of us. There is not a civil privilege, nor a social nor domestic blessing, nor a material possession, which is not less secure by reason of that permittedly successful outrage. Look well, I do not say to your pulpits, your rights, your liberties only; but to your property, your dwellings, your persons: for there is no law in yonder city-and if not there, not here-that will protect them, save on certain conditions which conscience may not suffer you to fulfill.
Among the circumstances for sadness connected with this outrage, the very least to me was the effect wrought upon the objects of it. Nay, I have no sadness in that view. Their cause is unharmed by it; is greatly helped. It has gained to it an awakened attention; it has won for it a deeper, if not wider, sympathy. "We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth." The attempt to silence men from uttering their God-given word makes their very silence more persuasive for it than a host of tongues. The attempt to quench agitation fans it as with a thousand airs. No; the sadness about it is not here. It is not in view of the victims, if they can in any sense be called such, but of the authors and abettors of the outrage. And these are many. They are scattered wide in this community. You will not find them in the haunts of ruffianism, not in coarse apparel, not in low bar-rooms, only; but also amid social decorums and amenities and refinements, in haunts of wealth, in offices of trust, in houses of worship to-day. This outrage would claim no very serious regard, if its visible actors were alone concerned in it. A mob is always possible in a large city. Its elements continually latent, there is nothing strange, certainly, nor perhaps alarming, in their occasional outbreak. It is the class alleged to have incited and encouraged and sustained it, which makes this mob so alarmingly significant.
It was sad enough to see who were its active participants: above all, to see, as such, youth,-youth, on whose generous instincts, unchilled as yet by sordidness and self, on whose native sympathies with the just, the manly, the noble, in character and conduct, we feel we have a right to rely in any enterprise of humanity, any struggle of weakness against strength. It was sad. Their very merriment made it more so; the very thoughtlessness, the very shallowness
of nature, if it was not depravity, which made that merriment possible in such connection; allowing that to be a holiday pastime, which was in truth, though they had not the eye to see it, the meanest and most unmanly of deeds.
And did they know what they were doing,-who-ever they were, that, keeping themselves in the background,-as well for shame they might,-set forward that band of youth to take those first lessons, under their patronage, in public lawlessness; and those lessons against, in the design of suppressing the exercise of, the dearest and most sacred of civil rights; and when, too, that right was being exercised not only lawfully, but benevolently, in behalf of the poor and helpless and oppressed? Those lessons, in the sublime secret of conducting mobs, will not be forgotten; nor will the corrupting influence cease to work of those who lent their patronage and encouragement to make of Tremont Temple, for that day, a university of rowdyism,-a battle-ground of a most ignoble contest, and a more ignoble victory. It is hard to believe that the accounted respectability of the community-any portion of it-should have lent itself to such a work. It is hard to believe, letting alone the meanness and wickedness of the thing, and looking at it in the light of policy alone, how men of common intelligence and discernment should not have seen, that latest outrage: do you think they are not ready, many of
them, to sacrifice whatever may be the future cost of an unswerving fidelity, though that cost were life?
Friends, I desire, in this connection, to speak as I feel (all the more now, because they are under the ban of public odium and the heel of lawless power) of this class of persons called Abolitionists. My testimony may be worth little to you; but it will be worth something to
myself to have given it. is common in almost all circles and
spheres, not only in political speeches but in pulpit discourses, (I have been led to note of late how common it is,) to style them "fanatics," "madmen,"
"insane," as if to signify, by these opprobrious epithets, that they are without claim to a respectful consideration. Will it be said that opprobrious epithets
are all on one side? Allowed. It is poor business, whoever bandies them. It is poor business, too, to stand aloof from a righteous enterprise, and criticize, in a spirit of prejudice and distrust, the works and words of its earnest and honest toilers, and let what is judged censurable in these shut from view the great underlying principles of the movement, and the consistent and uncompromising fealty to them of its followers; allowing nothing to the fervors of a at once repented of, and put a complicity with that accures barbarism, and the attempts to which self-interest prompts, and a love of peace, and a timid conservatism, to extenuate and justify and defend it. But the spirit lives,-lives and spreads. Thanks for this, more than to aught else of human instrumentality, to the anti-slavery enterprise, as such; to the voice, clear and stern, crying, long since and still, in the wilderness of our Judaea, 
"Repent!" and laying the axe at the root of the tree.
The Abolitionists are charged with bringing about the present state of things in our land. So far as this state of things is resolvable into a rising of the free spirit of the North to curb and beat back the waves of an arrogant and aggressive despotism, the charge has truth, and, so far, honors them. But, for what is evil in the condition of affairs, they are chargeable only as the truth is chargeable for the passions and violence its assaults provoke. Or, if the truth given them has been too harshly spoken or too personally applied, charge the consequences upon the evil assailed and its upholders, rather than upon its fervid assailants. Oh that this people would consent to see it; that God would couch, from films of custom and self, the which perceives it not, that the found and origin of all our ills, our disquiets and contests and perils, is slavery itself,-shat dark anomaly in our republic, floated down from a barbarous past, and anchored by, and joined in baleful alliance to, the ark of our freedom; refusing to unloose itself not only, but more and more increasing its overshadowing presence and ingulfing weight; slavery,-setting itself against the natural conscience, the dictates of humanity, the spirit of the age. Here is the cause of trouble. The Eternal Justice has a controversy with this nation, which can have no peace till that controversy is settled on the side of God. It is the "irrepressible conflict" of truth and falsehood, right and wrong; irrepressible because the human heart will be true to itself, and God to his own cause.
I close, then, as I began. The cause, the and counsel, based on the immutabilities of God's truth and being,-"ye cannot overthrow it." If Hebrew Gamaliel could say it, much more the Christian of to-day, with eighteen centuries added to the heroic retrospect through which the assurance beams; with a purified and ascendant Christian; with a fraternal Christ and a parental God,-a Christ whose commission was and is to "break every yoke"; a God who lays on each soul a like commission, and who works in and by each faithful soul for the same end.
WEST NEWTON
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, February 13,
1861. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
Feb. 1. West Newton Mass.
