<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five ten cents per  line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 52.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1865.
WHOLE NO. 1803.
Selections.
<c01>
THROUGH THE RED SEA INTO THE WILDERNESS.
BY MRS.L.MARIA CHILD.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE INDEPENDENT: I can not look <illegible> out upon the world, even for a few hours without being struck by the marvellous <illegible> that have taken place since I first began to <illegible> of the destiny and dangers of this <illegible> It seems but yesterday that the South <illegible> Massachusetts to account for allowing the <illegible> of a newspaper that expressed sympathy for the slaves; and the Hon. Harrison Gray <illegible> man of the Boston <illegible> assured our masters that there was <illegible> for alarm, be having examined the premises <illegible> newspaper, and found therein "only one <illegible> and a negro boy." If I had at that <illegible> a book to encourage the black men of the South, and to diminish prejudice against <illegible> the North. I could have only got it before a very small public, by means of on “poor printer <illegible> negro boy.” at the best press in the country, and <illegible> the elegant store of Ticknor & Fields, <illegible> as I can observe, any dis <illegible> clerks. I do not exult for <illegible> stylish company in which my book <illegible> significance with regard to <illegible> I do exult mightily. 
<illegible> as a dream of last night, how I saw <illegible> figure of the slave standing behind the number in his pulpit, the judge upon the bench, <illegible> at his desk, and senators and presidents taking their oath of office. Always and every <illegible> shadow rose before me, and it <illegible> few others could see it. Now, my "Freedmen's Book" to printed at the last press in the country, and <illegible> from the elegant store of Ticknor & Fields, without exciting, so far as I can observe, any distaste in the numerous clerks. I do not exult for himself over the stylish company in which my book appeared but over its significance with regard to <illegible> I do exult mightily.
I remember, us a dream of last night, how I saw the supplicating figure of the slave standing behind the minister in the pulpit, the judge upon the bench, the writer at his desk, and senators and presidents taking their oath of office. Always and everywhere, the dark, sad shadow rose before me, and it gurnard me that so few others could see it. Now, the black man is introduced to me in every form of art and literature. In music stores I find him "marching on" with John Brown to the "year of public.” <illegible> If I go to Williams? & Everett's, the first that attracts my attention, among the admirable statuettes by Regress, is a <illegible>stalwart negro guiding a wounded soldier though the swamp. With what brotherhood tenderness he holds the fainting Yankee in his arms, and how confidingly the wounded man leaner upon him! <illegible>. It brings moisture to my eyes to look upon it for these is more in that expressive group than the kind negro and the helpless white, put on an equality<illegible> by danger and suffering; it is a significant lesson of<illegible> human brotherhood for all the coming ages.
Artistically considered, it seems to me that the best of all these excellent statuettes by Rogers is the one entitled "Taking the Oath, and Asking for Rations." The lady a dimityoath, and asking for <illegible>. specimen of Southern beauty, averts<illegible> her head while she places her hand on the  book,<illegible> and looks down compassionately on her hungry little boy, as if he were her excuse for professing loyalty. The United States officer, who administers the oath, is a noble specimen of modern knight hood. Raising his cap reverently and gracefully, in the presence of God and beauty, he looks upon the lady with a mingled expression to gallantry and pity. Of course, the seem would be incomplete without Samba; and he is introduced in the form of a ragged negro had, leaning on, an old basket, that is filled with rations from the United States. He watches "missus" very earnestly, being obviously curiouss<illegible> to see what wry faces she will make while swallowing the bitter pill; but she knows it is only a bread pill, and she takes it very clammily. The pretty hand that rests on the Bible looks too delicate to handle a whip; but we know that very lady-like looking hands have done such things, and will do them again, if the power remains.
Among the beautiful works of art always on exhibition<illegible> at the store of Childs & Jenks, my attention was soon attracted by Bellow's fine picture called "The Echo.”<illegible> One returning soldier is wakening echo with his bugle, while in another part of the boat a pale and wounded comrade is lying down with his hand in his mother's lap. At the stern, the inevitable Samba is taking care of the ample folds of a U.S. flag.
Ah, thought I, everybody sees him now. Passing into the street, I saw two good-looking colored men in a carriage, whose dress indicated that they were officers of the U.S. A white driver was saying to them, respectfully, "Where shall I drive?" It was gratifying to me to see that patriotism had so far conquered prejudice that he could respect men who had saved the country, whatever might be their complexion. I felt as it that sight repaid me for thirty years<illegible> of conflict. All through the progress of the war, I longed for that great glow of the heart which would have been kindled by the sight of a ration truly repentant, and eager to make atonement for a great wrong. We early Abolitionists, you know, dreamed of great miracles to be wrought by moral influence. We greeted Birney, and Thome, and the Grimkes, as forerunners of a regenerated south. We were mistaken in that. A little leaven will, indeed, leaven the whole lump, provided you can get it in; but despotism guarded itself so strictly at the South that the leaven of freedom could be worked in only by the sword. Yet our arduous mission was far enough from being in vain; for when the inevitable time for the sword came, would Northern sentiment have been in any readiness to meet the grand emergency had it not been for truths previously scattered broadcast through the land by the warnings, exhortations, and rebukes of the early abolitionists? I trow not. Pro-slavery remained strong at the North, in spite of all our efforts; but the truths we uttered did so far leaven the whole could mass of public sentiment that the Free States were prepared to resist the further encroachments of slavery into the territories. This seemed to us a small result for so much Zeal and labor but behold what has come of it! Slavery is abolished, and cast out of the Constitution. 
An old Rip Van Winkle, whose long conservative nap was disturbed by the anti-slavery excitement, said: "I wonder what ails the people. It seems as if there was something going about in the air to make them crazy." And there is indeed something marvelous in the moral electricity which fishes through all classes when the hour of great reformations is approaching. It is doubtless evolved by spiritual laws, as invisible in their preparation and as certain in their effects as are the natural laws which produce thunder and lighting when the atmosphere needs purification.
The electricity of anti-slavery was attracted toward heroic natures, and its touch made them more heroic. Would that the record of the brave unknown could have been preserved! It would be a noble monument to the courage, self sacrifice and liberality of the working classes of the free States. One incident which made a lively impression upon me at the time recurs to my mind. When the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society were driven from their
<c02>
room in Boston, Francis Jackson offered them the use of his house for another meeting. When warned that it might be demolished by a mob, he calmly said "Then I will build another, where you can meet." Among those notified to attend the meetings was a worthy woman at the North End of the city-one of the honorable few who believe in labor, and prove their faith by their works. She was busy at the wash-tub when told that there was to be a meeting at Mr. Jackson's, and that the ladies expected to be mobbed again. She wiped the suds from her arms, and resting them a kin be on her sides, she said, slowly, and emphatically, with an air that might have defined armies: "So you expect a mob, do you? I'll certainly be there." The Hon. Harrison Gray Otis would have ranked the words of that woman at the wash tub with the labors of the "poor printer and the negro boy," as things of no account to the Southern aristocracy. But such agents constitute the foundation of society and when society heaves at its foundations, strong castles are defined to fall.
We have travelled far since those days. We have passed through the Red Sea, and here we are in the Wilderness, with multitudes, ready to bow down, and worship the golden call of trade and a doubtful sort of Moses, who seems to occupy himself more earnestly with striving to save the drowning best of Pharaoh than he does with leading Israel into the promised land.
On this point the President's Message does not reassure me very strongly. It contains good sounding generalities. But I like not the promise, that the freedmen shall be "protected in their rights as laborers." It seems to imply a distinction between the rights of men and the rights of laborers. Such a promise would be deemed an insult to Yankee working men, or Irish laborers. The assumption that there is no difference between loyal States and States that remained disloyal till the rebellion was outwardly put down by force, leads to conclusions that seem very illogical. The President says that if the U. S. Government regulates suffrage in the rebellious States, it is bound to do the same in the loyal States. Is he then bound to appoint provisional governors for New York and Massachusetts, because he has appointed them in Carolina, Mississippi, etc.? When an individual commits a breach of the peace, he forfeits his civil rights, and puts himself out of the protection of the Government. Should it not be the same with States that have committed such an awful breach of the peace? The President seems bent upon carrying out his hazardous plan of reconstruction, if he possibly can; and if he can't he wont. Let us hope that he can't. The opening of Congress promises well. The Republican members stand in solid phalanx, facing in the right direction. May Heaven preserve them from the old chronic disease of Congress-weakness of the spine!

DANGER AHEAD.
If our sadly demoralized radical friends in the North go wrong, it is not because we have been an unfaithful watchman on the tower. We have called aloud, and spared not! We have warned these insensate and reckless men that the course they were pursuing was apt to lead to sin and misery-that the people of the South were patient and long-suffering, and would not stand it. When Major Hastings and his five hundred unreconstructed Southerners announced! their intention of going to Brazil, we sounded a higher note of warning. We addressed our appeals to the people of Alabama. We especially warned our radical people North that they would wake up some morning, and find the whole unreconstructed South on the, way to Guatemala, or Brazil, or Mexico. We fear that our warnings have been in vain. Our amiable, it not always trustworthy cotemporary, The Daily News, assures us that there is great danger ahead. "There is a rapidly increasing tendency on the part of the Southern people to seek in foreign lands a refuge from the intolerable burdens which the Republicans threaten to impose upon those inhabitants of that section who bravely and honorably fought for the independence of their States, and in defence of their homes." This is explicit. Let us look at the list of brave men who have fled from their homes. Gen. Sterling Price is now in Mexico, a Senor of something, Capt., Maury is a Senor of something else. Jolly Jack Magruder is displaying his fancy uniforms in the Halls of the Montezumas, and they say-yes, they will say it-that the Emperor is not as happy a husband as he might be-that the good man has really occasion for concern, and that we may soon expect rare scandal "in high life." This we can believe, for Jack with his red breeches was always an irresistible Lothario.
 We could spare these Senors if we thought the exodus would stop here. The unreconstructed Magruder it not a great loss. He was never useful, though somewhat ornamental. We can cross the Gulf stream, whether Maury comes back or not, nor do we think that Sterling Price is necessary to the integrity of the Constitution. This, however, is not the end of it. "On the 28th of last November, fifty of the best citizens of Alabama, of both sexes, arrived in Mobile en route to Brazil." Again, we are assured that "every steamer which leaves our ports for Vera Cruz takes to that place other men, whose undaunted spirits cannot brook the degradation which the Republican party is seeking to heap upon them, and we know that others-many others-are making ready to follow their example." The Emperor of Brazil receives them "with marked demonstrations of delight and welcome." We can imagine Don Pedro taking to his arms the unreconstructed Majors and Brigadiers, and directing that their baggage be put away. If he invites them to his palace, we trust, for the sake of his house-keepers, he will give no such invitation to the parlors. Beauregard assures us that nothing but Johnson's kindness kept him from going to the Brazils. Now that Johnson has been so kind, he would "prefer” to live here poor and forgotten, than to be endowed with honor and riches in a foreign country." We presume Beauregard is "an undaunted spirit," and that if be can "brook the degradation," the rest of them should not be so restive.
“Can Americans," says our cotemporary," view these events with satisfaction?” Well, we do not think that our appetite fails us, or that there is a necessity for soothing syrups or sedatives. If we are asked what we think of the unreconstructed running away, we can only year we do not think of it. They may go or stay as it pleases them. They may obey the laws of this country, or if those laws are too onerous, let them go and obey the laws of some other country. If Don Pedro will be more kind, or if Maximilian will give them crosses and patents of nobility, they should accept the offers and go. We do not intend to oppress the unreconstructed, to coax them to remain or to drive them away. Their future is in their own bands. As long as they obey the Constitution, they shall be treated as good citizens. When they break it, they will be whipped as they were whipped before.-N. Y. Tribune.
<c03>
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
In view of the pending Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery, which can only become, of binding effect when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the States, it is of the greatest importance to determine the number of States which are to be recognized as in the Union. It seems to us greatest. It seems to us perfectly manifest that only those States which are represented in Congress, and are thus recognized by that body as having a voice in the national government, are to be practically regarded as States in the Union, and the ratification of the amendment by the legislatures of three-fourths of these States is amply sufficient to make it a part of the Constitution. Certainly, it would be an anomaly if States which were engaged in rebellion against the Government could, by their mere passive silence, neutralize the votes of the loyal States on a grave constitutional question. This would be the result, if the other interpretation were insisted on. Should it be held that there, are now thirty-six States in the Union, the eleven lately rebellious and still unreconstructed State would have as much power to defeat the amendment as if they were in full accord with the Government. The action of Congress in regard to, the necessary number for a quorum in that body furnishes an excellent precedent in regard to this subject. The rules of Congress require that a majority of the total number of members, from all the States, in either house, should constitute a quorum for doing business. When the extra session of this the Thirty-Seventh Congress was held, immediately after the outbreak of the rebellion, the question came up whether a majority of the members from all the States, of simply from all the loyal States, was necessary for a quorum. It was decided very nearly unanimously that the Southern States, by withdrawing from the Union, had forfeited the right of representation in Congress, and that, only representatives from loyal States should be counted in estimating a quorum. It strikes us that this settles the question in regard to the ratification; Certainly, if these States are not allowed to initiate legislative action by their representatives in Congress, they cannot perfect that action by their State Legislatures. The vote of two-thirds of the members of Congress from the loyal States was sufficient for the passing of the amendment through that body; and by a parity of reasoning its ratification by the legislatures of three-fourths of the loyal States is sufficient for its final adoption. No one has ever raised a word of objection against the legality of the passage of the amendment through Congress, and we do not see how any one can object to the force of this reasoning in regard to its ratification. We ate glad to see that Mr. Sumner has introduced a concurrent resolution, taking this view of the subject, and declaring the amendment ratified.
Should this view of the case become the accepted one, the number of States in the Union is twenty-five, and the number necessary to the ratification; of the amendment nineteen. Twenty-three of these States have acted upon it, of which three, (New Jersey, Delaware and Kentucky.) have rejected, and twenty have adopted it. The two States yet to act upon it, (Iowa and California.) will soon ratify it, and New Jersey will reverse her action on the subject as soon as her Legislature meets. The amendment is therefore adopted.-Cleveland Leader.

SPEECH OF HON. THADDEUS STEVENS.
U. S. House of Representatives, Dec. 18.
Mr. Stevens (Pa.) said: A candid examination of the power and proper principles of reconstruction can be offensive to no one, and may possibly be profitable by exciting inquiry. One of the suggestions of the message which we are now considering has special reference to this. Perhaps it is the principle most interesting to the people at this time. The President assumes what no one doubts, that the late Rebel States have lost their constitutional relations to the Union, and are incapable of representation in Congress, except by permission of the Government. It matters but little, with this admission, whether you call them States out of the Union and now conquered Territories, or assert that because the Constitution forbid them to do what they did do, they are therefore only dead as to all national and political action, and will remain so until the Government shall breathe into them the breath of life a new, and permit them to occupy their former position-in other words, that they are not out of the Union, but only dead carcasses lying within the Union. In either case it is very plain that it requires the action of Congress to enable ‘them to form a State Government, and send. representatives to Congress. Nobody, I believe, pretends that, with their old Constitutions and forms of government, they can be permitted to claim their old rights under the Constitution. They have torn their Constitutions into atoms, and built on their foundations fabrics of a totally different character. Dead men cannot raise themselves; dead States cannot restore their own existence as it was. Whose especial duty is it to do it? In whom docs the Constitution place the power? Not in the judicial branch of the Government, for it only adjudicates, and does not prescribe laws. Not, in the executive, for he only executes and cannot make laws. Not in the Commander-in-Chief of the armies, for he can only bold them under military rule until the sovereign legislative power of the conqueror shall give them law. There is, fortunately, no difficulty in solving the question. There are two provisions in the-Constitution, under one of the which the case mustroost fail. The fourth article says “New States may be admitted by the Congress into, this Union." In my judgment, this is the controlling provision in this case. Unless the law of nations is a dead letter, the late war between two acknowledged belligerents severed their original compacts, and broke all ties that bound them together. The future condition of the conquered power depends on the will of the conqueror. They must come in as new States, or remain as conquered Provinces. Congress-the Senate and House of Representatives-with the concurrence of the President, is the only power on earth that can act on the matter. But suppose, as some dreaming theorists imagine, that these States have never been out of the Union, but have only destroyed their State Governments so as to be incapable of political action, then the fourth section of the fourth article applies, which says, " The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government.” Who is the United States? Not the Judiciary, not the President, but the sovereign power of the people, exercised through their representatives in Congress, with the concurrence of the Executive. It means the political Government, the concurrent action of both branches of Congress and the Executive. The separate action of each amounts to nothing, either in admitting new States, or guaranteeing Republican Governments to lapsed or outlawed States. Whence springs the prepos-
<c04>
terous idea that either the President, or the Senate, or the House of Representatives, acting separately, can determine the right of States to send members or Senators to the Congress of the Union? To prove that they are and have been out of the Union for all legal purposes, and are now conquered subjects to the absolute disposal of Congress, I will suggest a few ideas and adduce a few authorities. If the so-called Confederate States of America were an independent belligerent, and were so acknowledged by the United States and by Europe, or had assumed and maintained an attitude which entitled them to be considered and treated as a belligerent, then during such time, they were precisely in the condition of a foreign nation with whom we were at war, nor need their independence as a nation be acknowledged by us to produce that effect.
Mr. Stevens then quoted from Mr. Justice Grier, in the prize cases, all the law on these points. After such clear and repeated decisions, he said, it is something worse than ridiculous to hear men of respectable standing attempting to nullify the law of nations?, and declare the Supreme Court of the United States in error, because as the Constitution forbids it, the States could not go out of the Union de facto. After proceeding further in his argument, he remarked, it is obvious that the first duty of Congress is to pass a law declaring the condition of the these outside or defunct States, and providing proper civil government for them. Since the conquest, they have been governed by martial law. Military rule is necessarily despotic, and ought not to exist longer than is absolutely necessary. As there are no symptoms that the people of these provinces will be prepared to participate in a Constitutional Government or some years, I know of no arrangement so proper for them as Territorial Governments. There they can learn the principles of freedom, and eat the fruit of foul rebellion under such governments. While electing members to the Territorial Legislatures, they will necessarily mingle with those to whom Congress shall extend the right of suffrage. In the Territories, Congress fixes the qualifications of electors; and I know of no better place or better occasion for the conquered rebels and the conqueror to practice justice to all men, and accustom themselves to make and to obey all laws. As to these famed rebels, they cannot, at their option, reenter the heaven which they have disturbed, nor the par-garden of Eden which they have deserted, as flaming swords are set at the gates to secure their exclusion. It becomes important to the nation to enquire when the doors shall be reopened for their admission. According to my judgment, they ought never to be recognized as capable of acting in the Union, or being counted as valid States, until the Constitution shall have, been so amended as to make it what its framers intended, so as to secure a perpetual ascendancy to the party of the Union, and so as to render Republican Government firm and stable forever. The first of these amendments is to change the basis of membership to actual voters. Now all the colored freemen in the Slave States and three-fifths of the slaves are represented, though none of them have votes. The rebel States have nineteen representatives of colored slaves. If the slaves; are now free, they can add, for the other two-fifths, thirteen more, making the slave representation thirty-two. I suppose the free blacks in these States will give at least five more, making the representation of non-voting people of color about thirty-seven. The whole number of representatives now from the Slave States is seventy; add the other two-fifths, and it will be eighty-three.
If the amendment prevails, and those States with-hold the right of suffrage from persons of color, it will deduct about 37 members, leaving them but 45. With the apportionment unchanged, the 83 Southern, with the Democrats that will in the best times be elected from the North, will always give them a majority in Congress and in the Electoral College. They will at the very first election take possession of the White House and the halls of Congress. I need not depict the ruin that would follow. The assumption of the Rebel debt or repudiation of the Federal debt would be sure to follow. The oppression of the freedmen, the reamendment of the State Constitutions, and reestablishment of slavery would be the inevitable result. That they would scorn and disregard their present Constitutions, forced upon them in the midst of martial law, would be both natural and just. No one that has any regard for the freedom of elections can look upon these governments, forced upon them in duress, with any favor. If they should grant the right of suffrage to persons of color, I think there would always be Union white men enough in the South, aided by the blacks, to divide the representation, and thus continue the Republican ascendency. If they should refuse thus to after their election laws, it would reduce the representatives of the late slave States to about 45, and render them powerless for evil. It is plain that the amendment must be consummated before the defunct States are admitted to be capable of State action, or it never can be the proposed amendment to allow Congress to lay a duty on exports is precisely in the same situation. Its importance cannot well be overstated. It is very obvious that for many years the South will not pay much under our internal revenue laws. The only article on which we can raise any considerable amount is cotton. It will be grown largely at once. With ten cents per pound export duty, it would be; furnished cheaper to foreign markets than they could obtain it from any other part of the world. The late war has shown that. Two millions of bales exported at 500 pounds to the bale, would yield $100,000,000. This seems to be the chief revenue we shall ever derive from the South. Besides, it would be a protection to that amount to our domestic manufactures. Other proposed amendments, to make all laws uniform, to prohibit the assumption of the Rebel debt, are of vital importance, the only thing that can prevent the combined forces of Copperheads and Secessionists from: legislating against the interests of the Union whenever they may obtain an accidental majority. But this is not all we ought to do before these inveterate rebels are invited to participate in our legislation. We have or, are about to turn loose 4,000,000 of slaves without a bat to shelter then or a cent in their pockets. The infernal laws of slavery have prevented them from acquiring an education, or from understanding the commonest laws of contract, or from managing the ordinary business of life. This Congress is bound to provide for them until they can provide for themselves. If we do not furnish them; with homesteads and hedge them round with protective laws, if we leave them to the legislation of their late masters, we had better have left them in bondage. Their condition would be worse than our prisoners at Andersonville. If we fail in this great duty now, and when we have the power, we shall deserve and receive the execrations of history and all future ages. Two things are of vital importance. So to establish a principle that none of the rebel States shall be counted in any of the amendments of the Constitution until they are duly admitted into the family of States by the law-salting power of their conquerors. For more
<c05>
than six months the Amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery has been ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the States that acted on its passage by Congress which had Legislatures, or which were States capable of acting or required to act on that question. I take no account of the aggregations of whitewashed rebels, who, without any legal authority, have assembled in the capitals of the late rebel States, and simulated legislative bodies. Nor do I regard with any respect the cunning by-play into which they deluded the Secretary of State by frequent telegraphic announcements that " South Carolina had adopted the amendment," "Alabama has adopted the amendment, being the twenty-seventh Slate," &c. This was intended to delude the people and accustom Congress to hear the names of those extinct States as if they were alive, when in truth they have no more existence than the revolted cities of Latium, two thirds of whose people were colonized, and their property confiscated, and their rights of citizenship withdrawn by conquering and avenging Rome.
It is equally important to the stability of this republic that it should now be solemnly decided what power can revive, recreate and reinstate these provinces into the family of States, and invest them with the rights of American citizens. It is time that Congress should assert its sovereignty, and assume something of the dignity of a Roman Senate. It is fortunate that the President invites Congress to take this manly attitude. After stating with great frankness in his able Message his theory, which, however, is found to be impracticable, and which I believe few now consider tenable, he refers the whole matter to the judgment of Congress. If Congress should fail firmly and wisely to discharge that high duty, it is not the fault of the President. This Congress owes its own character to set the seal of reprobation upon a doctrine which is becoming too fashionable, and, unless rebuked, will become the recognized principle of our Government. Gov. Perry and other Provisional Governors and orators proclaim that this is the white man's government. The whole Copperhead party, pandering to the lowest prejudices of the ignorant, repeat the cuckoo cry, " This is the white man's government." Demagogues of all parties, even some high in authority, grovelling, an; shouting, " This is the white man's government." What is implied by this? That one race of men is to have the exclusive right forever to rule this nation, and to exercise all acts of sovereignty, while all other races and nations and colors are to be their subjects, and have no voice in making the laws and choosing? the rulers by whom they are to be governed. Wherein does this differ from slavery, except in name? Does not this contradict all the distinctive principles of the Declaration of Independence? When the great and good men promulgated that instrument, and pledged their lives and sacred honor to defend it, it was supposed to form an epoch in civil government. Before that time it was held that the right to rule was vested in families, dynasties or races-not because of superior intelligence, or virtue, but because of a divine right to enjoy exclusive privileges. Our fathers repudiated the whole doctrine of the legal superiority of families or races, and proclaimed the equality of all men before the law. Upon that they created a revolution, and built the Republic. They were prevented by Slavery from perfecting the superstructure whose foundation they had thus broadly laid. For the sake of the Union they consented to wait, but never relinquished the idea of its final completion. The time to which they looked forward with anxiety has come. It is our duty to complete their work. If this Republic is not now made to stand on their great principles, it has no honest foundation, and the Father of all men will shake it to its centre. If we have not yet been sufficiently scourged for our national sin to teach us to do justice to all God's creatures, without distinction of race or color, we must expect the still more heavy vengeance of an offended Father, still increasing His inflictions as He increased the severity of the plagues of Egypt until the tyrant consented to do justice, and when that tyrant repented of his reluctant consent, and attempted to reenslave the people, as our Southern tyrants are attempting to do now, he filled the Red Sea with broken chariots and drowned horses, and strewed the shores with dead carcases.
Mr. Speaker, I trust that the Republican party will not be alarmed at what I am saying. I do not profess to speak their sentiments, nor must they be held responsible for them. I speak for myself, and take the responsibility, and will settle with my intelligent constituents. This is not a white man's government in the exclusive sense in which it is used. To say so is political blasphemy, for it violates the fundamental principles of our gospel of liberty. This is man's government, the government of all men alike. Not that all men will have equal power and sway within it; accidental circumstances, natural and acquired endowment and ability will vary their fortunes-but equal rights to all the privileges of the Government are innate in every immortal being, no matter what the shape or color of the tabernacle which it inhabits. If equal privileges were granted to all, I should not expect any but white men to be elected to office for long ages to come. The prejudice engendered by Slavery would not soon permit merit to be preferred to color. But it would still be beneficial to the weaker races. In a country where political divisions will always exist, their power, joined with just white men, would greatly modify, if it did not entirely prevent the injustice of majorities without the right of suffrage in the late Slave States. I do not speak of the Free States. The Slaves bad far better been left in bondage. I see it stated that very distinguished advocates of the right of suffrage declared in this city that they do not expect to obtain it by Congressional legislation, but only by administrative action; because, as one gallant gentleman said, the State had not been out of the Union; then they will never get it. The President is far sounder than they. He sees that administrative action has nothing to do with it. If it ever is to come, it must be by Constitutional amendments, or Congressional action in the territorial and enabling acts. How shameful that these men of influence should mislead and mi seducate the public mind! They proclaim this is the white man's government, and the whole coil of Copperheads reecho (hiss) the same sentiments, and upstart, jealous Republicans join the cry. Is it say wonder ignorant foreigners and illiterate natives should learn this doctrine and be led to despise and maltreat a whole race of their fellow-men? Sir, this doctrine of a white man's government is as atrocious as the infamous sentiment that damned the late Chief Justice to everlasting fame, and I fear to everlasting fire.
Mr. Jefferson Davis has become uncommonly pious. 'Tis a pity he. did'nt experience a change of heart years ago. The sacrament was administered to him the other day. Ex-President Fierce, it will be remembered, has undergone a saving hange, and is now a bright and shining light of the Episcopal Chruch-Boston Traveller.
<c06>
SENATOR WILSON'S REMARKS.
We give, below, a full telegraphic <<illegible>> of Senator Wilson's remarks, on Thursday of last<illegible> week, in reply to those of Mr. Stewart of Nevada, upon the bill to secure the freedom of the citizens of the States lately in rebellion. Mr. Stewart endorsed the President's message as patriotic and truthful, controverted the theory that the Southern States are out of the Union, and that they have been reduced to a territorial condition, denied the right of the General-Government to interfere in defining the qualifications of electors in the Southern States, and argued that the people of the North were not justified in forcing negro suffrage upon the South while they withheld political rights from negroes in the Northern States. The report of Senator Wilson's speech is a follows:
Mr. Wilson replied to the argument of Mr. Stewart, stating the necessity that existed for the passage of the bill before the Senate. The testimony of the leading officers of the army in the South went to prove that great atrocities and cruelties were perpetrated upon freedmen in the South. Mr. Stewart had questioned the truth of the reports respecting these cruelties; but he might as well doubt the cruelties of Andersonville, where eighty-three per cent, of the men who entered the hospitals died, and where more American soldiers He buried than fell in the whole Mexican war-more Americans lie buried than fell in Wellington's four great battles in Spain-more than fell at Waterloo, Inkermann, Alma and Sebastapol altogether. 
I desire to say a word further: we were told by Mr. Saulsbury yesterday, that there was an apprehension here that the Democratic party was to come back again to power through the agency of the President of the United States. Sir, I think the Senator from Delaware was altogether mistaken in regard to any such proposition. I do not apprehend that the Democratic party is coming into power through the agency of the President of the United States, or through the agency of anybody else; a party that has maintained the attitude of the Democratic party during the great rebellion, and that has allied itself with a sinking and lost cause, is not likely hereafter to get control of the Government of the United States. It needs reconstruction and reorganization quite as much as the rebel States of this Union, and must have reconstruction, time and reorganization before it can govern this country through anybody.
As to the President, I know there has been a studied attempt, a systematical attempt, during the last few months, to separate him from the great party that elected him. I have never entertained any fears in regard to that matter. The President is bound to the men who elected him, by honor, by principle, and by interest. His fame is to rest upon the great fact that he is able to complete the work which Abraham Lincoln commenced-the work of restoring a broken Union and preserving the cause of human liberty in America. That the President of the United States is as conscious as any man living that his reputation now and his fame with posterity depend upon moving straight forward and onward in the restoration of the Union and the security of the liberty of all men-the securing of equal, impartial and universal liberty, I do not entertain a doubt. He found the rebel States last spring broken, shivered, conquered and subjugated. No people since the morning of creation ever fought a braver battle than the rebels, and no men were ever so defeated, so subjugated, so conquered, conquered in the field, their ideas annihilated forever, many of them ruined in the future. No body of men have ever been so conquered and so punished. Sir, I have it not in my heart to seek their blood or their lives. But I believe it to be the sentiment of the country that we should demand guaranties for the future; but that while we demand these guaranties,<illegible> we shall say nothing and do nothing to humiliate or degrade any body of men in the country. I believe it to be in our power to secure all that patriotic and liberty-loving men of the country require. I believe that the President of the United States has labored according to his sense of public duty to prepare the rebel States for admission into the Union, and to secure the liberties of the people of the country. In some things I would have done differently to what be has done; nothing inconsistent with the Congress of the United States; moving right straight forward and onward in passing the necessary legislation to complete the great work begun. He has made no issue with Congress, and Congress has made no issue with him. He does not undertake to dictate to us; but be has pursued his own line of policy, and who ought to pursue ours. If we believe we should go further than he has gone, why, let us pass the needed legislation; and if then the President takes issue with us, why then the issue will be made and met. But I do not think that any issue will be made. I have undoubting faith that if we enact the needed legislation to secure the liberties of all men in this country, and bring these States into Congress in a proper manner, it will receive the sanction and approval of the Executive Government of the country.
I know that it has been and is the policy of the Democratic party to represent that a great and inevitable conflict is to come between the President and Congress. It was so represented before the country last autumn. We met it in New Jersey, in Pennsylvania, and in the great State of New York; and to-day, Sir, of twenty-five loyal States that have stood by the country, twenty-three are in harmony with us on this floor-stronger today in our sentiments and opinions than on any other<illegible> day the sun<illegible> ever shone upon, and we will be stronger to-morrow. There are seme men, it seems some <illegible> to me, who are more devoted to the President than the mass of men who elected him, <illegible>.I think it to be our duty to give the President a manly, generous<illegible> and honest support-to look<illegible> on with hope and<illegible> confidence, but to be as inflexible as destiny<illegible> itself with the cause of impartial and universal liberty in the country-a cause for which 335,000<illegible> Union soldiers sleep in their bloody -graven to-day-a cause for which more than 4000,000 scarred and maimed<illegible> heroes tread the soil of the country. They have done their duty—their whole duty. They have trampled<illegible> the rebellion down under the iron heel of <illegible> war, and it is committed, not in <illegible> to the President alone, not to Congress alone, but to the Administration pat into power<illegible> by the American people, to restore this Union, and so to restore it that there shall not be a black law in the country; that there<illegible> shall be no oppression, and no rule or regulation<illegible> that shall oppress a single man we<illegible> have made free <illegible>. These are out wards, <illegible> to use the language of the President of the United States. Abraham Lincoln pledged, <illegible> <illegible> himself to his country<illegible> and to his God for their emancipation,<illegible> and to maintain their liberties, <illegible> and that pledge I believe every department of this<illegible> Government, Executive, Legistative and Judicial, <illegible> will maintain <illegible>. Measured by what existed last April, we have made progress in some sections<illegible> a great deal, in

PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, <illegible>. <illegible>, taking strong ground in <illegible> of <illegible> suffrage:-
"Yes desire to know, in <illegible> of our samplete <illegible> in the field, the same being <illegible> by a legal and cheerful submission of the <illegible> if the <illegible>, if <illegible> <illegible> should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private <illegible> as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realised, followed by such <illegible> remits, I can't see-if universal <illegible> is <illegible>-how, under the circumstances, I can <illegible> existing in refuse <illegible> suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the bests of intelligence and military service.
How to better the condition of the believed <illegible> has long been study which has attracted my <illegible> and careful attention; hence I think I, am clear and <illegible> <illegible> what course I shall pursue in the premises, <illegible> it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have an heroically windicaped their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right o the ballot, which is but the human <illegible> of the flag they have so fearlessly <illegible>."
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
others less, and in some, perhaps, we have gone backward. But there has been general 'progress daring the last nine months, measured by what existed when the President entered upon his duties, and what now exists in the country, taking the who! rebel section into account. We have made pro press, but we have not made so much as I wish we had made, and I think we could have made. But we have made less progress then we desired make, we mast make more in the future. That progress has been made only by fidelity to the great cause which we have stood by daring the last four years of bloody war. We have had a conflict of twenty-five years of ideas and of thoughts. Wore and thoughts are stronger then cannon-balls, and we have had four yean of bloody war. Slavery, and everything that belongs to or pertains to it, lit prostrate before as to-day, and the foot of a regenerated nation is upon it. Sir, I hope no words are to be uttered, and no steps to be taken, of a reactionary character. I hope that nothing which goes by the named of the worst word in the English language -conservatism-is to be allowed here. If there is a word in the English language that means twenty years of servility and cowardice, it b that word-conservatism. It never ought to be on the lip o an American citizen. I hope, too. Sir, that we are not to cake apologies here. The way to settle this question is to say to the rebels, we do not want to degrade you; we have resisted for twenty rears your aggressive policy of slavery and you barbarian robbers; we bore the dishonor and disgrace of your policy; you plunged us into four years of bloody civil war to perpetuate slavery to make the ideas of slavery dominant in a re publican and Christian land; we resisted your aggressions before the people; we shrunk not from civil war; we met the contest; you fought bravely, worthy of a better cause; but you were defeated, crashed, annihilated, ground to powder Not a flag of yours waves between the capital and the Rio Grande; not a rebel soldier bears a rebel bayout my where. We do not seek your lives or you blood, and you have but little property (or us to seek if we would ; all we ask is this, and this we shall ask, and this we shall have as sure as God rules in the world ; we have the men emancipate by war, emancipated by legislation, emancipated by the proclamation of the martyred President, emancipated by that grand crowning act-the Constitutional Amendment. We shall have these men a free as you are to tread proudly their native hill. 
I want every rebel, and every rebel sympathizer every repentant and unrepentant rebel in the land to understand that the loyal men of this "country, who voted their Mood and treasure and who gave their sons for the preservation of the Union and the cause of liberty, have sworn it, they have written it on the lids of their bibles, they have engraved it on their door-posts, that these men shall be free indeed, not serfs, not slaves ; and that no black laws or unfriendly legislation shall live on the book of any community in America.
Mr. Wilson continued his argument, that loyal people bad a right to the guarantees he had indicated. There was no difference, except in minor points to some modes of action in the Union party There had been these differences for twenty-five years in the Union party, and out of them had grown nothing but a free and manly discussion of great public questions. The Senator from Deleware when he spoke of divisions in this great party did not know the men who had fought the great battle for the country and for liberty, if he supposed that men. accustomed to speak their minds freely as becomes American citizens upon all great questions, were to break up, sever and be disrupted for the benefit of men who had linked their names forever with the cause of human slavery on this continent, and some of them with the cause of the rebellion itself. In conclusion, Mr. Wilson said he hoped that at no distant day these seats would be filled by men who, whatever might have been their errors in the past, would support the cause of the country and of liberty to men, and that these freed men, degraded by two centuries of slavery, would in all respects be free, and that they would go on with us in a career of elevation and improvement.


WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND THE LIBERATOR.
We presume most of our readers are more or less acquainted with WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON and know that be is the publisher of a paper printed in Boston called The Liberator. This paper was started in the infancy and interest of the anti slavery cause, and for the total abolition of slavery in the. United Slates by peaceful measures ; but, in the course of the contest, slavery rose up in rebellion against the nation, risked all, and host all. The Liberator will have been published thirty-five years on the first of January next, and will then be discontinued for the reason that the object for which it was started has been accomplished-slavery not only having been abolished by the war for the Union, but also by Constitutional Amendment What a grand and sublime triumph!
The last number of the Liberator contains an article written, we presume, by Edmund Quincy, (as it is understood that Mr. Garrison has been absent most of the time during the last two months,) in which he alludes to the singular history of that paper, and to the fact that is soon to be discontinued ; and this reminds us of a duty we promised out-self nearly a year ago, that before it should pass out of existence., we would make a due acknowledgment of what we believe to be our obligations to it (or political information.
Unlike most other papers, the Liberator always published both sides of the question. In a place by itself, and under an appropriate head, it published hundreds of columns of pro-slavery argument and abuse both from the North and the South. Of course, we never could and never did adopt its no-voting theory, but we could and did adopt the truths it uttered against the great sin of the nation. In lyeeums, in days tong since gone, we have had the credit of many a good argument which we found in that paper, or, if not found there, it was sure to point to the source whence it could be found. Among the young and unfledged printers atone, it has furnished the material for many a discussion in the old printing-offices at Windsor, and was all the while doing more good everywhere then ever the publisher could have dreaded of. During our apprenticeship, after the exchanges were some weeks old, or too old for further use in the editorial sanctum, they were regularly brought to the com posing room to be used" as wrappers, or disposed of as old papers. The Liberator and Anti-Slavery Standard were always carefully sorted out and pre served for " our department," some of which have been carefully preserved to this day. Those days were holy days to us, and we love to think of them. They were our " college days"-at least, all the college days we ever had; and now, after have ing read the Liberator so steadily for eighteen years, the last ten as our own exchange, we shall part with it with sincere regret, and as from an old friend.
The influence of the Liberator has always been far beyond its mere circulation-more then some papers, with thirty times its circulation. In fact, its influence never could be measured by that standard. It has been read by hundreds of earnest, honest, thoughtful people scattered about the country, who would proclaim its truths to their neighbors while at labor on the farm, or in the shop, lyceum or social circle, and thus its influence was felt by thousands who never saw a copy of it in their lives.
For a portion of the time, Mr. Grandma published his paper at the imminent risk of his life, being often set upon by pro-slavery mobs, and & price set upon his head in the South-not because be had committed any crimes, but because of his bold and unanswerable utterances against the monster institution of slavery. Even in Boston, in free New England-about 1835, we think it was-he was mobbed and hooted, and was obliged to flee for safety; and cren this sande spirit showed itself in the sande place as late as 1850, H we remember right, when the " eminent respectability " of Boston broke up a meeting in Faneail Hall, which had collected to hear a lecture from the Hon. George Thompson, of England. And now, to digress a little, this tande George Thompson is among us again, and sought after by most places and lecture associations. What progress, and what a triumph!
Thousands of good people, in the last quarter of a century, be cande convinced against their own will of the truths uttered by the Liberator, but had not the moral courage to break away from their old party afflictions till some fresh outrage committed by slavery-like the murder of Lovejoy, the outrages in Kannas, the assault on Mr. Banner, and finally the assault upon the nation itself-when they would at last out away, and unite with the anti-slavery element of the country. It was this constant whittling that broke down both the whig and
<c02>
democratic parties; and when the time came that the slaveholders could no longer make the Northern democratic party survive their purpose, that party, having become in a minority in every Northern State, they then cut aloof, and set of for themselves. In other words, they struck for slavery, and got liberty!
It seems fitting to close the useful career of so useful a paper at the time when its mission has been fulfilled; and though we never saw its distinguished publisher, and perhaps never shall, here is our and farewell!-Bestow Falls Times.


The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29,1865.
[From the Liberator of January 1st, 1831.]
SALUTATORI.
In the month of August, I issued proposals for publishing ' THE LIBERATOR ' in Washington city; but the enterprise, though bailed in different sections of the country, was palsied by public indifference. Since that time, the removal of the Genius of Universal Emancipation to the Seat of Government has rendered less imperious the establishment of a similar periodical in that quarter.
During my recent tour for the purpose of exciting the minds of the people by a series of discourses on the subject of slavery, every place that I visited gave fresh evidence of the fact, that a greater revolution in public sentiment was to be effected In the Free States-and particularly in New England-then at the South. I found contempt more bitter, detraction more relentless, prejudice more stubborn, and apathy more frozen, then among slave-owners themselves. Of course, there were individual exceptions to the contrary. This state of things afflicted, but did not dishearten me. I determined, at every hazard, to lift up the standard of emancipation in the eyes of the nation, within sight of hunker Hill, and in the birth-place of Liberty. That standard is now unfurled; and long may it float, unhurt by the specifications of time or the missiles of a desperate foe-yea, till every chain be broken, and every bondman set free! Let Southern oppressors tremble-let their secret abettors tremble-let their Northern apologists tremble-let all the enemies of the persecuted blacks tremble!
I deem the publication of my original Prospectus unnecessary, as it has obtained a wide circulation. The principles therein inculcated will be steadily pursued in this paper, excepting that 1 shall not array myself as the political partisan of any man. In defending the great cause of human rights, I wish to derive the assistance of all religions and of all parties.
Assenting to the 'self-evident truths' maintained in the American Declaration of Independence, 'that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights-among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness'-I shall strenuously contend for the immediate enfranchisement of our slave population.
I am aware that many object to the severity of my language; but is there not cause for severity? I will be as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice. On this subject I do not wish to think, or speak, or write, with moderation. No! no! Tell a man whose house is on fire to give a moderate alarm ; tell him to moderately rescue his wife from the hands of the ravisher; tell the mother to gradually extricate her babe from the fire into which it has fallen; but urge me not to use moderation in a cause like the present. I am in earnest-I will not equivocate-I will not excuse-I will not retreat a single inch-AND 1 WILL BE HEARD. The apathy of the people is enough to make every statue leap from its pedestal, and to hasten the resurrection of the dead!
It is pretended that I am retarding the cause of emancipation by the coarseness of my invective, and the precipitancy of my measures. The charge is not true. On this question my influence, humble as it is, is felt at this moment to a considerable extent, and shall be felt in coming years-not perniciously but beneficially-not as a curse but as a blessing; and posterity will bear testimony that I was right. I desire to thank God that he enables me to disregard 'the fear of man that bring eth a snare,' and to speak his truth in its simplicity and power. And here I close with this fresh dedication:
"Oppression! I have went thee, face to face, And met thy cruel eye and cloudy brow;
Hut thy foul-withering glance I fear not now For dread to prouder feelings doth give place Of deep abhorrence! Scorning the disgrace Of elaruh knees that at thy falsehood bow, I also kneel-but with far other vow Do hail thee and thy herd of hirelings base:-
I sware, while life-blood warms my throbbing veins, Still to oppose and thwart, with heart and hand, Thy brutalizing may-till Africa's chains
Are burst, and Freedom rules the rescued land, Trampling Oppression and hit iron rod :
Such is the vow I take -so HELP ME, GOD!'
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. BOSTON, JANUARY 1, 1831.


VALEDIOTORY.
THE LAST NUMBER OF THE LIBERATOR.
" The last! the last! the last! O, by that little word How many thoughts are stirred-
That sister of THE PAST!"
The present number of the Liberator it the completion of its thirty-fifth volume, and the termination of existence.
Commencing my editorial career when only twenty year of age, I have followed it continuously till I have attained my sixtieth year-first, in connection with The Free Preu, in Newburyport, in the spring of 1826 ; next, with The National Philanthropist, in Boston, in 1827 ; next, with The Journal of the Times, in Bennington. Vt., in 1828 9 ; next, with The Genius of Universal Emancipation, in Baltimore, in 1829-30; and. finally, with the Liberator, in Boston, from the 1st of January, 1831, to the 1st of January, 1866 ;-at the start, probably the youngest member of the editorial fraternity in the land, now, perhaps, the oldest, not in years, but in continuous service,-unless Mr. Bryant, of the New York Evening Pott, be an exception.
Whether I shall again be connected with the press, in a similar capacity, is quite problematical; but, at my period of life, I feel no prompting to start a new journal at my own risk, and with the certainty of straggling against wind and tide, as I have done in the past.
I began the publication of the Liberator without a subscriber, and I end it-it gives roe unalloyed satisfaction to say-without a farthing as the pecuniary result of the patronage extended to it during thirty-five years of permitted labors. ,
From the immense change wrought in the national feeling and sentiment on the subject of shivery, the Liberator derived no advantage at any time in regard to its circulation. The original "disturber of the peace," nothing was left undone at the beginning, and up to the hour of the late rebellion, by Southern slave holding villany on the one hand, and Northern pro-slavery malice on the other, to represent it as too vile a sheet to be countenanced by any claiming to be Christian or patriotic; and it always required rare moral courage or singular personal independence to be among Its patrons. Never had a journal to took such opposition in the face-never was one so constantly belied 
and caricatured. If it had advocated all the crimes forbidden by The moral law of God and the statutes of the Slate, instead of vindicating the sacred claims of oppressed and bleeding humanity, it could not have been more vehemently denounced or more indignantly repudiated. To this day-inch to the force of prejudice-then are multitudes who cannot be induced to read a single number of it, even on the score of curiosity, though their views on the slavery question are now precisely these which it has uniformly advocated. Yet no journal has been conducted with such fairness and impartiality ; none has granted such freedom in its columns to its opponents; none has so suspeiously and uniformly presented all sides of every question discussed in its pages; none has so readily and exhaustively published, without note or comment, what its enemies have said to its disparage ment, and the vilification of editor; none has vindicated primitive Christianity, in to spirit and purpose-" the higher law." in its supremacy over 
<c03>
nations and government! as well as individual conscience -the Golden Rule, in binding obligation upon all classes-the Declaration of Independence, with its self-evident truths-the rights of human nature, without distinction of race, complexion or sex-more earnestly or more uncompromisingly; none has exerted a higher moral or more broadly reformatory influence upon these who have given it a careful perusal; and none has gone beyond it in asserting the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. All this may be claimed for it without egotism or presumption. It has ever been "a terror to evil-doers, and a praise to them that do well." It has excited the fierce hostility of all that is vile and demoniacal in the land, and won the affection and regard of the purest and noblest of the age. To me it has been unspeakably cheering, and the richest compensation for whatever of peril, suffering and defamation I have been called to encounter; that one uniform testimony has been borne, by these who have had its weekly perusal, as to the elevating and quickening influence of the Liberator upon their character and lives; and the deep grief they are expressing in view of its discontinuance is overwhelmingly affecting to my feelings. Many of these date their subscription from the commencement of the paper, and they have allowed nothing in its columns to pass without a rigid scrutiny. They speak, therefore, experimentally, and " testify of that which they have seen and do know." Let them be assured that my regret in the separation which is to take place between us, in consequence of the discontinuance of the Liberator, is at least as poignant as their own; and let them feel, as I do, comforted by the thought that it relates only to the weekly method of communicating with each other, and not to the principles we have espoused in the past, or the hopes and aims we cherish as to the future.
Although the Liberator was designed to be, and has ever been, mainly devoted to the abolition of slavery, yet it has been instrumental in aiding the cause of reform in many of its most important aspects.
I have never consulted either the subscription list of the paper or public sentiment in printing, or omitting to print, any article touching any matter whatever. Personally, I hare never asked any one to become a subscriber, nor any one to contribute to its support, nor presented its claims for a better circulation in any lecture or speech, or at any one of the multitudinous anti-slavery gatherings in the land. Had I done so, no doubt its subscription list might have been much enlarged.



In this connection, I must be permitted to express my surprise that I am gravely informed, in various quarters, that this is no time to retire from public labor ; that though the chains of the captive have been broken, he is yet to be vindicated in regard to the full possession of equal civil and political rights ; that the freedmen in every part of the South are subjected to many insults and outrages ; that the old slaveholding spirit is showing itself in every available form ; that there is imminent danger that, in the hurry of reconstruction and readmission to the Union, the late rebel States will be left free to work any amount of mischief; that there is manifestly a severe struggle yet to come with the Southern " powers of darkness," which will require the utmost vigilance and the most determined efforts on the part of the friends of impartial liberty-&c., &.c., &c. Surely, it is not meant by all this that I am therefore bound to continue the publication of the Liberator; for that it a matter for me to determine, and no one else. As I commenced its publication without asking leave of any one, so I claim to be competent to decide when it may fitly close its career.
Again-it cannot be meant, by this presentation of the existing state of things at the South, either to impeach my intelligence, or to impute to me a lack of interest in be-half of that race, for the liberation and elevation of which I have labored so many years! If, when they had no friends, and no hope of earthly redemption, I did not hesitate to make their cause my own, is it to be supposed that, with their yokes bro ken, and their friends and advocates multiplied indefinitely, I can be any the less disposed to stand by them to the last-to insist on the full measure of justice and equity being meted out to them-to retain in my breast a lively and permanent interest in all that relates to their present condition and future welfare?
I shall sound no trumpet and make no parade as to what I shall do for the future. After having gone through with such a struggle as has never been paralleled in duration in the life of any reformer, and for nearly forty years been the target at which all poisonous and deadly missiles have been hurled, and having seen our great national iniquity blotted out, and freedom " proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof," and a thousand presses and pulpits supporting the claims of the colored population to fair treatment where not one could be found to do this in the early days of the anti-slavery conflict, I might-it seems to me-be permitted to take a little repose in my advanced years, if I desired to do so. But, as yet, I have neither asked nor wished to be relieved of any burdens or labors connected with the good old cause. I see a mighty work of enlighten ment and regeneration yet to be accomplished at the South, and many cruel wrongs done to the freedmen which are yet to be redressed ; and I neither course: others to turn away from the field of conflict, under the delusion that no more remains to be done, nor contemplate such a course in my own case.
The object for which the Liberator was commenced-the extermination of chattel slavery-having been gloriously consummated, it seems to me specially appropriate to let its existence cover the historic period of the great struggle; leaving what remains to be done to complete the work of emancipation to other instrumentalities, (of which I hope to avail myself,] under new auspices, with more abundant means, and with millions instead of hundreds fur allies.
Most happy am I to be no longer in conflict with the moss of my fellow-countrymen on the subject of slavery. For no man of any refinement or sensibility can be indifferent to the approbation of his fellow-men, if it be rightly earned. But to obtain it by going with the multitude to do evil-by pandering to despotic power or a corrupt public sentiment-is self-degradation and personal dishonor:


"For more true joy Maroellas exiled feels, Than CAESAR with & senate at his heels."
Better to be always in a minority of one with God-branded as madman, incendiary, fanatic, heretic, infidel-frowned upon by " the powers that be," and mobbed by the populace-or consigned ignotninionsly to the gallows, like him whose " soul is marching on," though his "body lies mouldering in the grave," or burnt to ashes at the stake -like Wickliffe, or nailed to the cross like him who " gave himself for the world," - in defence of the RIGHT, then like Herod, having the shouts of a multitude, crying, " It is the voice of a god, and not of a man I" 
Farewell, tried and faithful patrons! Farewell, generous benefactors, without whose voluntary but essential pecuniary contributions the Liberator must have tong since been discontinued! Farewell, noble men and women who have wrought so tong and so successfully, under God, to break every yoke! Hail, ye ransomed millions 1 Hail, year of jubilee! With a grateful heart and a fresh baptism of the soul, my last invocation shall be-
"Spirit of Freedom! on-
Oh! pause not in thy flight Till every clime is won
To worship in thy light: Speed on thy glorious way.
And wake the sleeping lands! Millions are watching for the ray,
And lift to thee their hands. Still 'Onward!' be thy cry-
Thy banner on the blast; And, like a tempest, as thou rushes by,
Despots shall shrink aghast. On! till thy name is known
Throughout the peopled earth ; On ! till thou religion atone,
Man's heritage by birth ;
On ! till from every vale, and where the mountains rise, The beacon lights of Liberty shall kindle to the skies !"
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. BOSTON, DECEMBER 29, 1865.
<c04>
CONGRATULATION AND FAREWELL.
The number of friends, living and departed, to whom we have been largely indebted for their cooperation and support, in various ways, during the last thirty-five years, has been very considerable-the recapitulation of which would fill many columns of oar paper. Of these-in connection with their affectionate and congratulatory letters given below-it will not be deemed invidious if we name Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, N. Y., and SAMUEL E. SEWALL, Esq., of this city, in view of the manner and time of our acquaintance with each other. In the autumn of 1830, we gave three anti-slavery lectures In Boston, in Julien Halt At the dose of the last, Mr. May and Mr. Sewall came forward, introduced them-selves, and gave us words of encouragement and warm approval; and from that hour to this they have been strong in their friendship, untiring in their labors, unswerving in their adherence to the cause of the oppressed. Their countenance greatly strengthened us at the beginning, and to them both we shall ever feel immensely indebted. We question whether we should have been able to succeed, at the start, but for their cheering words and generous deeds. Mr. May was at that time a settled minister in Brooklyn, Connecticut, but happened to be in Boston on a visit, and, feeling a growing interest in the subject of slavery, was curious to hear what kind of testimony we had to bear in regard to that great national iniquity. Mr. Sewall gave us both counsel and pecuniary assistance in commencing and continuing the publication of the Liberator, and never failed in its darkest hour to render it such aid as secured its permanence against the machinations of its enemies, and a most inadequate patronage. Commencing thus early, they have been permitted to witness, with us, the complete triumph of that most holy cause for which they have so long labored, with all possible disinterestedness ; and which, under God, is in the ascendant now, because, in addition to other similar instances, " among the faithless they were faithful found," and in " the times that tried men's souls" they were prompt to meet whatever perils, sacrifices, losses or dangers arose from their vindication of a race "peeled, meted out, and trodden under foot." This is necessarily a very brief and imperfect expression of our estimate of their worth and deserts.

MELROSE, Dec. 24, 1865. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ., Editor of the Liberator:
Mr. DEAR FRIEND:-As one who was present at the birth of the liberator, and have all along watched the course of the paper with deep interest, I feel desirous, when its career is just closing, of congratulating you on the ultimate success of your labors. For, without intending to detract in the least from the incalculable value of the exertions and sacrifices of the many other devoted men who have worked for the came object, still it seems to me certain that you have done more then any other person towards effecting the absolute and unconditional abolition of American slavery, the grand event of the present age, and per haps the grandest in the history of the world. It seems a fortunate coincidence, that the official, recognition of the adoption of the amendment of the Constitution which renders slavery hereafter impossible in the United States, should have been simultaneous with the last words of the Liberator.
Though slavery is ended, its consequences cannot be so easily eradicated. The aristocrats of the South, as well as their white dependents, are generally impelled by blind passion and prejudice, a bitter hatred of their Northern conquerors, and an unrelenting determination to hold the blacks as an inferior caste, under an oppression as like slavery as possible. At the same time, the rude ignorance of the majority of the people there, of every complexion, is really saddening. All these causes, not to speak of others, conspire to rentier the reconstruction of the Southern States on the basis of the fundamental law of the nation as declared in the Declaration of Independence, that all men are created equal, and have an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, one of the most difficult problems ever presented to statesmen and philanthropists. It is a happy omen for the future that so many of the best minds of the country, in legislative halls and elsewhere, are zealously striving to solve this problem theoretically and practically. I see much labor for you in future, to aid the race you have assisted to free.
Wishing you many years of future usefulness, I remain, Your friend, S. E. SEWALL.
 I would not have it thought, for a moment, that I regard the Legislatures of the States lately in rebellion as at-present organized, or having any power to accept the amendment,
SYRACUSE, Dec. 17, 1865. WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
Mr. BELOVED FRIEND-I am unwilling the dear old Liberator should close its most honorable and useful career without bearing upon one of its last pages an emphatic expression of my deep sense of obligation to it, or rather to its Editor. None but these who have read the paper weekly for thirty-five years, as I have done, with scarcely on omission, excepting only when I was absent from the country, can feel as I do at parting with it. I feel as if I were going to lose my Mentor-the wise counsellor, who has continually admonished me of ray duty, as a minister and a man, to my beloved but guilty nation ; and has made me more faithful and fearless then I should otherwise have been, in my opposition to her unparalleled iniquity-the abject enslavement of millions, enforced by the Government, and sanctioned by the Religion of our Republic.
The hearing of your Julien Hall lectures, in October, 1830, was the great epoch in the life of my soul. You revealed to me the corruption of our American Church, not excepting that branch of it with which I was specially connected ; and convinced me " the time had come that judgment must begin at the house of God." You fired me with the determination to be true to the cause of the enslaved in our land, cost me what it might It has cost me something, as you know, to bo even as faithful as I have been ; but I have gained, in our long-continued conflict, Incomparably more then I have lost.



I have kept, until now, my copy of the first number of the Liberator. It is a- little sheet, about half the size of the present paper; but it is full of earnest, mighty words. When I first read them, they thrilled me with admiration and inspired the holy resolution that, God helping me, I would stand by and stay up your hands, until the enemies, of impartial liberty should be utterly discomfited. Your words were, " I will be as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice. I am in earnest-I will not equivocate-I will not retreat a single inch-and I will be heard." It seemed just as sure to me then that you would be, as it is now apparent that you have been, heard. You seemed to me like the son of Jesse, coming In the name of the Lord of Hosts, to encounter our haughty Goliath with the stone of truth, slung with unerring aim; and I could not doubt the issue of the conflict.
We know full well that much is to be done ere the redemption of the millions, for whose emancipation we have contended, will be complete. And neither you nor your comrades have a thought of leaving them unprotected, at the mercy of these who have ever been wont to oppress them. But as it seems to you fit and proper to bring your Liberator to an end-that you may ply your power, with come other instrument, to perfect the work which you began with this-our long experience of your wisdom and sagacity forbids as to distrust the correctness of your determination, however reluctant we feel to part with our weekly monitor.
God bless you, my friend, for all you have done, and incited other to do, for the abolition of obvery, and the salvation of our great Republic! Hay you live yet long enough to see the freedmen enfranchised, and them and all the Inhabitants of the United States secured in the enjoyment of the privileges and in
<c05>
the exercise of the prerogatives of American citizens.
Yours, with a respect and affection that hare steadily crown with our intimacy for more then thirty years, SAMUEL J. MAY.
We reciprocate, in full, the tender, affectionate and appreciative sentiments expressed in the follow ing letter from one who has labored in the anti-slavery field in special, and the cause of reform on a world wide scale, with a fidelity to principle, an assiduity of purpose, a boldness and theroughness of testimony, and a consecration of life, from the earliest period, and on both sides of the Atlantic, unsurpassed by any in the ranks of Freedom and Humanity:-
OAK HILL, Cape Ann, Dec. 18,1865. 
DEAR GARRISON:-Friday, December 23, the Liberator- the friend whose weekly visits for thirty-five years have cheered and sustained me-will cease to be. In view of that event, a feeling of isolation and loneliness comes over me; for through its columns I have, during nearly the entire period of its existence, held communion with my fellow-beings. From the first number issued to the close of the 32d volume, I have preserved and bound every paper. During the past three years, every number has also been preserved for me, and will be bound, and the perfected set of thirty-five volumes be deposited in the Library connected with Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass.; there to remain, a true and faithful record for future ages to consult, of the most sublime war of ideas, of the most perfect revolution of thought, and the grandest triumph of truth over error, of right over wrong, the world ever witnessed. Never was the soul of a great nation so deeply and extensively awakened as has been that of this republic the past thirty-five years. Never were hoary and consecrated errors and wrongs so freely and folly discussed as they have been in this nation. This awakening of the national mind and heart to a consideration of these errors and wrongs may be more directly traced to the Liberator then to any other influences. Intemperance, Slavery, War, Death Penalty, Sectarianism, against these it has borne an earnest and consistent testimony from its birth. Impartial justice, and equality before God and the law, without regard to sex, caste, color, country or condition, has been its great battle-cry. It has made no compromise with these wrongs in a single instance.
The first number was issued January 1st, 1831. It proclaimed an exterminating war of ideas chattel slavery. To-day, Dec. 18th, 1865, the Head of the Nation proclaims slavery forever abolished and prohibited within the limits of the United States, by Constitutional Decree. Dec. 29th, the Liberator, having done the great work it took in hand, will cease to be. Its first number inaugurated a war of ideas against chattel slavery. The last number will announce that the work is done, and that the revolution is completed. so far an chattel slavery is concerned. Through its agency, the question is forever settled that man can not, injustice and with impunity, hold and use man as property. This, in all time to come, must be the basis of religion and civilization. "Man forever sacred, and secure from the auction-block" must underlie the institutions of the future.
The Liberator has ever asserted the supremacy of man over his incidents. It has ever maintained that no institution, in Church or State, can be worth the sacrifice of a human being. Faithfully and fearlessly has it stood by its sublime and comprehensive motto,
"MY COUNTRY IS THE WORLD-MY COUNTRYMEN
ARE ALL MANKIND." On these two principles the religious, political, social, commercial and literary institutions of the future are to rest. No paper ever more fully vindicated, by precept and example, freedom of thought and speech. No book nor paper ever more perfectly illustrated the spirit of the gentle, just, loving, self-forgetting and heroic Martyr of Calvary, then has the Liberator. While its rebukes have been terrible against titled, popular and honored criminals, it has been tender and gentle towards the erring and degraded who are cast out and despised of men.
It has done what no other book or paper ever did; it has given to its most malignant and deadly foes a hearing in their own vernacular, without comment-given even to these who incarnated the " sum of all 
villanics," slavery, a conspicuous place of " Refuge " in its columns. In its advocacy of self-abnegation as the only basis of harmony in all relations, as the only hope of perfect security to human rights, and the only way to ensure a bloodless and permanent settlement of all difficulties between man and man, and between nation and nation, it has put forth and sustained a principle and practice to which the great, tender, loving human heart must ever pay its purest and profoundest homage.
In the truest and highest sense, the Liberator has been a religious paper. As Jesus did, it has ever espoused the cause of the most despised and down-trodden and has ever been " the friend of publicans and sinners." It has ever worshipped the loving Father by doing good to his children. Its life has embodied the ennobling truth, that what we do to man, we do to God. It has ever seen and worshipped God in roan, not in his appendages. Its ever-present watchword has been, MAM SACRED! Perish every custom and institution that cannot be sustained without enslaving or killing man! All things are under the dominion of man, and are appendages to him; but man is an appendage to no being nor thing, except to the God within him. Such have been its spirit and life.
The Liberator was among the first, I think the very first, to vindicate the industrial, political, ecclesiastical, social and civil rights of woman. It was the first to introduce the Water-Cure system to the notice of the American people. It has, with untiring energy and dauntless resolution, sought to deliver man from the thraldom of man, and place him under the dominion of his God.



No book or paper has had more numerous and malignant enemies. No one has ever had friends more sincere, earnest and abiding. The demise of no publication will bo more deeply felt by its friends. In the field of Reform and in the cause of Progress, its discontinuance will be felt as that of no other paper would be.
Tempest-tossed and driven over the ocean of life, so fearfully lashed to fury by the political, social, the ological and commercial storms of the nineteenth century, in my hours of loneliness and longing for love and sympathy in my efforts to prevent wrong and en force right, and to vindicate the equal and inalienable rights of man, I have ever found a home for my spirit in the Liberator.
THE LUIBEARTOR CAN NEVER DIE! Its Spirit, its
precepts and itst example will live while man lives, in the body or out of it. Millions, emancipated by its power from the despotism of external authority and the thraldom of man, will ever thank God for the Liberator. With a sense of bereavement, a feeling of loneliness and of gratitude which I cannot express, I must bid theory long-tried and true friend and wise counsellor, A FINAL PAREWELL!
HENRY C. WEIGHT.
If the Anti-Slavery cause has over had a disinterested, intelligent, persevering, clear-sighted, well-balanced, and efficient advocate,-and from the hour of its inception,-he is to be found in the late Editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, our tried and ever-faithful coadjutor, OLIVER JOHNSON, a part of whose letter we are obliged to omit for want of space:-
INDEPENDENT OFFICE,
NWW YORK Dec. 28, 1865. 
MY DEAR GARRISON,-An the Liberator will close its existence the present week, I am moved to send you a few words of congratulation upon so auspicious an ending of your editorial labors.
Surely, you are the most fortunate of men! The Agitstion began by you, less then forty years ago, for the immediate abolition of slavery, has fulfilled the purpose for which it was created, and It is your privilege, though scarcely yet an old man, to witness the complete triumph of the cause to which your life has been devoted. In all the broad extent of our 
<c06>
country not a slave is legally held! By a solemn decree the American people, the holding of a human being as property is henceforth made a crime by the fundamental law. It is at that paper established for the sole propose of abolishing slavery should now cease
to live, except in history. That you were divinely led to establish the Liberator, I have ever believed,
and it seems equally clear to me that in choosing the time for, stopping it, you were guided by a wisdom higher than jour own. The official proclamation of the Constitutional Amendment has come in time to be embraced within the allotted period of its life, and to be recorded in its pages. Never. I believe, did any other cause of such wide and far-reaching importance as this achieve a triumph so complete and glorious in so short a space of time. Where indeed the lives of Jesus and hit apostles, shall we find a parallel to the birth, growth and final success of the Anti-Slavery Movement? "It is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes."
My mind, as it travels back over the period covered -by the life of the Liberator, and dwell, upon the striking events by which that life is illustrated is filled 
with emotions too deep for word. What a tide of reminiscences overwhelms me! I can only say, in the fulness of a grateful heart, that it is my joy and pride now to remember, that, from the day when the first number of the Liberator was issued until this very hour, it has been my privilege to be intimately associated with you ; and that, at various time, when called to leave your post. you honored me by leaving your paper in my charge. To some extent therefore, my own life is a part of that of the Liberator, and perhaps on this account, if no other, I may be pardoned for asking that this brief and hurried letter, containing
but little of what it is in my heart to say, may find a place in its concluding number.
With undying affection, I remain, dear Garrison, Your friend and fellow-laborer,
OLIVER JOHNSON.
OFFICE OF THE INDEPENDENT. New York, Dec. 26, 1865. 
TO THE LIBERATOR,
ABOUT TO ASCEND INTO HEAVEN Dear, venerable, dying Prophet and APOSTLE! Your coming was greeted with curses, hooting, and revilings. But your departing is followed with benedictions, sweet memories, and perpetual fame. Hail and farewell! THEODORE TILTON.
A farewell note from the late editor of the Anti-Slavery Bugle one of the earliest and truest of the anti-slavery band, and who many years ago was tarred and feathered for his abolition sentiments;-SALEM, (Ohio,) Dec. 19, 1865.
MR DEAR MR. GARRISON:-The telegraph, this morning, brings us the Proclamation of Secretary Seward, that Slavery is constitutional abolished throughout the United States! Accept my congratulations, my brother; and let me, as a last word in the Liberator, join my thanksgivings with yours, with the thousands of abolitionists, and with the millions of the emancipated. "Glory to God in the highest,
peace on earth, good will for all men! "
When I first heard of your labors, my heart beat
for joy. I was then living among the slaveholders of
Tennessee, and knew of the abominations of slavery.
When I first saw the Liberator, it was at the Lane
Seminary, where it contributed effectually in teaching
that truth and its free utterance are of more value
than theological opinions or ecclesiastical 
organizations. And for the life true of a generation since, it
has heroically, faithfully, successfully wrought for the
 great purpose of your life, and of mine, and of many
others, liberty, justice for our millions of slaves.
That now happily accomplished, let it cease. Its
memory will ever be precious to the good.
George Thompson has been among us for a week
past. He delivered three lectures to large audience
before our Athenxum, and on Sunday preached to
the Congregational Society ot Salern an admirable
and well-timed discourse in advocacy of peace. His
 health seems somewhat feeble, yet he goes with a
brave heart to his numerous appointments in the
West. Your friend, M. R. ROBI.NSON.

ANZLIE FARM, near Mr. PLEASANT, lows,
12 mo. 15, l865,
 MY BELOVED FRIEND, WM. LLOYD GARRISON-
While I rejoice with joy unspeakable at the 
magnitude of the work which (through Christ strengthening
thee) has been wrought for the slave. and indeed for
 universal man, I can scarcely school myself to be
reconciled to take the Liberator by the hand, and 
pronounce the word farewell. It is thirty years since the
first number fell into my hands, and, during that
period of perils and watching and toil, I have perused
its pages with a zest that no other periodical in the
land possessed for me. He who hath said," I am
the resurrertion and the life, and whosoever followeth
after me shall not walk in darkness," hath piloted this
vessel through the breakers, and she comes safely
into port with four millions of shackles on board, taken
from the limbs of tortured, outraged, bleeding, but
now rescued slaves. High praises be ascribed to Him
"who taketh the cunning in their own craftiness,"
and utterly consumeth all systems of iniquity which
"traffic in slaves and the souls of men".'
At the period of thy arrangement for a Western tour, I was prostrated with illness, and knew not of it. I was very near the portals of the life beyond-When I came back again, and found that thou hadst been at Galesburg, Illinois, within serenity miles of our prairie home, I knew not how to be reconciled. There was a railroad all the way to Mount Pleasant, "the Athens of Iowa," where, amidst a population of 5,000 inhabitant, many would have heard thee with gladness. An hour's ride would have brought thee to our residence; and I will venture no door west of the great Mississippi would have opened with warmer welcome in the hearts of the dwellers in the house than in ours. But the golden opportunity is past; and all I can do now. on this cold winter morn ing, the thermometer standing at six below zero, is to reach my spirit's hand over rivers and mountains, and take thy hand in mine, and from my heart of hearts bless thee and all thy house. The Lord hath been thy refuge, and thy high tower; to him be all praises forever!
In near affection, in which my dear Ruth joins, I am thy fellow-laborer and Christian friend,
JOSEPH A. DCGDALE.
P. S. Our only son, whose advent into life was on the very day the halter was put around thy person in Boston, desires his love to thee.
DEAR FRIEND WM. L. GARRISON:- How I rejoice that my dear husband has written so fully to thee of our regret to lose the long-welcomed visitor to our household, the faithful Liberator! for many weeks I have been so drawn in spirit to thee; feeling, as I hate ever felt from our first acquaintance, such unlimited confidence in thee as one called of God to the work of the slave's redemption-lifted up and eminently qualified therefore-laboring through good and evil report-looking only to Him for strength to accomplish the purpose whereunto he called thee. How often have my feeble petitions been put up, that thou might live to see the desire of thy soul accomplished! And I rejoice that thou hast lived to see the slave's fetters broken. Still, there is much more to be done, how my spirit as made glad to know there are noble and deroted laborers, still bound to we of the oppressed, who plead for justice, and for the recognition of these rights so long with held!
Can we hope for peace and prosperity on any other terms? The Lord is most assuredly on their side, and they who enlist under His banner will most assuredly conquer.
How much we regret not knowing of thy visit West till too late to incite thee hither!
Our blessed mother often speaks of thee with truly maternal affection.
Most cordially, thy sincere friend, RUTH DUGDALE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
The following epistle is from one of our early and most esteemed friends and liberal supporters-the philanthropic NATHANIEL BLARNEY, formerly of Nantucket:-
DEAR FRIEND W.L.GARRISON-And the last number of the Liberator is near at hand! How I shall mass its weekly visits! What a blessing it has been to the race! I said more than a quarter of a century ago, in the days of they sorest trials, that if the time came when I could sustain but one paper, it should be the Liberator.
I am left alone, of the individuals whose names I pure thee, years ago, to whom I visited the paper distributed; but, in each bereavement, the family desired its uninterrupted continuance;- and hence, the last publication will remain to them in its original direction.
In view of the foregoing appreciation, and with particular reference to thy own labors, and those of thy co-workers, I send a tribute for the closing number, if its pages are not already pre-occupied.
Cordially, thy friend, N. BARNEY.
Yonkers,N.Y.,1865.
COMMEMORATIVE OF FRATERNITY AND FREEDOM,
Thanksgiving Day,12th mo,7th,1865
We will hallow the day which was seen from afar,
By THE WATCHMEN who dwell on the mountains above;
For the "Emblem of Hope"-Heaven's beauteous Star-
Still beamed with bright promise of Freedom and Love.
Long years of storm conflict they braved the rode jeer; Bryan
<illegible> bonds and in death they could still bleu the rod;
And through neither the Church nor the State deigned a tear,
More earnest they grew in the strength of their God!
They justice, ’Oh Father!-had slept in the cloud:-
Two, "deep called to deep," in the far-rolling ware;
The free and the thunder came rattling aloud-
Nor warning, nor tears, our loved country could save!
The slave, in his chains, sealed his record in heaven,
And swiftly the chord could but vibrate on earth;
The dead were awakened, and each fetter was given,
That millions might joy in a Nation's new birth
Amid poems of praise the Freedmen implore-
(Still bitter their draught, and unceasing its flood,)
"In ear" Winter of woe, 'oh! will ye restore
Eee a tithe of the gains ye have drawn from our blood?"
And how stricken our hearts, when the dear ones we loved
Gave their lives to the conflict, with hand joined in band!
For these, as they fell, every fountain was moved,
And the deep tide of sorrow swept over the land.
And husband is the war-cry o'er’ hilltop and glen,
And the sword, in its sheath, again it is at rest;
"Loud <illegible> to God, and good will to men"
The slave is redeemed, and our country is blest!
<illegible>Father in heaven! Thy Name is a tower,
And by it the "Battle of Freedom" is won;
The waters were cleft by the rod of Thy power-
The Red Sea is passed, and Thy people are one!
"How awful are the realities of war, as exhibited in the struggle through which our country has just passed! The writer has, in part, delineated its results, while he deprecates the system. In a national point of view, however, they are but the legitimate fulfillment of Jefferson's <illegible> vision-"I tremble for my country, when I remember that God is just, and that His justice cannot sleep forever
Proverb,18:10.
A parting word from the honored and faithful General Agent of the Liberator:
LIBERATOR OFFICE, BOSTON, Dec.27, 1865.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-It seems as if I ought not to let this last issue of the dear old Liberator to take place, without saying a word,-if you yet have room for it,-to you and the two thousand others, with many of whom I have been in such intimate relations for a full score of years. A great and wonderful work has been accomplished. Let us thank God and the true hearts which have labored so unweariedly and so successfully to achieve it. A work hardly less great yet remains. Thanks to the fidelity and courage of yourself and the little band who untiringly worked with you,-and thanks no less to the insane diabolism of the slave power in the land,-the conscience of the nation has been roused. The first step-the step which costs-has been taken. The remaining ones,-with many disheartening drawbacks and blunders,-will assuredly follow, .Only let us, as we have always done," learn to labor and to wait" The labor and the waiting will not be so disheartening nor so long as they have hitherto been.
I did not mean to use so many words. I only wanted to say fare well to the many whose names from week to week for so many years have passed in re-view before me, and from many of whom I have received expressions of regard not soon to be forgotten. The Liberator has ministered spiritual food and moral strength to them and to all of us. Its record is now to be sealed up. Who of us will not sorely miss it? How few more than I! 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT.
PHILADELPHIA, 12th mo. 24.1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:-Esteemed Friend-Congratulations and benedictions, that the Emancipation Amendment is ratified-that thy hand has still the power to set the type, not only in thy own paper, our ever true Liberator, but of the fire of thy soul over the marvellous triumph! Who will stop, now, to carp or wrangle as to the manner of its coming? Behold it in hand! Grasp it, and rejoice! The fag-end may he be composed of half-converted States; but let a man give me his hand, and I am on the road to his heart. Yes, I mean to be thankful, and my spirit runneth over with, "Comfort ye my people."
The remarkable coincidence of this event with the valediction of the Liberator is more than congratulatory; it impresses one with a trust in the Right and in God, which must make the sincere soul work on, even through a generation, for the consummation of inspired duty.
May not the American Anti-Slavery Society now feel prepared to insert the words Equal Rights in place of Anti-Slavery, and with redoubled and reunited effort insure the freedom of all from every thraldom of color, sex, or other iniquitous distinction?
For thy health, and many years of deserved repose and highest rewards, accept the wishes of
Thy grateful friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.
NEW BEDFORD, Dec. 20,1865.
As one who has been familiar with the Liberator from its beginning to the present time, and a constant readers of its columns for more than twenty years, I cannot bid farewell to its time-honored face without acknowledging my obligations to its genial influence in the formation of my own and the character of my children. It has not only been a Liberator for the oppressed, but an Educator for every household into which, it has come. In common, then, with its numerous friends, I shall regret its discontinuance, while we rejoice that its great object is accomplished, and feel assurance in the unshrinking faith of its editor, that the work of purification will go on until every blot of slavery is wiped out from our land. Well do I remember the day of small things, when Wm. Lloyd Garrison, then a young man, hated and despised, was a welcome and honored guest in my own father's house, as BENJ. LUNDY had been before him. How I, for a time, labored under clerical influence in thinking him a disturber in Israel! But I soon saw my mistake, and with ready real pat put on the armor of
of anti-slavery, never more to be laid aside until the day of jubilee. What a history that will be, when given to the world, of the abolitionists! How fitting a work for its faithful Secretary, Edmund Quincy, Esq., than whom no one is better qualified! But I must not occupy too much space with personalities. Farewell, then, dear old Liberator! and may Heaven's best blessings attend its soul-inspired, long-suffering, but now, we trust, redeemed editor, to whom we all owe so much!
DANIEL RICKETSON.
Several other, farewell letters have been received ,for which we cannot possibly find room, much to our regret.
<c02>
HEAR THE OTHER SIDE.
Since, in the last week's Liberator, a highly jubilant view of the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment intended for the Abolition of Slavery was given by one so justly respected and so highly honored among abolitionists as Rev. SAMUEL- MAT, Jr., it seems right that some expression should be given to a different view, widely prevailing among friends of freedom, both of the Amendment, and of Secretary Seward's Proclamation announcing its Ratification. The necessity of holding this different view is imposed upon many of us, partly by the specifications of the Secretary in regard to the conditions of ratification, and partly by the phraseology of the Amendment itself, taken in connection with recent action in some of those States whose people wish their laborers. to be slaves. 
When, months ago, I first read the article which has now become a part of the Constitution, my first thought in regard to it was-We ought not to allow slavery even "as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted." Involuntary servitude as such a punishment, the requisition of labor made upon criminals in our State Prisons and Penitentiaries, is needful and right; but this is not slavery, and slavery is utterly unfit for infliction as a punishment, being pernicious in its influence both upon the master and the slave. But, In the Amendment in question, it is permitted that either or both of these may be used as a punishment for acts in violation of law, at the pleasure of each State. We know very well, (do we not?) what is the pleasure of the States lately in rebellion in regard to this matter. We know what those people wish, who fought four years for slavery, and who now, unable any longer to resist, freely declare to all inquirers that they hold the same mind in regard to Secession, State Sovereignty and Slavery. If secession were allowed by the very terms of a new Amendment to the Constitution, would they not claim it as a right? Since slavery is allowed, by the very terms of the Amendment just enacted, will they not claim that as a right? We know what they wish, and what they will try to accomplish; and facts are already at hand in evidence. Take the following item of news, dated one day after the official announcement of the ratification of the Amendment:- 
"SLAVERY IN DELAWARE. WILMINFTON, DEL., 19th. Two negro men named John Walker and Robert McKay, convicted of larceny by the New Hanover County Court, have been sentenced to be sold into servitude for a period not exceeding five years. The sentence is agreeable to the laws of the State in relation to freedmen before the war."
Unfortunately, this sentence, is agreeable to something else besides the laws of a Slave State in relation to free blacks before the war. It is agreeable to the Constitutional Amendment which has been ratified since the war! Read it!
"Article XIII. Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, EXCEPT AS A PUNISHMENT FOR CRIME, WHEREOF THE PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN DULY CONVICTED, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction."
It is not the people of Delaware alone who will turn to account this unfortunate phraseology of the Amendment. Already it has been boasted, by men of influence in South Carolina, that this opening would give them slavery enough for all practical purposes, and that, as soon as the reconstruction of that State was effected, they could make enslavement the legal penalty for any needful number of petty offences. These men know, as well as the tempter of" Parley the Porter," that a very little opening made inside the hedge can easily be enlarged by those on the outside. They already have the bond; will they show much forbearance, think you, in seizing on the pound of flesh!
I meant to have spoken of Secretary Seward's shameful recognition of such States as Virginia, South Carolina and Georgia, (the last is omitted from the Proclamation in last week's Liberator, which names only twenty-six States, though the document calls them" in all, twenty-seven,") as now competent to take part in the Ratification; but I will not ask for larger space in a paper so precious as the last number of the Liberator. The facts above recited are enough to prevent me and many others from accepting Mr. MAY'S description of Ratification as" the final crowning and completion of the labors of the American Abolitionists, as such."-C. K. W.
REMARKS. The Constitutions of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, &.c., &c., contain the same procision; yet our vigilant friend," C. K. W." has never expressed any alarm or uneasiness lest slavery should thereby find an entering wedge in those free States. His objection, therefore, looks somewhat hypercritical, in disparagement of a constitutional amendment which is more important than all others ever made, and which will as effectually banish slavery from every part of our national domains as the same provision has banished it from the soil of the States named above. The transaction in Delaware is manifestly a petty ebullition of pro slavery malice pro tempore-will practically prove abortive -and, in all probability, will not be again repeated. Nevertheless, it must be conceded that the slavish provision in the amendment, even as a punishment for crime, is objectionable, though it should never be carried into effect.
There are two conflicting theories respecting the exact relation of the late rebel States to the Union, each held with equal sincerity and honesty by those whose patriotism is equally pure and reliable-viz: one, that they have not placed themselves out of the Union by their rebellion, though in consequence of it they have subjected themselves to certain governmental pains and penalties; the other, that, through treason and long protracted war upon the Federal Government, they have forfeited their constitutional recognition and rights as States, and therefore have ceased to exist de facto; so that, in the matter of their reconstruction, and readmission to the Union, they practically stand in a territorial relation, subject for the time being to the military power of the Government, and wholly dependent upon the will of Congress as to the manner, time and conditions of their being again enrolled in the family of States President Johnson and Secretary Seward accept the former theory, and are attempting to carry it out. For this they are not to be denounced as impudent or unpatriotic, however mistaken may be their position. We strongly and undoubtingly accept the latter theory; and, therefore, were we a member of either house of Congress, we would seize the first opportunity to propose, for the prompt adoption of that body, a DECLARATORY ACT, that the concurrence or non-concurrence of any of the late rebel States, in regard to the anti-slavery amendment of the Constitution, neither affects its validity on the one hand, nor to any extent determines their status in the Union on the other. There were only twenty-five loyal States to whom that amendment was or could be constitutionally submitted at the time of its adoption by Congress; and of these, the sanction of nineteen was needed to make it "the supreme law of the land." That sanction, however, has been given by nearly every one of them. Nevertheless, whether the one theory or the other be accepted as a finality, it matters not as to the ratification of the amendment itself by the requisite number of States. That glorious measure is carried.-| ED. LIB.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for January, 1866, presents the following table of contents:-1. Passages from Hawthorne's Note Books-I. 2. Castles in the Air. 3. Beauty and the Beast 4. The Wilderness. 6. The Bells of Lynn. 6. The High Tide of December. 7. Lucy's Letters. 8. Doctor Johns-XII. 9. Wind the Clock. 10. The Kingdom Coming. 11. The Chimney-Corner for 1866-1. 12. Griffeth Grant; or, Jealousy-II. 13. Reviews and Literary Notices. 14. Recent American Publications. 
Single subscriptions, $4.00 a year; single numbers, 36 cents. Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 124 Tremont Street, Boston.
<c03>
THE FUTURE.
MR. EDITOR:—Some time ago, an article appeared in the Liberator, from a subscriber in the far West, looking forward with solicitude to the appointed termination of its publication, then comparatively distant, but now at hand. That article was entitled," New Paper Wanted."
From time to time "straws" have appeared, indicating a similar current of thought among readers, and similar solicitude; and in taking up and repeating the sentiment of that article, no more appropriate text suggests itself than that of your former correspondent," New Paper Wanted."
There is, I think, a prevalent feeling that, among the journals of the day, the Liberator occupies a position, and in a very considerable degree satisfies a demand, quite peculiar, and yet morally of the highest importance and significance.
The self-appointed sphere in which it has moved has been one nearly, if not quite, of isolation; and when it dies, it will leave no peer. And this remark is made without special reference to any peculiarities of anti-slavery advocacy; for, though nominally an anti-slavery paper, it has been more than that, and in every branch of ethics and phase of reform has not failed to bear testimony. 
Its chief characteristics as an organ of opinion and public influence have been, ready accessibility, entire independence, and extreme candor.
Where is to be found anything comparable to the volumes of the Liberator, as an epitome of the struggles, agitations, and uneasy thought of the past quarter century? In the" Refuge of Oppression," innumerable oracles of iniquity and darkness, now for most part dumb to the public ear, have yet, and for an indefinite period will continue to have, historically, a voice.
Radicalism and conservatism, of every shade-wisdom and folly in innumerable forms-voices of courtesy and of abuse-poets and saints of New England, and bedlamites of Richmond and Charleston-have met on even terms in these democratic columns, and all sorts of erratic and visionary as well as judicious and eventually prevailing opinions have found vent there. Every reader must, at some time, have been shocked or angered at the temerity of some fierce critic or daring advocate, contradicting, as it would seem, all experience and sanity of conviction; and there is something comical in the thought, that while I am burning with indignation at the absurdity of A's or B's article, my neighbor over the way glows with admiration of its truth. But, no doubt, the general verdict will be, that these contrarious mountain breezes and electrical contacts have been healthful- have given us better air to breathe, and a wider field of vision.
This trait has been pretty strongly characterised in an article copied into the Liberator some time since, as follows:-
"The Liberator has had a marked character and a significant history. It has been a real and recognizable force, and has made a real contribution to our moral and civil life as a people. Its object was specific, and it was never forgotten or subordinated. It aimed simply at the destruction of American slavery. This ultimate object included others,- this aim brought many things besides the target within the workman's range. Incidentally, many topics collateral to this have come up for consideration, and, for longer or shorter periods, have seemed likely to become the principal topics. But the paper has always come back to its path again from every deflection. It has at once welcomed the cooperation of every man and woman who would aid in the main undertaking, caring little for their creeds or standing. It might also be added, without injustice, that it has not always been very inquisitive about their crotchets or characters. The moral Esaus of the community, belligerent, cynical, audacious-negative natures that repel at both poles and attract at neither-egotists without principle and critics without justice or appreciation-rejectors of God under the plea of caring for man—contemners of the Bible, who yet searched through its sublimest passages for strong figures of speech with which to denounce oppression, and turned the grief of prophetic warnings into the bitterness of passionate denunciation-all these classes have offered the Liberator their alliance in behalf of its great object, and then have more or less sought to make it voice their opinions, have it commit itself to their personal objects, and publicly espouse their individual theories and private quarrels." 
This criticism will not be considered very damaging by those who believe that there is nothing to fear from error, so long as reason is left free to combat it. But the writer has the candor to add, also:-
"The paper has been managed with consummate ability from the very first. Vigorous thought, philosophical discussion of fundamental principles in politics, society and morals, historical research, legal learning, scientific criticism, literary taste and culture, eloquent utterance and poetic fire, have all lent their influence to this anti-slavery organ. Its columns have often seemed heaving with strong life, and one could almost feel the throbbing of its vital paragraphs. The dullest reader was compelled to think when running over its editorials-the most stupid nature worked into fervid or indignant feeling beneath its weekly revelations. Few journals in the country have brought out higher or a more fully sustained mental power.
And it has never faltered in its demand for justice, nor allowed itself for an hour to be turned aside from its chosen path and its main object. It has kept the great question steadily before the country. It would not be diverted by any side issues. It has been as vigilant as a veteran soldier on picket before Petersburg, allowing no enemy to freedom to pass unchallenged, whatever disguise he might assume, and refusing to take the rifle from its shoulder till it heard the countersign of liberty in a clear, full voice."
Another peculiarity of the Liberator has been what may be termed its communistic character. Hundreds of readers have been led to feel in it a personal, almost a filial interest, in that it has been at all times open to the enunciation of each one's special thought or hobby of the hour-the editor very kindly taking up these little waifs, and permitting each one of us to "say something, even if it was n't so bright;" and very many of us, looking back in sober retrospect, can perceive numerous inadequate and injudicious remarks, which editorial good-nature at the time overlooked.
This perpetual Quaker meeting, where each spake as the spirit moved him, seems about to be suddenly closed by the suspension of the Liberator.
Another and very urgent cause for solicitude is, that much work, falling within the Liberator's legitimate field of action, remains to be done. So far as it is specially an organ of anti-slavery or of emancipation, its task is completed, and its editor, the pioneer in that cause, has more than earned his otium cum dignitate. Slavery is indeed dead:-
"Lo, there it lies,
And none so poor to do it reverence!"
Yet its unquiet ghost still haunts our public councils and seats of influence. " Mercy has been slain; let us take care that justice be not slain also," said the President, eight months ago; but, meantime, under his own manipulation, justice has been bound hand and foot, and seems about to be handed over for sacrifice.
Commiseration for unrepentant traitors usurps the name of brotherly love; and we are called to clasp hands with those yet unwashed of patriot blood, and fraternise with hearts that believe, and act up to the belief, that the black man has no rights which the white man is bound to respect. 
"Your goodness must have some edge to it," says Emerson," else it is none. The doctrine of hatred is to be preached as the counteraction of the doctrine of love, when that pules and whines." The legal emancipation of America has taken place, but moral emancipation is yet to be; and our need is of an advocate of the press as inflexible and persevering as has been the Liberator. The leading journals of the day are, in the main, doing well at present, but are all either bound to some hobby, to which other considerations must in an emergency be subordinated, or their managers are involved in political toils; or else they follow the tendency of the popular current from catchpenny motives. 
Do you ask me to except "The Nation"! That does well, considering its position, but carries with it a constant <illegible> of Broadway and Fifth Avenue,
<c04>
which, if in noxious, is not the pure oxygen. we require. To be styled an" American of Americans" is justly deemed high praise; and we want a paper that shall be puritan of the Puritans, and. maintain an unbroken apostolic succession is the city of its origin. And such a paper I esteem the Liberator to have been. Puritanism in the best sense is moral, not ecclesiastical; and herein it 1s to be transmitted and perpetuated.
I will not occupy more of your most valuable space than to say, in conclusion, that it seems to me that a daily paper would be most efficient to this high purpose; for these dallies are so pervasive. Every body, now a days, is bound to read primarily the news; and the public intellect—so to speak-accepts along with it whatever moral nutriment newsmongers are pleased to supply. The editor of the daily paper seems to have,-I was about to say usurped,—but he seems to have legitimately succeeded to that vantage-ground of influence, and accessibility to the public ear, which, in the olden time, belonged to the clergy.
The two essential qualifications in the Liberator's successor must be, entire independence, and fidelity to right for its own sake; and using the word "law" as the correlative of equity, not the synonym of statute, a newspaper motto already renowned would seem a befitting one:-
"Here shall the press the people's rights maintain, 
Unawed by influence and unbribed by gain;
Here patriot Truth her sacred precepts draw, 
Pledged to Religion, Liberty, and Law."
Let us hope that a journal that shall, in some degree, meet the demand which I have thus inadequately set forth, and which shall preserve those familiar traits of the Liberator which we have learned to love, will yet be established. B.
AN ENGLISHMAN'S IMPRESSIONS OF AMERICA.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
SIR:-Having in my native land, during your late war, taken a deep interest in everything relating to your country, I became strongly impressed with a desire to pay a visit, in order that by personal observation the views I had previously entertained might be confirmed or corrected. White in England, I was repeatedly told that in your churches you had "nigger" pews; negro carriages, like lumber boxes, on your railways; no seats for negroes in your horse-cars; and that in every possible way, even in the enlightened North, the negro was punished and trampled upon for no other reason than that he belonged to what was supposed to be an outcast race. Even in our large public meetings held for the purpose of discussing the great American struggle, the advocates of freedom were repeatedly told that, in the North, the hatred of the whites to the blacks was shown by hanging the negroes at the lamp-posts in the streets. Of course, we knew that the terrible New York riot was not the work of the freedom-loving North, but was entirely to be attributed to the sympathizers with the South; yet in England, to a very large extent, the fiction was believed to be true, and the darker the falsehood, the more readily it was received. I have now been in America more than three months, and have seen your churches, your railroads, and your cars, and have seen nothing which indicates to me that you regard the negroes as a proscribed race, over whom Providence has placed you to rule and punish with a rigorous hand. It is true, there is some prejudice against the negro on account of his color, but this prejudice is not general, nor is it any more bitter than I have seen evidenced in England against the Irish. I have often seen in the news-papers where vacant situations are advertised, that the concluding sentence has been," No Irish need apply."
Then again, it was said that the North, in endeavoring to put down the rebellion, was engaged in an impossible task, and the South must ultimately triumph. Mr. JOSEPH BARKER, who formerly lived in America, and whom many of your readers know, proclaimed most positively, time after time, on the English platforms, that this was a moral certainty. Before I left England, not only Mr. Barker, but every member of the "Southern Independence Association," and every newspaper editor who sympathized with Southern despotism, were compelled to see how egregiously they had blundered, and how ridiculously foolish they had made themselves appear, by the and dictatorial course which they had pursued.
Again, it was said that the war was of such an exhausting character that the North must of necessity collapse; for it could never bear the financial strain to which it would be subject. But what are the facts? I see on every hand the evidence that your resources are almost inexhaustible. Your warehouses are filled with treasures, and your stores with customers. Your artisans are well dressed, and their homes abound with comfort. True, provisions and articles of domestic use are enhanced in value through the operations of the war, but then wages are high, and people generally seem content. The national distress which was predicted has not yet appeared, and I see no evidence of its approach. During a period of more than six weeks in succession, I have never seen a beggar in the land; but if I had been in England, I could not have been as many days without seeing a number.
In England, the abolitionists were described as fanatics, or persons of weak judgment and of small influence. But I have found them to be just the opposite. I never saw more enlightened, intelligent, and able men, and their influence is asserted by the fact that scarcely in any company can be found a man who will openly declare that he does not hold anti-slavery sentiments.
There are other points I would gladly have touched upon, but a fear lest your valuable space should be already occupied checks my pen; and I therefore conclude by expressing my gratitude to you for the publication of the Liberator. I have often been cheered by its warm and genial influences, while surrounded by the cooling Southern sympathizing atmosphere of England, and I rejoice that your self-denying labors in an honorable cause have been brought to such a satisfactory termination.
I remain yours, in the cause of freedom,
DAVID THOMAS.
BOSTON, Dec. 26,1865. 
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq. It is gratifying to know that our untiring and eloquent condjutor is doing good service at the West in the cause of liberty and free institutions by his powerful efforts; and that he is everywhere received with the courtesy, kindness and approbation which he so eminently merits. His lecturing invitations are gratifying proofs of the widespread desire to hear him. We give a list of these for the next six weeks, to facilitate correspondence with him at any of the points named:-January 1, at Toledo, Ohio. 2, Hillsdale, Michigan. 4, La Porte, Indiana. 6, Indianapolis. 9, Peoria, Illinois. 11, Princeton, do. 12, Aurora, do. 15, Dubuque, Iowa. 16, Freeport, Illinois. 17, Janesville, Wiscousin. 18, Delevan, do. 20, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 22, Battle Creek, do. 23, Ann Arbor, do. 24, Detroit, do. 25, Cleveland, Ohio. 26, Youngstown, do. 29, Akron, do. 31, Warren, do. February 2, Mansfield, do. 6, Flint, Michigan. 7, East Saginaw, Michigan. 8 and 9. Grand Rapids, do. 12, Dowagiac, do.
Looking at these multiplied appointments, we confess that we feel a good deal of solicitude as to the physical ability of our honored friend to endure such almost continuous lecturing and travelling in mid- winter. But we are sure he will be kindly eared cared for in whatever place he may temporarily abide.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., delivered an able and effective argument in favor of the "Eight-Hour System," on Thursday evening of last week, as one of the lecturers in the Bay State Course. The audience was very large, and gave evidence of a hearty appreciation of the lecture. We regret that we have no room for even an abstract of it.
<c05>
THE GREAT WEST.
When, twelve years ago, we reached our farthest point westward in a visit to Detroit, Michigan, it seemed to us like an immense distance Intervening between us and the East; but we found that the people there regarded themselves as scarcely at the portals of the West. Since that time, we have been frequently urged to extend our travel still further in that direction; but circumstances have obliged us to forego that pleasure until the present season. We have just completed a lecturing excursion through a considerable portion of Illinois and Indiana, but as unable to find "the far West" almost as when we left home; for, however far we penetrated, it was always indefinitely beyond that limit; and the tide of immigration was sweeping onward with irresistible power. We have never doubted that "this is a great country"; but no "realizing sense" of the fact can be obtained until days have been exhausted in continuous travel, from one point to another, by steam power, toward the West-for, as yet, we are not permitted to say at the West.
Accustomed to the hilly and mountainous aspects of New England, it is impossible for us to express the astonishment we felt when riding, day after day, through the prairie lands of Illinois in special—stretching interminable to the vision, on either hand, as level as the ocean in its quietest mood, and seeming to be a fulfillment of what John in the Revelation says he saw, that "there was no more sea"-in other" words, that the sea itself had become solidified, and turned in to dry land! Not a hill, not even a hillock to be seen in any direction through a long-extended ride, but only a vast plain-the sublime of expansion, almost equaling that of bulk and altitude as in mountainous New Hampshire or Vermont. And this, in numerous instances, crowded with such an abundant corn crop as to excite constant wonder (in the absence of a visible population) where the labor was obtained to make it, and more especially where the labor is to be found to gather it. The capacity of the West for productiveness and population fills one with astonishment; and its future, in all that pertains to freedom and civilization, is full of glorious promise.
We intended, in our present number, to give an extended sketch of our visit to the West-a visit we shall remember with pleasure, as well as thanks to those who, in various places, welcomed us to their hospitable homes; but it is unavoidably excluded by the crowded state of our columns.
POLITICAL RIGHTS OF WOMAN.
464 WEST 34th STREET, NEW YORK.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:-Will the last Liberator say a word for the only remaining class of citizens outside the pale of political recognition-namely, woman?
Perhaps you, with many others, think "this is the negro's hour;" but I must call your attention to the fact that he has been declared free-has borne arms in the service of his country-has the most influential political political party of the day demanding that the Constitution be so amended as to give the ballot to all his race-and that his right of suffrage is already conceded in several of the States; while woman's right is ignored everywhere, and a proposition has actually been made this session, in Congress, to so amend the Constitution as to exclude her forever from all representation in the government (see bill by Mr. Jenckes of Rhode Island). I feel that it is unsafe to sleep now. As there is some talk of opening the Constitutional door to one class of disfranchised citizens, I would advise women everywhere to have their lamps trimmed and burning, ready to walk in the first chance, without respect to "white or black male citizens."
We intend to petition Congress this winter. Already petitions are circulating throughout the country. Will you publish the enclosed, and say a good word for us?
Sincerely your friend,
E. CADY STANTON.
A PETITION FOR UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
The undersigned, Women of the United States, respectfully ask an amendment of the Constitution that shall prohibit the several States from disfranchising any of their citizens on the ground of sex.
In making our demand for Suffrage, we would call your attention to the fact that we represent sixteen millions people-one half the entire population of the country-intelligent, virtuous, native-born American citizens; and yet we are the only class who stand outside the pale of political recognition.
The Constitution classes us as "free people," and counts us whole persons in the basis of representation; and yet we are governed without our consent, compelled to pay taxes without appeal, and punished for violations of law without choice of judge or juror.
The experience of all ages, the Declarations of the Fathers, the Statute Laws of our own day, and the fearful revolutions through which we have just passed, all prove the uncertain tenure of life, liberty and property so long as the ballot-the only weapon of self-protection-is not in the hand of every citizen.
Therefore, as you are now amending the Constitution, and, in harmony with advancing civilization, placing new safeguards round the individual rights of four millions of emancipated slaves, we ask that you extend the right of suffrage to Women-the only remaining class of disfranchised citizens-and thus fulfil your Constitutional obligation "to guarantee to every State in the Union a Republican form of Government."
As all partial application of Republican principles must ever breed a complicated legislation as well as a discontented people, we would pray your Honorable Body, in order to simplify the machinery of government and ensure domestic tranquility, that you legislate hereafter for persons, citizens, tax-payers, and not for class or caste.
For justice and equality your petitioners will ever pray.
In discontinuing the Liberator, we regretfully part from our official relation to its General Agent, our beloved and worthy friend, ROBERT F. WALLCUT, whose unintermitted and faithful services, for more than a score of years, deserve our warmest commendation, and an expression of our grateful acknowledgments. Always at his post, he has diligently discharged the duties of his situation, with his heart in his work.
Equally do we regret separating from our esteemed printers, Messrs. J. B. YERRINTON & SON, who for so long a period have been identified with the paper, not merely in a business relation, but in appreciation of its value, which has led them disinterestedly and self-sacrificingly to accept of an inadequate remuneration for their services in order that it might live.
LIFE AND LETTERS OF CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN (with portrait). Edited by Richard D. Webb. A few copies of this admirable book, by an early and generous friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, and warm admirer of John Brown, remain at the Anti-Slavery office in Boston, to be sold on account of the foreign publishers. Application to be made prior to January 80th, to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, ONE DOLLAR, for which, and sixteen cents (postage) the book will be mailed to any address in the United States.
STUDENT AND SCHOOLMATE. This favorite of the little folks enters on its seventeenth volume on the 1st of January, 1866, and will be enlarged and improved. The pens of our best writers for the young will continue to furnish original articles, biographical, historical, and poetical. Great attention will be paid to the original dialogues which have made the work so valuable to Associations and Schools, as well as the Family Circle. It will prove a safe companion and an entertaining friend. Joseph H. Allen, publisher, 118 Washington Street, Boston.
By the "locum tenens" alluded to in the Liberator of the 15th ult., in connection with our criticism upon Professor F. W. Newman's letter, we referred to "C. K. W.," and not to "S. M.,JR." 
The article on Jamaica, on the first page of last week's paper, should have been credited to the New York Evening Post.
<c06>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-third Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society is hereby notified to be held at the MELODEON, in Boston, on Thursday, January 25th, 1886, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing during the day and evening
A full attendance is requested, of the members of the Society particularly. 
The duty of the Society, and the proper course to be pursued by it is existing circumstances, will doubtless be the leading subject of inquiry at the meeting,-opening the consideration of the affairs of the country, in its Present and in regard to its Future
In behalf of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE AMERIACAN
ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
There will be a Special Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at Boston, on WEDNESDAY, January 24, 1866, to consider the State of National Affairs. The hour and place of meeting will be stated hereafter.
By order of the Executive Committee,
WENDELL PHILLIPS, President.
C. K. WHIPPLE, Secretary.
THIRTY-SECOND
National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary.
The Managers of the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary beg leave to notify their friends-the friends of the negro and of impartial liberty- that the 32d Anniversary will be held in Music Hall, on Wednesday, January 24, 1886. The aim of this effort is to give the American Anti-Slavery Society the means to continue its operations, and specially to sustain the publication of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD.
Those not able to be personally present to aid on this occasion, and to listen to the appeals of the zealous and tried laborers in this cause, may send their contributions, as heretofore, to W. L .BOWDITCH, Esq., No. 3 R. R. Exchange, Court Square.
PLEASING AND INTERESTING JUVENILE GIFTS FOR THE NEW YEAR. Lee & Shepard, 149 Washington street, Boston, have just published two more volumes by that popular juvenile writer," " OLIVER OPTIC." One entitled," "WORK AND WIN; or, Neddy New man on a Cruise" illustrated-price $1.25. The other entitled, "FIGHTING JOB; or, The Fortunes of a Staff Officer." A Sequel to "The Soldier Boy," and "The Young Lieutenant." With Illustrations. Price $1.50. These will unquestionably find a ready sale as gift books for the season 
OUR DUES. We shall TAKE IT FOR GRANTED that those who owe us any thing on their subscriptions will be as prompt as possible is settling their accounts; especially as we shall need it all to cover the expenses of the present volume, which have been unusually heavy. Remittances may be sent either to the Editor at any time, or to Robert F. Wallent until the 1st of February next.
MARRIED- – At the residence of George A. Bacon, Esq., in Washington, D. C, Dec. 8, by Rev. John Pierpont, Col. N. W. DANIELS, of Louisiana, and Miss CORA L. V. SCOTT, of New York.
DIED-In Boston, Dec. 2, Miss MARY ANN, daughter of Dea. George Washington, aged 32.
At North Wrentham, Dec 7. SUKEY FORD, wife of the late Elisha Ford, aged 74 years and nine months.
At Albany, N. Y., the 10th of November, after a painful and lingering illness, which she bore with most admirable fortitude and patience, ELIZA CONSTANTIA, wife of the late Wm. H Topp, of Albany, aged 44 years.
She was an example of a true wife and mother, and for the many rare virtues she possessed will long be held in affectionate remembrance by her numerous friends.
VALUABLE PREMIUMS,- Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS of the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL offer as Premiums, for new subscribers, STEINWAY'S PIANOS, MASON & HAMLIN'S MRLODEONS; WHEELER & WILSON'S EMPIRE, WEED'S and WILCOX, & GIBBS'S SEWING MACHINES; DALTON'S KNITTING MACHINES; Choice LIBRABY Books, and CABINETS of BUSTS. A new volume of the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL commences with January. It is a beautifully illustrated monthly, devoted to Physiognomy, Ethnology, Physiology, and Phrenology, and is the only serial of the kind in the world. Terms: $2 a year. Sample numbers 20 cents. Now is the time to subscribe, and to form clubs. Send stamp for particulars to FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y.
NOTICE- All Pledges and Subscriptions at any time made to, or in behalf of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and not yet paid, are now fully due. All persons so indebted are earnestly requested to make payment, without delay, to the Treasurer, E. D. DRAPER, or to the General Agent, SAMUEL MAY, JR., addressing either at Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
Those of our subscribers who do not file their papers, and who may have one or more of the numbers named below, will much oblige us by sending them to our office, in order to enable, us to complete our files:-Oct. 23, Nov. 20, Dec .4, and Dec.11, 1863; Oct. 7 and Nov. 11, 1864; Jan. 27, March 27, Nov. 3, Dec.1, and Dee. 3,Dec.8, 1865.
FOR THE YEAR 1866!
"THE COMMONWEALTH,"
BOSTON, MASS.,) 
Is an independent Republican
ANTI-SLAVERY JOURNAL,
Giving attention, also, to LITERATURE, ART and NEWS.
Close observance will be had of the Issues pertaining to the settlement of the great civil contest.
TERMS: $ 3.00 per annum. Subscriptions received for six months. Specimen copies sent gratis on application.
CHARLES W. SLACK,
EDITOR AND PUBLISHER,
S. Brownfield Street, Boston.
A NEW RELIGIOUS MAGAZINE.
The Radical
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY S. H. MORSE,
BOSTON, MASS.
THE publication of THE RADICAL was commenced in obedience to a recognized need for a popular Magazine which should be devoted to the discussion and presentation of the advanced religious convictions of the present time. The encouraging response which has already greeted the publisher, from a large number of people, in all parts of the country, is the assurance that the publication was well timed.
THE RACICAL, is a Magazine presenting the thoughts of able and disinterested writers. It has no sectarian hiss, but welcomes truth from whatever source it may come, "It is," as a city journal has stated," a Magazine, for all people who are not too closely wedded to their own ideas to tolerate freedom of inquiry and earnest discussion."<illegible>
The following writers, among others, are engaged as regular or occasional contributors:
Rev. JOHN WEIES.ROBERT .MOORE.
Rev. SAMUEL JOHNSON.. MYRON BENTON,.
Rev. D. A. WASSON. Rev. D. H. MONTGOMERY.
Rev. ROBERT COLLYTER Rev. J. C. LEARNED
Rev. J. K. HOSMER. Rev. J.B. MASVTER
Rev. JOHN .W. CHADWICK. Rev. M. D. CONWAY.
Rev. JOHN SAVARY. Rev. SAMUEL <illegible>
Rev. EVERETT FINLEY . Rev. EDWARD C. TOWER.
Rev. SILAS FARRINGTON. HENRY JAMES
Rev. FRED. MAY HOLLAND. T. W. HIGGINSON. 
C. K. WHIPPLE. Rev. O.B. <ILLEGIBLE>
Rev. F. R. ABBOT .Rev. W. H<illegible>
S. H. MORSE, EDITOR.
TERMS: Single subscriptions, Two Dollar's a year. Single copies 20 cents. United States bills preferred.
Address, S.H. MORSEN, at HAVERHILL, MASS. Send 20 cents for specimen numbers.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
A FAREWELL TO THE LIBERATOR.
Good bye, old friend! thine honest fine
Will come to cheer our homes no more!
Long shall we miss thy weekly call,
So dearly prised in days of years.
Earnest and plain thy teachings were;
No love of power or place was thine;
Thou knelt alone at Truth's fair shrine.
Humanity's warm heart of love
Unto thy words gave living power;
To Right and duty ever tree,
Thou failed not in the trial-hour.
Thy work, so well and nobly one,
Will ever live on History's page;
Thy prophet-teachings treasured be,
As warnings to the coming age.
Again, dear friend, we say good bye!
And may God bless that spirit brave,
Which ever battled for the right,
In early manhood's freshest glow,
Unto the work his life he gave;
He sought not praise, nor feared he blame;
He labored for the suffering slave,
He saw the tares where wheat should grow,
And calmly he went forth to toil;
And from the vineyard plucked the weeds,
And planted TRUTH upon the soil.
The Master hath his servant blessed;
Now that his autumn days have come,
Behold the priceless harvest sheaves
He beareth onward to his home!
While blessing rest upon his path,
For him Fame's laurel wreath is twined;
And ever will his memory live
As one who loved and served mankind.
Brooklyn, N. Y. CARRIE.

SALAVERY'S FUNERAL MARCH
BY J. C. HAGAN.
Hark! the mournful bells are tolling 
Funeral dirges for the dead!
Hark! the muffled drums are rolling!
Mark the mourner's measured tread!
Serfs, whose bonds now rent asunder,
Once believed he could not die,
Now behold, with awe and wonder,
Slavery's funeral marching by!
All earth's tribes are mutely gazing 
On the pageant stern and dread,
Or to Heaven their thanks are raising
That man's deadliest foe is dead.
And well may they gaze-for never
Mortal saw such funeral train;
And no living mortal ever
May behold the like again.
Men are there, of lofty station,
Statesmen famed for wisdom rare,
Woe predicting to the nation,
With their god no longer there.
Judge and priest the pageant gracing,
Bearers of the pall appear,
And with paces grave are placing
Chain and scourge upon the bier.
With their blood-stained banners trailing,
And with arms reversed they go,
Their lost idol's doom bewailing
More in anger than in woe.
Freedom's friends in vain had striven
Long to strike the fatal blow,
When a fiery bolt from Heaven
Laid the hated monster low.
Thought his friends the corpse may follow,
Other hands the grave have made,
Vault so deep and dark and hollow
Never was dug by pick and spade.
No true heart to sing his praises,
Or to pray for him, may be;
While the monument Time raises
But records his infamy.
-N. Y. Christian Inquirer.
THANKSGIVING SONG
Thanksgiving for our peace-
The Nation join the strain;
The march of blood and pomp of war
We will not have again!
Let fruit trees crown our fields,
And flowers our valleys fair;
And on our mountain steeps the songs
Of happy swains be there!
Our maidens shall rejoice,
And bid the timbrel sound;
Soft dreams no more shall broken be
With drums parading round.
The rider and his steed,
Their path of fame is o'er:
The trumpet and the trumpeter
Shall squadrons rouse no more.
No fields of victory won
With blade and battle brand:
A nobler triumphs call be own-
A bright and happy land!
Long Slavery's bloody hand
Hath ruled without control;
Nor widow's tears nor orphan's sighs
Could touch his iron soul!
But, lo! the mighty's fallen-
And from his lefty brow
The chaplet fades that circled there-
Where are his trophics now?
But all his trappings past-
Vain pomp of bye gone years-
To ploughshares grind the pointed swords,
To pruning-hooks the spears!
Then earth shall yield her fruits-
The seasons forth shall bring,
And summer fair shall pour her sweets
Into the lap of Spring!
While Autuma mellow comes
With full and liberal hand,
Thanksgiving then shall fill each hearts
Through all the happy land.
T GILFILLIN
CALL THE ROLL.
BY BARAN T. BOLTON
Who is ready for the onset?
Who with helmet, sword and shield,
will go forth to conquer error,
On life's battle-seld?
Who will strike at Superstition,
In his goblin-haunted cell,
And unloose the myried victims
Fettered by his spell?
Call the roll.
Who will strive, on God relying,
With unwavering faith and hope,
To pull down the gory scaffold,
And the gallows rope?
Who will break the yoke of bondage,
And unbar the prison door,
Saying to the trumbiling sinner,
Go and sin no more?
Call the roll.
Who, forgetting self, will listen
To sweet charitys appeal-
Who will labour for the lowly
With untiring seal?
Casting bread upon the <illegible>
Not for human posion.
<c02>
Trusting Heaven again to find it
After many days?
Call the roll.
Who will pat what God has given 
Wisely to the noblest use;
Who will clothe the homeless orphan,
Fill the widow's cruise,
 And, like him of old Samaria, 
Help the stranger in his need, 
Reckless of his name and nation, 
Reckless of his creed?
Call the roll.
Who, that finds a child of sorrow,
Heir to penury and woe,
Will not tarry to inquire
What has made him so,
Ere he freely shares a pittance
From his meagre, hard-earned store, 
Or bestows a cap of water, 
If he can no more?
Call the roll.
Who, when slander's tongue is busy
With an absent neighbor's name, 
Will excuse his faults and failings,
And defend his fame?
Who will views poor human nature
Only on the brightest side, 
Leaving God to judge the evil 
Charity would hide?
Call the roll.

THE TRUTH.
BY JOEL BENTON.
An arrowy shaft of lightning flame,
Forth from unlettered lips it came;
Winds bore it, and the songs of birds;
It clove its way in burning words,
And, on a holy mission sent,
Through languages and lands it went.
Some heard it, but they did not heed;
Some welcomed, and performed its deed;
Some fought it, and were stricken dumb,
They knew not what a power had come,
And, struggling to eclipse the light,
Were crushed by its resistless might.
An aureole in TRUTH'S fair crown,
It smoke the sturdiest foeman down;
No arts, nor arms, nor craft, nor force,
Availed to check its onward course.
It barbed the hero's scorn of wrong,
The poet shaped it in his song;
It nerved the speaker on the stage,
With it the author warmed his page;
And hoary error sbrank away,
Dazzled and blinded by its ray.
O, spark from heaven! touched by thy light,
The furthest hills with day are bright;
New forms of love and beauty rise,
New splendors tint the arching skies,
The ancient wrongs that vex us cease,
We feel the thousand years of peace!
The Liberator.
MR. HEPWORTH'S LECTURE.
On Tuesday evening, last week, the seventh lecture of the Parker Fraternity Course was delivered by Rev. George H. Hepworth, pastor of the Church of the Unity in this city. His subject was-"Our Dangers, and the Way through them."
Though the war has ceased, Mr. Hepworth said, we are still in the very midst of our great contest. The sword is sheathed, but our chief danger has just commenced; and we shall be flanked and defeated unless we establish the policy of universal freedom-unless we so reconstruct the South as to make her own interest depend on the granting of full justice to her black population. A conqueror should be generous, but self-preservation requires that he should disarm a foe whose spirit of hostility remains in full vigor. If with weak-hearted magnanimity we assume that the South will use aright all the power that is given her, we shall make a woful mistake. We must hang the rebel debt, the Southern black laws and Jeff. Davis on the same sour-apple tree.
Mr. Hepworth went on to speak of the cause of our past troubles. The North was not guiltless in the matter. All along, she had joined the South in supporting slavery; and even after the war commenced, our success was delayed two years because we believed in Union more than in anything else. Not until the WORD FREEDOM was spoken did our position improve. Our success is due to change of the relation of master and slave to that of man and man.
Two golden opportunities have been given our Government in this war, which it has failed to take full advantage of. First, when President Lincoln had the power to proclaim a complete instead of a partial emancipation; second, when President Johnson had the power to enforce a republican form of government by giving the suffrage to all the men of the Southern States. Still, in allotting blame, we must remember that the President is but the agent of the people. Mr. Johnson is not blameless, but the main responsibility does not rest upon him. We are in fault. we are not equal to the emergency. Even the infamy of Pierce and Buchanan was the infamy of the people, and of North as well as South.
Still, we need not despair. We have now the Ratification of the Constitutional Amendment, the abolition of slavery by Constitution and law throughout the land. There is but one step more to be taken, and that is to make the black man a citizen in all his rights, including the right to vote. And this point is to be decided, not by the President, not even by Congress, but by the people. If but one side is to be allowed to vote in the South, in God's name let it be the loyal black, and not the disloyal white. In settling this matter we should be as strict as truth, and as stern as justice; and we should postpone mercy to the guilty until it can be shown without injury to the Republic. The Prodigal Son was received because he came back penitent. Let the South be thus received when she shows herself penitent, and not before.
At several points in this lecture, the speaker was warmly applauded by the audience.
The President of the Fraternity, before the lecture, read a letter from Theodore Tilton of the Independent, declining to fulfil his engagement to lecture next Tuesday evening, and giving as an excuse the statement that in the Present national crisis his whole time was required for his editorial duties.-C.K.W.
"UNUTTERABLE MEANNESS."
Among all the base things done or crimes committed by Southerners under the divine institution, there is none that will compare with the "unutterable meanness" of the resolutions introduced into the Florida Convention, to the effect that all colored children born of parents "who have not lived together, and held themselves out as man and wife," shall be declared illegitimate. Surely, the crimes of our erring brethren are equalled only by their impudence. They whose institutions and customs, whose very laws were calculated to act aside the sacred ties between man and wife, who dragged the husband off to the auction-block and demoralized the wife, whose morality has been worse than that of the French aristocracy in the time of Louis XV., dare to declare those children illegitimate whose parents have not hold themselves as man and wife. And for fear that these immoral parents should not be able to provide for their children, or that these should be influenced by any "moral sontamisation." as South Cariolina <illegible> express it, said children are to be bound out as appreatices to their former masters, or
<c03>
any other Southern gentlemen, where, of course, they will be instructed in all that is good and true, in honor and morality, in joyality to their future husband or wives, lest they become as immoral as their parents; and in loyalty to the government lest they should one day think of committing that "most odious" of crimes which is called treason. They will be taught that murder is a sin, lest they should ever, think of imbruing their hands in brother's blood, or dream of assassinating a President of the United States. Our "wayward sisters" intend to become moral models henceforward. There will be no more disorder, no lawlessness, no vagrancy. For this purpose, "any person able to work or otherwise to support himself in a reputable way," who is found strolling idly about, or "leading an idle immoral or profligate course of life," is to be indicted for vagrancy, and on his failing to give security for his" good behavior and future industry for one year," he is to pay a fine of five hundred dollars, be imprisoned fro twelve months, or be sold for the same length, of time. For once the chivalty have been liberal. The odious word "black" does not appear in this statue. It is not said" any black person, leading an idle, profligate or immoral life," but any person. "I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word." "Any person leading an idle, profligate or immoral life. "Let us put that touchstone to Southern men. Let as sell all who have led" idle, profligate or Immoral lives," and see bow many then retain their freedom. We shall see who leads the most immoral life; the planter who has all his life-time stolen the God-given rights of men, who sells his own children, and whips their mother to death, the ex-rebel who shoots and chests his freedmen, or the ex slave who steals the necessaries of life, and wanders about the country in search of employment, after refusing to be "apprenticed" to his former master. Who it the most immoral, "reconstructed" white " loyalists," or ignorant black people who have stood faithful to the government through fire and blood,—the oppressor or the oppressed? Gov. Parsons, of Alabama, complimented the legislature of Alabama upon the " lofty patriotism and enlightened statesmanship with which they had recognized the fact that slavery was destroyed by the result of the war." The people of the South have involved the country in a bloody war. They have struck at the national life, and committed the " most odious of all crimes." But it is " lofty patriotism and enlightened statesmanship" to accept, without going to another war, the results of that most odious crime. Yet President Johnson is right in pardoning them. For we know of a crime still more odious than treason. It is called reconstruction. We know of a tin which includes every other,—which is a wrong against every widow and orphan, against every hero sleeping in the ground, against every loyal person, and an insult to every intelligent man in the country. It is called reconstruction. What has Congress to say to this "unutterable meanness "!

GEORGE THOMPSON AT HEW BRIGHTON.
NEW RRIOHTOK, (Pa.) Dec 12, I865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY HONORED FRIEND—I have just returned from listening to a lecture by the Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, given in the Methodist Protestant Church in this place. His subject was, "The Story of my Life from year to year."
It was the first time I bad ever the pleasure of hearing this moral warrior; and to those of at, especially, who had been cognizant of tome of the most trying event in his reformatory career, it was truly gratifying to see and hear the man, to long the victim of misapprehension and persecution in this country, and to listen from his lips to a discourse so replete with thought, with troth, with incident, and with the experiences of hit eventful and heroic life. What a contrast, his present reception to oar shores, with his former visits! Them, be came at one crying in the wilderness, " Prepare ye the way for Liberty— make straight the paths of Justice, and that avert the storms of retribution gathering, and threatening to pour down desolation and ruin upon your slaveholding land! " He was then branded as a meddler and an incendiary, his life imperilled, and to save which, his friends advised him to flee the country. AW, he comet at a triumphal conqueror—the nation's 1 honored guest—none the less the unflinching advocate of universal liberty—none the lest unwilling to compromise with oppression; but hailed with Wettings instead of curses, with welcomes and congratulations instead of scoffings and revilings! Slavery as met its doom! And thus shall it ever be:
"For Truth shall conquer at the last:
So round and round we run;
And ever the right comes uppermost,
And ever it justice done."
In the course of his lecture, Mr. Thompson paid a noble tribute to the "Clarkton of America," who, thirty-five years ago, sent out his little sheet from an obscure garret in Boston, and to which the million voices now heard all over the land, in condemnation ' of the system, then to strongly fortified in Church ' and State, are but the echoes of the solemn and ear-' nest utterances of the dauntless Liberator.
And now, as the year wanes to its close, it stands the parting dirge of that great-hearted journal, whose r specific mission having been accomplished, now withdraws from the conflict," fall of years and full of honors. "In taking my leave of the Liberator, at an occasional correspondent, of the friends who have stood by it, through evil and through good report, I can only ' say that the good accomplished cannot now be estimated, bat will become more and more apparent in the grand working out of results in the far after-time,-when those who were faithful to the cause of the oppressed will be reaping their reward in the climea of the Blest, and be held in everlasting remembrance by those for whom they toiled.
Though the Liberator now ceases to exist, I know he who has piloted It to heroically and successfully through the surging seas for thirty-five yean, will not retire from his labors in the cause of God and Humanity, bat will continue faithful in the sphere of action which seems to him most fitting and important, and thereby add to the gems — already many —in his crown of life.
"Lo! I see long blissful ages,
When these Mammom-days are done, 
Stretching like a golden evening
Forward to the setting sun."
Adieu. waning year! Adieu, brave Liberator! Adieu, beloved and noble Garrison!,
Thine, "through sunshine, storm and snows,"
MILO A. TOWXSEND.
COLORED AND " CONTRABAND SCHOOLS AT WASHINGTON. Within the area of which the National Capitol is the centre, there are. it is believed, at the pre sent time, no lest than forty thousand colored people four-fifths of whom were slaves at the opening of the rebellion. Among this population there are now in operation fifty-three schools, under the instruction of one hundred and twelve teachers, (many from New England—principally from Massachusetts and Maine,) with a total of 5618 scholars in November, and an average daily attendance of 4223. There are also, in addition to these day schools, fifteen evening schools for adults in Washington, three at Giesboro Point two at Alexandria and one in Georgetown, embracing at least one thousand men and women. There are moreover, three industrial schools for the instruction of colored women in the work and duties of a household.
DEPARTURE OF A SOUTHERN COLONY TO BRAZIL 
The Mobile Register of Saturday hut announce the at departure of Major Hastings and his colony for Brazil the most wealthy citizens. The Register depleres their departure, of course. We fell last the other way, and have no doubt that it is the general opinion <illegible>that they belong to the class who "left their country for their country's good."
<c04>
LAST LETTER OF THE <illegible>.
<illegible> be <illegible> that, <illegible> on Saturday, the finding and the <illegible> of the <illegible> of the <illegible> and an <illegible> of the <illegible> West India <illegible> wre set <illegible> to <illegible> said, <illegible> What does this <illegible> and rebel do? He calls <illegible> and paper, and writen the following <illegible> Christian letter to his wife:
MY BELOVED WIFE <illegible> has just <illegible> kind enouth to inform me that the <illegible> on Saturday last has <illegible> me to he hung, and that the <illegible> is to be excepted in and hour <illegible> that I shall <illegible> from this world of sin <illegible>. I regret that my worldly affairs are so deranged; but now it cannot be helped. I do not deserve this sentence, for I never advised or took part in any insurrection. All I ever did was to recommend the people who complained to seek redress in a legitimate way; and if in this I <illegible> or have been misrepresented, I do not think I deserve the <illegible> sentence. It is, however, the will of say Heavenly Father that I should thus suffer in obeying His command, to relieve the poor and needy, and to protect, as far as I was able, the oppressed. And glory be to His name; and I thank Him that I suffer in such a cause. Glory be to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ; and I can say it a great honor thus to suffer, for the servant is not greater than his Lord. I can now say with Paul, the aged, " The hour of my departure it as hand, and I am ready to be offered up. I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, and henceforth there is laid up far me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me." Say to all friends an affectionate farewell, and that they must not grieve for me, for I die innocently. Assure Mr. Airy and all others of the truth of this. Comfort your heart. I certainly little expected this. You mutt do the best you can, and the Lord will help you, and do not be ashamed of the death your poor husband will have suffered. The judges seemed against <illegible>; and from the rigid manner of the court, I could not get in all the explanation I intended. The man Anderson made an unfounded statement, and to did Gordon; but his testimony was different from the deposition. The judges took the former and erased the latter. It neemed that I was to be sacrificed. I know nothing of the man Bogie. I never advised him to the act or acts which have brought me to this end. Please write to Mr. Chamerovzow, Lord Brougham, and Messrs. Hencknell and Du Buisson. I did not expect that, not being a rebel, I should have been tried and disposed of in this way. I thought hit Excellency the Governor would have allowed me a fair trial, if any charge of sedition or inflammatory language were partly [fairly?] attributable to me; but I have no power control. May the Lord be merciful to him. Gen. Nelson, who has just come for me, has faithfully promised to let you have this. May the Lord bless him, and all the soldiers and sailors, and all men. Say farewell to Mr. Phillips, also to Mr. Lieard, Mr. Bell, Mr. Vinon, and Mr. Henry Dulasse, and many others whom I do not now remember, but who have been true and faithful to me. As the General has come. I must close. Remember me to Aunt Eliza in England, and tell her not to be ashamed of my death. Now, my dearest one, the most beloved and faithful, the Lord bless, help, preserve, and keep you. A kiss for dear Mamma, who will be kind of you and Jane. Kiss also Annie and Jane. Say good-bye to dear Mr. Davison, am all others. I have only been allowed one hour. I wish more time had been allowed. Farewell also to Mr. Expent, who sent up my private letter to him. And now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with us all. 
Tour truly devoted and now nearly dying hut band, 
G. W. GORDON. 
The case of this Innocent martyr, connected will the recent slaughter of the blacks in Jamaica, is producing great excitement in England. 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 
The regular correspondent of the Daily Advertise writes thus, dating Charleston, Dec. 9: 
Among the more intelligent men of the State to whom travel and study have given a cosmopolitan tinge, sensible views of the situation and the proper policy to be pursued are gaining ground Several gentlemen have said to me privately, that they are satisfied that Divine Providence brought about the late war for the sole purpose of destroy in; slavery, which could be attained by no milder means One officer of the Confederate army, who for seven months gallantly defended Fort Sumter, avows himself in favor of a suffrage founded upon intelligence and a property qualification, without regard to color. The chairman of the South Carolina delegation to the President declares his belief that emancipation has already increased the self-respect of the negroes; and many very prominent planters: hitherto successful in their bonnet's, are of opinion that the negroes, if properly paid and well treated will work under the new system. These opinions honestly held by natives of the South, afford good groundwork for patriotism and a friendly feeling towards the North. This might be fostered by pecuniary assistance judiciously extended to such men in the form of loans, which would do treble work, re-opening agricultural operations, in affording cash wages to the freedmen, and in assuring a supply of the Southern staples next year. It should not be concealed, however, that there is a wide spread and hardly latent enmity towards every thing and every man of Northern origin. The only sure was of checking and counteracting this spirit is allude to by the President in his message. "Peaceful emigration to and from that portion of the country lately in rebellion is one of the best means that can be thought of for the restoration on harmony.' A influx of the bone and sinew of the old free State will strengthen whatever good feeling already exist here, and assure future fidelity to the Union. No man of decent tongue need fear to enter Soot Carolina as a traveller or a settler. If he brings money or muscle to assist in the resurrection of the State, he will be welcome; and although he may bear much to displease him, and may meet many disagreeable obstacles in one way or another they would serve only to stimulate the native obstinacy and perseverance of the emigrating Anglo Saxon race. There are many gaps in the agricultural system of this State, especially, into which Yankee might step. One such opens on Edisto Island, where the negroes, incensed at the restoration of the land to their former owners, refuse to enter into contracts with them. Many of to plantations are, therefore, offered for rent at reasonable rates. Brevet Brigadier General Beecher has recently been sent to the island to prevent disturbances, and has issued an order forbidding all persons from visiting the island without proper passes and offering a guard from his headquarters <illegible> owners who desire to attempt overtures to the workmen. Governor Aiken, in company with son officers of our army, visited on Thursday last his rice plantations on Jehossce Island, in order to attempt some arrangement for work during the coming season. The negroes utterly refused to come to any terms, and begged an officer of General Sickles staff, who was with that party, "to sea de gubbermint, and ax him of he wouldn't sell de Ian', as leff um to pay sum udder time, an ef we don't pay in-two year, den he may take um back." Unwilling to give up that hope of lands which has its birth in General Saxton's measures and General Sherman's colonization order, these poor people declare their determination to "work for no rebels. There are rumors of their being armed or resistance, but it is believed by their friends in this city that they intend no violence, but will remove in body to the mainland, if the land-owners return the islands. 
The planters of Marlborough District have recently held a meeting, and adopted <illegible> requesting a speedy withdrawal of the <illegible> forces—or if they should be retained, a <illegible> upon the freedmen to contract with their form masters. They resolve not to rant or sell land to <illegible> freedmen, and piteoulsly invoke the authorities "to recognize the fact that no system can secure <illegible> where the discipline and management of the freedmen is entirely taken out of the hands of the <illegible>. In this connection it may be staled <illegible> the <illegible> where the <illegible> desire the removal of the United States forces, <illegible> in the low-country, the planters, very <illegible> bared by the negroes, and <illegible> their ignorance and <illegible> with <illegible> retained throughout the coming years.
<c05>
THE OLD SLAVERHOLDING SPIRIT.
<illegible> <illegible> at the South of the New York <illegible> in a letter <illegible> the following <illegible> <illegible> 
when I meet the <illegible> and <illegible>, when I <illegible> my beast <illegible> best when I <illegible> these <illegible>, my blood <illegible> And these civil <illegible> and set the individual people, <illegible> with when <illegible> is to <illegible>. Gen. <illegible> is very good, his heart is right; but I am afraid these <illegible> will <illegible> it, especially <illegible> I see how <illegible> the plan is executed by the judiciary. Much <illegible> must be made for unpunished crime, much for the fact that ideas of civil justice to negroes are strange ideas in them parts. One of these justices whipped his own negro not long since. A planter this last week knocked a negrowith paddle, from which blow he lay <illegible> for two days; and when the <illegible> who had bought the plantation went <illegible> the hands, he could not get at these, but learned afterward that the reason was that he had threatened to shoot them if they told the fact to this Yankee, who brings the story. At the office of the Bureau in Mobile, I learned that thirty-eight black men had been killed in that district, of six counties, within three months And who ever heard of any single man being hang for these murders?
On the last Sabbath of November, the same record shows the following report of crime as against black persons in and near Mobile: Dr. Hall struck "Delia " several times with a whip, and then complained of her for larceny, to avoid complaint against himself; and the court sent her to thirty days of hard labor. James O'Neal cut open the head of Jo. Howard with an axe, in the presence of the crew and <illegible> board. James Sweeney tried to cut the throat of John Hazel, who was asleep, and failing in that, cut him over the forehead and stabbed him in the eye. McDaniels, with a shot-gun, shot at Henry Bolings, on his way to church, because, when cursed for going through an alley, he replied, " This is a highway." George W. Davies tried to kill Starr with stones and brick bats, and left his head in a jelly. Henry Downs beat the boys P. Gould, N. Gould, and Jesse Ripley, on their way to church. Sibley, Stark, and Wadkins shot and killed Alfred Bufford and another negro, and wounded Puffer, because they would notsubmit to be tied op, when there was no civil process in the case.
In Choctaw County, Ala., not long since, a company of black people were waiting at the landing to go down the river. They saw Bill Odam coming; all ran into the woods but a woman with her children, who thought sex and innocence would protect them. Where are you going? Down the river, ain't you, to the-Yankees?" Yes, sir." "I'll show you the way through hell" He drew his bowieknife, cut her throat, that of the girl, nine years old, that of the boy, seven, then threw the dead bodies into the river, and the live baby after them. On the Tombigbee a woman and two children were nailed into a hen-coop, and thrown into the river. At Claiborn, on the river, below this city, six or seven negroes were killed at different times. Three negroes were sleeping in a corn-crib. Planter Dudley came up in early morning, called them out, shot two with a double barrelled gun, and another man shot at the third, who escaped, and before the superintendent of freedmen testified that he saw Dudley kill them; and yet, when turned over to the civil court, he was cleared, and has now run away, and the military are trying to rearrest him. Four miles from Claiborn a father, a mother, a daughter of seventeen, a boy, and a baby, which was the child of the murderer, were all killed by farmer Sallie, as he was taking them back home after they had tried to get to the Yankees. Three or four of the exslaves who came to the Bureau to complain were his own children. Four companies of colored troops were at Bladen Springs—abused by white citizens, who promised to do better if the troops were removed. The troops were recalled, but Lieut. Slick left behind, sick, with a black guard. Meeting of citizens held; word sent to the Lieutenant to leave in five days; he did so. Same meeting also resolved to notify all white and black persons who had be friended the colored troops to leave in five days; five white families did leave, and many blacks, and two old black men were shot. Do you wish me to stop this horrid recital from official notes? How much worse it is to cudure the reality!
If the legislatures and the murderers will do these things in the green tree, what will they do in the dry? If they do these things while on their good behavior, awaiting their reception in Congress, what will they do when relieved of Federal interference? 

THE LECTURE LAST EVENING. 
The City Hall, last evening, was well filled—the best thus far of the course—with an intelligent and fashionable audience, drawn together by the announcenment that the third lecture of the Independent, series was to be delivered by Mrs. FRANCES E. HARPER, a colored lady. Mrs. Harper is of mixed blood, ' perhaps with as large an infusion of the dark current as courses through the veins of Frederick Douglass; and though of genteel appearance and quite good-looking, the African features are distinctly visible.
After a song from Shaw's Quartette, she was introduced to the audience by M. A. Blanchard, Esq.,-and received with applause. She spoke for nearly an, hour and a half, her subject being " The Mission of the War, and the Demands of the Colored Race in the Work of Reconstruction," and we have seldom seen an audience more attentive, better pleased, or more enthusiastic. Mrs. Harper has a splendid srticulation, uses chaste, pure language, has a pleasant voice, and allows no one to tire of hearing her. We shall attempt no abstract of her address; none that we could make would do her justice. It was one of which any lecturer might feel proud, and her reception by a Portland audience was all that could be desired. We have seen no praises of her that were overdrawn. We have heard Miss Dickinson, and do not hesitate to award the palm to her darker colored sister. Unlike Miss D., she does net scold. she does not betray weakness, but from beginning to end maintains the interest that her list sentences encourage the audience to expect.
Some of her hits were capital. She said the people might call her "nigger" till their tongues were if tired, she would not care so long as the laws would not allow them to treat her as a "nigger." She had lived in Ohio, in a neighborhood called copperhead, where there were said to be but two Republicans, and she had found some Republicans that were meaner than the people of that neighborhood. Speaking of social equality, she said she should consider it a great hardship to have a law that would compel her to a associate with some white people she had known. These will do for specimens of the juicy hits with which she enlivened her remarks. 
She referred to a date of Rip Van Winkles who, during four years of war, had torgottas nothing, and who seemed not to have heard that Judge Taney is dead! The address was instructive, pathetic, often tender, but yet enlivened by keen wit, and in all respects free from dullness.—Portland Daily Press.
This handsome and well-merited tritute to Mrs. HAPPER, as a highly effective and eloquent lecture, we trust will bring her many lecturing invitations, especially from lyceum committees.
STATES OR NOT STATES? The present condition of the seceded States seems to be a source of hones puzzlement to some, and of mischievous misrepresentation to others. It is said, for instance, that they seem to be regarded by the Administration as not Status enough to have representatives in Congress, and yet States enough to have their ratification of the Constitutional Amendment insisted upon. Thus they are held to be States for one class of purposes and not for another, which wears a look of suspicious inconsistency.
But upon the plain theory held by Presidents Lincoln and Johnson, there would seem to be no difficulty in the matter. The seceded States have never been out of the Union, but their relations of loyalty have been interrupted, and will not be fully and completely restored untill their Senators and Representatives are received again in Congress. In the mean time, they may perform any act which belongs to the constitutional functions of the State, and though it will not have vitality at once, it will become vitalined by the process of <illegible> Not only the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment, but the election of members of Congress and State officers, and, ion fact, the whole <illegible> of the State, wait for that process to endow them with legal life and <illegible>, It is precisely as the <illegible> of a deed relates instantly back to the date of the instrument, and imparts its efficacy to the whole intervening period. we do not imagine, then, that South <illegible> of the Constistional Amendment is operative her, any more than the elections of her Congressmen; but when the latter are admitted, then both become valid, as well as all other acts proper is a State which she may have done <illegible> her falt powers were in abeyances.-Boston Journal.
<c06>
The Most Wonder Invention of the Age!
'MORRILLS'S PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOK, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS;
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the even in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt not dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are "done to a turn."
Broiling;—Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language,

"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler," which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in iron heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,—the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in god weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economys and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum coasting less by one fourth than gas at two dollars our thousand feet, while the performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,—families with children needing instant fire at night,—mechanies wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes time after lighting the fire,—housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,—country houses,—in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.] CHARLESTOWN, May 24,1865.
MR. Moore—Having fully tested the Erovaporcooking Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinity more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail any particular in being all that can reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use. JOSEPH CHEEVER, M.D
{From MR. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the Eating Establishment, Nos.37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
Boston, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE <illegible>:
DEAR SIR—Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to hear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purpose. It hakes biscuits and broils steakes splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is <illegible> for it. 
Wishing you every success, I remal yours, truly, EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C.Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Charch, South Reading, Mass.]
South Reading, Mass., May 29,1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:—
Fro several weeks my family have been testing the <illegible> and economy of your "single burners," and find that for the common purposed of a family it excels everything else of the kind-we <illegible> ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us<illegible>one-forth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a commonstove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef of beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I interd to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals I have had no experience in the use of the "double barner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Charch.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR—After a brief experience with your sters, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For banking, it answers better than any store or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J.P.CUSHMAN.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1863.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observations.
Yours, &c., S.A BATTISON.
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mr. Washington, N.E.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messrs. E.D. & G. Draper, Manufacturers, <illegible> dale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent "<illegible> Stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested in merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaistance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summit cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E.D. & G. DRAPER
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, 1865.
BOSTON, August 10, 1863.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.,
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petrolium Stoves." I would here state that it works admiraly, and like it much. I have been a house keeper more that forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparants, such as ranges cook-stoves, & c., but have never found say thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and not steak, while a person would be building a five in a ranger. We have used ours since early in June, and have and found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there a nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies
Yours, truly, V.H. HEWES,
 No.3 Tremont Place.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
FOR THE SPEEDY CURE OF 
Intermittent Fever, or Fever and Ague, Remittent fere chill Fever, Dumb Ague, and Periodical Headache of Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary deragreement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries
FEVER and Ague is not the only consequence of the misamatic poison. A great variety of disorders since from its irritation, in malarious districts, among which we Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Gout, Headache, Blindness, Toothache, Earache, Catarrh, Asthma, Palpitation, Poison, Affection of the Splean, Hysterics, Pain in the Dooks Colic, Paralysis, and Deranggment of the Stomach, all of which, when originating in this cause, put on the interestent type, or become periodical. This "cure" expels the poison from the blood, and thus cures them all alike. It is not only the most effectual remedy ever discovered for the class of complaints, but it is the cheapest, and moreover perfectly safe. No harm can arise from its use, and the patient, when curved, is left as healthy us if he had never had the disease. Can this be said of any other cure the Chills and Fever? It is true of this, and its important to these afflicted with the complaint cannot be over estimated. So sure is it to cure the Fever and Ague, that a may be truthfully said to be certain remedy. One Desist complains that it is not a good medicine at the sell, because our battle cares a whole neighborhood.
Prepared by J.C. AYER& Co., Lowell, Mass., and said by all Druggists.

PRINTING MATERIAL FOR SALE.
TWO fouts of Long Primer, of about 300 pounds and one shome-what worn, the other quite good, and <illegible> of Minion and Small pica, are for sale at this ellen very low, for each. Also, imposing stones, sticks, galley, &c.-the usual material of a newspaper office.
