THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT THE
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT,, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square Inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHIIBRICK, and WENDELL, PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, out Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON &SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 21.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 27. 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1594.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
THE ABOLITIONISTS AGAIN.
When men are excessively violent and vituperative, they are generally supposed to be in a bad way. Frantic vehemence usually springs from extreme desperation. Judged by this principle, the ultra Abolitionists, now in session in this city, must be particularly hard pressed. They are as rancorous and abusive as if they were on the point of utter annihilation. Their speeches sound more like the <illegible> of Bedlamites than the utterances of men seeking the accomplishment of a practical object. Garrison, Pillsbury and Phillips,-the stock actors of the troupe, who have regularly amused the public for twenty years with their tirades,-uttered their bulls of excommunication yesterday against every thing and every body but themselves. They denounced the Union, the Church, the Republican party, the Tract Society and Senator Seward, in good set terms,-but reserved their choicest vials of wrath for Dr. Cheever and Mr. Beecher. They have aid on this occasion from abroad. First, they present an affectionate exhortation from two or three thousand persons in an interior town of England, who are very anxious that the Abolitionists should instantly part an end to Slavery in America. Next they have a similar request from a party in Belgium; and, finally, a letter from the Italian apostle of assassination-Mazzini. These are not in themselves very formidable backers,-but, for lack of better, they serve a turn.
The Tribune seems envious of the reputation  of these eminent exhorters, in the matter of logic. In an article, yesterday, upon the American Tract Society, it thus convicts that thriving establishment of special and exclusive responsibility for all the evils of Slavery:
'We shall not stop to prove, by an elaborate argument, that by this step, deliberately taken, the Society have, on their own showing, voluntarily assumed the part of him who knows his master's will, and, for reasons of his own resolves to do it not; or that they have voluntarily incurred a moral responsibility for all the evils and vices that American Slavery is known to promote; that every Bible withheld from the slaves is withheld by them; that in every auction sale of human beings, it is the hammer of the Managers that seals their fate; that whenever a slave woman is flogged, it is the hand of the Managers that wields the lash; that whenever a negro is burned by mobs-and such burnings are becoming common-it is the torch of the Managers that lights the pyre. It is self-evident that every soul, whether of master or of slave, that lives in ignorance and crime, and dies in darkness, in consequence of the unchecked evils and vices of Slavery, which the Society declines to condemn, thus lives and dies by the voluntary consent and approval of the Managers and their supporters, who, in the name of Evangelical Christianity, have become the aiders and abettors of Southern Slavery as it now exists.'
Such trash as this would not be out of place in one of the Pillsbury harangues, or the Garrisonian diatribes that annually titilate the morbid tastes of our Abolition gatherings:-but it is a little humiliating to find it deliberately served up to the intelligent public in the columns of an ambitious journal like the, Tribune. It would be very easy by the same logic to fasten upon every quiet, well-behaved citizen in the depths of the West, responsibility for the burning of Hebrew widows, or the misconduct and reckless appetites of the Fejee Islanders. Argument of this sort belongs to lunatic asylums and small gatherings of very foolish old women.
The Abolition ultraists are rapidly losing both numbers and importance. Every year they add new names to their list of recreants. Fred. Douglass, who is a sensible, able and practical man, comparatively at least, left them long ago. As other men grow wiser, they grow more frantic and foolish. Mr. Beecher was never fanatical enough to please them, but we supposed that by this time Dr. Cheever had made good his title to full fellowship. He has certainly been sufficiently ultra, intolerant and vituperative even for their taste;-his particular unpardonable sin consists in his continuing to 'clothe himself in the black and bloody garments of the Church.' It may seem strange that orators of this stamp continue to draw audiences. But it is not strange, after all. People go to hear them just as they would go to a bull-baiting, or rat-killing match, if these were respectable. They listen to them just as they read a scurrilous article  in a newspaper-because they relish abuse. Everybody does, more or less,-and almost everybody loves to gratify the appetite if it can be done without loss of standing or character. But not one in ten of those who listen, believe or sympathize with what they hear. So in spite of these meetings we are inclined to think that both the Church and the Union will last a little longer.- N. Y. Times
The American Tract Society on the African Slave Trade- A Great Excitement and a Great Victory.
Read our reporter's report of the lively proceedings of the American Tract Society yesterday on the subject of the African Slave Trade. But these proceedings to the uninitiated reader may still require a word of explanation. First, then, be it understood, that the receipts of this society, amount, in round numbers, to the snug sum of about four hundred thousand dollars a year; that the distribution of this comfortable sum is in the hands of a solid majority of the society, known as the 'ins,' and that the minority, known as the 'outs,' desire to have a finger in the pie. The 'ins' are 'sound on the goose question,' and act upon the sound policy of letting Southern Slavery alone. They are thus enabled to occupy the whole broad fields of the Southern States with their 'colporteurs,' or paid distributors of tracts, and other agents.
The 'outs' think this a great waste of money; and are, therefore, desirous of a split on the negro question, whereby these funds may be more judiciously appropriated nearer home. And so, for some years past, the 'outs' have been laboring, by various devices, to force the Society to the publication of a tract or two on the evils of slavery, which will cut off the Southern States, treasurers, colporteurs &c., from the benefits of the Society's funds, chiefly collected in the North. But the Northern 'ins,' co-operating with the Southern 'ins' of the  Society, have thus far contrived to fight off the <illegible> in every shape, except the African Slave Trade. That issue, therefore, was sprung upon them yesterday, and the sequel will show that even here the 'ins' remain masters of the field. Various nations ordering the publication of a tract on the 'Sin of the African Slave Trade' were strangled without much ceremony, and then to prevent a too violent misconstruction upon the subject, on motion of the Rev. Dr. Spring, the following saving resolution was adopted, to wit:-
Resolved, That in laying the preceding resolutions on the table, the Society have not come to the conclusion from any doubt in relation to the sin of the African slave trade, or the great wickedness of reviving that iniquitous system in any form.
In other words, the Society wish it to be distinctly understood that they consider the African slave trade
<c02>
'a great wickedness ' in any form; but they decline to publish a tract on the subject. But why? For very good reasons. First-Such a publication by the Society would shut the doors of the South in the face of the Society. Secondly-This proceeding would cut off the Southern receivers of the funds of the Society, agents, colporteurs, &c., from the spoils. Thirdly-the colporteurs caught with the publication indicated in their carpet bags, in any Southern State, would be in danger of some unpleasant introduction to Judge Lynch; and lastly, the Northern 'ins' of the Society would be supplanted by the 'outs,' and reduced to the doubtful experiment of an independent conservative Southern tract society. 
The conservative ' ins ' are entitled to great praise for the skill with which they have in this last battle managed to hold the field; but in another year or two, this Society must go the way of the Methodist church, and the Baptist Church, and the Presbyterian church. The nigger issue having been introduced into its councils, the inevitable result, sooner or later, must be a split of the concern into a Northern and Southern Tract Society, and the heavy annual amount of the spoils and plunder-four hundred thousand a year-will only operate to hurry up the final explosion. Our blessed Saviour sent out his disciples without money, and they did their work faithfully; but our modern Christian Societies, with few exceptions, act upon the same fundamental principle that governs our scurvy politicians-to wit: 'the cohesive power of the public plunder.' The Tract Society, upon this great principle, still holds together: but the examples of our Protestant churches and of Tammany Hall tell us plainly enough that there is an explosive (camphene) as well as a cohesive power in the spoils; and that, religious or political, a quarrel over the spoils commenced on the nigger, or any other pretext, must end in a split and a new division of the plunder, or in a general row.-N. Y. Herald.
THE ABOLITIONISTS DOWN IN THE MOUTH.
Of all the benevolent and reformatory societies holding their anniversary meetings in this city this blessed month of May, the poor chop-fallen abolitionists of the Garrison school seem to be in the most uncomfortable condition. They demand the immediate abolition of slavery, but they despair of securing it; they demand the dissolution of the Union, but they cannot discover how it is to be accomplished. They are down upon all political parties-they are down upon all our Christian churches-they are down even upon Dr. Cheever, upon Henry Ward Beecher, the New York and New England Church Anti-Slavery Society-upon every body and every thing, except their own little set of crazy demagogues and fanatics. They do nothing but scold and rant and rave from morning till night; and they scold and rant and rave this year worse than they did last year. But there is still some method in their madness; for, according to their financial returns, they have a surplus over their society's expenses for the last year of twenty four hundred dollars, which shows that they live at least within their means. A part from this saving clause, however, the proceedings of these radical fanatics would justify their seizure and safe-keeping as lunatics, dangerous to the community and each other, if longer suffered to go at large. As it is, these poor abolitionists, having no other power of mischief except their foolish tongues, the community has learned to regard with indifference their incoherent jargon of philanthropy, blasphemy, revolution and stuff and nonsense, satisfied that when they are exhausted, they will adjourn and go home. The Society is made up of the same orators and leaders that have controlled it for in many years; and, from present appearances, when these old fellows slip off the stage, the whole concern will die a natural death. The close of their proceedings yesterday manifested that the Convention was a complete fizzle. The resolutions introduced at the beginning of the proceedings, and which, it may be presumed, were intended to represent the platform, were laid on the table by a very distinct majority vote, and the meeting broke up in a snarl over the anti-slavery orthodoxy of Cheever, the Church Abolitionists, and the Tract Societies.-N. Y. Herald
ALL 'PLAYED OUT.'
The Abolition Anniversaries, this year, are what the play-wrights would call decidedly 'heavy.' The actors are the same old stagers that have been splitting the ears of the groundlings, and making the judicious grieve, these many years past,-and the words that come out of their mouths remind one of the Hard Shell Baptist preacher's ' harp of a thousand strings.' It is utterly impossible for Wendel Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison or Parker Pillsbury to say any thing on the slavery question that they have not said a thousand times before. Garrison, years ago, exhausted his stock of curses for the Constitution; Phillips has no fresh thunderbolts against the Church, George Washington, or Daniel Webster; and as the meek-minded Pillsbury never had more than one idea, it is tolerably certain, from the tenacity with which he hangs on to that one, that he never intends to have a second. Hence we say, Gentlemen, one and all of you are 'played out.' It time you were placed on the pension list at half pay, or that you retired to some nursery for the superannuated.
Nevertheless, our reporters lay before the readers of the Express a tolerably full sketch of all the antique things which these fossil fanatics have to say. It is the duty of the newspaper to print the platitudes of the demented as well as the sayings of the wise,-if for nothing else but to show how many crazy people are running around loose among us.-N. Y. Express.

THE SPLIT AMONG THE FANATICS.
There is an old Spanish proverb which tells us, 'when cronies fall out, truth comes to light.' Its truth is verified in the fact that the fanatical abolitionist cronies have quarreled among themselves, and are beginning to tell the truth about each other.
During the three days' anniversary meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, recently held in this city, the burthen of the discourses of the radical abolitionists was Dr. Cheever and Henry Ward Beecher. It seems that Dr. Cheever is determined to have a Cheshire cheese of his own; and so he has seceded from the American Anti-Slavery Society, and with the assistance of Beecher has set up a Church Anti-Slavery Society, of which he is to stand up, in Congregational black silk, as the head, with Beecher on one hand and somebody else on the other, as supporters. Now, this desertion and attempt at self-glorification by Cheever and Beecher has disgusted the old leaders, Garrison and Wendell Phillips, and they do not hesitate to show it up in its true colors. Phillips, as the thinker, orator and logician of the fanatics, has poured out the vials of his eloquence and wrath upon their heads, and told them a good many home truths, keeping others back, however, which will no doubt be brought forward all in good time; for when cronies fall out, truths are sure to come to light.-N. Y. Herald.
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY.
The annual meeting of the American Tract Society was held in the city of New York on Wednesday, May 11th. Below we give a sketch of its scandalous proceedings, as published in the New York Herald:
The President announced that the next business was the election of officers (exclusive of the Executive Committee), by a vote of the members and directors.
Toe Rev. Dr. McGee offered the following resolution:-
Resolved, That the officers of the society for the ensuing year be the same as those of last year, except that the Hon. William C. Alexander, of New Jersey, be vice-president, and the Rev. Christopher B. Gadsden, of Charleston, South Carolina, be a director, in place of E. F. Bangs, Esq., and Rev. Dr. Johns, deceased.
Mr. R. D. Benedict said he desired to offer a resolution, and have it put before the resolution offered by Dr. McGee, which had not been seconded. (Applause.)
Rev. Mr. Lewis, of Sullivan county, called Mr. Benedict to order, on the ground that his resolution was too late to be received, except by way of amendment. (Cheers.)
Mr. Benedict insisted that his resolution should be first put, and that Dr McGee's motion not having been seconded before he (Benedict) addressed the Chair, was not before the Convention.
The President could not say that Dr. McGee's resolution was seconded before Mr. Benedict rose; if not, the latter gentleman was in order.
Rev. Dr. Murray, sitting on the platform, stated that, immediately upon the reading of Dr. McGee's resolution, he seconded it.
The President (to Mr. Benedict)-Then you are out of order. (Applause, and cries of 'Sit down,' 'Order.')
Rev. Dr. Patten moved that Dr. McGee's resolution be postponed until he could have an opportunity to read another resolution. (Hisses and cries of 'Order!' 'Hear him!')
Dr. Patten-Oh, go on, gentlemen, you wont disturb me in the least. (Cheers and hisses.) My father was one of those that went through the Revolutionary war, and I am not to be frightened off.
A gentleman in the parquette called Dr. Patten to order, because the question on postponement, which he said was not debateable, had not been put.
Dr. Patten insisted that he had a right to speak to his motion to postpone, and read his resolution as a part of his speech. He then proceeded to read, in a stentorian tone, rising above the storm of hisses, the preamble to his resolution, as follows:-
Whereas, The African slave trade is contrary to the first principles of the Gospel and of humanity- (hisses)- evangelical Christians-
Here the storm of mingled applause and hisses drowned Dr. Patten's voice; the President said something which could not be heard by the reporters, and Dr. Patten replied-'Perhaps the President will understand better when he hears the resolution.' Again he essayed to proceed with the resolution, but only the words 'and whereas' were audible, when his voice was again overwhelmed by the uproar.
Rev. Dr. Spring then took the platform, and with great difficulty obtained a hearing. He was understood to say that though he should probably vote against the resolution of Dr. Patten, it was perfectly plain that that gentleman ought to be heard, and had just as good a right to read his resolution as Dr. McGee had. 'Probably I shall vote decidedly against that resolution; but, sir, give every man his rights, and you will find him acting with the society for the promotion of its great objects.'
Dr. Patten then proceeded to read his resolution, as follows:-
Whereas, the African slave trade is contrary to the first principles of the Gospel and of humanity, is condemned by all evangelical Christians, and is repudiated by all Christians and civilized nations; and whereas, there are indications that this system, with all its crimes and horrors, already is, or is about to be, re-opened by adventurers of this country; and whereas, the only effectual barrier to this trade is the moral sense of the community, enlightened by the truths disseminated by the Gospel; therefore,
Resolved, That the Publishing Committee be directed to issue, during the present year, a tract or tracts calculated to arouse and concentrate the religious sentiment of all evangelical Christians against the slave trade, and to set forth its wickedness before the nation.
This, said Dr. Patten, is the resolution which I would propose as the proper resolution to be adopted by this society; and I cannot for one moment feel that there can be much, if any diversity of sentiment with regard to it. Certainly we are not prepared, as a Christian society, to be silent upon this question, when we know there is a prevailing sentiment all over the nation.
The President (interrupting)-Dr. Patten, I must say here, that I do not think there is authority in this Board to instruct the Publishing Committee. They have their duties to perform; and it is not within the province of this meeting to instruct them what to do, therefore I do not consider that the resolution is in order. (Loud applause, and cries of 'Sit down.')
A gentleman in his seat in the parquette moved to lay the resolution on the table.
The President put the motion amid great confusion, and it was carried with a storm of applause and hisses.
Dr. Patten tossed the resolution upon the table, saying:-'There it is, Mr. President, but it will be called up again.' (Applause.)
Rev. Mr. Wolcott, of Providence, R. I.-I move to postpone the resolution offered by Dr. McGee, for another, which is not open to objection. I think the objection of the Chair is sustained. I think the Publishing Committee, to whom an important subject has been entrusted by the constitution, are to use their own discretion in the exercise of their duties; but while I would leave them free to use their own discretion, I propose in connection with the preamble of the resolution just laid on the table, the following resolution:-
Resolved, That the publication during the present year of any well written tract or tracts offered to the Publishing Committee, calculated to arouse and concentrate the religious sentiments of all Christian men against the slave trade, and setting forth its great wickedness before the nation, will meet with the warm approbation of this society.
Mr. President, forty years have passed since the great orator of New England, whose powerful voice is how hushed in silence in that grave in his own State, near which the ocean utters its plaintive moan, standing on the Rock of Plymouth hallo wed by the Pilgrim band, inspired by the free breezes of his own native land, and lifting aloft the glorious banner of freedom, within the hearing of both continents, pronounced against this accursed and inhuman traffic.
Rev. Mr. Alexander-I rise to a question of order. I am sorry to interrupt so much eloquence. (Loud
<c04>
laughter.) I have been listening to it with interest, and on some other occasion I would hear it with great gratification, but my point of order is, whether upon the motion to postpone Dr. McGee's motion, it is in order to discuss the merits of another motion.
The President (to Dr. Patten)-The question is whether Dr. McGee's motion shall be postponed; of course, the merits of your proposition are not to be discussed. (Applause.)
Dr. Patten-I was submitting some reasons for postponing. (Cries of 'question,' 'question.'
A Gentleman in the Parquette-A motion to postpone is of the nature of a motion, to lay on the table, which is not debateable. Such a motion must be put without debate.
Another Gentleman (impatiently)-I move to lay the resolution on the table.
Dr. Patten (testily)-I have not given way for that purpose. (Cries of ' Sit down'-'question,)
The President,-My own idea of the rule is, that you have no right upon a question of this sort to go into the merits of the proposition you offer. If the rule run otherwise, some other man could offer a resolution on another subject postponing yours, and proceed to discuss it, and so on, accumulating questions without end. (Applause and renewed shouts of' question,' ' sit down,' &c.)
The President then put the question on the motion to postpone, and it was lost by a decided majority.
Dr. Patten-I was merely about to state-(Shouts of ' Sit down!' 'down!' 'down!' and a great uproar.)
The resolution offered by Dr. McGee was passed, with very few dissenting voices; and, on motion, the society then took a recess to enable the directors to elect by ballot the Executive Committee.
While members were preparing their ballots, considerable discussion of the slave trade resolutions was going on among members. John Jay, Esq., inquired when it would be in order to offer a resolution before the directors, and the President replied that he could do so as soon as the election was over.
The President announced as the result of the election that the following gentlemen (the regular ticket) had been chosen for the ensuing year, having received 331 votes, and there were 23 scattering votes:-
Executive Committee-Publishing Committee-Rev. David Magie, D. D., Elizabethtown, N. J., 1848; Rev. Wm. R. Williams, D. D., 1848; Rev. Wm. Adams, D. D., 1851; Rev. Benjamin C. Cutler, D.D., 1853; Rev. Nehemiah Adams, D. D., Boston, Mass., 1854; Rev. Thos. DeWitt, D. D., 1858.
Distributing Committee-Wm. Forrest, 1831; Alfred M. Tredwell, 1853; Oliver H. Lee, 1855; Alfred S  Barnes, 1857; Samuel S. Constant, 1858.
Finance Committee-Richard T. Haines, 1825; Moses Allen, 1825; Thomas C. Doremus, 1837; Richard S. Fellowes, 1847; George N. Titus, Esq., 1848 ; Oliver E. Wood, 1849.
The announcement was received with applause.
John Jay, Esq., said, as a life director, he wished to offer the following resolution to the Board of Directors:
Whereas, it was unanimously and solemnly resolved by this society, in 1857, after long and careful deliberation, and in accordance with the unanimous report of a committee of fifteen, that those moral duties that grow out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils and vices that spring from the institution, undoubtedly do fall within the province of this society, and may and ought to be discussed in a fraternal and Christian spirit; and whereas, at the meeting of the society in 1858, the omission of the Publishing Committee to perform the said duty during the year then passed was reported with a special apology at said time, and said report was accepted; and whereas, no sufficient reasons are offered to the society for their prolonged neglect to perform said duty, and there are urgent reasons why it should be performed; therefore,
Resolved, That the Publishing Committee be instructed to publish during the coming year one or more tracts on the sin and evils of slavery.
The reading of the resolution was frequently interrupted by hisses and outcries. At the close, Mr. Jay handed the paper to the Secretary, saying, ' I submit it without debate.'
Daniel Lord, Esq.-Mr. President, I oppose this resolution in no spirit of unfriendliness, or of hostility to those gentlemen who differ from the views I entertain.' But upon this whole subject of charitable institutions and charitable funds, I think there are principles deserving of the consideration of intel­ligent and fair-minded men, of every color of preference. This resolution, as a resolution of instructions, is founded on what is supposed to be previous resolutions of the society. I think, before this thing proceeds any farther, as these things may do, to the utter breaking up of all the charitable foundations of our society, it is right that we should look upon our condition, and see what we are, and what is this Tract Society, and its property and funds. In the first place, it is a charitable fund, to be administered under certain rules, and not a society of gentlemen having their own property to administer. It is utterly unlike a political combination of men, who may make a constitution or unmake it at pleasure, for they may do what they will with their own. It is a charitable institution or fund, and what I mean by it is this-that all the property of the society results from gifts and donations. If all the donors of the society from the beginning of the institution to the present time could be collected together, even if the dead could be raised-those venerated names which contributed so largely to the funds of this institution-they would not have a right to say one word as to how this fund should be administered. This doctrine is founded upon the plain principles of common sense, which every man, woman and boy can appreciate. The property donated is given from the donor, and when it is given, it is no longer his. Ascertain what is given and to what object, and you ascertain all that is necessary to be said or done in regard to the administration of it. All will agree that when property is given to the Tract Society, it is a trust property to be applied to the plan for which it was given, and protected by every consideration of justice and morality, religion and honor. He proceeded to consider what was the plan or basis on which donations were made to the Tract Society. 
The beneficiaries of the society were the ignorant and degraded all over the world. The whole object of the society was to circulate tracts, not to make declarations to settle principles, or to declare for or against slavery. It was idle to come there, and ask to circulate tracts concerning slavery, or defining the duties of masters, mistresses, husbands and wives, when they actually could not circulate them among those whom they proposed to benefit by them. It would be a great waste of money to write a tract in a language which nobody could read, and it was a still greater waste to write tracts which would never be received by those to whom they were addressed. (Great applause.) It might be asked how they knew they could not circulate tracts on slavery at the South. He answered, that was a question of facts solely for the managers to consider. Mr. Lord then defined who were the managers and members of the society, observing that all societies were property owners. Suppose the life members (members and others not the donors, for they had no right at all in its property), should meet and say they would
<c05>
divide the property of the society among them, would not that shock the people? Why? Because they were mere trustees, and had no power but that to elect officers. As to proxies, there could be no proxy trustee-(applause)-and therefore all these attempts at giving instruction were erroneous, and outside of their sphere. The directors could only elect their managers, and could no more instruct them than men who elect a judge could instruct him how to make legal decisions. They had gone to the extent of their powers in making the election. It was all based on the American idea of representation. He referred to the sixth article of the constitution, in relation to the publishing committee, in which it was provided that no two of that body should be of the same religious denomination, and any one of them could stop the publication of a tract by objecting thereto. A member might abuse his veto power, but the only remedy was to remove him at the end of the year. (Applause.) Here, in a mass meeting, not very favorable to cool discussion, assembled in a place where one peculiar set of ideas predominate, was not the place for deciding important questions. The Publishing Committee must decide upon the expediency of publishing any particular tract as a matter of fact depending upon time and circumstances. He thought, therefore, the attempt in 1857 to instruct the committee was an act of gross usurpation. He thought the matter was put down last year, not upon altogether correct principles. The object of the meeting was to give a conservative vote, but that vote being given, there was an end of it. If it was to be understood that security of written plans and constitutional functions are to be swept away by the breath of eloquence in a popular audience, then no property would be so insecure as that given to the so-called popular charities. In conclusion, he moved that the motion of Mr. Jay to instruct the Publishing Committee be laid upon the table, adding, 'and then, when this meeting adjourns, as I suppose it will very soon, I trust that it never will be heard of any more, except in the lamentations for its failure.' (Tremendous applause.)
Dr. J. P. Thompson-Does Mr. Lord mean to cut off all opportunity of inquiring into these important principles?
Mr. Lord-I do, at this popular meeting. Dr. Thompson-Then, when can such an opportunity occur?
Mr. Lord-In the Independent, every day. (Tremendous cheers, and laughter.)
Rev. Rufus W. Clarke-As one of the directors, I claim the right to be heard on this subject.
The Chair-The question is on laying the resolution on the table.
Mr. Jay-Will Mr. Lord withdraw his motion for a moment?
Mr. Lord-No, Mr. Jay, I will not. (Renewed cheers and shouts of 'Sit down!' ' Gag law!' &c.) The motion to lay on the table was then put, and declared carried.
A Gentleman in Front-I appeal from that decision of the chair, that the motion was carried. (Derisive laughter.)
Mr. Clarke-It is very obvious that this principle cuts off debate on any subject.
The President-If any gentleman doubts the vote, I will have a division.
Voice in the crowd-I move that we adjourn. (Great confusion.)
Mr. Jay was at length heard, and stated that his motion was made in the Board of Directors, and that persons who were not members of the Board had voted. He moved that the matter be again taken to the Board of Directors. (Applause.)
Mr. Clarke reminded the President that he had stated there would be an opportunity to offer a resolution to the Directors.
The President said the meeting of the Directors had been by the President, perhaps improperly, but according to his ideas, ended by the election. There was no other business, and he had declared, when he got through, that their business was ended. Mr. Jay did, indeed, offer his resolution to the Directors; but as the Society was here, he did not understand that it would make any difference. The Board of Directors was not in session. If it were, he could esteem himself its presiding officer.
Mr. Wolcott-Then if the Society is in session, I will offer a resolution. (Cheers and laughter.)
Several gentlemen called for the motion to adjourn.
A Member-If you adjourn now, what is to become of the Report and annual business? At least that sham must remain. (Hisses.) The Report of the Executive Committee must be accepted by the Society, which cannot be done if we adjourn without day.
A Voice-That's so.
Rev. Mr. Clarke said the Soctety took a recess simply to enable the Directors to transact their business, a part of which was the election of this Executive Committee. Were they to understand that that was their only business? What was the meaning of the word directors? They were to direct in any matter that might come forward, and were not merely machines to come together in what is called a recess, solely to go through the form of electing officers.
A Member-I rise to a point of order. What is the question?
Mr. Clarke-The question is, that the Directors are still in session. (Laughter, and cries of 'No, no!')
The President-I did declare that the business of the Directors was through, and the Society was in order.
A Voice-The Society has not been called to order.
The President-They were here, and I did not think it necessary. It was distinctly announced that the session of the Directors was at an end.
Mr. Wolcott then obtained the floor to offer his resolution. He said, I do not offer the motion in any factious spirit, but in the spirit of the Gospel, and with a sincere desire to promote the Divine glory. There is an honest difference of opinion and sentiment in this Society, and I welcome the remark of the venerable father in the ministry, that he is in favor of a candid expression of opinion. I do not wish to consume more than two or three minutes in presenting distinctly to the Society the resolution I have before offered. I concede to every member of the Publishing Committee an irrevocable veto, and that he has not only the right, but is bound to exercise that veto whenever hid conscience requires. (Cries of 'Order, order!')
A delegate here inquired what had become of the motion to adjourn.
The President-I did not hear such a motion. (Laughter.)
Mr. Wolcott then read the same resolution which he had previously offered, and which had been laid on the table, and proceeded to advocate its adoption as follows:-There is nothing coercive in this resolution. It is not in the form of instructions. It recognizes the right of discrimination. Then, it is asked, if the resolution is not of the nature of instructions, what propriety is there in offering it? Perhaps the Publishing Committee would desire to meet the wishes of their constituents-and I may remark that the stream cannot rise higher than its
<c06>
fountain. There may be tracts offered, to which members will say they have no objection, but will be governed by the single consideration of whether or not it will meet the views of the Society. And if there has been an expression of opinion on that subject, it will aid them; therefore, the motion is legitimate, and I think the gentleman in the rear of the chair (Mr. Lord) will see its propriety as an expression of opinion by the Society. I conceive it is the duty of the Society to express an opinion on this subject, with reference to tracts that do not interfere with their judgment. That gentleman overlooked the important point, that in deciding upon tracts, they must be so framed as to meet the approval of all evangelical Christians in the land. And who will deny that a tract on the slave trade may be of this character? With reference to the possibility of circulating these tracts, the resolution leaves it to them to decide. He said it was a question of fact, and yet I must relate one fact bearing upon the point. A little tract containing Bible teachings against oppression was offered to our Publishing Committee, and they decided not to issue it, because it could not be circulated in the South. It was published by the Boston Tract Society, and the first thousand copies were ordered from the South, and sent to the slave States. (Cheers.) The members of this Committee, therefore, are not infallible men, and as they are liable to mistakes, certainly it is legitimate for this Society, if it have an opinion of its own, to express it frankly and plainly. I referred to Mr. Webster's address at Plymouth only for the sake of calling attention to his testimony forty years ago. Never did he utter a more truthful warning, true not only with reference to the slave trade, but to the pulpit, than when he said-'If the pulpit be silent whenever and wherever there may be a sinner stained with sin within hearing of its voice, the pulpit is false to its trust.' That is not more true of the pulpit than of the press, the Evangelical press-that sanctified press, which, in the opinion of the Tract Society, is one of the boasts of the land. We could not have believed that within forty years the question would have reached at this day its present development. Who does not see to what we are drifting? and if the tide of destruction be not stayed, it must be because the Evangelical Church does not erect a sea wall against it, and say, 'Hitherto shalt thou come, and no further, and here shall thy proud waves be stayed?'
Rev. Rufus W. Clarke-I am happy, in addressing this audience of Christian gentlemen, to know that I express their sentiment in uttering the desire to have the slave trade arrested. Such, I believe, is the desire of every gentleman within these walls. We are unanimous upon that subject. I believe the Secretaries of this Society are ready to do what they can for the carrying out of that desire. The question is, whether it is proper for the Society to publish tracts on this sin. We have tracts in regard to Sabbath-breaking, profanity and intemperance, and these tracts are distributed here at the North and everywhere. And because members of our churches are engaged in the liquor traffic, the Society has not arrested its publications against the vice that traffic creates and fosters. Therefore, if it is proper to publish tracts against any one of these particular sins, it is equally proper to publish in regard to the slave trade; and, in so doing, you will carry many gentlemen of the South with you. I have been pastor of a church on slave territory, (though, thank God! no one member was a slaveholder,) and I know that gentlemen from the South, who oppose this sort of action, do not fairly represent the opinions of the South. (Applause.) The politicians and some of the clergymen may represent these views, but many Christian hearts there feel the disastrous influence of slavery as deeply as we feel it at the North. Many feel that slavery has come upon them as a burden, and are entirely against the re-opening of the slave trade. We ask only of this Society that it give its influence to sustain that opinion, and if it publishes a tract with regard to this evil, it will plant itself upon a rock, and its strength will be increased. I love this American Tract Society. I thank God for every leaf of the tree of life it has scattered over the American republic. I rejoice that the colporteurs meet the emigrants from foreign shores with the words of God's truth. But I tremble for the future when I see the Society failing to utter a word against a traffic, which, if opened in any part of our land, will peril the existence of this republic. (Cheers.) As a nation, we are to prosper only as we adhere to the principles upon which national prosperity and moral character are based; and, as I real the history of past nations, I find the prophecy fulfilled, that the nation and country that do not fear God shall perish. Shall we, by our action or non-action, contribute to bring into existence a traffic which our fathers pronounced accursed; that was opposed by the noble men who laid broad and deep the foundations of this republic; who would not even allow the word slavery to enter into the Constitution of their country? Only two States, when the Constitution was framed, opposed the proposition to stop this unholy traffic; and now, in the middle of the nineteenth century, we are considering whether the Publishing Committee, appointed by us, will accept from this body a recommendation to publish a tract showing the evil of the African slave trade! If they will do so, it will be for the good of this Society, for the good of the nation, and for the honor of God. (Applause.)
Hiram Ketchum, Esq., of New York-I assent to what the reverend gentleman has said with reference to the slave trade, but the question for us is, whether this is the place for this discussion-(applause and hisses)-whether we have come here to listen to such discussion-whether we have any power to act upon the subject. Now, Mr. President, it seems to me that the whole merits of the question which arises here lie within a very narrow compass. We all agree that this Society has exercised a most hopeful influence upon the people of the United States. We all agree that the mode of distributing these tracts by colporteurs is a very commendable one. But the question arises here, in relation to those States where the institution of domestic slavery is recognized and authorized by law. There are acknowledged evils growing out of this institution. Nobody denies it. But the question is, whether we, in a corporate capacity, as a Tract Society, shall denounce these evils? Upon that subject he differed from the reverend gentleman who preceded him. He had given the power entirely to the Publishing Committee. They had no power to control the discretion of that Committee; and there would be no use in the resolution. The constitution required them to publish tracts which would meet the approbation of all evangelical Christians. The Committee were to decide upon any tract as a question of fact-as matter of fact-as honest men. Whatever may be the feeling of the Committee, would they have any right to publish a tract on slavery? He believed a court of equity would grant an injunction to restrain the publishing of the tract proposed, because it would not receive the <illegible> probation of evangelical Christians at the South, They would remember how a Southern divine, Dr. Johnson, pleaded with them last year in behalf of their brethren of the South, begging of them to let the clergy of the South manage the slavery question.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a convenient with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under, a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights;. but they are without excuse, its aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path, of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been, tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with, manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
82 THE LIBERATOR. MAY 27. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
Suppose any clergyman present should any to a brother invited into his pulpit, that there was one vice which he desired to manage alone: would not that clergyman say, 'Certainly: I will leave you to manage it according to your own plans'? They could go out into the streets, or into Garrison's meeting, as individuals, and denounce slavery; but uniting here under their constitution, to execute their trust, they had no right to utter such denunciations He believed there was a spirit abroad, striving to break up all these Christian. unions They must unite on common ground, as the Bible Society did, ï¿½to put forth the Word of God without note or comment. If they broke the bond of their constitution, which guarded every dollar of their funds, they would have no hope of being trusted by any one hereafter. As well might they introduce controverted points of doctrine as this slavery question. It had nothing to do with the objects of the Society. The objection was, the question did not belong to this forum. (Cheers and hisses.) He was not to be told, because he did not advocate this measure, that he was a pro-slavery man. He had acted, forty years ago, with a great man, named Jay-(cheers)-against the sin of slavery, and it was too late in the day for him to think of change. If they wanted a discussion on slavery elsewhere, he was in for it he was posted on the subject, and liked debate. (Applause and laughter.) He had expected to hear something about the practical workings of slavery; but that gun was silenced this year-(laughter)-and now they had the most horrible forebodings about the slave trade. As to Webster's speech at Plymouth, which had been referred to, if he had power to instruct the Publishing Committee, he would instruct them to print that speech as a tract in full. (Applause and laughter.) He mentioned several bishops in Southern States who were averse to dealing with slavery in the tracts of the Society, and inquired if these men were not evangelical. There was no truer successor of the apostles than Bishop Meade, of Virginia, not even excepting Dr. Spring. (Laughter.) There would be no end to these abstract questions if they were to be introduced.
In conclusion, he moved that Mr. Wolcott's resolution be laid on the table, which was carried with vehement applause.
A member moved that the Society now proceed to the ordinary anniversary exercises.
Rev. Dr. Spring- Mr. President. I regret this resolution was proposed here, and I doubly regret that the American Tract Society should lay such a resolution upon its table. The great question discussed was the question which was before the Society last year, and which my learned friend, Mr. Lord, has conclusively settled, and which the Society has settled by a vote to which I most cordially accede. But the gentlemen who differ from me and from you have crowded us into a narrow place to-day, and don't you perceive that that was their design? They have brought in a resolution simply affirming that it would be gratifying to the Society, without instructing, should the Publishing Committee, in the course of the year, issue a tract in regard to that accursed traffic; and this we have laid upon the table. Will you lay such a question upon your table? I voted in the minority. Do you hesitate to say it would meet your approbation if in their discretion your Committee should issue such a tract? (Applause.) I feel that you stand on the brink of a deep abyss, and are making shipwreck of morality and God. (Applause.) I think as to slavery in the Southern States this Society ought to be silent; but when the naked question comes up of approving or disapproving the African Slave Trade, we ought not to be silent. My motion is, that while the American Tract Society has laid the resolution on the table, it has not done so from any difference of opinion as regards the wickedness of the slave trade. Nothing less will save you from a year of conflict, from a year of deserved obloquy. (Applause.)
Mr. Jay desired to speak to this motion. The President-It is hardly necessary, I think; there is no doubt of its passage.
Mr. Jay wished to say a few words to put himself in a right position. (Applause and hisses.) Messrs. Lord and Ketchum had bad the whole discussion, and wound up by motions which cut off all reply. (Hisses and cries of ' Sit down,' 'Hear him,' &c.)
Mr. Jay continued-I am charged, we are charged, with coming here to distract this Society, and put it in a false position. We stand upon the resolution passed unanimously by the Society in 1857, upon the unanimous report of the Committee of fifteen eminent gentlemen, coming from different parts of the country, to the effect that while we have nothing to do with the political questions connected with slavery, it is both our right and duty to discuss, in a fraternal and Christian spirit, those moral evils growing out of a system denounced by Scripture, and by evangelical Christians everywhere. The resolution you have laid upon the table was in strict accordance with the resolutions of 1857, which had never been annulled. The hope was then expressed that the Executive Committee would carry out the unanimous views of the Society; and the next year their apology for not having done so was accepted. But it was never contended that that acceptance revoked the resolution. Now, the question is, why that clear, distinct constitutional duty should not be performed? We ask for its performance. Shall the members be mere ciphers, with no power beyond the election of their Executive Committee, as we have been told? Is the Executive Committee to sit as a judiciary to pronounce upon the principles of the Society? That doctrine will not be accepted by the members present, or those who are scattered over the country. And when the hour arrives when the life members abroad can express their views in the election of officers, it will be acknowledged that it is our right and duty to discuss, in a fraternal and Christian manner, the evils arising from slavery. (Applause.)
Rev. Mr. Van Pelt rose in the back part of the building, and said his counsel to the Society was to keep together, and, as Joseph told his brethren, ' see that ye fall not out by the way.' If this work was of God, they could not overthrow it. It was their duty to show, as their fathers did, what patriots can do for civil and religions liberty. But slavery was a controverted question; and although a freeman and a friend to freedom, his mind was satisfied with what God told Moses-if the children of Israel wanted slaves, let them buy them of the heathen. If it was right to buy them, why was it wrong now? 
Dr. Spring submitted his resolution in this form:
Resolved, That in laying the preceding resolution on the table, the Society has not come to its conclusion from any hesitation in relation to the sin of the African slave trade, or the great wickedness of reviving that iniquitous system in any form.
Mr. Ketchum-Will Dr. Spring accept an amendment to substitute 'the individual members of this Society' for ï¿½the Society '?
Dr. Spring-No, sir.
Mr. Ketchum-My objection is that the Society, as a Society, has nothing to do with it. I move, therefore, to amend the resolution as I have suggested. Let us adopt the resolution not as a Society, but as individuals. As individuals, as citizens, as men, as Americans, we can pass that without a dissenting voice.
A voice-The Society has no right to represent me as an individual member.
Rev. Dr. Clark-I hope the Society will have patience, for I feel that this is a historic moment of the American Tract Society-(applause)-and if it goes to the world that we reject that resolution, every gentlemen can see the moral influence it will exert in favor of slavery. We determine not to raise eur voice against that iniquity. If Dr. Spring can so far admit an amendment by which the resolution can be taken from the table, and referred to the Executive Committee for deliberation, it seems to me that will meet the case. (Cries of 'No, no.') If the principle goes out from this Society, of course its influence must be fatal, because if we are prepared to embody an opinion, we might as well embody it in a tract.
Rev. Dr. Bacon- The Society has a right to express its own opinion, but not a right to its opinion as to the opinion of individual members of the Society. No individual member can express his opinion unless he is in the majority. I take it that Mr. Ketchum's amendment goes a great deal farther than the original resolution, and commits the Society farther. If it has no right to express its own opinion, I want to know where, under heaven, it gets a right to express mine. (Applause and laughter.) I could not refrain, when the gentleman was speaking, to show that the Society has no right to an opinion upon the subject of the African slave trade, from exclaiming 'tobacco!' (Laughter ) Well, sir, my respected father here (Dr. Spring) when I so much admire and love, handed out his tobacco box. (Laughter and cheers.) I want to know if it is not time to come to as <illegible> finally with this foolery?-for no I venture to call it. (Applause.) Here is a Society for the promotion of vital godliness 
<c02>
and sound morality by the circulation of tracts calculated to meet the approbation of all evangelical Christians. It circulates tracts against the culture and use of tobacco. Now, how many of these venerable men an there upon whose consciences rests the deadly sin of using tobacco? Away with it! I maintain that this Society can have an opinion, and can print and circulate it, which, if it were to be universally adopted, would send desolation through the lower counties of Virginia, and all along the banks of the Connecticut. Can it not then have an opinion as to a wickedness which the laws of the United States more than forty years ago pronounced to be a crime against human nature-piracy! (Applause.) A little moral sense will walk through the cobweb meshes of such an argument. We remember who said, 'Ye bind heavy burdens and grievous to to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders, and will not touch them with one of your fingers.' Is there any member of the Executive Committee just elected whose table sparkles with red wine? I know there is! Or any member whose parlors echo with the feet of many dancers? I know there is! (Cheers.) And here we are, binding those burdens about tobacco, and wine-drinking, and dancing, on other men's shoulders. Isn't it time to be done with such tom-foolery? Sir, I have heard to-day, as I heard a year ago. what I regard as a slander on the South. Uncle Tom's Cabin is sold in every bookstore in New Orleans. This Society is faithless to the interest of vital godliness and sound morality if it fails to send such tracts to the South as the South needs. (Applause.) Bishop Meade never wrote and printed matter which was not calculated to meet Bishop Meade's approbation as an evangelical Christian. (Laughter.) And if he were such a dishonest man, he would have no right to walk into the Publishing Committee, and veto their tracts. The question of time and form of publishing belong to the Committee.
Dr. Bacon was here called to order for not speaking to the question.
Mr. Ketchum-Is the question on my amendment?
The President-It is.
Mr. Ketchum-Well, then, I will withdraw it. (Laughter.)
Dr. Bacon said, then he would speak on Dr. Spring's motion. The resolution about the slave trade was said to be an abstraction; a year hence, it would be a political question. To-day it was on the narrow isthmus dividing these two states. The slave trade was already revived, and the Fugitive Slave Law was not so much a dead letter in Ohio and Massachusetts as the laws against the slave trade in Georgia and Mississippi. Now was the time to speak out, and help our friends at the South. Unless they did speak, they would have men in New York preaching from the text already quoted here by a gray-headed man in favor of buying slaves of the Africans-'of the heathen round about.' He hoped at least the faint testimony implied in Dr. Spring's resolution would be given, that the moral sense of the Tract Society is not obliterated.
Prof. Crosby looked upon both this resolution and its predecessor as wholly unnecessary, for every Christian man knew that the Society is opposed to the African slave trade. He predicted that this resolution would be an entering wedge for other declarations of opinion-for instance, that they are opposed to slavery in the Territories. He warned the Society not to fall into a trap unawares.
Rev. Dr. Pinney was sorry Mr. Wolcott's resolution was tabled. They had in effect voted that they would not be gratified by a tract against the slave trade.
Rev. Dr Hewitt would trust to the wisdom of the Society to guard against any trap.
Rev. Dr. Thompson referred to a recent emendation by the Publishing Committee. A passage in one tract read, ' If this love had always prevailed among professing Christians, where would have been the African slave trade?' The Committee changed it to, ' Where would have been the tortures of the Inquisition?' (Laughter and applause.) He wanted Dr. Spring's resolution to take the Society out of the false position in which it was placed by that expurgation. This was the only Society which could rally the moral sentiment of the whole country, North and South, against the slave trade, and prevent at least fifty ships being annually sent for slaves from the port of New York.
Rev. Dr. Cook supported Dr. Spring's resolution, not because be deemed such an expression called for, nor because he deemed it strictly within the scope of the objects of the Society, but as an explanatory resolution to prevent their previous action from being misunderstood or misrepresented. He did not believe that the expression of opinion by this Society on the subject was very important.
The resolution of Dr. Spring was then passed by a decided majority.
A gentleman in front, in a loud tone of voice, moved that the resolution passed in 1857, on the subject of slavery, be expunged from the minutes. 
The President took no notice of the motion.
The Society then, on motion, proceeded to the ordinary anniversary exercises.
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON. MAY 27. 1859.
ANNIVERSARY .WEEK AT NEW YORK.
Our last number was so largely occupied with the report of the proceedings of the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, (which was held in New York city on the 10th and 11th inst.,) that we had not an inch of room left to make any comments. Of all the anniversaries held by the Society since its organization, none has given more cheering signs of progress than this. Notwithstanding the cold, wet, dismal weather which lasted throughout, the attendance was large, and the interest manifested in what was said and done on the occasion intense and unbroken. The most radical sentiments that could be uttered-the strongest impeachments of Church and State-the boldest denunciations of the Union and Constitution as a conspiracy against justice and equal rights-were most heartily responded to; and not a solitary murmur of dissent, not a single hiss was heard, from beginning to end. What a contrast to the mobocratic violence which formerly was sure to assail every such anniversary!
The Society occupied the elegant and spacious City Assembly Rooms, and held four public meetings for discussion, and one private meeting for the transaction of business, which was of a very practical character. The speaking was characterized by earnestness, ability, and eloquence. Excellent speeches were made by Rev. William H. Furness, Rev. A. M. Milligan, Rev. Samuel Longfellow, Rev. Mr. Noyes, Wendell Phillips Parker Pillsbury, Charles C. Burleigh, A. T. Foss, J. Miller McKim, Lucretia Mott, C. L. Remond, Judge Culver, Edward Gilbert, Esq., and others. 'In every point of view,' says the Standard, 'this annual meeting has been in advance, in all material particulars, on those that have gone before.'
The City Anti-Slavery Society held its anniversary the last evening, in the same place, and a great assembly came together, notwithstanding a rainy evening, and an admission fee at the door. The speakers were THEODORE TILTON, a young man of promise, and WENDELL PHILLIPS. We give, in succeeding columns, the highly effective speech delivered by Mr. P. on that occasion. It elicited frequent demonstrations of applause, and the warmest encomiums as the delighted audience slowly and reluctantly retired from the hall.
The new Church Anti-Slavery Society held a meeting in the Church of the Puritans, which was thinly attended. Dr. Cheever made a characteristic and telling speech on the occasion.
The American Tract Society had a stormy and disgraceful, session, and was thrown into convulsions by the presentation of a resolution, suggesting the expediency of publishing a tract, condemnatory of the piratical foreign slave trade! The resolution was laid on the table by an overwhelming majority! For the particulars of this scandalous conduct, see first page.
A meeting of the Boston American Tract Society was also held, and a great throng crowded the Church of the Puritans to hear Rev. Dr. Kirk and Henry Ward Beecher. The letter made a scathing speech against the New York Society.
<c03>
SPEECH OF WINDELL PHILLIPS,
At the Sixth Anniversary of the New York City
Anti-Slavery Society.
[PHONOGRAPHIC REPORT BY W. HENRY BURE.]
Mr. CHAIRMAN:
I think the anti-slavery enterprise has reason to rejoice at the appearance of our meetings this week. They are, indeed, as our friend has just told us, encouraging. We have had larger houses; we have gone through two days with fairer audiences than we have enjoyed for many years. And, more even than that, we have been privileged to welcome to our platform two, three or four new names-young names, coming to lay their influence and their talent on the slave's altar. I think we have abundant reason to take courage. It has been a week full of good auspices.
The young friend who preceded me alluded to me as likely to 'pounce' upon what he considered his differences. I have no heart to 'pounce.' I remember, twenty years ago, when I made my first speech to an anti-slavery audience, and I know that I anticipated then as little as he does now the weight of the yoke and the burden which I took up. God grant that what we have done in twenty years may make his path smoother! (Applause.) God grant that our battered bodies may fill up the gap, and make him an easy road to walk; our labors giving him influence, and assuring him success. Nobody will rejoice in it more than we shall.
But he thinks too little of the martyrdom which an anti-slavery profession ensures even in 1859. The day of mobs and personal violence is gone, but the world is still our enemy. The great political, the great religious world is still against us. A vast gulf divides the outspoken Abolitionist from the sympathy of his countrymen, in thirty. States. This gulf is not yet bridged over; hardly the first stone of the arch is laid. Let him gird up his loins-the age of martyrdom is not gone; he himself will be called upon to face it, in averted looks, in misunderstood motives, in prospects blighted, in pathway hedged up, in name slandered, in the press watching to catch him at fault, and making him ' an offender for a word,' in a thousand ways worse than the thumb-screw. And yet it is nothing; it is God's highway of glorious happiness, this service of down-trodden humanity. It is a holiday, a halcyon gala-this platform-compared with the unrecorded heroism and martyrdom of those for whom we labor. They stand forth like the slave girl whose lover, the other day, put her into a box, and left her to go with him as freight over the railway. Left accidentally for another train, standing on her head twenty-four hours, the dust of the box was emptied on her nostrils and eyes; and yet, with a heroism which romance labors in vain to describe, she controlled every emotion and stifled every groan for twenty-four hours, until, after that martyrdom, she was wafted to the safe shelter of a friend's roof, where no one dared to speak, so terrible was the suspense whether she were still alive.
What is our task? To take that groan which the martyred hero controlled and smothered, multiply it a million fold, and thunder it in the face of a recreant and servile Church, and a huckstering and bloody; State, till they awaken to duty. (Applause.) 
Our young friend said that I should be likely to criticise Dr. Cheever. Every one of your plaudits, when his name was uttered, my heart echoed as cordially as any one here. (Applause.) No man shall out-do me in appreciating the glorious, the God-touched lips, the devoted life of that 'Puritan of the Puritans.' (Applause.) Our young friend cannot say too much-not a word to which I would not say, amen! I believe that Dr. Cheever loves the slave so heartily, so devotedly, so Christianly, that if I, of twenty years' experience, think he is throwing his weight into the wrong scale, he would thank me, on his bended knees, for saving the humblest heart that beats before me from being misled by his example. (Applause.) I believe in him so heartily that I think he loves the criticism that saves him, or attempts to save him, from diverting anti-slavery sentiment, or letting it be wasted for a single hour, with such a momentous work to do.
Now, friends, let me tell you a story. Seventy-five years ago, a dozen men were met in an upper chamber in Lombard street, London, to launch the anti-slavery enterprise. It was made up chiefly of Quakers, of one or two laymen, and Granville Sharpe. The question was, How shall we shape this great movement? Shall we turn it against slavery in the inlands, or shall we take the half-awakened conscience of the nation, and turn it against the odious slave trade? The Quakers and laymen of the Committee said, ' We dare not lift our hands and voices against the colossal power of the West India interest, anchored in fabulous amounts of wealth, defended by the public sentiment of Great Britain, endorsed by the churches. We shall lose our labor if we touch it. Here is a little branch of the system, the trade; men already hate it; we will attack that; and when we have cut off the trade, we will proceed to cut off the system.' ï¿½Granville Sharpe walked up and down the room,' says an eye-witness, 'holding his hands up in solemn protest against this compromise with wealth, public opinion and religious sentiment. He said, "Gentlemen, you will incur no greater odium by attacking the very root of the tree than you will by touching the branches; and by doing that, every man will see, at a glance, the consistency of your rebuke. You save your character, you save your influence, you vindicate religion, you save half a century, you save the slave."' They turned aside, compromised, were politic. They said, 'We will gain peace; we will get inside of the Church and of mercantile interest; we will do this thing adroitly, and better than in the way you propose.' He left them with the solemn warning-'You are tampering with justice. God, when he founded the universe, made it certain that every bargain with the devil should weaken the man who makes it.' (Applause.)
Fifty years rolled away. Wilberforce lay upon his death-bed when they brought him the news that a project was already entertained for the emancipation of the slave. It is said that he repeated then, what he had said twenty years before, when the slave trade was abolished-' The great mistake that we made was when we shut our ears against Granville Sharpe, and attempted to be wiser than God, and more powerful than truth.' (Applause.)
Now, what Granville Sharpe did in 1783, with the Phillipses and Clarksons of Lombard street, we do to-day with Dr. Cheever and Henry Ward Beecher. (Applause.) I want to show that we are doing just that; that we are doing it as lovingly, in as brotherly a spirit, as Granville Sharpe remonstrated with his associates; without any feeling of bitterness, willing that they should walk on the heights of anti-slavery interest and influence, and gather the harvest of popular confidence and appreciation; not envious of either, but only desirous that they should use the talent God has given them for the greatest service of the slave. I thank God, in all seriousness, that he has not put me under that momentous responsibility under which he has placed Ward Beecher and Dr. Cheever. I do not know that I could stand under the temptation which assails them; but, afraid of it, and standing outside of it, I can see the game better than the player, and I am bound, for the slave's sake, to say what experience has taught me.
Our friend thinks I have not been just to Dr. Cheever. Let me ask him one question. Where has Dr. Cheever been this morning? He has been at a meeting of the Church Anti-Slavery Society. Let me My, before I go on, one thing. No man on this platform asks Ward Beecher or Dr. Cheever to come here; no man asks them to join the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
All we ask of them is to assume the same attitude toward the religious and political mistakes and crimes of the day which this Society
<c04>
assumes. If they prefer to labor separately, we say amen! But we have labored on this platform for twenty-five years; and if we did not think it the best method, of course we should not waste our time in pushing it. That is the reason why we think they would do well to come here, though we do not ask them to come here. Where has Dr. Cheever been this morning? At a meeting of the Church Anti-Slavery Society. His young friend, who came to our platform last night-Mr. Gilbert-is understood to have said that not the keenest eye of a Philadelphia lawyer could distinguish between their platform and ours. 'They are identical,' he says. I have not examined theirs, and therefore cannot say aye or no to the proposition; but I take it for granted that what he states is correct. Why, then, does Dr. Cheever go there, instead of coming here? Why does he call it a 'Church Anti-Slavery Society'? My friend says that his connection with the Church, in consequence of the flimsy organization of Congregationalism, is so equivocal, so slight, that really he does not thus give any religious support to slavery. If that be so, why does he go and meet in a separate room, under a different name, with different associates from ourselves, when their principles are identical with ours? Is it not evident as noon-day, that he means to make an anti-slavery movement under the auspices of the so-called American Church?-that whether he is Congregational or Presbyterian, he chooses that Europe shall look over to America and say, ' Behold, now, the American Church grapples with the devil of the Carolinas!' and the heart of every church-member of Europe shall rise up and say, 'I, too, am a Christian; see the mighty work Christianity is doing on the other side of the water!' He means to show that the American Church is with her heart in the right place. Now, there is the root-the fork at which we separate. We believe that the American Church is rotten at the core. (Applause and hisses.) Why these hisses? Who educates the American people? The noblest men and women whom God creates are carried over your railroads as freight. They dare not tell their names in the great streets of your capital cities. They are hiding by day, and journeying under the cover of midnight, until they set their feet in Canada. No river that has not been stained by the blood of Abolitionists-that has not received into its bosom the press which the public opinion of the community would not allow to utter anti-slavery sentiments! The Fugitive Slave Bill a possibility; thirty men on trial in Ohio, and, so far, every one convicted, whose offence was obeying the Sermon on the Mount! Who educated this people? A type of manhood, if you choose to call it such, (I do not,) sits in the Presidential chair, the like of which cannot be found this side of hell! (applause)-the lees of a worn-out politician-a political slave, who only differs from the black one on the auction-block of the Carolinas in the fact, that one is black outside, and the other is black inside. (Laughter and applause.) Who has educated these thirty millions for the last thirty years? The American Church leaned over their cradles with their mothers' smiles, took the babe at baptism, gave it its first pulse of religious life, walked by its side through boyhood, ministered to its education, stood by it at every sacred, impressible moment of life-marriage and death, rejoicing and sadness! A slave-hunting, woman-whipping, soul-selling people, not knowing yet the difference between a sheep and a man-who educated them? The American Church, whose moral sense groans out of forty thousand pulpits. I hold the Church responsible for the character of the nation, which God gave, as a new-born babe, into its hands, and said, ' Educate for me this people.' Here is the result! (Applause.)
Now, I say, such a Church is no Church of Jesus Christ. (Applause.) As that dear brother who has gone-God bless him with soft gales and better health!-to the sunny skies of the West Indies-as Theodore Parker says, (applause,) they are the Churches of commerce, not the Churches of Christianity. Now, here is the radical difference: Dr. Cheever cannot deny the momentous influence of this religious sentiment. My young friend touched the Bible. I know its importance as well as he does. He said, ' Let no man call me an infidel.' Dr. Bethune! honor me with the name of infidel, if you call yourself a Christian! (Applause.) If I had children to bear my name, I would claim it as the proudest legacy that, I could leave them, that history should save for me the fact that, at a time when metropolitan pulpits preached slaveholding as a duty, men honored me by calling me an infidel. (Applause.) I know the value of the Bible; I found my hope of emancipation on the religious sentiment of thirty States. How may I teach that sentiment? My friend gave us a speech, clear, logical and eloquent; that is his way. Now, I will tell you mine. The masses do not read, and cannot stop to follow out a chain of intellectual inferences. They understand facts. God gives us men as texts. There stands Dr. Cheever in a Congregational pulpit; Ward Beecher holds his left hand; Dr. Blagden, of the Old South, who thinks St. Paul would have bought and sold slaves, holds the other. The American people, who have been listening to the Congregational Church for fifty years, look upon that trinity of influences. They say, 'Our fathers have used the Bible as these men understand it, singing from the same hymn books, sitting in the same pews.' Outside of that pulpit stands Parker Pillsbury; he cannot say words against slavery as bitter as Dr. Cheever; when he has stirred his soul to the depths, he cannot thunder so like Isaiah. Why does the Church tolerate Dr. Cheever a hundred per cent, more quietly than she tolerates Mr. Pillsbury? Why has the latter been followed for a dozen years with every ingenuity of libel and misinterpretation, while Dr. Cheever is answered and argued with? Because the Church remembers that every brave word that Dr. Cheever utters is a jewel in her crown; for it is proving to those outside infidels and doubters that a man can stand robed in Congregational black silk and ministerial gown, and still outdo the strongest voice on the anti-slavery platform in rebuking the slaveholder.
Now, is Dr. Cheever willing to strengthen the American Church? If he is, he is in the right place; if he is not, he is in the wrong place. Is he willing to put a salve on the religious sentiment of New England? If he is, he is in the right place; if not, he is in the wrong place.
There was an ordination in this city within a year or two-of Dr. Buddington, I think. Ward Beecher was at it; by his side sat Dr. Blagden, and I think Dr. Adams, the author of the ' South-side View.' Ward Beecher has uttered many a noble word. If I could envy any man the gifts God gave him, I would envy those lips which God's own hand has touched and consecrated to the service of humanity. But ten years of devoted service-aye, though he sends us loving apostles, like the young man who came here to-night-will hardly outweigh that foul wrong which he threw into the scale against the slave when he sat in the same religious pulpit with Nehemiah Adams, and let the world believe that he re-
 garded him as a Christian brother. (Applause.)
Now, I speak what I believe. I have been throughout New England, in its three hundred towns, for twenty years. I have stood outside of these Churches.
 I have seen clergymen preaching, occasionally, anti-slavery sermons-gathered around them a few half-awakened hundreds of New England minds. I have seen the coldness of spiritual death settle down in those congregations, and the little spark of anti-slavery life that we had been wishing to kindle, go out beneath the benumbing influence of this general fellowship of American Christianity. We see Dr. Cheever attempting the same experiment. We say he is making a great mistake. We have seen this in politics. A dozen years ago, I said to a young Whig, the son of an ex-President, 'Sir, you are not in heart in the Whig party. You stay there, thinking you may
<c05>
convert the party. I will tell you what you will do You will stay two years; they will undermine you every month; they will kick you out in twenty-four months; and when they have done this, they will have undermined you so thoroughly that no man will follow you from your place.' The result proved it. Now, do you suppose the cunning orthodoxy of New York City is quiet, while Dr. Cheever stands where he does? If he would go out to-day-if he would shut the door of his church against the American Board, and the Tract Society, and the Bible Society-the whole conspiracy of religious (so called) Societies -if he would say, 'I am a Christian man, and this is a Christian pulpit; I judge men by their fruits; I do not care for their creed in this great hour of crisis; I deny the Christianity of those Churches about me that trade in slaves, that touch hands with slaveholders'- if he would say that, all New England would rise up, recognizing the fact that Christianity and slavery had got into a death-grapple.
To-day, England looks on, and sees the Tract Society in a quarrel. What does she say? 'Christians quarrelling about a matter of which I cannot know the facts, and therefore cannot judge.' She sees my good friend, John Jay, engaged as I think Cowper says, 'in dropping buckets into empty wells, and laboring hard in drawing nothing up' (laughter), endeavoring to fathom so deep that he can find the hard pan of Christianity in Daniel Lord's heart. (Laughter and applause.) It is what the Republican party is doing in Massachusetts-endeavoring to save the remnant of fossil Whigs. It is what it is doing in the Western States-consulting the retainers of Stephen A. Douglas, instead of endeavoring, by a consistent, rigid adherence to absolute right, to educate the people that stand behind this institution, and make a public sentiment that will render emancipation possible. I am sometimes accustomed to compare my country to that vast natural phenomenon upon its Atlantic coast-the gulf stream. This body of water flows with a strong, steady and constant current from the south to the north, gradually lessening in intensity, but yet carrying its influence from the capes of Florida to Hatteras, from Hatteras to Nantucket, from Nantucket to the Banks of Newfoundland and Labrador, and thence spreading them over the whole western shore of northern and southern Europe. Like the gulf stream, all our influences come from the South. The South gives us our Presidents, and the politics that guide them; it gives us the cotton, coffee, tobacco and sugar, that create our commerce, quicken our industry, clothe our frames, stimulate us in languor, soothe us in excitement, and sweeten our every repast. But the inquirers and philosophers tell us that far down beneath the surface of this steady impulse that bears so many and so great influences northward, there runs a constant and mighty stream of cold, calm and refreshing waters from the north, which return to the south the energies it has lost. Sometimes a mighty iceberg, rearing high above the surface its brilliant yet icy head-some Daniel Webster, glittering, yet grand and gloomy, fast anchoring in the calm, cool influences that flow beneath the surface of our affairs-breasts the upper current, and holds its way steadily southward. The southern waves dash against it, and their influences continually work upon it. Little by little it melts away before them as it advances; now a jutting point gives way, now a soaring pinnacle falls, till at last the mighty mass itself bows its head, and is overwhelmed by the all-surrounding waters, to be seen and heard no more. So it is with Beecher and Cheever. Grown up under the pure influences of the North, and grounded and anchored in its deepest cur rent, they believe they can hold on their course, and cool the fever heat of the gulf stream that flows around and against them. Their influence will melt away like the iceberg, and, like it, they will gradually disappear, till they sink and are heard of no more. (Applause.)
Now, how shall we reach this public mind? How shall we educate it? As I was telling my friend, you cannot take a million of people, and chain them to a premise and conclusion? But there stands Ward Beecher, with his avowed anti-slavery principles; here stands Dr. Cheever; in another quarter stand our-selves. The public are looking to us. If we want to educate these millions of men whose eyes are fastened upon us, we must consent that each should say to the other, ' Here you are wrong; that is not the method.' I want to prove to half a million of Ohio men that sublime truth which Mr. Tilton told us breathed from the pages of the Bible-the dignity of manhood, the sacredness of humanity, and the overwhelming Godhood that resides in every God-created soul! How shall I do it? I cannot make the State of Ohio listen, but I can do it thus: Ohio thinks Dr. Cheever an eloquent, faithful, Christian man. We catch her ear; I say to her, ' Dearly beloved Christian brethren, that man does not know yet that the negro is a man. You think him an eminent, eloquent, far-advanced, farsighted Christian. We will tell you what he does, He says, to-day, that though the American church has taken the slave, and bound him hands and feet, and thrust him overboard, he will still linger with his Christian brethren, and try to convince them of their sin. And he says at the same time that, should they dare to shave down one tittle of the doctrine of natural depravity, he would cut them in an instant.' We, therefore, declare that he has not yet learned that a man is better than a sheep or a doctrine. Ohio will reply, 'You are wrong; Christianity is not merely anti-slavery.' Well, we never said it was; but Christianity has her peculiar tests in every generation, and the test that God applies now is the slave. Christ knocks at the door of every Christian church in thirty States, by the black hand of the negro slave, and those who hear his voice answer, and go out. (Loud applause.) It is the divine Master calling his own. Every one of his sheep, whose heart is awakened to the great question of the nineteenth century, follows the Saviour to the hovel of the slave. Luther settled doctrine, Calvin settled church government, the Reformation settled the right to read the Bible; what we have got to settle is, that all races, black as well as white, are one in the bosom of a common Saviour and of God, (applause,) and the New Testament that does not recognize him, is not the New Testament of Christ.
Now, there has been a great growth in this direction-an immense growth. Let me show it to you. When I began my anti-slavery life, men talked freely at the North about slavery and the slaveholder. If a politician got up, he defended slavery; if a divine got up, he defended slavery. They don't do it now. I will tell you what they do. There is great power in words. This Bible has a text in it-' He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation.' A Mr. 8awyer has given us a new translation. He thinks there are a great many harsh phrases in this Bible, and how do you suppose he translates that text? 'He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is the subject of an eternal mistake.' (Laughter.) Just so about slavery. Ten years ago, if Rufus Choate had been making the speech which he made last year, he would have said, 'We have freedom in New England, and slavery in the Carolinas.' But now he does not like that word slavery; Garrison has made it hateful; so he says, 'We have our type of labor in New England, and another type of labor in the Carolinas.' (Laughter and applause.) Another speaker hides it under the sweet phrase of 'unenlightened labor.' The Mississippi Legislature, when they were endeavoring to defend the institution of the State, said,.'We have a mercantile class; we are beginning to have a manufacturing class; we have also economic subordination.' (Laughter.) And the Methodist General Conference, when they were dealing with Bishop Andrew, recomï¿½mended him to get rid of his 'impediment'-by which they meant his slaves. So Wisconsin, when she gave
<c06>
two or three millions of dollars to her Legislature, did not call it a bribe, but 'a pecuniary favor.' There is a great deal in words. We have made men <illegible> here at the North of using the word slavery. It is a proof of an unconscious or conscious uneasiness in the region of the heart and conscience. Men do not think it is right, after all; they are beginning to struggle up to a sentiment against slavery. Now, what are we to do with that blind sentiment? Guide it; instruct it; set it right. How shall we do it? By claiming this Bible as ours; by claiming the Church of Christ as ours; by saying, as Melanethon and Luther said, when the Pope declared them heretics, and they retorted, 'We are the Church; whoever differs from us is a heretic.' (Applause.) So, not in a sense of vaunting or vanity, we are to say, 'Christianity, to-day, in her first work, is an anti-slavery enterprise, and the man who does not see it is not worthy the name of a Christian.'
Now, I do not suppose that my friend and I agree in our theological tenets. You cannot aggregate <illegible> by belief in dogmas. How are you going to aggregate them? By agreement in purpose. Dr. Cheever does not agree with Dr. Furness, but they are both willing to get their right hand on the jugular vein of slavery. (Applause.) That is what brings them together. When Dr. Cheever awakes to the normal fact that there is not strength enough in the nation to spare a man nor a woman from this great enterprise-that he is bound to make it broad as God has made the conscience of the nation-he will not get up a Church Congregational Anti-Slavery Society; he will say, 'If there is an infidel Abolitionist in New York, I will go this very morning, and find him out, clasp him to my bosom, and so help my brother.' (Applause.) It is a very easy thing to sit on a platform, like a scholor or churchman, and criticise somebody else for their dogmas. It is a very easy thing for a dozen fastidious men, now sitting in these seats, to say that I am a vulgar utterer of Billingsgate, and they could have made a great deal prettier speech. No doubt they could. Scholarship folds its arms and says, 'These agitators are vulgar fellows;' and it trims its phrases, and balances its periods, and says, ' with Shakspeare, that war would have been a mighty gallant thing if it had not been for this villanous salt- (Laughter and applause.) And the Church says, 'A religious profession, and a good name, and the old-fashioned formulas, are all excellent, valuable and necessary, towards the reformation of the world, but that man don't believe in the Trinity.' But the real lover of his kind, the real Christian heart that looks down into that Carolina hovel, and sees the faltering bondman calculating the chances of escape for himself or his wife, looking to this colossal North, with its Christian character and its marshalled strength, and losing Heart for the attempt when he sees its unbroken phalanx-such a heart rushes down into the street, and seizes every earnest man by the right hand and left, and says, 'Come, brother, let us make this world happier than we found it!' (Applause.) He welcomes every sort of cooperation, and criticism from every quarter.
Now, what I would like to do is, not to overlook the differences between me and Dr. Cheever; they are no differences of words; they are no light differ-
ences, but radical and philosophical differences. My young friend does not see the gulf that divides us. It is as broad as the Atlantic. Dr. Cheever believes-at least I suppose he believes-that the man who believes in the five points of Calvinism, and leads a moral life, in 1859, is a Christian, even if he has not awakened to the claim which the South Carolina slave has upon his sympathies, and which Nehemiah Adams has to his loathing. (Applause.) Now, my Christianity is not measured by creeds nor professions. I have stood in the city of Boston, with forty steeples pointing to the sky; I have seen chains around the Court-house; I have seen a hopeless fugitive slave incarcerated within it; I have seen seventy thousand persons, on a Sabbath day, go into those churches and utter prayers to God, and not one of them lifted up a little finger of sympathy for the brother 'guilty of a skin not colored like his own,' who was panting under laws which they made, which their countenance sustained, and which their brother Christians were taking muskets to execute in the streets; and I said to myself, 'Is this the natural result of the preaching of Jesus Christ eighteen hundred and forty-four years ago? No! It came up from the bottomless pit, I don't care what name you give to it. Loud applause.) Judge men by their fruits; he that loveth his brother is of God; he that saith he loveth God, and hateth his brother, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.' (Applause.)
Now, I learned my Christianity sitting at the feet of the loved and beloved apostle. I know that when men feel as bound with other men, they can say to the ' Puritan of the Puritans,' 'How did Puritans act?' They put the Atlantic betwixt them and a corrupt Church; they came three thousand miles away. The man who came over in the Arbella, whose name I bear, said, 'If you think me a minister by the calling they gave me in England, I will throw off the robe; for a corrupt church cannot make a true minister.' I want Dr. Cheever to say as much as they said in 1630. I want him to say that a church which hides slavery in her bosom is as bad as a church that hides bishops.
I am in earnest. I would thank God if I could sit down and never utter another word on the subject of slavery; to lead a life of professional or of any other leisure. Why do I come here? I ought not to find room here! Bred a lawyer, what right have I on a platform which Christianity ought to have crowded with the gowns of Congregational minister? (Loud and long applause.) But as in all history, so now, the priest and Levite desert the man who has fallen among thieves, and leave the Samaritan to go along the roadside, and to pick him up, and introduce him to the sympathy of Christendom.
Why, friends, we are only telling the old tale which the whole world has told for four thousand years. What is this book? (taking up the Bible.) It is a record of the everlasting struggle betwixt progress and priesthood, betwixt ideas and organized ecclesiastical institutions. What was Jeremiah? He was the Garrison to the priests of Jerusalem in his own day. (Applause.) And does not every man know it? Recently, in your Natural History rooms, I was shown a coral. Dr. Carpenter said to me, 'While that coral lived, a breathing animal, he set his face against the Pacific, and by the very elasticity of life beat back its waves. He bears up against the whole force of the ocean; but the moment he dies, and becomes a shell, the ocean wears him away, as it does any other rock.' Just so it is with the ocean of sin. When God touches a heart with his own fresh inspiration in the highways of life- with a new idea like that of John the Baptist in the wilderness of progress-like the coral, it beats back the Carolinas, and says, 'Take care of yourself!' But the moment it hardens into shell, if it be even the church of the Puritans, the world wears it as it does any other granite. This is the universal history of institutions. My young friend is only called to the same going out into the wilderness that every man who has had a new idea has been obliged to meet ever since the world began. And if we shall have even our Church come up at last, hardened into shell, to be an obstacle in the way of truth and freedom. God, I hope, will raise some living wheel to crush it to atoms in the generation which is to come. 
I have taken a longer time than I ought, and yet I have not said one half of what I meant to have said. (Cries of 'Go on!') My lesson, on leaving the topic which has carried me aside, and in dismissing this anti-slavery gathering, is this: Utter your absolute truth, no matter where it cuts. Tell what God tells you; practise it outright. The fault of the Church, the fault of the politics of the present day, is that it makes compromises. Daniel Webster went down among the Egyptians, and betrayed the North. What
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
was the Republicanism of Massachusetts engaged in last winter? Setting up a bronze statue of Daniel Webster in front of the State-house. Why did they do it? Because they do not want to say hard words; (laughter); because they think words harder than actions; because this religious Church of ours has eaten out the life of American people; because we have not got men, but pieces of ,men-Presbyterians, Whigs, Democrats, arms, legs, a million of which would not make a man. [Laughter.] Go to Paris; look on that throne where sits a usurper, his robes stiff with the blood of the best men in France; see Napoleon, with his right hand resting on Jesuitism, and his left on the wealth of the Capital. And yet, thought that usurper is offering temptations of office and wealth to the great men, the literary celebrities of France, that country has the proud record to make, that no man distinguished in her political or literary annuals has ever bowed the knee to the usurper, notwithstanding he offers all these powerful temptations to them, and drives them into dungeons or exile, as the penalty for refusing to swear allegiance. Catholic, gay, superficial, rotten France has never found an apostate; and yet the South can buy up Northern men in Protestant America at fast as nature can make them. [Laughter.] You call that Protestantism the Church, I call it a sham. I hope to be a Christian. I know the fathers who begat me-the six generations who have dwelt upon this land, and labored to make this a Christian people. I should indeed be a bastard if I let the infidel French capital believe, that the craven Church that dare not lift up its voice in the face of a man who sells his brother on the auction-block represented my idea of the New Testament. [Applause.] I used to think, if you wanted to have a dirty piece of work done, you should get a minister to do it. John Selden said so two hundred years ago, in the days of the great rebellion; and every religious society whose action I have criticized proves it to-day. But my own profession has outdone them to-day-the Lords and the Ketchums in the Tract Society meeting this morning, filing down conscience, dividing hairs, throwing dust in the eyes of honest men. [Laughter.]
It is hard to dismiss an anti-slavery meeting; it is hard to let you go. If I were at liberty to tell you the innumerable stories of the heroism, the sagacity, the sacrifices of the slave-if I could only open to you the records of the underground railroad-you would see how ashamed we are when we stand in the presence of those whom we receive under our roofs. No man of you could stand the eloquent sight of a fresh fugitive, doing deeds that no record of white valor equals. We want the ability to put them in the streets, and tell their names. We want your churches to be altars to which they would flee before they come to us. One of your clergymen preached a sermon in support of the Fugitive Slave Law. It was printed in your Journal of Commerce. Daniel Webster praised it. Three weeks afterwards, before the ink was dry, that very man was on the doorstep of a clerical friend of his and mine, with a fugitive slave behind him who had got to his door. He could not practice his own doctrine. [Laughter and applause.] He came to his anti-slavery brother clergyman, and said, ' Where do you put these folks? (Laughter.) I don't know what to do, but she ought to be out of sight in an hour; you have some way-tell me of it.' [Great laughter.]
Oh, the slave is a sermon with an act. If we could only present such a face, such a scene to you-if we could only make you initiate a religions, a political sentiment that should make New York a shelter and a refuge! Give us a bill that there shall be no slave hunt the Empire State. (Applause.) Thirty men on trial at Cleveland for having obeyed God and rescued a fellow-being! I thank God that it is possible to have thirty such heroes exist among us! The State of Wisconsin throwing down her gauntlet to the nation, and saying, 'There never shall be slave-hunt on my soil,' and the Supreme Court endorsing it! (Applause.) Thank God for New England! Base as she is, the begat Wisconsin; and Wisconsin is an honor to the mother that gave her birth. (Applause.) Get out of your graves; let me dig you out of William H. Seward (a hiss); get you up on your own feet that your mothers gave you. Wm. H. Seward in a great man. ( Applause. ) I derive one of my great sources of encouragement from the fact that he is willing-and they say he is-to be run as the Republican Candidate; for everybody knows that never allows his name to be mixed up with a hopeless cause. [Laughter and applause.] That is, to be sure, no great honor to him-only to his sagacity; but when the doves come to our windows, when the rats ran to the ship, not from it, it is good sign. I take him as a good sign. I myself wish he could he elected; I would rather have him than Buchanan. [Laughter.] But, still, I do not want him, and I will tell you why. While there is slavery in the Carolinas, there will never be anything but a puppy-dog of the slaveholders in the Presidential chair; and Seward is too good wood to make a President of in such circumstances. What I want him to say is-as an appendix to his Rochester speech-and in saying it, I give you my type of political duty-I want him to come home to Albany and say, 'Gentlemen of the North, the battle is terrible against us. We cannot even go into the fight, inside this Union, without sacrificing our honor.' I want him to wind his bugle-horn, and call home from Washington to the Empire State every lover of liberty, and to say, 'Here, without sacrificing the honor of gentlemen, or the honesty of men, we will found a Republican Union, out of honest States, and make the South come and beg for admission.' [Applause.] Men say, 'Why not sit and vote in the United States Senate?' I will tell you why. Because the voter steals that vote. You would not have me go and give money to the Poor at the Five Points, having first cut Wm. B. Astor's throat, and stolen his funds! That is not charity, is it? How does Seward get that vote in the Senate Chamber of the United States? He gets it by being the agent of men who believe that the Constitution of the United States orders the return of fugitive slaves, and who are willing that it should be done! He goes there to perform the duty of a State which acknowledges that she is bound to send back the bravest man who sets foot on her soil-that is the black fugitive. If you want a man to take Jackson's gold snuff-box, don't go in the streets; I will show him to you in a box six feet square, coming on the railroad from Maryland to Philadelphia for the sake of liberty. I will show him to you in the man who cannot read his letters; who knows nothing but the instinct God gave him; who clung, like a barnacle, to the outside of the wheel-house of a steamer from Georgia to Virginia, and thence to Philadelphia, and would have reached there and been a freeman, but for an accursed Yankee church-member, who found him and carried him back. [Applause.] The Church of America has not done, in the sight of God, good enough, since the days of the revolution, to make the wickedness of that one member kick the beam. If I could say anything better than that, I would, [Loud applause.]
Mr. PHILLIPS was preceded by Mr. THEODORE TILTON, connected with the Independent, who made an earnest speech, in which he warmly commended Henry Ward Beecher and Dr. Cheever. Dr. C. was present in the audience.]
The public exercises being concluded, the members of the Society proceeded to elect the following officers for the ensuring year:
President- SYDNEY HOWARD GAY.
Vice President- Erasmus D. Hudson, Lauren Wetmore, Joseph Carpenter.
Corresponding Secretary- Oliver Johnson.
Recording Secretary-Henrietta W. Johnson.
Treasurer-Rowland Johnson.
Additional Members of the Executive Committee-William A. Hall, John F. Cleveland, Abby H. Gibbons, J. Mortimer Hall, Cornelius Bramhall.
<c02>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE
American Anti-Slavery Society.
FIRST DAY-TUESDAY, May 10.
(Concluded.)
Judge CULVER was followed by EDWARD GILBERT, Esq. of New York city, C. C. BURLEIGH, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, and C. L. REMOND. [We cannot find any room for their remarks this week.]
The Convention then, at 10 P. M. adjourned to Wednesday morning, at 10 o'clock.
SECOND DAY.
The meeting was called to order, at 10 1-2 o'clock on Wednesday morning, by the President.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., of Leicester, Mass., read the following Address to the citizens of Warrington, England, in response to the one read yesterday to the Convention:
ADDRESS
FROM THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, IN TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING ASSEMBLED.
To the Citizens of Warrington, England, Who, to the number of three thousand five hundred persons, of all ranks and classes, including the Mayor, the Rector of the parish, and the Member of Parliament for the Borough, have united for the aid of this Society in an appeal to the Citizens of the United States to relinquish Slavery forever.
With inexpressible gratitude-with feelings which cannot even be imagined, except by such as know by experience the horrors of slavery, and the toil and difficulty attendant on its abolition-the American Anti-Slavery Society acknowledges to have received, by the hand of its President, Mr. Garrison, as forwarded by Mr. Gaskill, an address, of which the comprehensive brevity and fidelity to the deepest and highest laws of man's existence make it fit to be engraved on every human heart. It is therefore certain to prove of potent influence with the American people to whom it is addressed; and we embrace this earliest occasion to ensure our honored coadjutors in Warrington and its vicinity of the good it has done already, as published in our anti-slavery journals, by cheering and encouraging ourselves, and of the good it is sure to accomplish by its fraternal and deferential commendation to our fellow-citizens of the only course in regard to slavery which a good citizen can pursue. We know by manifold tokens, as well as by their assurance to the contrary, how deep is the impression made upon our people by the public opinion of other lands, especially of the mother country.
Not only to us and to our oppressed clients, and to our beloved native land, is such action as these high minded Englishmen have taken eminently beneficial. If sufficiently multiplied, such addresses will awaken, inform, concentrate and direct the anti-slavery spirit of their own country, so as effectually to prevent those dishonorable diplomatic sacrifices of liberty which a timid English Ministry, in doubt of home support, feels compelled to make to the demands of our slaveholding Cabinets and the menaces of our slaveholding Congresses.
Thus this action of the just and generous public heart of Warrington is felt by the American Anti-Slavery Society as the first stroke of a new and prevailing diplomacy, whereby the complications created by the trickery of European cabinets and the bullying of American slaveholders shall be forthwith stopped.
But, while rejoicing in this prospect, it becomes us, gentlemen and friends, to thank you with no common sense of grateful obligation for the pecuniary part of your testimonial. Supposing it to be for the most part composed of very small donations, we dare affirm of this combined power of gift and testimony that (if you will allow us the phraseology of our Puritan fathers) you shall not have gone over half the cities of your Israel before this work of abolishing slavery shall have been accomplished.
While, as the treasurers of this noble enterprise, worthy of a world's profoundest interest and most energetic action, we can accept your welcome gift without any feeling of humiliation, we do feel humbled at the thought that, although so much has been accomplished in awakening the people, such donations should be yet needed in our native land.
Believe, meanwhile, that you are not aiding a body of persons in the accomplishment of this common good who have ever spared any sacrifice on their own part, pecuniary or other, by which they might hope to promote it: from the moment when foreign moral stimulus shall enable us to awaken in our own land a more general devotedness adequate to the occasion, we shall be the first to decline pecuniary aid from yours; and may that day be close at hand!
We accompany this address with a selection of our recent publications; and when you learn from them where the cause now labors, and the means we are putting in operation to carry it forward, we think you will be gratefully surprised as we are at the felicitous inspiration which prompted the righteous deed at the right time.
Done at New York, by order of the American Anti-Slavery Society, May 11th, 1859.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, President.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Corresponding Sec'y.
Wendell Phillips, Recording Sec'y.
The Address was adopted, and the Convention voted hat it be transmitted to the citizens of Warrington.
Mr. may also read an extract of a letter from a lady who is traveling with Rev. Theodore Parker, giving an account of the state of his health, and also of the results of emancipation in the island of Santa Cruz.
Mr. May, in behalf of the Finance Committee, then made an earnest appeal for funds, alluding to the urgent need that existed for labor in fields already whitening to the harvest, and expressing the hope what the friends of the cause would give as liberally as their means allowed.
Addresses were delivered by Rev. Samuel Longfellow, of Brooklyn, Dr. W. C. Gould, James Miller McKim, Lucretia Mott, and Rev. Mr. Noyes, of Hope Chapel.
EDMUND QUINCY, in behalf of the Committee appointed to nominate a list of officers for the Society for the ensuing year, reported the following:
President -WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Massachusetts.
Vice Presidents-Peter Libby, Maine; Luther Melendy, James M. Hawkes, Jehial C. Claflin, New Hampshire; Francis Jackson, Edmund Quincy, Massachusetts; Asa Fairbanks, Rhode Island; James R. Whitcomb, Connecticut; Samuel J. May, Cornelius <Illegible> Amy Post, Pliny Sexton, Lydia Mott, New York; Lucretia Mott, Robert Purvis, Edward M. Davis, Thomas Whitson, Joseph Moore, Pennsylvania; Rowland Johnson, Alfred Gibbs Campbell, New <Illegible>; Thomas Garrett, Delaware; Thomas Donaldson, sarah Otis Ernst, Benjamin Bown, Ohio; William Hearn, William Hopkins, Indiana; Joseph Merrit, Thomas Chandler, Cyrus Fuller, Michigan; Carver Comlinson, Illinois; Caleb Green, Minnesota; Georgina B. Kirby. California.
Corresponding Secretary-CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, plainfield, Ct.
Recording Secretary-WENDELL PHILLIPS, Boston.
Treasurer- FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston.
Executive Committee-WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, CRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, WENDELL PHILLIPS, ANNE WARREN WESTON SYDNEY HOWARD GAY, ELIZA LEE FOLLEN, SAMUEL MAY, JR., WILLIAM BOWDITCH, CHARLES K.WHIPPLE.
The report was accepted, and the list of officers anonymously adopted.
Mr. JOHN BEESON made a few remarks in behalf of the Indians of this country, and expressed the hope that this Society would and forth its testimony
<c03>
against the injustice and tyranny to which they are subjected.
The following resolutions in reference to the recent decease of CHARLES F. HOVEY, a member of the Executive Committee of this Society, were then read by the President, and unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That this Society in profoundly sensible of the loss it has experienced in the recent death of CHARLES F. HOVEY, for many years an active member and officer of this Society; that they fed deeply the withdrawal of an example so full of fidelity to conscience and of faith in the omnipotence of truth, and in the simple expediency of the Right; of a character so marked by the highest independence, the sternest integrity, the wisest sagacity; of a life so informed with love, with charity, with goodness, and with courage.
Resolved, That as Abolitionists especially, we mourn the loss of a companion so brave, so earnest, so wise and so munificent, whose best counsels, whose consistent example, whose ready hand were never withheld from the needs of the Cause, and the benediction of whose countenance gave us hope and comfort in the most trying hours.
Resolved, That we will endeavor to mourn him aright by endeavoring to be, like him, full of faith in the power of ideas, and full of good works to ensure their victory.
Resolved, That the President of this Society be instructed to convey to the widow and family of our deceased brother the assurance of our sympathy in their grief, and in their love and admiration of his character, which must prove their best earthly consolation.
The Convention then adjourned, to meet at 3 p.m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.-MISS BARBARA STEWART, of Cazenovia, a colored young lady, who has been engaged in lecturing on slavery for a few months past, was the first speaker. Her remarks were confined principally to a recital of the wrongs and outrages to which the slave is subjected, and concluded with an earnest appeal for renewed and yet more vigorous effort in his behalf.
Mr. Remond then offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That we renew our previously declared testimony against the Colonization Society, for the reasons we have so often assigned, and will spare no occasion to pass unimproved, by which we may contribute to put an end to its mischievous spirit and designs, in fostering and perpetuating the hateful and unrighteous prejudice against the proscribed and persecuted colored people of this country.
Mr. R. said he should say but a few words on this subject, because he knew that it was one which had been discussed again and again in their meetings; but in a brief speech, he urged the importance of renewing their testimony against the Colonization Society at this time, when the spirit of that Society was manifesting itself in various disguises.
MR. BURLEIGH also spoke strongly in favor of the resolution, and showed in a clear light the absurdity as well as injustice and cruelty of the position taken by the Colonization Society.
ANDREW T. Foss, of New Hampshire, then took the platform, and gave an encouraging as well as entertaining account of his recent labors in the West. He said he had 'hung the banner on the outer wall,' heading his bills, 'No Union with Slaveholders,' and had found an advantage in that, inasmuch as the people, to whom the Gospel had never been preached, were curious to hear what he had to say. He did not wish his audience to understand that his preaching was always acceptable; on the contrary, to many it was very unacceptable, and some had talked about tarring and feathering him, but he had not been brought to the tar kettle yet. He believed that the discussion at the West, as at the East, was narrowing the question down to this point.- 'Shall we have the continuance of the Union and slavery, or the dissolution of the Union and the abolition of slavery?' He believed that the people generally were coming to the conclusion that slavery could never be abolished while the Union remained; and, by the testimony of slaveholders themselves, slavery could not live a single year after the dissolution of the Union. What he meant by a dissolution of the Union was simply for the North to call home her Senators and Representatives, and declare that she would have no more complicity with a government that stood with its entire weight upon crushed humanity. That was all he meant. If anybody wanted to fight about it, let them fight; but he had no idea of fighting.
Mr. F. then proceeded to speak of the methods of operation which seemed to him most likely to promote the end for which they labored; and among these he regarded the passage of Personal Liberty bills as one of the most efficient. The moment there was no hope of recovering the fugitive slave, slavery was at an end. Let the North cease to protect the slaveholder, and let the case stand between the slave and his master, and then, if the colored man would not take care of himself, he (Mr. f.) would ask nothing more for him. He knew he would, and so did the slaveholder; and therefore he said that this Union ought to be dissolved. In what manner? Simply by disregarding the compact on which it stands, taking away its foundation stones. And that amounted to just this: ceasing to be the villains and scoundrels, as they always had been from the beginning.
Mr. Foss said, that in the West he had found many Democrats ready to sign the petitions for Personal Liberty bills, and he believed that, if proper agencies were put into that field, a majority of all the voters in northern Illinois, Indiana and Ohio might be induced to sign a petition, this next fall, asking for laws that should prohibit slave-hunting on their soil.
Aaron M. Powell introduced the following resolutions in reference to the efforts which have been made for the greater security of personal liberty on Northern soil, and recommended renewed and increased exertion on the part of all friends of freedom in that direction:
Resolved, That while in direct and ceaseless labor for such a revolution in public sentiment as shall secure the total abolition of slavery is our chief and fundamental mission, we recognize in the recent efforts in Massachusetts, New York and elsewhere, for the unqualified prohibition of slave-hunting, a most timely and important work, and one which should engage the earnest and untiring co-operation of every Abolitionist, and of all who would have Northern soil truly free and really 'an asylum for the oppressed.'
Resolved, That we especially recommend to the members and friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society in the several States which it represents, to at once begin the work of circulating petitions, addressed to their respective Legislatures, demanding the entire prohibition of slave-hunting on their soil.
Mr. Powell spoke in support of his resolution, and was followed by Lucretia Mott, of Philadelphia, and Mr. Simons, of New York.
Mr. Garrison, after a few appropriate remarks, read the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That among the tried and faithful friends of the Anti-Slavery cause who have been removed by death since the last anniversary of this Society, and whose memories deserve to be gratefully and <Illegible> cherished for their works' sake, ELLIS GRAY LORING stands conspicuous, having given the earliest public adhesion to an enterprise at that time without friends, and everywhere bitterly hated and proscribed, and sustained it by a life of the purest integrity, of the deepest conscientiousness, of the most perfect disinterestedness and the highest moral intrepidity.
Resolved, That in the death of Judge WILLIAM JAY, the slave loses a firm, fearless and devoted friend -one of the few Americans who lived equal to the noble Anti-Slavery name he inherited-one whose early and earnest advocacy of emancipation, whose sacrifice of office for his principles, and whose contribu-.
<c04>
tions to Anti-Slavery argument and literature, second to none in value and importance, place him in the front rank of those to whom these States will owe, at some future happy day, their salvation from their foulest sin.
Resolved, That an early, intrepid and devoted advocate of the enslaved in our land has been removed by the death of ARNOLD BUFFUM, at a ripe old age-one of the signers of the Declaration of Anti-Slavery Sentiments at Philadelphia in 1833, and one of the twelve who organized the New England (now the Massachusetts) Anti-Slavery Society, and its first public lecturer in the enforcement of the doctrine of immediate and unconditional emancipation, to whose earnest and impressive appeals many can trace their conversion to the Anti-Slavery cause-he never allowing an opportunity to pass without bearing an uncompromising testimony against the sinfulness of slavery.
The question was then put on the adoption of the resolutions reported yesterday from the Business Committee, and they were adopted.
The resolutions submitted on the previous day by Mr. Phillips, having reference to the duty of Abolitionists in regard to politics and the Church, and in case of insurrection at the South, were then adopted.
The resolutions offered by Mr. Powell having reference to the circulation of petitions for the prohibition of slave-hunting, and also the resolution introduced by Mr. Remond, in regard to the Colonization Society, were also adopted.
The President then stated that the only other resolutions before the Society were those introduced by Mr. Pillsbury on Tuesday forenoon-namely:-
Resolved, That while we rejoice in all the indications of an advancing state of public opinion against slavery, we would still be mindful that our greatest danger is not from actual slaveholders, and the open, bold, and blasphemous defenders and extenders of the institution in State or Church, in politics or pulpits, but rather from those who make specious and strong anti-slavery pretensions and professions, like the Republican party, the Boston American Tract Society, the recently formed New England and New York Church Anti-Slavery Society, the New York Independent, with its array of clerical editors and contributors, that are still in governmental or ecclesiastical union and fellowship with slavery and slaveholders.
Resolved, That while these organizations are thus, through their pretensions and professions, able to absorb the awakened public sympathy, control the public charity, paralyze the public conscience, and pervert even well-intended action into channels that flow only with compromise, corruption and crime, it becomes our duty faithfully to rebuke them, and to warn the people against them, as the enemies of that only radical and genuine gospel through which, under God, deliverance can come to the enslaved.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., opposed the resolutions. He thought it unjust to class the Church Anti-Slavery Society and Dr. Cheever with the other Societies and persons referred to.
MR. GARRISON. I agree with my friend Mr. May. As a matter of conscience, and from a sense of justice, I cannot vote for the resolutions.
J. A. HOWLAND. I am prepared to vote for the resolutions as they stand. They do not class the Church Anti-Slavery Society with the malignant opposition of the Independent to Dr. Cheever, but they class its opposition to slavery with the opposition of the Independent to that sin,-both denouncing the sin, both fraternizing with the slaveholder.
Mr. MAY. In some respects they are unlike, and I believe the adoption of the resolutions would do a positive injustice. To say that the Church Anti-Slavery Society and Dr. Cheever hold out the hand of fellowship to slaveholders as the other parties are doing,-the bare intimation that they have no more moral opposition to the slaveholder and his measures than is seen in the Boston Tract Society, which is only a mere appendage to the New York Tract Society, and the Independent, which has been so cold and hostile to the anti-slavery words of Dr. Cheever,-to intimate by a resolution that there is no distinct and perceptible difference between them, running them together as alike to be condemned, I hold to be extremely unjust.
Mr. HOWLAND. I understand that the Church Anti-Slavery Society fully recognizes the Christian character and fraternizes in labor with the Boston American Tract Society. Whence, then, this delicacy with respect to linking the two Societies together? Mr. Cheever is not mentioned in the resolutions.
Mr. Foss. I shall vote for the resolutions, because I believe they express the truth; no more, and, I am happy to say, no less. If Dr. Cheever is doing God's work, God will take care of him. He has taken long strides in the right direction, but he is still keeping bad company, and until he gets out of that company, we should let him go.
Mr. GARRISON. It seems to me that there is a palpable contradiction in these resolutions. Take the first sentence:-' Resolved, That while we rejoice in all the indications of an advancing state of public sentiment against slavery,' &c. Then look at the conclusion, that those movements-political and religious-which certainly indicate the favorable change alluded to, are more dangerous than all others!
Where are 'the indications of an advancing state of public opinion against slavery' to be found, except, politically, in the growing opposition to the Democratic party-a party which is the willing tool of the Slave Power to any extent desired? Where, but in the imperfect, inadequate, but nevertheless relatively significant efforts of Dr. Cheever and the Church Anti-Slavery Society, and the growing alienation between the New York and Boston Tract Societies? I thank God for all these favorable ' signs of the times.' [Applause.] For one, I will not ' bruise the broken reed, nor quench the smoking flax.' Let us remember how we were once clouded in vision,' seeing men as trees walking'-in fact, virtually occupying a pro-slavery position, by upholding the Union and voting under the U. S. Constitution, not perceiving the connection of things, and being united with various religious pro-slavery bodies, hoping for their conversion, while zealously advocating the cause of the oppressed. We have reached our present position by a slow but painful process. Now I say that others must pass through the same experience. My friend Foss says that Dr. Cheever has taken long strides forward. So he has; God bless and sustain him to the end! How, then, can I vote for a resolution which classes him among the most dangerous ' enemies' of the Anti-Slavery movement? God forbid that I should do this! This, however, I am prepared to say:-Dr. Cheever must either continue to advance to our position, or else ' beat a retreat.' If he goes backward, he is lost; but if forward, his salvation is sure. I believe he is conscientiously working out the problem for himself, that we have long since clearly solved in our own minds; and he is learning a new lesson every day in this matter, by the treatment which he is receiving at the hands of his Orthodox clerical brethren generally, who either strongly condemn or timidly stand aloof from him.
The formation of the Church Anti-Slavery Society is an indication of religions progress on this subject; yet it must prove a failure, for a two-fold reason:-it is sectarian in its terms of membership, and it endorses the principles of the American Anti-Slavery Society. Dr. Cheever and his associates are deluded with the notion, that, as a church organization, they will secure the co-operation of evangelical churches generally. They will soon see their error, and that we have not been forsaken on account of our alleged infidelity, but because we have maintained uncompromisingly our principles in behalf of the slave. I am for criticizing them as severely as the truth will warrant, but I desire to be strictly just in all cases; and I do not consider it just to brand them as dangerous enemies.
<c05>
Mr. HOWLAND. We recognize fully the cheering signs of the times, the significant signs of the progress of anti-slavery sentiment; and yet, this transition state is not to be accepted as the glorious result at which we aim. Here lies the danger. These men come up and say, 'We are abolitionists, and the slave's consistent and true friends.' While we admit that they are his friends, and, to some extent, consistent with their own views, yet, nevertheless, we do not admit that, in their present transition state, they are fully in the position to which they must come, and to which we seek, to bring them-the position in which we aim to stand, and in which we ask them to stand.
Mr. MAY. I agree with the idea expressed in the resolutions, that the greatest danger to the progress of our movement now lies in those bodies who have made some advancement. That looks to me philosophical and true. I believe, for instance, that it is in the power of the New York Independent and the New York Tribune to damage the Anti-Slavery cause to an extent that it is not in the power of the New York Herald or Observer to do, or of those who sail in their company. I have been a subscriber to the Tribune for many years, (perhaps it is a confession I ought to feel some reproach in making,) and have read it carefully, and I believe it is doing a vast deal to lower the anti-slavery conscience of the people of this nation. I think we should be warned against it, and against all compromising papers. But while I would do that, and while I would vote for a very strong resolution on that point, I think it is both folly and meanness to place on the same level with these papers-whose opposition to slavery springs mainly, not from conscientious abhorrence of the system, but from party considerations-a man like Dr. Cheever; for I insist that he was meant by that resolution, if he was not named. I believe that when the Church Anti-Slavery Society was named there, Dr. Cheever was meant, for he is the soul of that Society, and without him, it would not be. I cannot find it in my heart to do such a thing. And I protest against this making haste to condemn a society, before it has hardly had a chance to show itself before the people. That I regard as unjust, and that I would refrain from.
AARON M. POWELL. I am not aware that Dr. Cheever, excellent as have been his words, noble and prophetic as has been his testimony, does not stand today in fellowship with slavery, as we understand his position. [Voices-'no, no!'] I presume we should not differ in regard to the position of the whole Congregational church in that respect. I do not know that Dr. Cheever has taken any action whereby we should be warranted in classing him other than in the Congregational Church. As I understand the position of Dr. Cheever, he has yet to be born fully and entirely as an uncompromising abolitionist. I know, if I know my own heart, that I have only love and good-will and honor for all the anti-slavery enthusiasm and moral power which he has exerted; but, Mr. Chairman, as a cultivator of the soil, I observe the analogy, an analogy between its treatment and the treatment of this cause, which is dear to my heart of hearts. I find that, as the soil becomes more and more fertilized, as the ground is better and better prepared for the production of fruit, then do the weeds spring up, then does the real difficulty of the cultivator commence-that is, in keeping the ground entirely clear. So in this moral field. Under your labors, and those of others, the soil of freedom in this land has become more and more fertilized, so that we who are coming in to cultivate it are obliged of necessity to use the axe and the hoe more and more vigorously, and more and more carefully, in order not to injure the fruit, not to destroy the seed, but still to uproot the weeds, which otherwise must annihilate the crop. I do not wish to be understood, in speaking in favor of these resolutions, as undervaluing a single word of Dr. Cheever's able advocacy of the anti-slavery cause, a single breath of sympathy expressed by Henry Ward Beecher, or a single anti-slavery line published in the New York Independent or Tribune; but I do mean to be understood as saying, that I believe all those agencies thus named in the resolutions do stand in ecclesiastical fellowship with the slaveholder, or, at any rate, under religious and political responsibilities not yet discharged toward the slave. Therefore, I would express this sentiment,-that while we are and should be strictly and severely just, we are not ungenerous in the language in which the resolutions are couched.
A motion was then made that the resolutions of Mr. Pillsbury be laid upon the table, which was carried by a large vote.
The Society then adjourned, sine die.

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.
The June number of this vigorous magazine opens with a critical dissertation on ' Shakespeare's Art.' The author endeavors to show the distinction between Nature and Art, and argues that the great Dramatist is indebted more to the latter than to the former for his masterly use of language, and consummate skill in the arrangement of his plots. Part of the first scene from Timon of Athens is instanced and analyzed in support of this theory, which is at least worthy of consideration, even if it does not prove acceptable to all.
' Mun-yaun ' is a pleasantly written and readable account of the adventures of a Chinese youth belonging to the haut ton of the Celestial Empire. A satirical vein is perceptible throughout the story, reminding the reader that he need search no further than New York for a prototype, (a diminished one, of course,) of the Pekin exquisite and the aristocratic circle in which he lived.
'A Trip to Cuba' next attracts our attention. It is an amusing but uninviting account of the hospitality, or rather inhospitality of the Cuban inhabitants. We notice fewer objectionable sentences in this chapter than in the lost, but the article is characterized by a tone of flippancy little to our taste. We regret that the pages of the Atlantic should have been made the vehicle for conveying the pro-slavery and unchristian sentiments with which the writer has seen fit to interlard and alloy her letters. The tone of the following extract shows a contemptuous and bitter spirit:
'As soon as we had dropped anchor, a swarm of dark creatures came on board, with gloomy brows, mulish noses, and suspicious eyes. This application of Spanish flies proves irritating to the good-natured captain, and uncomfortable to all of us. All possible documents are produced for their satisfaction,-bill of lading, bill of health, and so on. Still they persevere in tormenting the whole ship's crew, and regard us, when we pass, with all the hatred of race in their ray less eyes.' " Is it a crime," we are disposed to ask, " to have a fair Saxon skin, blue eyes, and red blood?" Truly one would seem to think so; and the first glance at the historical race makes clear to us the Inquisition, the Conquest of Grenada, and the ancient butcheries of Alva and Pizarro.'
Such an observation comes with ill grace from one who suggests the propriety of consigning to the tortures of a worse than Spanish Inquisition, an unfortunate race whose only crime is the possession of ' a skin not colored like our own.' Again:-
'On board the 'Karnak,' harmony reigns serene. The custom-house wretches are gone, and we are, on the whole, glad we did not murder them.'
Then follows an expression decidedly Fanny Fernish:
'After so many experiences of good and evil, the cat-guts about our tough old hearts are loosened, and discourse the pleasant music of Friendship.'
This may seem wit to dullards, but it strikes us as coarse and inelegant.
The ' Inedited Memorials of Smollett' throw an additional ray of light on that genial author's history. To lovers of Roderick Random and Peregrine Pickle, the article will be truly welcome.
'The Differential and Integral Calculus' traces the rise and progress of mathematical science.
Mr. Underwood's serial story, 'Bulls and Bears,' is brought to a satisfactory conclusion in this number.
'A Charge with Prince Rupert,' the leader of the
<c06>
Cavaliers in the civil war of the Stuarts, is a vivid picture of those stirring 'times that tried men a souls,' in England's struggle for civil and religious freedom.
The next is a capital article on 'The Stereoscope and the Stereograph,' from the pen, we think, of O.W. Holmes. It gives a very interesting and instructive account of the process of making daguerreotypes and photographs, together with a history of that wonderful, and as yet unappreciated instrument, the Sensible future uses to which it may be applied are by no means extravagant, and we heartily accept his concluding prophecy, that before another generation shall have passed away, it will be recognized that a new epoch in the history of human progress dates from the time when he who-
-never but in uncreated light
Dwelt from eternity-
took a pensile of fire from the hand of the 'angel OF the sun,' and placed it in the hands of a mortal.'
The 'Minister's Wooing. increases in interest as it advances. The subtle and unprincipled character of Aaron Burr is admirably described in this number as also are his polished and irresistible manners. The guileless innocence of Mary Scudder, the stern integrity and unwavering purpose of good Dr. H. in his opposition to the slave-trade, and lastly that prying, gossiping, talkative little lousy-body, Miss Prissy, are all depicted with inimitable skill. Our appetite for the would, fain ask for more. Couldn't Mrs. Stowe allow us a little larger portion monthly?
The 'Professor, as usual, is attractive, and treat us to an exquisite little poem called 'The Two Streams.' The literary notices of this number are written with more than usual care. Altogether, the Atlantic for June is in no way inferior to its predecessors. Buy it.
MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS. The colored citizens of Boston held a large and enthusiastic meeting in the vestry of the South street church, on Monday evening, for the purpose of sympathizing with and tendering aid to the persons implicated in the Oberlin rescue.
Wm. Wells Brown presided, and earnest appeals were made in behalf of the objects of the meeting by the Chair; Messrs. Grimes, Martin, Hayden, and others. A series of appropriate resolutions were adopted, and a committee appointed to collect material aid reported about $50 as the result of their labors among those present. At a late hour the meeting adjourned to Monday evening next, at which time the Finance Committee will make their report.
Baron Humboldt, unquestionably the most learned man in the world, died at his residence in Berlin, Prussia, on the 6th instant.

MEETING OF 'FRIENDS OF PROGRESS.'
The Annual Meeting of the 'Friends of Human Progress' is called to meet at Waterloo, Seneca Co., New York, on Friday, June 3, and continue in session three days.
This body of Reformers have held several annual meetings of decided interest, at the same place, and many of our ablest men and women have participated in their deliberations. All movements and subjects relating to human rights and human improvement are freely discussed in a may and uncompromising spirit.
A cordial invitation is extended to all who love freedom, Truth and Humanity, to be present.
By order of the Committee of Arrangements.
WORCESTER- An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held in Worcester, at BRINLEY HALL, on Sunday next May 29. Among the speakers expected to be present are PARKER PILLSBURY, STEPHEN S. FOSTER, and JOSEPH A. HOWLAND.
MARRIED-In this city, May 17, by Rev. W.H. Cudworth, Mr. AMERICA P. TALBOT to Miss HARRIET M. HILL.
May 19, by Rev. J.W. Dadmun, Mr. JOHN NICHOLS to Miss ANGELINE B. GARDBER.
By Rev. Dr. Lamson, Mr. ALFRED HEWINS, of Dedham, and Miss CARRIE E. SPARRELL, daughter of William Sparrell, of Boston.

THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great Laboratory, has stored some remedy adapted to every disease which 'flesh is heir to. But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a case of Dyspepsia cured was a rare experience in medical practice. Now, under influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the rare exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afflicted;
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA. Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters.
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which he lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith:
WATERTOWN, N.Y., July 28, 1858.
S.W. FOWLE &Co., Boston: SIRS- Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fullness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pains in the stomach, often occasioning nausea, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden.
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing all like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy.
THEO. CALDWELL.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE &CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. March 25-4tis

HUMORS OF THE HUMAN SYSTEM.
IT is well known that the juices of the body are governed by natural laws, such as regulate the vegetable life in the change of seasons.
In winter, they are congealed, or in common parlance, the 'sap is down,' the pores are closed and our whole body is hard and firm, and an accumulation o impurities takes place in our system.
The genial influences of Spring cause an expansion of all living matter, the sap rises in vegetable life, also the juices of our bodies are given out and enter into the common circulation.
This is a law to which every human being is subject, and the neglect of it has caused a whole summer of misery.
Now is the time to apply a remedy that cleanses and searches every fiber and pore, and eradicates every particle and sediment of humor that has laid stagnant during the winter.
Kennedy's Medical Discovery is well known to our readers as the greatest and best Blood Purifier the world has ever produced.
We advice each and all of our readers to use one bottle of it is this Spring; we say on bottle, for that will cure the impurities of one season, and prepare the system for the changes of the next.
Where the disease has fastened itself and become settled in the system, larger, quantities are required.
For Scrofula, Erysipelas, Salt Rheum, Scald Head, White Scales, Shingles, Pushes, Ulcerated sore Legs, Humor in the Eyes, Running of the Ears from Scarlet Fever or Measles, the Medical Discovery can be relied upon to effect a perfect cure.
May 13.

WORCHESTER WATER-CURE.
DR. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, where he has spent several month medical observations, will resume, after July 1,1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution May 27.3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
LESSONS FROM NATURE. Written for a Sunday School Magazine.
'There are tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in every thing.'
-Shakespeare. 
SPRING- THE TREES.
What sayest thou, Tree, through thy tongues, the
young leaves. And with small birds building beneath thy eaves?
'I see the swallows and martins come 
Over sea and land from their winter home; 
I see all around me fresh flowers spring free 
'Neath my shade and I mark the gold-barred bee 
Gather sweet food through the livelong spring day, 
And the meadows alive with lambs at play;
I hear all the woods and the gardens ring 
With the thousand songs of the joyous spring; 
And the sun locks down from the clear blue sky, 
Raising men's thoughts to the Father on high; 
While my every leaf, with its soft green tongue, 
Whispers God's praise in a fresh spring-tide song.'
THE BROOKS.
What page people the brooks to the bright apring sun,
As glancing and dancing and sparkling they run.
And swift water-beetles and flies dart and play,
Skimming their surface the livelong spring day?
A page from a hymn-book-not music alone.
But a hymn, words and music, whose every tone,
As gurgling, and purling, and prattling along,
Each clear brook still murmurs its own sweet song,
Tells that as winter, its stomps and its rain,
Filled all their channels with fresh waves again,
So to the good, from their Father's kind love,
Shall fresh life spring eternal in heaven above.
THE STONES.
Frowning, and lifting your grand heads so high, 
Proudly ye stand 'neath the soft spring sky; 
Rocks! strong like the old earth's mighty bones! 
Rocks! are there sermons concealed in your stones?
'Yes, in our stones are wise sermons indeed; 
Sermons the dull and the learned may read. 
See that dark lump, so unsightly and old, 
Look at its massy coils, fold within fold, 
Forming a circle. Once, pearly and bright, 
Over primeval oceans it floated in light,
As it sister, the Nautilus, sails in the bay
Of Naples, fair Naples, this sunny spring day.
Preach, stony Ammonite. "God, whose high will
Turned me to stone, keeps the Nautilus still,
To show that though thousands of years since my birth
Have past in their cycled o'er ocean and earth, 
The God who created earth, ocean and aky, 
On the throne of His love holds His power on high."'
ALL ARE GOOD. 
There is good in Spring's trees, with their light green tongues,
In the murmuring streams, book of sweet spring songs; 
And good in the sermons of rocks, dark and tall: 
Oh, good, good are each. Did not God make them all? 
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.
For the Liberator. 
THE TOCSIN. 
Heralds of Freedom! buckle on anew 
The holy armor of the living God; 
Be to your higher nature always true,
Nor fear to grapple with Oppression's horde.
Such souls as ye shall never know defeat;
Your trust in holy principles of Right; 
When in the strife your enemies ye meet.
Their alien armies ye shall put to flight.
The beacon fires you've kindled through the land 
Shall not go out till ye the field have won;
Till on the ramparts of the foe ye stand,
And hear the plaudit-Ye have nobly done.'
Onward, right onward, then, nor ever tire. 
Though one has lately fallen in the strife;
Let deeds like his with greater zeal inspire, 
To struggle for the 'crown of endless life.'
A few more days, and then this strife shall end, 
And palms of victory, then, your hands will bear
With Truth's great martyrs you will sweetly blend, 
And ' crowns of joy' in heaven forever wear.
In that great day when secrets shall be known.
And just award shall unto all be given,
The Savior gladly such as you shall own, 
In mansions he has fitted up in heaven.
Boston, Hay 13, 1859. JUSTITIA.
Charles F. Hovey.
From the Anti-Slavery Standard: THE WIND AMONG THE POOLARS. 
BY charlotte l. forten.
'Close thy book, and come, my Bertha,
Come into the wood with me, 
Where the wind among the poplars
Wildly roareth, like the sea.
Lov'st thou not the strange, wild music
Of this March wind, bold and free? 
Ah, in it my soul exulteth!
Hath it not a charm for thee?'
'No,' she answered, slowly raising 
From the book her and, dark eyes-
'Clare, thou knowest not the sorrow
That within my bosom lies.
Ah, the wind among the poplars
Hath a mournful sound to me, 
For it moaneth to me ever
Of a loved one, lost at sea.
'Years have passed since last we parted
'Neath the poplars in the wood: 
'Twas like this, a wild March morning-
Heedless of the storm we stood. 
And he said," I go, beloved one;
Fame and fortune shall be mine;
Soon will I return and claim thee,
Claim this gentle hand of thine."
'Then he clasped my hand, and kissed it!
Ah, it feels that pressure yet! 
And this heart-his own forever-
Never can its love forget. 
Weary were the days that followed;
He was sailing o'er the sea; 
And the wind among the poplars
Sang a dreary song to me.
'Than he wrote me he had landed
Safe upon a foreign shore; 
And I said," Faint heart, take courage,
Thou must grieve and sigh no more.
Thrice the March-wind's trump had sounded;
When once more I stood alone, 
Where the wind among the poplars
Made its wild and mournful moan-
'Like a wail of human anguish,
Raving, shrieking in my ear;
And I shuddered, as I listened,
With an agonizing fear-
For I knew that he was coming
O'er the dark and stormy sea, 
And that wild wind sadly sounded
Like a requiem to me.
'Ah, my heart, too, too prophetic!
'Twas in truth a funeral knell; 
In the storm, my Clare, he perished.
He whom I had loved so well. 
so the wind among the poplars
Hath a mournful sound to me, 
For it moaneth to me ever
Of that loved one lost sea.
Philadelphis, March, 1859.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTER FROM REV. HENRY F. CHEEVER, Secretary of the Church Anti-Slavery Society. 
(WITH NOTES, IS REPLY, BY C.K.W.)
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
In the rejoinder of C. K. W. to my last communication 
on ' the distinctively Christian character of the Church Anti-Slavery Society,' I see but two things that require notice; first, alleged inaccuracy in the use of the words Church and Christian; second, the alleged superiority of an anti-slavery organization that admits to its communion all friends of the slave, whether Christian or infidel, to an organization intended 
to include only the Christian friends of the slaves, or those embraced within the visible Church.
In regard to the first, I deny and disprove the alleged 
inaccuracy, by showing that the language used-' There has not been until now any distinctively Christian or church organization against slavery '-could not mean any thing else than that it is the first anti-slavery organization that has existed, both founded on Christian principles, and to be composed exclusively of Christian persons. The American Anti-Slavery Society, though founded on a Christian basis as to its principles, is meant to include all friends of the slave, whether Christian or infidel, of all creeds or no creed, in the risible Church or out of it. The Church Anti-Slavery Society is a distinctively Christian or church organisation, because it is both on a strictly Christian basis, and is, by the terms of its Constitution, intended to include Christians only, and to be the organ or exponent of the Church. (I.) This was distinctly stated and implied many times over in the Worcester Address, the erroneous report of which has caused this controversy. And it is both expressed and implied in the Preamble, Declaration of Principles, and Constitution. This makes the chief if not the only difference between the American Anti- Slavery Society and the Church Anti-Slavery Society.
2. As to the second thing to be noticed, viz., the alleged superiority of an anti-slavery organization that admits to its communion all friends of the slave, to an organization intended to include only the Christian 
friends of the slave, or those embraced within the visible Church-it is merely a matter of opinion. 
(2.) In the view of some, the union of all friends of the slave in the same organization is an advantage. 
In the view of others, it is a disadvantage. I sec no reason why a man who is a Christian and a church-member could not belong to both. But it is clear that one of the Societies only can represent the Church. (3.) 
In this connection, allow me to answer a question put by your correspondent C. K. W. in his review of a ' Tract for the Times on the question, Is it right to withhold fellowship from churches or from individuals that tolerate or practise slavery?' He quotes the following passage from that Tract: ' W hat will become of our religious organizations when irreligious men get ahead of the Church in morals, and in the practical work of Christianity? In some instances, they are already a long ways ahead of the very oracles of orthodoxy.' C. K. W. then asks the writer distinctly to say who are meant in this, and if certain persons are meant, to designate any thing irreligious in their anti-slavery action.
Now, in answer to these questions, I would say, first, that the fact to be noticed and my own idea of it would have been more accurately expressed, if, instead of the term ' irreligious men,' I had said, men not religious. For this was all I meant; that is, men who do not embrace Christianity as contained in the inspired Word of God; men who do not hold to the Divine Inspiration of the Holy Scriptures, and who do not unite with any of the visible organizations of the Christian Church, but stand aloof, or come out from them. Webster defines irreligion to be a want of religion. (4.) An irreligious, or a non-religious man, will then be a man wanting in religion. In my use of the word, he is also a man who does not sympathize, or have fellowship with any of the religious orders or sects of religion, but not necessarily that he is either an atheist or an infidel.
Now, what I intended to say was, that when men without any profession of Christianity, who stand apart from the Church, and who deny perhaps the authority of the Scriptures as containing the inspired rule for man's faith and practice, are above and beyond the Church in their morals, and in the practical duties of Christianity toward their fellow-men, especially toward the weak and the oppressed, there is danger to the Church of being cast into contempt. 
(5.) The context of the passage quoted, and the
(1.) This sentence seems to me to contain a contradiction in terms. The Church, in this country, is a pro-slavery Church, is the great bulwark of slavery. A Society, therefore, composed of Christians only, and acting on Christian principles, cannot possibly be the organ or exponent of the Church. It seems to me absurd for such a Society to pretend or desire to be the organ of such a Church; and it seems to me certain that, if such a Society acts up to its profession of Christianity, the Church in the United States will meet it with active opposition, whenever its numbers and its influence shall have so increased as to occasion any feeling beyond indifference. But if, when H. T. C. uses the word ' Church,' he means sometimes the Church of Christ, and sometimes that conglomeration of sects, calling themselves ' evangelical,' which make up our tract and missionary Societies, and if he keeps shifting from one of these opposite meanings to the other, there can be very little use in arguing with him.
(2.) If an intelligent slave were asked whether all men should oppose slavery, or only all Christian men-and whether shivery should receive absolute and unconditional opposition, or only such amount of opposition as should be compatible with the credit, prosperity and enlargement of the American Church-I think his ' opinion' upon both these points would be quickly formed and energetically expressed.
(3.) It is clear that the Society of which H. T. C. is the Secretary does not represent that Church in America which calls itself evangelical. Why then say that it does?
(4.) It is unfortunate that H. T. C. had not time to read through the whole of Webster's definition, which is as follows:-
'IRRELIGION. Want of religion, or contempt of it; impiety.'
I think the word is commonly used in the latter of these two senses; but since Webster decides that it may mean either, and since the former sense is all that H. T. C. meant, it is again unfortunate, very unfortunate, that he used such an ambiguous word.
If you throw a stone at a negro, a Jew, or any unpopular person, in a place where it is customary to throw stones at such persons-and say, in reply to his remonstrance, ' My dear sir, I meant to throw only a snow-ball'-to be sure, this explanation is better than throwing another stone, but it does not make the transaction a satisfactory one; and if he should proceed to ask why you wished to throw even a snow-ball at him, I do not know what you could say in defence of even so far putting yourself on the side of injustice.
(5.) Danger! indeed! Why does not H. T. C. say then is hope that the Church will be cast into contempt, when she so richly deserves it?
How often must I repeat that the Church of Christ is NEVER surpassed 'in the practical duties of Christianity,' either by irreligious or unrelligious men. That the American Church, which called itself' evangelical,' is so often thus surpassed by both these classes, is only another conclusive proof that it is not the Church of Christ; and if it is not, why is H. T. C no <illegible> to defend it?
<c03>
note appended, make the meaning of the writer entirely clear.
In answer, then, to the question, who are meant, or what persons, in this passage, I say distinctly, men like Pillsbury, Wright, Pouter and Parker, who are understood to denounce the modern Christian Church (6) and to deny the peculiar inspiration and authority of the Christian Scriptures and of Christian ordinances. In answer to the request that I will have the kindness to designate any thing irreligious in their anti-slavery action, I frankly say that I am unable to do so, unless it be that the apparent asperity and bitterness with which they conduct the anti-slavery warfare, and the occasional flings in which they indulge against the received Christianity of the Bible, may be called irreligious in the sense of being contrary to religion, and contemptuous of it.
With their philanthropy I agree, and I mourn that the very oracles of orthodoxy are so far behind them in the practical duties of Christianity toward the slave, and that they, stigmatized as irreligious or infidel, are so far in advance of the recognized organs and exponents of the Church, in the advocacy of the rights of man, and of practical righteousness and freedom. (7.) I love the slave as they do, and I love the Church also as they do not. It is from duty to God and love to man that I am an Abolitionist. It is from duty to Christ the Head, and from love to the Church as His body (8), that we are laboring through the Church Anti-Slavery Society ' to place the Christian Church in its true position. (9.) We would not merely absolve it from all complicity with American slavery, but we would take away its reproach of remaining silent and inactive in the presence of this giant crime of the day. It is not fitting that the Church should ignore her responsibilities in this matter. Her ministry and membership are neither honoring their Master, nor promoting their own good report, by leaving this question-essentially a MORAL one, involving in all its parts the great principles of right and wrong, the duties we owe to God, our fellow-men, and our own souls-to be discussed and decided by skeptical reformers, made more skeptical by her remissness, or by politicians, looking at it merely as an element of party arrangement and seal. Such a question is not safe in such bands. The issues involved are too momentous to be lodged exclusively with them, or with any political party, however correct, in the main, its principles and platform may be. Nor is it safe, or for the honor of the Church (10), to allow such a question to be decided, even if it could be, by worldly men from worldly principles alone. For her own sake, her testimony should be unequivocal, and her position clearly defined. Her hold upon the confidence and conscience of the community requires it. If she would diminish the numbers who are yearly swelling the ranks of modern skepticism, she must change what seems to many the equivocal position she now occupies upon this subject; and thus deprive Infidelity of one of its most effective weapons, and one that it is using with the most terrible success.'
With these statements, it does not seem to me necessary or desirable to pursue this controversy any further. Both Societies are prosecuting the same great end, and it will take all the energy and resources of both to accomplish it. I see no reason why the two should not work harmoniously together. (11.) But 
(6.) Then they are misunderstood; which is strange, considering that no men have ever spoken more directly and perspicuously. The wish has certainly been father to the thought in those who, knowing what they have really laid, make this representation of it. The thing which these persons have denounced, and most justly, is the modern un-Christian Church, the great bulwark of slavery.
The phraseology of H. T. C. in this statement shows him conscious of its unsoundness. A grave accusation ought not to be based upon mere rumor-the statement that somebody, some unnamed person, understood it so; and, therefore, I now ask him, did he ever hear either of the persons whom he has stigmatized above say one syllable against any church that has faithfully performed its Christian duties to the slave in the South, and to the colored people in the North? When he has answered this, it will be quite time enough to take up the theological dogmas with which he has pieced out his accusation, as well as the insinuation of ' apparent' asperity towards a ' received ' Christianity.
(7.) Here, at last, H. T. C. has made an accurate statement of who the persons are who are far behind the American Anti-Slavery Society in 'practical righteousness'-in 'the practical duties of Christianity '-namely, not Christian ministers and churches, but 'the oracles of orthodoxy,' (and, of course, their followers.) If he had stated this at first, I should have had no controversy with him; no call to point out the absurdity of calling men Christians who are allowed to be deficient in the practical part of Christianity-as if the practice were less important than the theory! The state of the Church which H. T. C. truly describes above is indeed mournful; but what is to be done about it? Are we, under these circumstances, to adhere to the mere theorists, and reproach the practical people? Are we to call the former Christian and the latter irreligious, or even unreligious? Does not a recognition of this relative position in these two parties impose a manifest and unmistakable duty upon those Christians who have unwarily connected themselves with the American Church, under the mistaken idea that it is Christian? the duty, namely, of holding up before that deceitful, profligate and hypocritical association the paramount importance of those 'practical duties of Christianity,' which, by the admission of H. T. C., the Church disregards, but the Abolitionists practise; of giving the Church no rest, day or night, Sundays or Mondays, from the incessant repetition of the demands-' Unloose the heavy burdens! let the oppressed go free! break every yoke! be first pure, THEN peaceable!' and of letting her plainly understand that, whatever else may be included in Christianity, practical obedience to these precepts is an essential, an INDISPENSABLE put of it!
And yet we have now the claim (virtually) set up, that acquiescence in a human theory which affirms the precepts above quoted to have been written by special inspiration of God-even co-existing with a refusal to obey them, and with the use of all manner of evasion and deceit in the attempt to justify such refusal-goes further towards proving a man to be a Christian than a systematic obedience to those very precepts; a practical recognition of them as just and righteous, though unaccompanied by assent to the theory aforesaid, which claims special inspiration for the whole book in which they, with a widely various collection of other things, are recorded!
(8.) Which Church? The American Church or the Christian Church?
(9.) The Christian Church, has never been out of its true position.
(10.) Why should a pro-slavery Church be honored, and why does H. T. C. wish to honor it?
(11.) That will depend, entirely, on whether the Church Anti-Slavery Society' is faithful to the sound anti-slavery portion of its 'Declaration of Principles,' For instance, if that Society, as it now seems disposed to do, shall fraternize and cooperate with the Tract Society in Boston, which declares, and plainly proves, that it is not an anti-slavery Sanely, end which chooses still to remain a branch of the openly pro-slavery National Tract Society in New York-of course, instead of working harmoniously with these three, we must call upon the Worcester Society, as upon the New York and Boston ones, to repent and reform.
*Circular addressed by the Executive Committee of the Church Anti-Slavery Society to Christian ministers and church members.
<c04>
they cannot coalesce. Neither any more can one supersede the other. The friends and advocates of the one may appear upon the public platform of the other without compromise; and there need be nought but a generous and kindly rivalry between them in the service of the slave. That ultimate success is sure, in the warfare with oppression, to a faithful Ministry and a witnessing Church (12), we of the Church Anti-Slavery Society do firmly hold; and let us, so agreed,
'Prayer-strengthened for the trial, come together, 
Put on the harness for the moral fight, 
And with the blessing of our Heavenly Father, 
MAINTAIN THE RIGHT!'H. T. C. 
Jewett City, Conn., May 16, 1859.
(12.) Here is another of those half-truths, by the constant repetition of which, as if they were whole truths, my honest and well-meaning antagonist seems to impose upon himself. GOD is against oppression! This is the basis on which we both agree, without any varying interpretation of terms, or any misunderstanding whatever. But does it not inevitably follow from this, that ultimate success is sure in the warfare with oppression, to any faithful opposed of it, whether minister or church-member or not? This is the confidence in which the American Anti-Slavery Society is strong; in reliance upon which it has always acted; and in reliance upon which it proposes still to act until slavery is abolished.-c. k. w.
LETTER FROM THB HON. J. R. GIDDINGS.
JEFFERSON, May 4, 1859.
MY DEAR FRIEND:-You ask my opinion in regard to the past action, and the future course of the Oberlin prisoners, now in jail at Cleveland, for violating the fugitive slave enactment.
That measure was passed under the influence of threats and intimidation. Disunion and bloodshed were proclaimed as the alternative in case of refusal. Before such insolence, Northern members bowed in unmanly submission, surrendering their own individuality, the rights of their States, and the honor of their nation. The page of our political history that records the passage of that act will long be read with mortification and regret. It constitutes a legislative incident in that war so long waged, and carried on by the party now in power against the colored men of our nation; a war in which men, women and children have been butchered in cold blood for their love of liberty; a war in which free persons are enslaved, and slaves are murdered even upon the soil of Ohio with perfect impunity; a war which subjects colored people to a commerce, from the horrors of which they shrink, preferring death by their own hand rather than meet its tortures; 
a war in which mothers are driven to the horrible choice of slaying their own children rather than to permit them to live, and become subject to the degradation that awaits them in life. This war is sometimes called ' piratical,' but I have yet to find the record of pirates who doomed their victims to death, merely for their love of liberty. It is a slander upon piracy to compare this war with that in which they slay their victims for the comparatively excusable purpose of obtaining money. In this war more than twenty thousand human victims are annually sacrificed.
This slave enactment, under which our friends are imprisoned, was passed in order to involve the people of the free States in this guilt; for the purpose of making them accessories to such crimes. It was passed by a Locofoco Congress. A Locofoco Marshal selects a Locofoco Grand Jury to find an indictment drawn by a Locofoco Attorney, to be tried by a Locofoco traverse jury packed for the very purpose of conviction, before a Locofoco Judge, appointed by a Locofoco President, confirmed by a Locofoco Senate, for the purpose of enforcing obedience to this law.
In disregarding this law, the prisoners did right. Their error consisted in sparing the lives of the slave-catchers. Those pirates should have been delivered over to the colored men, and consigned to the doom of pirates, which should have been speedily executed.
You are aware that this is the doctrine which I proclaimed in Congress. I adhere to it. Had the prisoners executed the slave-catchers promptly, it would have taught the administration a lesson not soon to be forgotten. We should have been no more troubled with that class of miscreants. They would have learned better than to show themselves among an intelligent people who know their rights, and dare maintain them. But in rescuing their fellow-man from the fangs of these blood-hounds, the prisoners did right. Present and coming generations will bless them for it. It was a high moral duty, the exercise of a virtue which sheds a halo of glory around the memories of our republican fathers. When arrested for such an act, they did well in refusing to give bail: when brought into Court, they did right in refusing to give bail: and in my opinion they cannot now recede from the manly position which they have assumed. By these noble acts they have inscribed their names upon a most important page of our history. They no longer act for themselves in this business, but for justice, for liberty, for the cause of freedom. The eyes of the nation are upon them. They should bear in mind the character of the people of this portion of our gallant State. They should remember the pilgrim fathers from whom they have descended. Cleveland is now the Boston of 1775, and I trust her sons will meet the responsibilities thrown upon them with becoming firmness.
As to the future, I see no other course for the prisoners than patiently to await events. Their counsel will apply to the Supreme Court of our State for a habeas corpus whenever sentence shall be pronounced upon any of their number.
I have great confidence in the Judges composing that Court. But should they prove unequal to the occasion, the case will then be fully made up, and the appeal must then be taken to that highest of earthly Tribunals, the source of all political power. The people finding this government to have become ' destructive of the lives, the liberties, and the happiness of its citizens, will alter or abolish it; and organize its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.'
This duty, so solemnly enjoined upon us by the founders of our government, in that immortal charter of American liberty to which for almost a century we have been accustomed to look for instruction and direction in regard to our right, will not be neglected. 
Yours for Liberty and the Constitution.
J. B. GIDDINGS. Hon. RALPH RLUMB.
THB OBERLIN CASES. Sentence has been passed upon Bushnell and Langston, the two Oberlin men against whom the Judge and District Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio have succeeded in obtaining verdicts. Bushnell was sentenced to 60 days' imprisonment, a fine of $600, and the costs of the trial, which must probably amount to more than double that sum. Langston was sentenced to a use of $100, and the costs of the trial. The Court also directed the Marshal in case he might, for any reason, consider the Cleveland jail an insecure place for the confinement of the prisoners, to commit them to such other jail of the district as he might see fit.
It is the intention of the counsel, now that find judgment has been rendered in these cases, to make a new application to the Supreme Court of Ohio for a writ of habeas corpus, the objection upon which the former application was refused having now been removed. The District Attorney, in arguing a motion which he made for the postponement of the other cases till July, stated that be had received notice to that effect, and gave as one reason for the postponement which he requested, the necessity he would be under of appearing before the Supreme Court to resist that application.
He also pleaded another duty, to which the United States Government bad directed him to attend Five of the witnesses on whom he relied-the parties, namely-from whom the rescue had been made, had been arrested under an indictment found against them for kidnapping. They must appear at Elyria on the 17th instant to answer to that charge, and he had received orders from Washington to appear and defend them. Two other of his Kentucky witnesses, the owner of the slave reamed, and the Clerk of the Court, by whose signature the power of attorney had been authenticated, had suddenly started off for Kenfucky 
without giving him any notice of their departure. The counsel for the prisoners strenuously resisted 
any <illegible> and insisted of their right to an immediate trial, especially such of them as were in custody; but the Judge granted the motion,
<c05>
and directed a continuance of the cases to the 12th of July.-N.Y. Tribune.
THE CLASSIFICATION.-One of the Wellington, Oberlin prisoners writes from jail to the Ashtabula Sentinel thus:
Sheriff Wight-man has in his custody some fifty-five prisoners, classified as follows: horse thief, 1; counterfeiting, 1; murder, 1; drunkenness, 1; assault and battery, 1; grand krosny, 7; petit larceny 8; burglary, 3; and believing in the higher law, 20.
We have among our number 1 physician, 1 professor, 2 lawyers, 4 students, 3 farmers,. 2 shoemakers, 1 bookseller, 1 ordained minister, 1 printer, and 1 Kansas lieutenant.
The ages of our group vary from 22 to 74 years, and we find ourselves incapable of realizing the fact that we are criminals, while we do most fully comprehend the fact that we are imprisoned.
MASSACHUSETTS CITIZENSHIP.
Extract of a speech recently delivered in Illinois, by WILLIAM H. HERNDON, Esq., in relation to the Bights of Citizenship:-
Finally, Mr. President, were are gathered hew in this hall to-night-we Republicans, native and foreign born-for the special purpose of giving vent to our sentiments, and expression to our ideas on the late act of Massachusetts in relation to her naturalized citizens. We Republicans, as citizens of this city and the State of illinois, do not pretend that we have any right to dictate to a sister State of that Union, what institutions she shall or shall not have. But as American citizens-as Republicans-we have some dear rights; and when any law of any State projectingly acts upon us, reaches outside of that State, and by its spring and sweep, injuriously and destructively affects us, then we have an undoubted right to give speedy and quick utterance to our sentiments, and expression to our ideas in relation thereto. This far we go, but no farther. The late act of Massachusetts touches the whole Republics; party from Maine to Georgia, and from New York to California, not only now, but far distant in the future, unless fully understood.
It is now well understood in Massachusetts, that the democracy of that State is partially, if not wholly responsible for the passage of the Constitutional provision, odious as it is. I now hold a letter in my hand from Boston, which says, is sub stance, ' that the Democracy really wanted the have passed; some voting for it, some scattering ticket in its favor on the day of the election, and all wanting it to pass, and voting stoutly for it. They could have killed it if they had wished to do so.'
Were we not now quickly to speak out our idea on this law of Massachusetts, it might he inferred it would be meanly implied by the corrupt Demo raced for political purposes, that the Republicans of Illionois approved of the act, together with its cruel am destructive policy, and rank injustice to our foreign born citizens. The Republican principle on the question is this-once an American citizen, always an American citizen, with all the burthens, right and privileges attaching thereto, and which is never to be taken away, except by forfeiture through the man's own acts. This law of Massachusetts denie or repudiates this, and we, as Republicans, do not and here say that we most heartily and unanimously disapprove this law, because it is contrary to fundamental principles, and for the following reasons First, because it is impolitic, and Second, because it is wrong and unjust to all that claw of American citizens who happened to be born on European soil and others not American. These citizens, intelligent gent, good and patriotic men, have fled from the towering oppressive thrones, iron chains, and glittering bayonets of the despots of the Old World, an have landed among us to make this their adopte free homes, supposing that there would and should be equality-at least as broad as that laid down the Dred Scott case-among all American citizen: We see, however, they are to be somewhat mistaker if the Legislature of Massachusetts vitalizes this latent constitutional power by an operative act.
This law is wrong and unjust-once an America citizen, always so. The Republicans all over the State have taken broad, deep, and radical ground against this law; against its cruel impolicy and it stinging injustice; and so now and here to-night in this Republican hall, we solemnly protect against it in the name of Republicanism, and send out protest to the world.
I have, as a Republican, long since, and often in speeches and in print-in private circles and on the stump, all over this State expressed my views on the subject, and have said that 1 know of no distinction among men, except those of the heart and head I now repeat that, though I am native-born, my country is the world, and my love for man is as broad as the race, and as deep as its humanity. As matter of course, I include native and foreign people Protestant and Catholic, 'Jew and Gentile.' I g the full length of justice to all men-equality among all American citizens, and freedom to the race of man. That party-that class-that man or part who adopts different ideas, and expresses them I word or act-gives vent by tongue or deed to them is cruelly or wickedly despotocratic, though it man call its principles democratic. In the centre of it heart is a despotism, soon to bloom into a one-mar iron-willed absolutism. Names are nothing, It principles are as deep as the world. The roots of things-the purposes and intents are the tests. Loo at this-justice and liberty to all men; and then a this-justice and liberty to a special few, and the to judge of the times and necessities. In the one Heaven's justice broad and deep, and in the other despotism.
Republicans, score deep on your banner, mortice in and buttressed on the Philadelphia platform, an let there be no cowardly dodging for timid policy sake from this, this ever-living vital principle- liberty and equality to all American citizens, native and foreign-born, and freedom and justice to the race of man around the globe. With these principles nothing can impede your young, living, irresistible power, or prove victorious over yon, for you have the sweep and power of God's great rushing currents to bear you on to victory over the world.
Mr. President, I conclude as I began, and by the sentiment I am willing to live or die-freedom and justice to all men-equality and liberty to all American citizens, native or foreign-born, Protestant of Catholic: and may the chains of universal or partial despotism on mind or body-on individual of the race-be shivered, broken and snapt; and ring out loud and long against the Bastile prison-doors cross-barred and iron-grated-'Keeper, open the door, and let us go out joyous, bounding and happy for we too, now, are free by God's great law.'
EXECUTION OF MICHAEL MCNAMEE.
HORRID SCENE AT THE GALLOWS.
Michael McNamee was bung at Chicago, for whip ping his wife to death when in a fit of intoxication
A great crowd gathered about the jail at the time The Press and Tribune devotes two columns and. half to the details. The following is the account o the horrid scene of the execution:-
The collar used yesterday was the same used a the execution of Staub. It was adjusted to the need of McNamee, his hands were bound, the black cap drawn over his eyes, he stands upon the fatal trap the clergy repeat the prayers of the church, and while in the utterance of ' Our Father, who art ii heaven,' the drop fails, the bound frame of the condemned wretch descends a distance of eight full feet upon the straining cord; it holds, but horrible to re late, the collar parts at the eyelet, and the victim falls heavily fifteen feat upon the floor of the jail basement. A cry of horror escapes the lips of the spectators. There is no movement of life in the black-robed and hooded body. Officers Bradly and Palmer, and Kennedy, and Greene, raise it, and ban it to the bead of the stein, before the first symptom, of consciousness on the part of McNamee are noticed.
The hood is removed, and, under the excitement of that awful boar, the bruises of a fall, at another time no light affair, were probably unfelt by the wretched man. He was asked, 'Can you stand alone? and probably misunderstanding the question, answered, ' Yes, I can stand that, and twice that.'
The rope was then re-adjusted-this time the usual noose. The priests take their position at his side he bids them again adieu, and at a given signal, the clang of the falling trap, the rush of the descending body, and the sharp twang of the; straightened cord are heard, and the struggling form of McNamee is suspended in the air.
By some misadjustment, the second time the knot slipped aside, and the neck was not broken. When the body had swung fourteen minute, the heart's circulation was stiff apparent, though faint. The struggles of the expiring wretch continued some minutes.
<c06>
MEDICAL REFORM.
That a great change has within a few years been wrought in the practice of medicine, no one will pretend to deny. It is well known that the study and learning which has been for ages lavished upon the use of mineral poisons, as medicines, have failed to answer the reasonable expectations of the public. The old physicians have abandoned the use of the lancet, and have found it necessary to reduce the quantity of medicine given to perhaps one-fifth of their original doses; but, as diminishing the quantity does not improve the quality, such a change can never answer the demands of suffering invalids.
A change was required which should dispense with all poisonous drugs, and substitute a system of innocent medication, which would harmonize with nature, and remove diseases,, without the risk of injury to the constitution. For the accomplishment of this object, many tainted and learned men have zealously labored, and a great reform has been brought about. Among the champions in this reform, we believe all are willing to yield the palm to Dr. R. Greene, the founder of the "Boston Indian Medical Institute."
Dr. Greene, after studying the various systems of medicine, and finding that they had not the basis of nature, turned his attention to the study of Natures Laws-spent several years in travel, and received much useful information from those" Children of Nature"-the "red men of the forest,' whose habits and system of medical practice he thoroughly investigated, and which has greatly assisted him in the development of a system, having nature for its foundation, and science for its superstructure.
About ten years ago, Dr, Greene located in Boston when the success of his treatment was brought more fully before the public, and his sphere of usefulness enlarged. His Allopathic friends viewed his success with a jealous eye, and his practice was animadverted upon in one or two of their medical journals, in no very dignified terms. That he was successful in all ordinary diseases was admitted; but they were slow to believe that he was able to cure Cancers and Scrofulous Humors. To convince them and the public of his success, he published facts in regard to cures of such cases, giving the names and residence of such persons who were willing to have their names used, so that any one could be satisfied of their truthfulness. He also preserved specimens of cancers as they were removed, that they might be examined by the doctors, or by the public. Several hundreds of these cancers, some of enormous size, soon accumulated, having been put up in glass jars, where they have since remained on exhibition at his rooms, 36 Broomfield Street, Boston, to which the public have free access.
These incontrovertible evidences of success brought out the press in his favor, and drew around him a large number of friends who were interested in the common cause of humanity, The business at the office so increased that it because necessary to relieve Dr. Greene from the details of his practice, in order to make his services-available to a larger portion of those applying; for treatment For this purpose, and by the advice and cooperation f influential citizens, an organization was formed under the name of the" Boston Indian Medical Institute." Not that the practice was crude like that of the Indian, but based upon the Indian system, or natural principle, harmonizing with natural laws, and avoiding the use of poisonous drugs. Under this organization the Institution has become the most popular Medical Asylum in the country, where patients are daily received and successfully treated for all the various ills of the human family, But few people have an adequate idea of the extent of business done at this Institution, or the number of cures effected, although nearly all the familiar with the fact of frequent remarkable operations being performed with the most favorable results, Such results are not without their lesson. They speak hope to many sufferers, and the basis of such hope is a firm one, for it rests upon experience, and upon facts.
Consumption has been treated with a success unexpected by the patients and their friends; and the results in numerous cases of Scrofula, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Heart Disease, Dropsy, Female Complaints, Disease of the Stomach, Bowels, and Kidneys, Rheumatism, and various other diseases, give confidence to those conversant with the fact, that cures are effected at this Institution which have baffled medical skill elsewhere.
Facts like these cannot be resisted, and this practice most necessarily take precedence in the minds of the people.
Many clergymen, editors, and other professional gentlemen, have visited this Institution, and signified their entire approbation of the system of practice, and expressed a desire that the facts connected with this treatment should be made known to the world.
The Institution, whose Card is here appended, is now placed upon a firm basis, and is an honor to the city of Boston, and one to which her citizens can point with pride, in view of the vast amount of relief it has afforded to sufferers throughout the country, and the confidence with which the invalid may look upon the results of its practice in the future.
BOSTON INDIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
Office 36 Broomfield Street, Boston. REV. N. DAY, Press REV. P. MASON, Vice Pres.
REUBEN GREENE, M. D, 
ISAIAH HUTCHINS, M.D., physicians. Established for the successful Treatment of Disease Upon Rational Principles.
The Electro- Chemical Baths, together with Dr. Greene's improved Medication, have been adopted in this Institutions, and have exceeded the most sanquine expectations in the removal of a great variety of diseases.
 All persons having Cancers, or those afflicted with complicated diseases, should avail themselves of the personal attention of the physicians at the Institute, where propose boarding houses are provided.
A personal examination of each case is preferable; but all the common forms of diseases, except in aggravated and complicated cases, are successfully treated with medicines which can be sent to any part of the world, with full directions as a very correct knowledge can be obtained from answers to the questions in the "Indian Arcans," a newspaper published by the Institution, a copy of which will be sent free when requested; also, Dr. Greene's "INDIANOPATHY," or science of Indian Medicine, may be had at the office for 12 cents, or by mail o the receipt of four postage stamps.
Consultations upon all diseases free of charge at the office or by letter on the reception of a postage stamp.
All communications should be directed to Dr. R. GREENE, 36 Bromfield Street, Boston, Mass.
REFERENCES.
Hon. S. C Maine. Boston, Mass.; Rev. Edward Edmunds, Boston, Mass; Rev. Joseph W. Tarleto, Boston, Mass; Rev. R.H. Nevin, D. D. Chelsea, Mass; Rev. R.H. Conklin, Providence, R. I.; Rev. Charles p. Grosveor, Medford. Mass.; Rev. Bryan Morse, Groveland, Mass.; Rev. John Harriman, Canterbury, N. H.; Dr. J. W. Phelps, 68 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.: J.E. Merrill, Esq., (Webster House.) Boston, Mass.; E. R. Phinney, Esq., (Mercantile House,) Boston, Mass; A.W. Oldham, Esq., Boston, Mass.; Samuel Meserve, Esq., Lowell,
THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL
FOR MAY
CONTAINS portraits of Dr. W. A. Alcott, D. R. Simmons. M. D., and Robert Allyn; Letter to a Dyspeptic; Organization, Life, and Mind; Remarkable Retribution; Self Esteem; Practical Phrenology; Self-Reliance: Longenvity among English Quakers; Importance of Sleep; Formation of Opinions; Woman.
Young men, and others, who would ' Rise in the World.' and make the most of themselves, should read this Journal Only $1 a year. Address FOWLER& WELLS, No. 308 Broadway, New York, or 42 Washington street, Boston.
IMPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed Washington st., and 20 West st,; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooning.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either is out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves. October8.
J. R. ANDREWS, Gilder, 
and Picture Frame 
MANUFACTORY, 
No, 3 1/2 BEACH STREET, 
(Near Washington Street,) BOSTON. 
PICTURE FRAMS made of every variety, plain and ornamental, for Oil Paintings, Engravings and Photographs. 
Gilding, in all its branches, executed with neatness and despatch. 
Oil Paintings cleaned and varnished. 
Oil Frames handsomely regale. A28 6w
FARMS.
GENTLEMEN who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of affecting sales. R. A. WILLIAMS,
No. 4 Wilson's Lane, Room No. 6.
Boston, April 5, 1859.
