THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, Viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION
<c01>
THE INSTRUMENTS OF DEMAGOGUES
-THEIR DESTINY.
Poor Gerrit Smith is in an insane asylum—driven to madness by reflection upon the consequences of doctrines with which his mind had become poisoned, and which he had contributed to support. Personally kind, amiable and philanthropic, the bloody scenes which he could calmly theorize about, as a philosopher overturned his mind after they had been carried into practical operation. The Harper's Ferry development of the infamous programme laid down by William H. Seward, at Rochester, haunts him day and night, and he imagines himself guilty of murders, which he could encourage before realizing their atrocity, and would, perhaps, sacrifice his life to have prevented, now that the evil is irreparable. And Mr. Smith is but one of a multitude of miserable catspaws and fanatics, whom venal, cold-hearted, calculating demagogues at the North, after having used to accomplish the purpose of making for themselves political capital, have 
heartlessly thrown aside, ruined, or destroyed, when the ends were gained which they had in view.
'So incompatible.' said Mr. Seward, 'are the two system of fre and servile labor, that every new State makes its first political act a choice of the 
one, and an exclusion of the other, even at the cost 'of civil war, if necessary.' In accordance with this authoritative dictum, Horace Greeley got hold of poor Colonel Forbes, gave him twenty dollars and a dinner, and packed him off to drill abolitionist rebels in Kansas. He told him that when the time for fighting came, he desired to be there, and requested Forbes to send him word. Greeley, of course, had no more intention of going than Seward has of 
shouldering a musket in the great 'irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces.' But his object was obtained. Forbes and his battalion
 of fellow-dupes created or manufactured a hideous succession of 'outrages,' with which the Republican mouth-pieces, East and West, succeeded in keeping their followers agape, and the country distracted, for several years. He risked his life and wasted his strength and energies in the service of the conspirators who had employed him; but the moment he interfered with their plans-as in re monstrating against the folly of the Harper's Ferry invasion-he was given the cold shoulder, and finally tossed overboard. Greeley gives Forbes no dinners now, but denounces him as an idiot, and has even made a foolish attempt to call his veracity in question.
The greater part of the wretched insurgents at Harper's Ferry were shot. Some of them were drowned, and the remainder will be hanged. A few of the accessories before the fact may, possibly, be reached by the arm of justice, and others more sensitive and conscientious, like Gerrit Smith, may be deprived of their senses by remorse. All these, however, have been but the tools and victims of cautious, far-sighted apostles of treason, who have preached, for years, what John Brown and his followers practised. While they have puffed themselves and each other up with the idea that they were heroes and philanthropists, they have been only the political pick-locks with which demagogue have made their way into State and federal legislative halls, and lobby spoilsmen have gained access to the public treasury. The thousand dollars which Mr. Greeley knows about, and the five thousand dollar free wool operation, were but petty installments of the pecuniary gain of Weed and his fellow wire-pullers. Messrs. Hale, Wilson, Sumner, Giddings, Chase, and their compeers, have had their own ambitious ends to further, while Seward has worked slowly, craftily and steadily on, through
the instruments whom he has goaded by his speeches into insurrection, until he stands, without a rival, as the candidate of the Northern Free Soil opposition for the Presidency of the United States.
Thus, while Brown, Cook, Stephens, Forbes, Gerrit Smith and the score who were killed in Virginia, on the 17th ult., perish, the instigators of their murders and treasons survive, denounce the failure of their undertaking as madness, and profit by its consequences. In May, 1858, Mr. Seward was informed by Forbes of the contemplated Harper's Ferry movement, and said he was 'sorry he had been told' of it. He, however, carefully abstained from divulging so important a secret, and, in October of the same year, gave the principles upon which 
Brown's invasion of the South was based his emphatic approval, in the famous Rochester speech. He would even seem to have foreseen that the pleas, of insanity might be raised in Brown's favor if his enterprise failed, and to have wished to protest against it in advance. 'They who think,' he said, 'that this collision is accidental, unnecessary, the work of interested or fanatical agitators, and therefore ephemeral, mistake the case altogether.'-Yet Brown is to be hung, and Seward escapes. Brown dies the death of a felon, while the preacher of the crusade, through which 'the United States most and will, sooner or later, become entirely a slave-holding nation, or entirely a free labor nation,' bids fair to become Chief Magistrate of the Union which his doctrines would destroy.
If the voice of the people does not, sooner or later, reach those who were the cause of the crimes for which Brown and his troop die in Virginia, and Gerrit Smith languishes in a lunatic asylum, they will never be punished. If men like Hale, Seward, Weed, Greeley, Giddings, Sumner,. Wilson, Chase and others, are not condemned by their fellow-citizens for having sowed the seed of evil, it will be a hard, cruel, though a natural destiny,. that their blind, deluded tools should reap the bitter fruits. Unless, however, the conservative portion of the voters of the North rouse themselves from the apathy which the demoratlization of parties has caused them to display at the late elections, it would appear as if demagogueism and treason were to be rewarded, while the agents it employs are broken to pieces and destroyed.-N. Y. Herald.

THE JOHN BROWN MEETING
The meeting at Tremont Temple, on Saturday evening, was composed in general of the same class of persons who so enthusiastically applauded Mr. Emerson's blashphemous comparison of a justly convicted felon's gallows to the Cross of Christ Mr. Emerson was again a speaker, and his audience with him again glorified John Brown into a 'Saint.'They who consented to this wickedness thus denied the Lord that bought them; and no more painful reflection could arise, than from the inconceivable fact, that two clergymen of decent standing in this 
city were present, and took part in the proceedings one by 'prayer,' and the other by 'praise.' We would ask the Rev. Dr. Neale and the Rev. Mr. Manning, who we must believe cannot have considered how they thus countenance by their action, the shocking comparison referredto,-whether they bear in mind the Evangelist's description of another person, in such a connection, 'who, for a certain condition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison'-or, as he is spoken of by another Evangelist-' And there was one named Barabbas, which they bound with them that had made 
<c02>
rection with him, and had committed murder in the insurrection.' His case in Scripture is contrasted with that of our Lord; and all can judge how closely the narration sets forth those specific offences for which he, whom these two clergymen, in company far from creditable to their Christian profession, 
sympathize with, 'was cast into prison. 'The prayer of Dr. Neale was fully fit to lead the spirit which prevailed in the assembly. The speech of Mr. Manning, which we give in full, fairly out-herods Herod. Even Wendell Phillips, who followed him, thought it left him little to say; and what sort of a speech is that, which takes the wind out of the sails of Phillips on such an occasion? We see he said, that, though he would not have advised the action of Brown (we do not see why he should not)-he now admired it, seeing the hand of God in it. Of course, then, he will see the hand of God also in the execution of Brown, and in whatever else occurs. How this declaration of Mr. Manning differs from the comparison of Mr. Emerson in impiety, it is not easy to perceive. He sees the hand of God in sedition, insurrection and murder. He thus teaches that the All wise and Allgood directs and approves these horrible crimes.
Does religion, or reason, or philanthropy, afford any warrant to a sophism like this? Each and all unqualifiedly pronounce that we may not 'do evil that good may come.' Suppose the united sentiment of the North were set in absolute hostility to negro slavery-would this justify the march of the North with arms in its hands to liberate the negroes, at any hazard, and despite of all consequences? Such an idea is worthy only of the perversity of madness. On what grounds, then, can the utterly hopeless project of John Brown be 'admired,' in which the practical result of fanaticism is only sedition, insurrection and murder-his own ruin and that of others-everything evil, and nothing good? Is Mr. Manning such a shallow reasoner as to suppose himself entitled to carry into immediate effect any object which he may imagine good, without regard to moral, legal, or physical obstacles? On such grounds, he might murder any rich man in his congregation, in order to fill up the treasury of the Old South, for the service of God.
It is no excuse for the presence of these clergymen, that aid for the family of Brown was the professed object of the meeting. No one can object to rendering such aid it necessary, and the case of his family, ruined by his guilty folly, may present peculiar claims. But it is their sufferings alone which make 
the claim, and not the cause. The first, however, it is manifest, was merely incidental to the occasion. The part-taken by the other speakers was to be expected; that of Dr. Neale and Mr. Manning can only prove, we fear, in the highest degree prejudicial to the true cause in which a minister of the Gospel is supposed to be most deeply interested-Boston Courier.

ABOLITION SYMPATHY WITH THE EXECUTION OF BROWN. 
The Executive Committee of the American Anti Slavery Society in Boston, have recommended the day of Old Brown's execution to be solemnized by public observance:-
 ‘ For the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, and renewedly to consecrate themselves to the patriotic and Christian work of effecting the abolition of that most dangerous, unnatural, cruel, and impious system of slavery, which is the fruitful source of all our sectional heart-burnings and conflicts.’ 
In accordance with this recommendation, circulars have been distributed over the country, suggesting to the friends of abolition everywhere-in all the cities and towns of the North, to have the bells tolled for an hour publicly on Friday, the second of December. This is Boston abolition philanthropy. Through the instigation of Anti-Slavery fanatics preaching resistance to the laws as a religious duty, crazy old Brown and a half dozen insensate vagabonds like himself, have got their necks in nooses, and the Anti-Slavery Society having pushed them; into this strait, have nothing better for their relief than going through the melancholy farce of' tolling bells for an hour,’ while the outraged laws are choking the poor dupes of their wicked folly to death.-It must be highly gratifying to Brown and his associates, and deeply consolatory to their unfortunate and distressed families, to know that these men go ignominiously out of the world, while the instigators of the mischief for which they died are making a general clamor over their victims for the ' good of the cause.' A more heartless farce over a sad tragedy could not be performed. But it is of a piece with the sympathy and philanthropy which teach that, to free the negro, it is necessary to cut his master's throat. To change the condition of three millions of slaves to one where starvation is added to degradation, it is necessary to stir up the embers of civil war among thirty millions of free men, and drench the country in blood from one end to the other.

A WARNING FROM ACCOMACK.
NORFOLK, NOV.. 5, 1859 
To the Editor of the New York Herald:
Your late editorials on the outrageous treason of Old Brown & Co., at Harper's Ferry, are spoken of here in the highest terms of praise and commendation, and if the hot shot you have poured into the ranks of the abolition black republicans do not tell at your coming election, there will be but little hope for the Union. The deepest interest is taken here in the New York election, and if they should go for the black republicans, there will be an almost universal sentiment in favor of immediate secession, 'peaceably we can, forcibly if we must.' But yesterday one of our most wealthy and sensible ship owners, and heretofore a strong Union man, declared that if the Northern States now fail to put down this infamous black party, he was for immediate separation, and stop all trade and commerce between the North and South.
Be not deceived. The hour has come when the South must and will demand that the people of the North meet this crisis, and show themselves equal to the occasion. They will require that your Legislatures enact laws punishing such acts as Phillips, Seward and Beecher are guilty of. It is now in the power of the North to save the Union, and we rest the issue with them.
What do your people mean when they sanction the doctrines of the infamous Phillips, Beecher Co.? Years ago it was a saying of an old gentleman of Accomack, ' that women, preachers and politicians would dissolve this Union,' and it seems his prediction is about to be realized.
How different are your people from ours! Suppose that a meeting should be called in Norfolk, and a speaker should advise the collection of money to send incendiaries to the North to burn your factories, murder the owners, and all who attempted to aid in defence of their property, upon the pretext that the operatives were not treated as they should be, &c.; who does not know that such a man would not only be denounced, but would be ' tarred and feathered' in less than twenty minutes? If the North would respect the rights of the South, there is not a Virginian that would not shoulder his musket and march to the North to defend your rights of
<c03>
Property, of persons, your homes, your firesides from foreign or domestic foes, even to the last extremity. But I must close this hastily written communication, as the mail now is about to leave, and in conclusion, for the sake of the Union, ask your people to pause, reflect and ‘beware’. ACCOMACK 

JOHN BROWN A FEROCIOUS AND BLOODY SAVAGE!
From the N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
You have repeatedly urged that John Brown should not be executed; and this on grounds of policy, not from any consideration of mercy due to him. ' Don't make him (say you) ' a martyr instead of a felon.' Then it is by putting Brown to death in due course of law, and by the acknowledged behests of justice, that will make him a martyr. Then he would have been a fortiori, a martyr, if he had been killed, flagrante bello, at Harper's Ferry; and his comrades who were slain must be martyrs. I don't mean in your opinion, but in that of those sympathizing traitors and felons whom you would advise us to conciliate by a politic mercy. What do those sympathizing traitors call those who were slain by Brown and his confederates at Harper's Ferry? Are they martyrs, or not? Have we of the South no right to sympathize with the memory of our martyrs? Shall we forget the death of the Marylander who was slain (without consequent redress) by people of Pennsylvania, while in pursuit of his property under an unquestionable constitutional right? If such a ferocious and bloody savage as Brown cannot, by a proper policy, be offered up as a sacrifice to a due course of law, do you not see that we must resort (and we will resort, perhaps, in any event) to the Lynch code? If the sympathizing traitors of the Higher-Law party cannot stand the due course of law towards one of their justly-convicted and deeply-guilty confederates, why observe the rules of any law but that of force, towards such transcendental Sympathizers?
Pray, answer me this: was Magna Charta devised for wild beasts, or those in human form who are worse, those who are hostes humani generis? Again: if Washington (Lewis) had slain those who dragged him from his bed at 1 o'clock at night, and led him captive, would he not have done right, as much so as if he had slain a Rocky Mountain bear? Why shall not the community do the same towards those, worse than the bear, who are preparing the torch, the pike, the sword and the rifle for their dwellings and the inmates thereof?
Strange though it be to you, these are the sentitments of one of your subscribers, and of a Southern LAW JUDGE.

BROWN AND COOK.
Let Brown, as the master-actor in the bad affair, be hung. He has forfeited his life to the outraged laws of his country. Let him be held up to a traitor's shame and ignominy. Let Northern fanatics take warning from his scaffold, and desist from their reckless and insane rage. But, Brown executed, Virginia justice is avenged. Cook deserves no such fate as is due to his tempter and leader; and this we say from an intimate knowledge of the character of the unfortunate young man.
He was, a few years ago, a member of the congregation of which the writer is the pastor. He was then a law-student in Williamsburg, and a young man of blameless morals and industrious habits.-When the writer knew him, he had no Abolition sympathies, nor malevolent purposes against any. As an attendant at church, and a teacher in a their. mission Sabbath School, he displayed tendencies of disposition at once amiable and admirable When the Kansas war broke out, when preachers and politicians strove together to inflame the public mind with diabolical resentments, Look, young, sentimental, visionary, and adventurous, emigrated to Kansas. There he was seduced by Brown into a partial participation in his crimes. But it must be remembered that these crimes sprung from political causes, and were committed under the promptings of political revenge.
From Kansas, Cook retired to Harper's Ferry, where he seems to have been employed in peaceable avocations, until his evil genius, Brown, again called him into service. The rest is known.-Christian Intelligencer.

A WIDE DIFFERENCE.
There are no pro-slavery men at the North, except those who have been made such by the course of the Abolitionists. Extremes beget extremes. If the John Brown madness is defended, it drives those who condemn it into an apparent support of the institution which John Brown would destroy. The abolitionists have made thousands of pro-slavery men, North and South. Every honest man and every patriot in this country will condemn the horrible wickedness of the Harper's Ferry invasion: and this condemnation does not commit any man to the defence of slavery. We may deplore its existence on moral, social and political grounds; we may earnestly desire that, as ' a root of bitterness,' it may be taken out of our national soil; we may pray day and night that God will open a door of deliverance for our country from the intestine dangers that arise from the antagonism of interest and principle which the existence of slavery begets and perpetuates; but. this Anti-Slavery sentiment, wide-spread, sincere, and persistent as it is, must not prevent the patriotic and Christian people of the North from demonstrating their utter abhorrence of the murderous and fanatical crimes of John Brown and his fellow-conspirators. The people of the South do not ask us to sympathize with them in slaveholding, but they de serve our sympathy when fanatical men like Brown and Smith Howe and Fred. Douglass meditate and perpetrate deeds of rapine and blood. Whatever may be our aversion to slavery, let us not by ridicule of one party or mistaken sympathy with another, for a moment seem to countenance the crimes of fanatical Abolitionists.-New York Observer.
We would recommend the earnest perusal of the following extract from the New York Observer. The whole course of this very ably edited journal, from the moment of the outbreak at Harper's Ferry, has been such as to commend the sympathy and support of conservative men throughout the Union? As a religious paper, it has performed the full duty of' God's true and gentle minister '; and the secular department of the journal has been sincerely devoted to the maintenance of that spirit of patriotism which co-exists with religion UNDKFILED.—Richmond, Va. Enquirer.
[Here follows the Observer's cry for vengeance on John Brown and his fellow-prisoners, published last week in this department of the Liberator.]
We are more and more convinced every day that justice and sound policy alike required the execution of Old Brown and his confederates, the moment they meat they were taken. If that course had been pursued, there would have been no room for sympathy for him among the hordes of fanatics 
<c04>
SELECTIONS,
STRIKING AT HIGHER AND WICKEDER GAME.’
When Stevens was arraigned for trial as one of the insurrectionists, in the Charlestown Court, a despatch was received from Gov. Wise, directing that his trial be discontinued in that Court, and he be handed over to the U. S. authorities to be tried in the U. S. Court. The prosecuting Attorney in the case, (Hunter,) in remarking upon the despatch of the Governor, stated that the purpose of transferring the trial was to strike at ' higher and wickeder game.'
We presume no sane man has the least idea that any distinguished Republican of the nation has the least complicity with this particular act of Brown. At the same time, every distinguished man of the nation on the Republican side may have had, and probably most of them have had more or less talk or consultation with Brown, with reference to Kansas matters and Kansas troubles. When the Border Ruffians were in full tide of successful invasion of Kansas, there were but few Anti-Slavery men of the nation but were ready to consult, and did consult, and contribute of their means to repel this invasion, and probably much of this consultation and much of this contribution was with or through Brown. 
The attempt, however, is to made, to involve these men in this particular act. That is what this striking at 'higher and wickeder game ' means. They are to be dragged into Court, to be sneered at and abused and insulted, their actions and motives distorted and perverted, and so far as it can possibly be done, they are to be turned out of court, covered with suspicion, in the hope that they may meet with condemnation by the people. No one we apprehend, either in or out of Virginia, expects that anything whatever will transpire or be discovered, that will render these men liable to criminal prosecution. The intention is simply to take advantage of a little ‘brief authority ' to persecute them, and drive them if possible to desperation. Gerrit Smith, as noble a man as lives, has already been driven to insanity by this persecution, in its inception; and the hope is doubtless entertained, if the persecution is zealously kept up, others may be driven, if not to the same melancholy results, to some other equally disastrous. 
And during all this time the North is continually threatened, if she does not quietly submit, the Union will be dissolved. Gov. Wise, we are told, will make a requisition for Gerrit Smith, and if he is not delivered up at once, the Union will for with be dissolved. Every new scheme of deviltry the slave power devises, we are warned in advance we must submit to, or the Union will be dissolved! In God's name let the Union be dissolved! Whatever it may have been originally, under this infernal policy which now governs the country, it is rapidly becoming all the Garrisonian Abolitionists ever declared it-a covenant with the powers of evil. What is the Union to the people of the North, that they should be alarmed at such threats? What interest, pecuniary, moral or political of the North, would be jeoparded a moment, if the Union were blown to fragments? The North is self-sustaining. She gets no aid from the Union, and asks none. She has no interest that she wants the union to protect. She has no niggers to run away, that can be caught only by means of the Union, no insurrections that can be quelled only by the armies of the Union, no mails to be supported out of the purse of the Union, no first families that would starve to death if they had not the offices and purse of the Union to fall back on If the South, which is supported by the Union, and lives on the Union, and fattens on the Union, as a worm fattens on an apple core, to its own great comfort but the great detriment of the fruit, chooses to dissolve the Union, let her do so. It would be like a pauper dissolving the union between himself and the poor-house; but if the North is peopled with men, let us not be frightened from our propriety, and be driven to folly and wickedness by such ridiculous threats.
Let us as men resent the attack which is to be made on our leaders, and carry on the political reform we have inaugurated, until this pernicious principle, and the pernicious men it sustains in power, are finally and completely crushed.-Milwaukee Free Democrat.

A SERIOUS MATTER.
Dr. Howe of Boston, like Col. Forbes and several other persons at the North, supposed to be implicated more or less directly in the Harper's Ferry invasion, have taken their departure for Canada. Fred. Douglass has gone to England. Others will probably imitate their example. The acknowledged motive of their flight is the apprehension that they may be required by the Federal Government to go to Virginia as witnesses on the trial of Stephens, which is to take place under Federal authority and in the United States Court. This is treated by some journals as an indication of their complicity in the crime, and by others as mere cowardice. In the interest of fair play we are constrained to say that neither of these imputations seems to us to be warranted by the facts of the case.
It must be remembered that if summoned by Federal authority to attend any where in the United States as witnesses, these men must go, and such summons can be procured on the affidavit of any citizen of Virginia. Once within the limits of that State, they are amenable to its legal process, and would, beyond all doubt, be instantly arrested on the charge of having been accessory to the crime for which Brown has been sentenced to death. The whole object of Governor Wise in handing Stephens over to the Federal authorities for trial, is unquestionably to bring sundry obnoxious Northern men within reach of Virginia law. Whether it is a device worthy of one in his position, we need not stop to inquire 
But it can scarcely be considered strange that none of these gentlemen, whether innocent or guilty, should be unwilling thus to be drawn into the peculiar perils which would beset them in Virginia in the present excited state of the public mind, For they would encounter not only the danger of being tried by a Virginia jury, but the additional perils of a Virginia mob. Mr. Henry Hunter's statement of his own agency in the cold-blooded murder of an unarmed, wounded and disabled man at Harper’s Ferry-and the utter absence of a single voice or word of disapprobation from the whole State of Virginia of that most inhuman and unparalleled a act, show clearly enough the public tone and temper in that vicinity. What would the life of Fred. Douglass or of Dr. Howe be worth in Richmond or in Charlestown at the present moment? New York 

THE HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY.
The whole country has been thrilled with the movements of John Brown and his associates, in their daring and novel movements at Harper's Ferry in Virginia. It has been the burden of telegrams-the general press addresses, political and religion the theme of conversation and speculation among all classes, and is, in fact, the great event of the day. The panic is produced in Vir.
<c05>
ginia, and all its developments have been startling, wonderful, and amazing.
What the final influence will be upon the public mind, In relation to the cause of all this commotion, remains to be seen. Plans and plots on the part of the slaves themselves, to obtain their freedom, are not unfrequent; but as yet, these have only matured in theory, except in the case of the Nat Turner insurrection in 1831, in Virginia. But this is the first instance which any one has gone among the slaves themselves, and proffered their aid in acquiring that freedom which had been taken from them. And this is to be a costly sacrifice for all parties involved. Nearly all of Brown's party were; finally slain during the contest, and those who survived are likely to suffer death' by the decision of the Courts.
Mr. Brown is to be executed the 2d of the coming month, and his associates on the 16th. God and the jury of mankind are yet to pass upon the conduct and aims of these men; and we shall not be surprised if the future shall build monuments to their memory. Stranger things than these have become facts in history. And it cannot be concealed, that there are multitudes who deeply sympathize with the design, of Brown, as he explains it himself. But while there are many who would have rejoiced had he led out a multitude from the house of their bondage by peaceful means, we trust there are but few who would give their sanction to a resort to violent measures for such a purpose; certainly we cannot. For although the whole South are living in the most imminent danger of bloodshed from the uprising of the enslaved-an event that Jefferson and many others anticipated in their day, if peaceful measures were not employed to remove this oppression from the land-still, if the disposition existed (which we do not believe is the fact) to resort to violent measures, to ' proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof,' long before the free people of the nation
could be united in such a movement, the moral sentiment would be entirely adequate to remove this great curse, without the shedding of blood, or the loss of life or property.
American Slavery is a doomed Institution. The moral sentiment of the age and world is fast embodying its condemnation upon it, and it cannot long survive. The Northern Slave States are fast becoming ripened for entire freedom; and the augmentation of the number of slaves in the more southern Slave States is creating such a disproportion between the slaves and their masters, that it will be soon an impossibility for the masters to hold their chattels in bonds. And should the South engage afresh in the foreign slave trade, it will but increase their danger, and hasten the downfall of the system they are seeking to strengthen.
The voice and government of God are against this great wrong. The conscience of universal humanity is against it. The teachings of religion are against it. There may be many lives lost-valuable ones, from mere brutality; but their blood will be the seed that shall produce a mighty harvest of volunteers who will buckle on the moral armor for this victory. The execution of Brown and his comrades, however much they may have erred in their movements, will cause millions of hearts to vow eternal vengeance to slavery, the cause of awakening their, self-immolating zeal, and bringing them to death. 
 The inward feelings of the heart will be, that these men are martyrs to the cause of freedom, and you cannot erase this impression., Policy on the part of the South would be to avoid the execution of; Brown; but this will not be done,. He will die as a brave man dies; and the 2d of next month will be the saddest day for slavery that ever dawned upon this nation. It will be a day of prayers, vows, tears, and purposes, such as will embody themselves in the most efficient action that has ever been seen. Nor will America alone be draped in mourning for one of the bravest men that ever lived; European Christians and philanthropists will drink the cup that we drink of, and be baptized with the baptism that we are baptized with.
In view of the interests at stake, in view of the doom of Brown and his comrades, and the slave and the slaveholder, let us all be instant in prayer, that God will overrule all these events now transpiring for the furtherance of Truth, Right, and Freedom. Syracuse Wesleyan. 

From the Albany Atlas and Argut. 
THE WARNING TO SECRETARY FLOYD. 
The following is the anonymous letter received by Gov. Floyd, of which mention has been made:
CINCINNATI, Aug. 20,1859. 
Sir-I have lately received information of a movement of so GREAT IMPORTANCE that I feel it to be my duty to impart it to you without delay. I have discovered the existence of a secret association, having for its object THE LIBERATION OF THE SLAVES AT THE SOUTH BY A GENERAL IN SURRECTION. The leader of the movement is OLD JOHN BROWN, late of Kansas. He has been in Canada during winter, drilling the negroes there, and they are only waiting his word to start, for the South to assist the slaves. They have one of the leading men, a white man, in an armory in Maryland; where it is situated, I have not been able to learn. As soon as everything is ready, those of their number who are in the Northern States and Canada are to come in small companies to their rendezvous, which is in the mountains in Virginia. They will pass down through Pennsylvania and Mary-land, and enter Virginia at Harper's Ferry. Brown left the North about three or four weeks ago, and will ARM THE NEGROES, and strike the blow in a few weeks, ago and so that whatever is done must be done at once. They have a large quantity of arms at their rendezvous, and probably distributing them already. As I am not fully in their confidence, this is all the information I can give you. I dare not sign my name to this, but I trust that you will not disregard the warnings on that account.'
The Atlas and Argus, from which we copy this letter, heads it a ' Warning to Secretary Floyd.’ And a ' warning' it was-a ' warning ' which should have opened the eyes of a Secretary of War, who was informed of a 'secret association having for its object the liberation of slaves by a general insurrection.' ' Old John Brown of Kansas' is named as the leader. The United States ' Armory' and ' Harper's Ferry' are indicated as the theatre of operations. The negroes were to be ' armed' and the 'blow ' struck ' in a few weeks.'
Could information be more specific, or ' warning' more emphatic?
Harper's Ferry is but a few miles from Washington. Had the Secretary of War seat a single man there to find and identify 'Old John Brown,' the 'insurrection ' would have been ' nipped in the bud.' Bat perhaps that was not deemed expedient, It may be that the Administration chose to nurse in the insurrection as Cromwell did the ' Popish Plot, the that it might be turned to political account.
Be as it may, we have here the evidence that the Administration was ' warned ' in season; that
<c06>
tinctly set forth in a letter to Secretary Floyd. It was, therefore, a simple question with the Administration, whether to stifle or cherish and insurrection. They choose to cherish it, thinking, of course, that they could make more out of overt than incipient treason and murder.
One word from one man, who bad all the requisite information, would have blown mad ' Brown's plot sky high. But that word was not spoken. The Administration ‘preserved a masterly in activity ' until seventeen white men and five negroes seized the United States Armory: and then the armies of Maryland, Virginia and the United States, were marshaled and marched to Harper's Ferry.-Albany Evening Journal.

THE DIFFERENCE.
When John Brown calls about him a small band, and endeavors to stampede slaves from the borders of Virginia, and in the course of the transaction, two or three persons are killed, contrary to the intentions and orders of Brown, which were that life and property should be spared-he is seized and placed upon hasty trial for his life. His acts meanwhile are openly condemned by the Republican party throughout the North. But when the Border Ruffians invaded Kansas, and slaughtered her inhabitants in cold blood, and sacked her towns and settlements, the marauders were rewarded with fat appointments, and became pets of the Federal Government. What we have stated are historical facts. A number of instances are enumerated by the Albany Evening Journal, which attests what we have said:
S. W. Clark murdered a man named Barber, by shooting him in the back. For this practical illustration of modern Democracy, he was made a Purser in the Navy.
James Gardiner, who co-operated with Clark in the murder of Barber, was appointed Post-Master at Lawrence!
Jones headed the mob which sacked Lawrence. He was paid off with a lucrative office in New Mexico!
Frederick Emery, one of the murderers of Phillips, at Leaven worth, was compensated by the appointment of Receiver of the Land Office at Ogden!
J. S. Murphy, who helped the assassination of Phillips, and who was notoriously one of the gang by whom Hopps was scalped, was made Agent for the Potawotamie Indians!
Rush Elmore, who made a presevering effort to assassinate J. H. Kagi, was elevated to the office of U. S. District Judge!
Russell and Waddell furnished teams and provisions to the Border Ruffians, who invaded Kansas and seized the ballot-boxes in 1856. For this they have been given immense contracts by the government!

JOHN BROWNM,IN PRISON, TO HIS OLD SCHOOLMASTER. 
LETTER FROM THE REV.L.W. BACON. 
To tkt Editors of the K T. Independent:
My aged friend, the Rev. H. L. Vaill of this place, remembers John Brown as having been under his instruction in the year 1817, at Morris Academy. He was a godly youth, laboring to recover from his disadvantages of early education, in the hope of entering the ministry of the Gospel. Since then, the teacher and pupil have met but once to take ' a retrospective look over the route by which God had led them.' But a short time since, Mr. Vaill wrote to Brown, in his prison, a letter of Christian friendship, to which he has received the following heroic and sublime reply.
Has ever such an epistle been written from a condemned cell since the letter ' to Timotheus,' when Paul ' was brought before Nero the second time '?
I have copied it faithfully from the autograph that lies before me, without the change or omission of a word, except to omit the full name of the friends to whom be sends his message.
The words in Italics and capitals are so underscored in the original. The handwriting is clear and firm, but toward the end of the sheet seems to show that the sick old man's hand was growing weary. The very characters make aappeal to us for our sympathy and prayers. ' His salutation with his own hand. Remember his bonds.'
Truly yours, L. W. BACON.
Litchfield, Ct., Nov. 21, 1859.
CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson county va., November 15, 1859. 
THE REV. H. L. VAILE-My Dear, Steadfast Friend:-Your most kind and most welcome letter of the 8th inst., reached me in due time. 
I am very grateful for all the good feeling you express and also for the kind counsels you give, together with your prayers in my behalf. Allow me here to my, notwithstanding ' ‘my soul is among lions,’ still I believe that ' God in very deed is with me.' You will not, therefore, feel surprised when I tell you that 1 am 'joyful in all my tribulations; ' that I do not feel condemned of l Him whose judgment is just, nor of my own conscience. Nor do I feel degraded by my imprisonment, my chains, or prospect of the gallows. I have not only been (though utterly unworthy) permitted to ‘suffer affliction with God's people,' but have also had a great many rare opportunities for ‘preaching righteousness in the great congregation.' I trust it will not all be lost. The jailor (in whose charge I am) and his family, and assistants, have all been most kind; and not withstanding be was one of the bravest of all who fought me, he is now being abused for his humanity. So far as my observation goes, none but brave men are likely to be humane to a fallen foe.’ Cowards prove their courage by their ferocity.' It may be done in that way with but little risk.
I wish I could write you about a few only of the interesting time I here experience with different classes of men, clergymen among others. Christ, the great captain of liberty as wellas of salvation, and who began his mission, as fortold of him, by proclaiming it, saw it to take from me a sword of steel, after I had carried it for a time: but be has put another in my hand, (‘the sword of the Spirit,') and I pray God to make me a faithful soldier, wherever he may send me, not less on the seafield than when surrounded by my warmest sympathizers.
My dear old friend, I do assure you I have not forgotten our last meeting, nor our retrospective look even the route by which God had then led us; and I bless his name that he has again enabled me to hear you words of cheering and comfort at a time when I, at least, am on the ‘brink of Jordan.' See Banyan’s Pilgrim. God in infinite mercy grant us meeting on the opposite shore. I have often passed under the rod of Him whom I call my Father and certainly no son ever needed it and yet I have enjoyed much of life, as I was enabled to discover the secret of this only. It has been in making the prosperity and happiness of others my own; so that really I have had a great deal of prosperity. I am very prosperous still and looking forward to a time when peace on earth and good will to men’ shall everywhere prevail. I have no murmuring thoughts or <illegible> feelings to free my mind. ‘I’ll praise my makes with my health.’
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I am an unworthy nephew of Deacon John, and I loved him much; and in view of the many choice friends I have had here, I am led the more earnestly to pray, 'Gather not my soul with the unrighteous.ï¿½
Your assurance of the earnest sympathy of the friends in my native land is very grateful to my feelings; and allow me to say a word of comfort to them:-
As I believe most firmly that God reigns, I cannot believe that anything I have done, suffered, or may yet suffer, will be lost to the cause of God or of humanity And before I began my work at Harper's Ferry, I felt assured that in the worst event it would certainly pay. I often expressed that belief: and I can now see no possible cause to alter my mind. I am not as yet, in the main, at all disappointed I have been a good deal disappointed as it regards myself in not keeping up to my own plans; but I now feel entirely reconciled to that, even; for God's plan was infinitely better, no doubt, or I should have kept to my own. Had Samson kept to his determination of not telling Delilah wherein his great strength lay, he would probably have never overturned the house. I did not tell Delilah, but I was induced to act very contrary to my better judgment; and I have lost my two noble boys, and other friends, if not my two eyes.
But ' God's will, not mine, be done.' I feel a comfortable hope that, like that erring servant of whom I have just been writing, even I may (through infinite mercy in Christ Jesus) yet ï¿½die in faith.ï¿½-As to both the time and manner of my death, I have but very little trouble on that score, and am able to be (as you exhort) ï¿½of good cheer.'
I send, through you, my best wishes to Mrs. W-and her son George, and to all dear friends. May the God of the poor and oppressed be the God and Savior of you all!
Farewell, till we meet again.
Your friend in truth, JOHN BROWN.

LETTER FROM JOHN BROWN IN PRISON.
The following letter from John Brown has been received by a gentleman in Boston:-
CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson Co., Va., Nov. 15, 1859.
MY DEAR SIR,-Your kind mention of some things in my conduct here which you approve, is very comforting indeed to my mind. Yet I am conscious that you do me no more than justice. I do certainly feel that through divine grace I have endeavored to be 'faithfulï¿½ in a very few things,' mingling with even these much of imperfection. I am certainly ï¿½unworthy even to suffer affliction with the people of God,ï¿½ yet in infinite grace he has THUS honored me. May the same grace enable me to serve him in a ï¿½new obedience,' through my little remainder of this life; and to rejoice in him forever. I cannot feel that God will suffer even the poorest service we may any of us render him or his cause to be lost or in vain. I do feel, ï¿½dear brother,' that I am wonderfully ï¿½strengthened from on high.'
May I use that strength in ï¿½showing his strength unto this generation,' and his power to every one that is to come. I am most grateful for your assurance that my poor, shattered, heart-broken ' family will not be forgotten.' I have long tried to recommend them to ' the God of my Fathers.' I have many opportunities for faithful plain dealing with the more powerful, influential and intelligent classes in this region, which I trust are not entirely misimproved I humbly trust that I firmly believe that ' God reigns,' and I think I can truly say, ï¿½Let the earth rejoice.ï¿½ May God take care of his own cause, and of his own great name, as well as of those who love their neighbors.
Farewell! Yours in truth,
JOHN BROWN. 
THE TRIAL OF JOHN BROWN.
In the palmy days of Judge Jeffries, when men were convicted of treason upon mere suspicion, there is no record of his having forced a prisoner to trial upon three distinct charges, each totally different from the other, and each one, if true, by the jury's verdict, punishable with death. This judicial outrage upon all the guarantees and sanctities of a court of justice has been left for the chivalry of Virginia to perpetrate upon John Brown. The indictment charged him with three crimes-treason, inciting slaves to insurrection, and murder; and all of these crimes, in Virginia, are followed with the penalty of death. In vain did the old man insist that he ought not to be tried for his life upon all these charges at the same time; in vain did his counsel remonstrate against this perversion of justice-they all fell dead upon the ear of a court and people thirsting for the little blood left in the old man's veins.
How could Brown challenge a jury with reference to their opinion upon all these charges? The offences alleged against him were all within, and constituted, one indictment. One jury man might find, in his own mind, that he was guilty of treason, and not of inciting insurrection among slaves, nor of murder. Two more might believe him justly chargeable with homicide, and innocent of the other two charges; and so the extraordinary consummation might be reached, of his being sentenced to death with only four jurymen finding him guilty of any one crime. What would be thought, even here in Kansas, of trying a man upon an indictment which charged him, first, with stealing a horse; second, with assault and battery with intent to kill; and thirdly, with burglary? There is not a court of justice in Kansas, or in the entire North-and perhaps we might add, the entire South, excepting always such cases that in any way involve the safety of the ï¿½peculiar institution '-that would thus trample upon the rights of the prisoner. And yet, of just such oppression, and distortion of the rules of justice, does the Virginia court stand before the world convicted.
But there is another feature of this so called trial, more revolting and inhuman than the above. We defy an instance to be shown, in a civilized community, where a prisoner has been forced to trial for his life when so disabled by sickness and ghastly wounds as to be unable even to sit up during the proceedings, and compelled to be carried to the judgment hall upon a litter! Only in the exigencies of war, when military law has ousted the jurisdiction and rules of the civil law, has such a thing been done. And even then, the instances are very rare. Yet John Brown, wounded with horrible cuts and bayonet stabs, received by him after he had surrendered; faint even to death's door with the loss of blood; unable to stand alone; his memory so confused by his bodily weakness as to utterly prevent his remembering even the names of his witnesses, so that they could be summoned to attend court on his behalf-in such a deplorable plight was he forced to trial. The old man asked for a few hours' delay, so that he could send for friendly counsel, and be enabled himself to direct and assist in the examination of witnesses. This was denied him. Prostrate upon a mattress; in that lethargic state which severe wounds often produce; only at times able to prompt his counsel, the old man received the farce of a trial and a conviction! Judicial records will be searched in vain for a more wanton and high-handed disregard of all the solemnities and decencies of a court of justice. Every safeguard that the law throws around the criminal-every presumption in favor of his innocence until proved guilty, were all overridden and trodden into the earth. Think of it: a man tried for his life while his body is racked with pain too cruel and severe to allow his mental faculties to attend at all to the awful momentousness of his position! Such a proceeding shames the name of justice, and only finds a congenial place amid the records of the bloody Inquisition. There, it is in keeping with all its surroundings; but in an American court of justice, it is an outrage.-Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.
JOHN BROWN AS A HERO.
The brave old man who lies in prison at Charlestown, Virginia, awaiting the day of his execution, is teaching this nation lessons of heroism, of faith and of duty, which will awaken its sluggish moral sense, and the almost forgotten memories of the heroes of the Revolution. Like the unspoken address prepared by Algernon Sydney for the scaffold, which was preserved in duplicate by a friend to teach posterity the essential rights of man, and from which Jefferson borrowed much of the thought and phrase of the Declaration of Independence, the brief address of Brown to the Virginia Court about to sentence him for unproved crimes-which at the worst were acts of devotion to freedom and humanity-will outlive that sentence, and in the opinion of mankind will make Brown the judge, and the Court the criminal.
No man can study the demeanor of Brown daring his trial, and read his final speech to the Court, without feeling that with all his errors of judgment, and his fatal mistake in the mode of his attack upon slavery, this forlorn old man is exhibiting a type of heroism which the world has hardly been since
<c02>
Cromwell and Sidney shook tyrants with terror. Calm, self-consistent, courteous toward his accusers and his judge, benignant in feeling toward all men, mild and patient under personal injury, yet inflexibly committed to the cause of human freedom, undaunted by the presence of death, despising every subterfuge and expedient for his own deliverance, conscious of the purity of his motive and the essential rightness of his object, faithful in God as his trust, he stands not only a brave man in a community of cowards, but a moral hero and prophet in the presence of a nation of ï¿½sophists, economists, and calculators.' It is no novelty in the experiences of human nature, it involves no psychological contradiction, and no impeachment of the soundness of a principle, that a strong moral conviction seizing upon the soul, should overmaster the judgment and pervert the reason to acts of folly. And, therefore, while the specific action of Brown at Harper's Ferry was insane, the controlling motive of this demonstration was sublime.
While it is the duty of the slave patiently to endure his lot so long as he sees no way out of it, is it wrong for him when, by swiftness of foot or strength of arm, he can seize the opportunity of freedom, ï¿½to use it rather'? Is it wrong in the sight of God for any man to help him in this by peaceable means? While the oppressed must suffer patiently so long as there is no hope of redress, is it wrong for them, when there is a reasonable prospect of success, to rise to achieve their own emancipation? Then Washington was the chief of traitors. Is this reserved right of revolution, in all oppressed communities, confined to race and color? Is it not the right of the Italian as well as the Greek, of the Anglo-African as well as the Austro-Hungarian? If the probability of success should ever warrant the attempt at revolution by the oppressed of the South, would it be any greater wrong for any man to identify his prowess and his life with their cause, than it was for Lafayette and Kosciusko to bare their steel for American independence? If John Brown, as he so pertinently asks, had thus interfered to deliver twenty of the first families of Virginia from captivity in Mexico, would not every Virginian have applauded the deed? Of course he would have gone upon such a brave adventure at his own peril, liable to be executed by Mexican law. But would any Virginian have thought him guilty of a crime? Virginians forget that slavery involves a permanent state of war between the conquerors and the conquered. Hostilities may be long suspended, but are liable at any moment to be renewed. John Brown, the crusader, made war upon Virginia in the interest of the weaker of the two hostile powers upon her soil. He failed of course; but the wrong of his act lies neither in the motive that prompted it, nor in the object at which he aimed-the emancipation of the captives-but in attempting what was desperately hopeless, and, therefore, unwarrantable. Yet the moral dignity of his deportment on his trial, and of his speech to the Court, has almost redeemed the madness of the act. The day of John Brown's execution will be a sorry day for Virginia. Her Governor will see the ghost of Banquo in the Council-room, and in his very bed-chamber. Troops of imaginary terrors will scare sleep from the eyes of her slave holders, and the blood of the hero will sow her soil with quick and direful retribution.-Independent.
And what is it that is thus on trial before the great public of these United States? What is it that is undergoing the scrutiny of thousands of eager eyes? What is it that will be hung up on the gallows in the gaze of all men? Not John Brown, but Slavery! John Brown has already received the verdict of the people as a brave and honest man. Governor Wise himself has told the world that he never saw such courage, truthfulness, and sincerity, as he saw in that wounded old man at Harper's Ferry, indicted for murder and treason.- The letters of Brown, and his speeches to the Court, have convinced all men that Governor Wise read him truly. Misguided as he was by his zeal for the oppressed, wild and unwarrantable as was his whole scheme for their emancipation, he stands forth in his motives, his spirit, and his intention, the bravest, truest, noblest man Virginia has seen since her race of revolutionary heroes passed away. It is impossible to hang such a man so as to attach to his name any of the obloquy of the gallows. For him it has no terrors, and it can inflict no reproach upon his memory. Not John Brown but Slavery will be gibbetted, when he hangs upon the gallows. Slavery itself will receive the scorn and execration it has invoked for him. That execution will strengthen and consolidate the feeling of the North in determined and irrepressible hatred of the barbarism that makes traitors and criminals of men who seek to deliver the oppressed. Just this was needed to arouse the North to the perils that threaten the nation from the preponderance of the slave-power in the Federal Administration. Just this brief inauguration of a reign of terror was needed to prepare the way for that peaceful but triumphant revolution by the ballot-box, which shall wrest the government ordained for liberty, from the tyranny that has usurped it.
When John Brown is executed, it will be seen that he has done his work even more effectually than if he had succeeded in running off a few hundred slaves. The bare financial cost of all the prosecutions and precautions that have grown out of his invasion, the proclamations and rewards of the Governor, the maintenance of the troops in all their fidgety excursions, the distribution of fire-arms throughout the State,-the money bill that Virginia must pay for John Brown, will make a serious inroad upon her profits in negroes for the year. The terror by night that rules in every household upon her soil, driving sleep from mothers and children, and starting Governor and troops upon railway marches on the Sabbath; the anxieties and fears that for months to come will burden her population; incendiarism and assassination haunting the sleep of those who have participated in these trials, and perhaps marking them as victims; the spirit of revenge which that execution will awaken in thousands of slaves made desperate by hope deferred;-all this will make the cost of slavery to Virginia greater than she can bear. The ridicule, scorn, and indignation of the civilized world which Virginia will draw upon herself by this execution, will soon make intolerable a system that can be maintained only at such fearful cost. John Brown has done his work. John Brown swinging upon the gallows, will toll the death-knell of slavery.
But the friends of freedom must take heed that they do not mar his work by any mistake on their part. They should arrange to make the day of his execution impressive and memorable. We would suggest that on that day there be special prayer in families and in public assemblies, for the speedy and peaceable emancipation of the slaves; that on that day special contributions be made as a memorial of John Brown, and for the future support of his family; and that in the evening of that day, there be, as far as possible, simultaneous public meetings to concentrate the feeling and unite the action of the North against slavery. Then when the body of John Brown shall be delivered to his family, there will be an opportunity for a funeral ovation which shall teach the world that the mistakes and infirmities of our humanity in a good cause cannot repress our admiration of the hero who braved death for the weak and the wronged.-N. Y. Independents.
John Brown may be hung, but the 2d of December will be a day in which prayers, and tears, and wrestlings with God, and a profound feeling throughout the land, and terrible questionings of the future will bear witness to a fresh martyrdom. His gallows of crime and infamy will be regarded by the lovers of liberty, both North and South, as the cross radiant with the halo of immortal glory. Men seek for a name and a fame; but this poor fanatic, as the world esteems him, has won the prize of renown. The intense feeling called forth by this event will sink into the heart of the nation. Any institution is doomed, that thus arms against itself the moral instincts of mankind. God uses the volcano, the earthquake, and the hurricane, to fulfil His great designs. Not less in the world of mankind does he make the burst of the thunder of pent-up passions His tocsin of revolution, and the wrath, and folly, and fanaticism of men His tocsin of lightning to strike far and strike deep into the stagnant malaria of unjust institutions and corrupt society.
We never know what is coming. When the wit and invention of men are nonplussed, then God seems to arise, and shake his sheaf of meteors over the nations. And we have that faith in His mighty working and overruling which leads us to believe that out of this sharp, hard ring of John Brown's pike against the adamant of slavery, will come a greater power against oppression, a sterner rebuke against the worldliness, rottenness, and temporizing expediency of this silken age, than is said or sung by prophet, priest, or poet. However others may palter and equivocate, this old man has a dreadful earnestness. When he says duty, he means duty, though
<c03>
his life should have to pay the forfeit. In another age, when this institution shall be among the absolets errors of the pass, the page of history will record this name, JOHN BROWN, as that of a martyr to universal and impartial liberty-.ï¿½N. Y. Christian Inquirer. 

The Liberator.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 2, 1859. 
EXECUTION OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. 
A public meeting will be held at the TERMONT TEMPLE, on FRIDAY EVENING, Dec. 2, with reference to the Execution of Captain JOHN BROWN, at Charlestown, Virginia, on that day. Admission free. The meeting will be addressed by Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, JOHN Q. A. GRIFFIN, Esq., Rev. DANIEL C. EDDY, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, WM. LLYOD GARRISON, and others. A collection will be taken up, which, after defraying actual expenses, will be added to the fund for the relief of JOHN BROWN.
THE DAY AND THE DEED!
To-day is the time assigned for the martyrdom of Capt. John Brown, at Charlestown, Virginia. That it will take place, beyond a peradventure, there can be no doubt; for of all brutal and savage men, even to the extreme of fiendishness, there are none equal to the Southern men-stealers as a body. That it will give a staggering blow to slavery, and a powerful impetus to the cause of freedom, is not less certain;- and so out of it we derive much strength and comfort, even in the fulness of our sorrow. No such losing day has the South ever before seen. Ah! Gov. Wise-
ï¿½If the assassination
Could trammel up the consequences, and catch,
With his surcease, success!'
But that is not possible. You can only exclaim with Macbeth-
ï¿½We have scotch'd the snake, not killed it; She'll close, and be herself; whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth.
* * * These terrible dreams,
 That shake us nightly! Better be with the dead,
 Whom we, to gain our place, have sent to peace,
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
In restless ecstasy.'
You have done your worst, but John Brown ï¿½still lives'!
ï¿½The times have been,
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
And there an end: but now, they rise again,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
And push us from our stools.'
The responsibility for all the lives lost and blood shed at Harper's Ferry rests primarily and most heavily upon those who have condemned John Brown to a death which it is not in their power to make ignominious. They may truly declare-
-ï¿½We but teach
Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
To plague the inventor: This even-handed justice
Commends the ingredients of our poisoned chalice
To our own lips.'
When such a man as John Brown is brought to the scaffold as a traitor, we may take up the lamentation:
ï¿½Alas, poor country!
Almost afraid to know itself! It cannot
Be call'd our mother, but our grave: where nothing,
But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
Where sighs and groans, and shrieks that rend the air,
Are made, not marked.'
ï¿½It sinks beneath the yoke;
It weeps, it bleeds; and each new day a gash
Is added to her wounds.'
Pity for whatever was misguided in the attempt of the liberty-loving John Brown will give place to universal admiration of his noble traits of character:-
ï¿½Besides, this Duncan
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
The deep damnation of his taking off:
And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, hors'd
Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
That tears shall drown the wind.ï¿½
BANGOR, NOV. 25, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,ï¿½Thinking that you may not see our daily papers, I enclose a little poem from the pen of David Barker, Esq., of Exeter, Maine, which appeared in the Jeffersonian, (Republican,) and Times, (Douglas-Democrat,) a few days since. Perhaps you may deem it worthy of insertion in the Liberator. Yours, truly, A SUBSCRIBER.
TO JOHN BROWN.
BY DAVID BARKER.
Stand firm, John Brown, till your fate is o'er,
For the world, with an anxious eye,
Looks on, as it seldom looked before,
As the hour of your doom draws nigh.
Stand firm, John Brown!
Dread not the blow that a coward deals,
And fear not the tyrant's nod,
Doubt not the end of the work you would shape,
For you 're shaping the work of God.
Stand firm, John Brown!
The Outer John Brown they will torture and kill,
And tumble it into its grave,
But the Inner John Brown may trouble them still,
By its whisperings round with the slave.
Stand firm, John Brown!
Death nears you, John Brown, Old Outer John Brown,
And marks you as food for the worm;
Nor death nor the worm can harm Inner John Brown,
So Inner John Brown, stand firm!
Stand firm, John Brown!
Exeter, November, 1859.
LECTURE BY CARL SCHURZ. The Tremont Temple was well filled on Tuesday evening last, on the occasion of the ninth lecture of the Fraternity Course, which was delivered by Carl Sehurz, Esq., of Wisconsin. Among those present on the platform was the Hon. Charles Sumner, who was hailed with the most enthusiastic applause. The subject selected by the lecturer was ï¿½Reforms and Revolutions,' which he treated in a masterly manner, drawing very many of his illustrations from the past history and present condition of France, which he has carefully studied and thoroughly comprehends.
At the close of the lecture, a call arose for Sumner. The cry was caught up, and repeated from every part of the hall with so much enthusiasm and earnestness that Mr. Sumner, who was about retiring from the platform, was appealed to by the President, and finally consented to come forward. Then he was greeted with redoubled applause and acclamations, and cheer after cheer arose from the enthusiastic audience. When the tumult of the welcome had ceased, Mr. Sumner spoke briefly as follows:-
Fellow-Citizens-This occasion does not belong to me, but to the distinguished gentleman from Wisconsin, whose address to-night has been marked, at once, allow me to say, by knowledge, sagacity, and elevated sentiment, while it has been delivered with a grace and eloquence which may make us all forget that the English tongue was not the language he spoke in his infancy.
You know me too well to suppose I can be indifferent to your good will expressed here to-night. It makes me happy and proud; but beyond the satisfaction of seeing face to face so many of my friends and neighbor, whom I have the honor of representing in another place, I have a special delight in the consciousness that I may say that I am again, after a long struggle, a well man. (Loud and prolonged applause.) They only who have lost their health can know the delight of health regained.
Fellow-citizen, accept my thanks for the kindness with which you have honored me. I go to-morrow to resume my duties in another place, and I shall feel stronger for your sympathy.
Hearty cheers were given at the close of these brief remarks, and the great audience dispersed, delighted with the events of the evening.
<c04>
MRS. DALL'S LECTURE.
On Saturday afternoon, 19th ult., Mrs. Dall delivered the third and last lecture of her admirable course on the importance of independent and self-supporting occupations for women. This was chiefly devoted to the suggestion, (and elaboration, as far as time permitted,) of plans for the more thorough occupation of ground already, to some extent, occupied and improved by women. It must be remembered that Mrs. Dall's main idea is, not to have more women press into the field of subordinate and half-paid labor, (which, in fact, can be called half-paid only by exaggeration,) but to have enterprise used in business affairs, by women as it is by men, each taking up, and assuming the direction of, such branches of useful and lucrative employment as her means, tastes and capacities will allow.
 For instance. Mrs. Dall had already complained that the wages of women who sew for the slop-shops, always miserably inadequate, were still further depreciated by the habit of well-to-do farmers' wives and daughters taking this work for their unoccupied hours, by way of gaining a little spending-money; and thus taking the very bread out of the mouths of poor sewing-girls in the cities. Now, at the very moment while they are spending their time in work so little profitable to them, and so ruinous to their poorer sisters, a very large, lucrative, and constantly increasing business is done in preserving, pickling, and the preparation of fruits and vegetables, in various ways, for keeping through the winter, or for an indefinite time. But this great and increasing business is done, and the immense profits of it are monopolized, by a few men, the managers of immense establishments in the cities. Why should not the farmers' wives and daughters (on whose premises the fruits and vegetables are grown, and who understand the arts of pickling and preserving, and drying of fruits and vegetables, and who might easily learn the method of preparing cooked food for exportation in air-tight cans,) use their leisure hours for occupations like these, their natural employments, instead of stealing, as they do, the very lives of the poor seamstresses?
This is but one of the many highly valuable and solidly practical suggestions made by Mrs. Dall in this lecture. She also sketched the plan of an intelligence office, very far superior, in its benefit both to employers and employed, to any of the present ones; of a Labor Exchange, in which temporary wants and occasional emergencies in domestic life might be supplied; and a Restaurant for the middle and poorer classes; of a public Laundry, in which opportunities of washing, clothes-drying and ironing might be hired by poor women, on terms cheap to them, and yet profitable to the establishment; of a training school for servants; of a knitting-factory, &c. &c.
These lectures are shortly to be published. Nevertheless, so few in any one town buy books of this sort, and so important are the ideas, the facts, and the plans of practical usefulness which these lectures contain, that the friends of improvement in any town in Massachusetts could hardly do a more useful thing than to procure a place, and bring together an audience, to hear them in their original form, from the mouth of the author.-C. K. W.
MOVEMENT.
At the appearance of any indication of manifest progress, we are accustomed to hear it said-ï¿½The world moves.' We are happy to announce that symptoms of vitality have appeared in a still more inert body, and that it may now be proclaimed as a settled fact that-The church moves! Here is the evidence, which we find in the Congregationalist of the 18th ult.
At a fully attended meeting of the Winnisimmett Church in Chelsea, (Rev. Mr. Plumb's,) on Monday evening last, action was taken on the two important subjects of slavery and women's rights.
Some resolutions upon slavery had previously been introduced, discussed, and partially adopted'; but, after much debate, the following was substituted-' as being less objectionable to the strongly conservative portion of the church-and passed by a unanimous vote:-
ï¿½Resolved, That in view of the continued aggression of slavery in our country-the disposition exhibited in the Southern States to uphold this enormous sin by arguments from the Bible-and the proposed re-opening of the foreign slave trade, with the abominable sins connected therewith-we deeply regret the apathy which prevails upon this subject in so many of our churches, and will labor and pray that the time may speedily come when the whole church may see eye to eye, and exert its united influence to exterminate this great sin from our land.'
It is delightful to see how ready the members of this church are to ï¿½bear one another's burdens.' If the furiously radical brethren will yield so far as to propose resolutions less objectionable than some others, the strongly conservative brethren will do their 
share of concession, and give a unanimous vote to the said less objectionable movements, even when, as in the present case, they go so far as to regret the apathy' which prevails upon this subject!
But this is a trifle compared with the energetic action which followed. Having received this impulse in the path of reform, they rush forward at snail-road speed, make ï¿½severalï¿½ important changes, and rescind an old rule! block up one of ï¿½the old paths' which they have been accustomed to walk in! Here is the evidence:-
ï¿½The By-Laws of the church were also brought before the meeting for revision, and several important changes were adopted. Provision was made for a regular business meeting once in two months, and an old rule was rescinded, which excluded the presence of the female members of the church from all business ï¿½meetings of importance, involving discussion and votes.ï¿½ï¿½
If this church goes on at this rate, before the present century is completed, they will get a unanimous vote to declare the Golden Rule less objectionable than some other rules.-C. K. W.
At a meeting of the colored citizens of Worcester, held Tuesday evening, it was proposed, among other things, that on Friday next, they should abstain from their usual labor and employment, from 11 o'clock, A. M. till 3 P. M., and wear crape for one week from that date as a token of their bereavement.
The colored citizens of Montreal have resolved to set apart the day fixed for Brown's execution, for fasting and prayer to Almighty God in his behalf. To this end they will have a public prayer meeting at 9 A. M., an appropriate discourse at 10 1-2 o'clock, and in the evening a public meeting for the purpose of giving expression to their sentiments in relation to slavery. Dr. Howe and a Mr. Stearns of Boston will address the meeting.
There will be a public meeting in the Town Hall at Northampton this Friday afternoon, the time when John Brown is to be hung in Virginia. A notice to that effect was read in most of the churches last Sabbath. Similar meetings will also be held in Haverhill, Abington, Natick and Providence.
The citizens of Milford hold a public meeting on the evening of the day of Brown's execution, and toll the bell hung on their town-house.
The local meetings, called to be held this day throughout the Free States, in reference to the case of John Brown, are very numerous.
We call the attention of our readers to the advertisements in another column of the ï¿½Life of John Brown,' soon to be published by Thayer & Eldridge, and of the portrait of Freedom's martyr, for sale by C. H. Brainard; also, to the notice of the Committee appointed to solicit aid for Capt. Brown's family. We are requested to state, that Mr. Redpath, who is preparing the ï¿½Life,' will be glad to receive any letters, or other memorials of Capt,. Brown, that may be in the possession of friend.
<c05>
LETTER FROM THEODORE PARKER.
The publication of the following interesting letter has been unavoidably deferred till now.
MONTREUX VAUN, SUISSE, 20 Sept. 1859.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON:
This is the day when the Crown Prince of Russia, heir apparent to the throne, becomes of age; and his father has wisely chosen this as the Day of Freedom for the Serfs of his vast Empire. It is pleasant for an Emperor to have the day of his majority that also of the liberation of 23,000,000 of his subjects. It is proper I should write to you on this day, who have imperishably connected your name with the cause of freedom in America-a freedom, however, yet to be accomplished for 4,000,000 of our fellow-citizens. So far as I can find out, the Emperor was not moved to this great act of enfranchisement either by a moral sentiment of justice and philanthropy, or by an intellectual idea, whose development required such a noble act. But (1) he wished to diminish the power of his nobles, who own all the serfs and form an aristocracy often hostile to him, and always dangerous; (2) he feared an insurrection of the serfs themselves, who often rise against their owner, burn his houses and butcher his family, and may at any time cause him a deal of trouble; (3) he wished to increase the revenue, and had the sense to see that a population of free, industrious men is more profitable in the taxpaying line than a horde of slaves. However, the work is far from being done; only a beginning is made as yet. The affair is one of great complication and difficulty. Many of the nobles oppose it, and throw obstacles in the way. Then there are questions of finance, questions of military recruits, questions of mortgage, and questions of pauperism to be settled. Commissioners have been appointed to examine the matter, report the facts, and tell the means for overcoming the difficulties. Some of these Commissioners have already reported, but it will be five or ten years, perhaps twenty, before the business is fully accomplished. So hard a work is it to overcome the wickedness of long centuries. But what helps the matter greatly is this-the master and slave are of the same race and nation; so, when a man is free, the stigma is wiped off from him and his children for ever:-while with us, alas! the Ethiopian does not change his skin, and hatred of the negro race continues and applies to the free as to the bond: the distinction is ineffaceable. So the American problem of liberation is vastly more difficult than the Russian, for when the legal chain is broke, the work of real emancipation-which is elevation to self-respect, to free individuality of soul and body-is only begun. In St. Croix, the brute part of emancipation is accomplished, that is all. It is a great deal-the indispensable first step to all the rest. But it will take three or four generations, I fear, to do the spiritual part of that great work, even there.
It is painful to see how unwillingly the oppressor parts with his power to harm. In Russia-I mean certain parts of the Empire in special-drunkenness has been the great curse of the common people; it is so in all Northern lands, where the grape does not furnish a moderate stimulant. Some benevolent people got up temperance societies, as with us, and the vice was checked. But the liquor consumed was whiskey, made out of potatoes or out of grain raised by the great landed proprietors, who found a market close at hand in the distilleries, or often owned the distilleries themselves. These proprietors found their profits destroyed by the decrease of drunkenness. So they petition the Emperor to put down the temperance societies. They tell him (1) the royal revenue will be impaired, for if men don't drink whiskey, they won't have to pay the excise tax on it; and (2) they themselves will be injured by not finding a market for the only produce of their lands! Such is the true spirit of an Oligarchy-the spirit of Nobles! I don't find the people-I mean, the great mass of men, in the common walks of life-doing such things. A few years ago, in a large district in Sweden, the farmers-who owned the land they tilled with their own hands-went and pulled down the distilleries which were turning potatoes and lye into all manner of mischief; others petitioned the government to make a law to enforce temperance. The spirit of Oligarchy is the spirit of a clique-that of the People, in large multitudes, is a little different; and as you would trust your property, liberty, life to a jury of twelve common men, with their natural instinct of justice and humanity, rather than to a single judge, however well cultivated, so it is to the great mass of mankind, the universal jury, we must appeal for help in all great works. It was the British people not the House of Lords or the Church, that set free 800,000 negroes in the West Indies.
I find by the Invalide Russe, the great Russian newspaper, that some of the nobles think their Order must fall with the emancipation of the serfs, and say, ï¿½If there are no serfs in Russia, then there can be no nobles'! You would think it was our Southern masters at home who were talking. But here, nobody pretends the serfs are of an inferior race, that cannot be civilized, &c. I hope hereafter the Anti-Slavery! Society will do honor to the 20th Sept., 1859, which inaugurated the emancipation of 22,000,000 men. I wish it effected it, but thank God for the beginning. 
I see by the European and American papers, that the African slave trade is in full career, and some say that 15,000 were imported in the last twelve months. I make no doubt that is a little exaggerated; but the fact seems certain that the slave trade is re-opened. The next step is to legalize the trade. That may be done by the Supreme Court of the United States any day, when a case is brought before it; or, as in the Dred Scott decision, when the matter is non coram judice, let the judge see fit to volunteer an opinion; or it might be done by the Congress. The Supreme Court is now ready, and perhaps has sent word to the slaveholders of the South that 'Barkis is willin'. So I shall not be surprised if the Court thus decides this winter; still less shall I be sorry-for the sooner the Court runs its bill into the ground the better; we must destroy that Unclean Beast, but it must do more mischief before the people will undertake to get rid of the unclean creature. Congress will not consent to the African slave trade, even if the Supreme Court take the initiative, and by judge-law attempt to control the legislation of the people. The restoration of the African slave trade will turn out a stronger anti-slavery measure than any of the great sets of the Slave Power since the 7th of March, 1850. A good many politicians, North and South, will be laid out stiff and cold and stark dead, on that (democratic) plank. Let them be borne to their political burial, and may their last end be like that of John Tyler, who went down into the Old Dominion alone, and has never been since heard from until this day The slave-breeding States must needs oppose the African slave trade, as New England and Pennsylvania oppose free importation of cloth, hardware, iron and coal. It is the business of Massachusetts to manufacture cloth, shoes, &c.; she has the apparatus for that work. So Virginia breeds slaves; but if they can be freely imported, her occupation is gone. So she will be hostile to this wickedness. The wheels of Humanity, bearing the Ark of the World's welfare, often run in deep ruts that are foul with mire.
I have no news to write you from this little place, where only one newspaper comes every day to our house, while you sit in the whispering gallery of the world at Boston, and learn things almost before they take place, I suppose, as you read so many journals. Here, of course, the talk is about Italian affairs, and as they seem to depend on the caprice of Louis Napoleon, all the world is anxious to know what he thinks and says about them. Hence the most contradictory rumors get abroad. Spite of the tyranny of Napoleon-which is directed by ï¿½the spirits,ï¿½ so the devotees thereunto declare-France seems quite prosperous in a material way; she is richer than ever before, and rapidly increasing in riches. The mass of
<c06>
the people there seem to care little to increase their liberty There was no popular demand for the freedom of the press-not even for so much as the Emperor seems just now disposed to grant. It is a curious fact, that while the French have so much military courage, they have so little civil or political courage. Indeed, they are a people difficult to comprehend.
Believe me, faithfully and truly yours,
THEODORE PARKER.
LETTER FROM MRS. COLMAN.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., Nov. 9, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
For very many weeks, I have been purposing to write an article for the Liberator, giving an account of my labors in some of the western counties, but have thus far failed in my purpose for lack of time. I had made many notes of events, bearing upon the cause of humanity, which seemed to me worthy of publication; but to-day, in looking them over, they seem trivial and tame. What interest will your readers have in a description of school-house meetings in country towns? A great and terrible thing has happened in the land; a brave old man, with less than a score to aid him, has wrought a work that has struck terror to whole States. Few events are just now of much importance, save those which are in some manner connected with Harper's Ferry.
I do not remember whether any report of the North Collins Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress has found its way into your paper. It was a meeting worthy of a lengthened notice; and also the Philanthropic Convention at Buffalo; that was a triumph indeed.ï¿½ To have the bold utterances of such persons as Stephen S. Foster, Parker Pillsbury, Andrew Jackson Davis, Mary F. Davis, Frederick Douglass, Charles Lenox Remond, and Henry C. Wright, made in the pro-slavery, conservative city of Buffalo, in the hearing of an audience that could only be accommodated in one of its largest halls, was surely of great importance. I trust that the seed sown will spring up and bear an abundant harvest.
Our own city of Rochester has also been visited by Conventions this Fall, not the least of which was the ï¿½United States Convention of Universalistsï¿½ This Convention has grown, from a small and insignificant few, to a large and respectable power. I attended all the sittings of the ï¿½Council,' hoping to be able to report that this large body of religionists was true to Christ in the person of the slave; but, alas! No mention was made of him; and the question of womanï¿½s equality, and of a consequent right to preach the gospel, was shamefully put by; but, even after all this, I find Dr. Sawyer, of New York, was very much disturbed by some things that did occur as well as mortified that some other things failed to be done. In an article in the Ambassador, which he entitles ï¿½Spots upon the Convention,ï¿½ he pours forth his pious wrath, on account of the fact that the Rev. A. D. Mayo, of Albany, was invited and did really preach for that Convention. ï¿½What right had A. D. Mayo, a number of the ï¿½broad church to speak for Universalists?' There was a time, dear Doctor, when the Universalists were broad enough to be the despised and persecuted, even as were Jesus and his few disciples; but now, having grown rich in Doctors of Divinity, they seem to have forgotten the grand principle with which they started, ï¿½God our Father, and all men as brethren.ï¿½ Dr. Sawyer was also much distressed at the ï¿½great prominence given to woman in the Convention.' This is truly laughable. In a Convention of some hundreds of men, there was found one woman who had been licensed to preach, and she, by leading a prayer-meeting, made ï¿½woman too prominent.ï¿½ Perhaps Mrs. Jenkins will ask Dr. Sawyer, another time, if she may lead in a prayer-meeting! The other ï¿½spots,' such as the failure of Dr. Chapin to preach the occasional sermon, &c., &c., are to me of little importance, and so I pass them by.
We were favored here, last week, not with a Convention, but with a kind of protracted meeting, held by Dr. Cheever. This earnest friend of the slave gave us four sermons of the most searching kind, on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday evenings You will not be surprised to know that Dr. Cheever was not allowed the use of any church, for the slavesï¿½ friends are not wont to be accommodated: but it did surprise a few people, who had not acquainted themselves with the spirit of ï¿½The Church of America,ï¿½ upon this subject, that the Plymouth Church, which was built as an Anti-Slavery Church, and, if we are rightly informed, received aid upon that plan, should have closed <illegible> doors upon Dr. Cheever. All the more strange was it, that at the very moment that the house was denied, a member of the congregation, who, when in town, together with his family, worships up there, was an exile from his country, on account of the Harper's Ferry tragedy-that very week our city was visited by a number of United States officials, and, as no other purpose was made known, the inference was not far-fetched, that they would like to have looked upon our fellow-townsman, Frederick Douglass, for evil rather than good. In the face of all this, the Plymouth Church was closed; but, thank God, we have in Rochester a ï¿½Corinthian Hall,ï¿½ Which will accommodate many hundreds, and this was obtained, and literally packed with bearers.
The Orthodoxy of Dr. Cheever is to me awful, and surely it must be more than awful to a believing slaveholder, or an apologist. Dr. Cheever gave great credit to Capt. Brown.
We are expecting to hold a series of Anti-Slavery meetings in our city. Marius R. Robinson is here today, Frances D. Gage is expected, J. Elizabeth Jones Mrs Tracy Cutler are in the State, and not far in the future we hope for Parker Pillsbury. We shall be prepared, I trust, for the 2d of December. Surely, ï¿½now is the accepted time, and now in the day of salvation.'
Yours, for the conflict,
LUCY N. COLMAN.
PARKER PILLSBURY ON JOHN BROWN.
MANCHESTER, (N. H.,) Nov. 28. 1859.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
The largest audience ever assembled in any hall in this city, was crowded into Smyth's Hall last evening, to hear Parker Pillsbury lecture on Osawatomie Brown and his times. The notice of the meeting was short, as the bills were not posted up till Saturday afternoon and Sunday morning. Half an hour before the time announced for the lecture, the seats of the hall were full, and hundreds went away for want of room. Finally, the aisles were crowded full of men and women, who remained patiently standing through the whole discourse, which lasted an hour and three-quarters.
The speaker briefly reviewed the history of the growth of slavery from the time when it was considered a weak and loathsome thing, which would die of itself, until now, when its monstrous size and power threatens the destruction of everything else but itself.
He spoke of the condition of things in Kansas that first called Capt. Brown to action.
What Lafayette and Kosciusko had done to interfere with the affairs of Great Britain, in behalf of the colonies, that had John Brown attempted in behalf of the slaves. This act of Brownï¿½s was as much more worthy than that of the Lafayette, as the condition of the slave is worse than that of the colonists was.
All religions and political parties were represented; and the stillness with which the speaker was listened to, and the applause which greeted his hardest hits at politicians and the supporters of slavery, showed a deep interest in the subject.
To-day, all hands agree that it was one of the most able and thrilling lectures ever delivered in Manchester. It ought to be repeated in every city in the free States. J. M. H
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SMITH AND THOMPSON;
OR, VIRGINIA SAVAGES, PAST AND PRESENT.
Our readers will redially recall the touching story of John Smith, a fugitive slave and adventurer, who afterwards became on of the first colonists of Jamestown in Virginia. His small company of men would soon have perished for want of food, if skins stuffed with moss, and complleed the natives to redeem it with a large purchase of corn. While exploring the Chickshominy, however, he was seized by the enemy, having killed three of them in the encounter, and been taken before the great Powhattan,—the predecessor of Gov. Wise,—who seated on a stumb of a throne, and clothed in raccoon skins, condemned the poor fellow to death. But beside the throne of the Chief stood two of his dusky daughters, who compassionated Smith, and one of whom,, the Chief's favorite, Pocahontas, resolved to save his life. When vorite, Pocahontas, resolved to save his life. When the grim warriors, therefore, brought in two large stones on which Smith laid his head. and their warclubs were raised to drop upon his light forever, she rushed between the executors and their victim, and by , by her passionate entreaties, induced the savages to suspend their blows, and suffer Smith to depart.
These old red Indians seen to us to had more real humanity in them than many of the whites who occupy their places. The story of Thomson is similar in some respects to the story of Smith.
He had committed an outrage upon the idol of the Virginians—named in this case Cuffee, not Okee,—had been captured, and would have been tried and condemned to Death, if the blood—thirsty ferocity of the modern Virginians, less capable of restraint than that of the old Virginians, could have awaited the slow decisions of authority. It could not. According to the testimony of Mr. Hunter, one of the actors in the affair, and a son of the prosecuting Attorney in the Harper's Ferry trials, a crowd of armed men rushed into the room of the hotel where Thompson was confined, and would have put him to an instant and brutal death.
But the daughter of the landlord, a Miss Foulke, with a heroism that surpasses even that of Pocahontas, threw herself between the guns of those maddened and reckless slave-drivers and their objects, whom she caught in her arms, and caught their mercy. 'For God's sake wait,' she said, 'and let the law take its course.' For a moment only. Neither the helpless condition of the prisoner, nor that noble, womanly appeal, could soften the hearts of these savages, as the words of Pocahontas softened those of the ancient braves. The dragged Thompson from the sheltering arms of his protector, hauled him like a dog through the streets, amid the hooting and hooting of frenzied crowd, and when they had got him to the railroad bridge, already nearly dead with bruises, they ridded his body with their rifle balls! Gov. Wise is reported to have said that e wept for the cowardice of the Virginians at Harper's Ferry; and well he may have wept for the cowardice of susceptible but wild because, is indeed to be deplored.—New York Post.

TRIAL FOR SEDITOUS LANGUAGE UTTERED IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The National Intelligence of Saturday, contains the following account of the trial of Dr. J. Breed, of the city , for the utterance of seditious language in the Direct of Columbia:
'An investigation was had yesterday afternoon before Justice Donn and Giberson into a charge, made on the statement of Dr. A.Van Camp, dentist, against Dr. Joseph Breed, formerly an Examiner in the Patent Office, in that he,, the said Breed, had on the 22d instant uttered language of a character which, if carried into execution, was calculated to excite slaves to insurrection. Three witnesses appeared, viz: Dr. Van Camp, Mr. George Stabler, and Michael Green. Dr. Van Camp testified that in a conversation between himself and Breed, which appeared to have degenersted in to a violent discussion, the later gave vent to sentiments of the most extravagant and criminal character with respect to slaves, and tat he (Dr. Van Camp) believed that Breed would, if he could, carry his views into effect. Mr. Stabler was present during the conversation, and thought that Dr. Breed had expressed himself very improperly.
Both disputants were very much excited. The discussion had commenced about Mr. Seward's speech at Rochester, and had gone on until the language used by both was very fierce. Dr. Breed had said that he was peace man himself, but got so much beyond his peace principles as to clench his fist at his opponent. Michael Green was called and in answer to a question of the magistrate as to whether he knew of any tampering or conversation that Breed had had with his slaves, was about to answer that 'About five years ago,' &e., when it being found that he knew noting of more recent data, his further examination was suspended. At this stage of the investigation, the Justice recited the substance of that portion of the remarks ascribed to Breed, which were most objectionable, when Breed deliberately disclaimed them, and declared that they were not his true sentiments; that whilst he admitted he was an abolitionist, he was one of the peace kind. He also said that the remarks attributed the taunts of Dr. Van Camp.
Dr. Breed ten asked to be discharged from further custody, as nothing had been proved against him; but the Justice thought that what have been deposesd to was of a character so serious as to make it his duty to bind over Dr. Breed to keep the peace for one year, himself in $2000 and security in the like sum. Dr. Breed was then bound over, and gave as his further security, Mr. S.J. Bow, who was present, and was accepted by the justice.
A crowd had gathered around the door of the Justice's office, among whom were several existed individuals; but the accused person retired, accompanied by an officer, without any demonstration of noise or disturbance whatever.
It ought, perhaps, to be stated that the conversation of the parties above alluded to, took place in a room in Mr. Stabler's office.
The case was founded upon an angry argument on the Harper's Ferry affair, Dr. Breed using language attributed to Senator Seward.
ATTEMPT TO RUN off SLAVES.— Since the Harper's Ferry Invasion, the country people of Virginia and Maryland hare been very prompt in ordering Northern pedlars out of the States. A few days since, suspicion rested on a Dr. Boyd, who has been for some time peddling French goods in Maryland, and on his last visit to Westminster. Md., his cargo was inspected . The Washington Star says:
His attention was called to the first that a shoe was missing from one of his hones, and while he had gone with the horse to a blacksmith's shop, the opportunity was taken to inspect his team. Amongst his traps was noticed an oblong box, with some suspicious holes bored in the cover. Boyd, seeing that an inspection was going on, same from the blacksmith's shop in a hurry, and assured the searchers that the box contained nothing but "French Goods."They chose to look for themselves, and ripping off the cover, lo! there were ensconced a negro man and his wife, with provisions , clothing, etc and all things necessary to enabled the darkies to "keep house"until they reached the other side of Mason & Dixon's line. The box was large enough to enable them to turn in it, but not to sit up.' 
ARREST OF A HARPER'S FERRY CONSPIRATOT AT MEMPHIS . On Tuesday morning last, our citizens were thrown into no inconsiderable state of excitement by the announcement that one of the Harper's Ferry conspirators had been arrested in this city on the night previous It seems from all the facts we have been able to gather, that Dr. ,W. R. Palmer, the name of the person arrested, came to this city about the month of July last, but from what (State or place, we have been unable to learn. During the time, however be contracted a m trinomial alliance with a very respectable lady residing in this county. During the past few weeks , he has been boarding at the Redford House , in this city, and, to all appearance, he was a man of respectability and means. It happened, however, in the publication of the miscellaneous contents of old Brown's carpet-bag, the name of W.R. Palmer occurred among the conspirators against the integrity of the State of Virginia.
His residence was said to be at Big Creek, in this county. Gov, Wise, upon this hint, communicated withy Gov. harries, and they matter was placed in the hands of Mr. C. Birch, a gentleman of prominence in this State, who at a late hour on Monday nigh last, proceeded to the Redford Hoose, and arrested Palmer while that person was comfortless reposing in the arms of profound slumber. He was committed to prison to wait the movements of Gov. Wise. who will lose no time in having him transferred to the jurisdiction Judge Parker's court. These are the facts, so far as our researches have brought us in contact with them. Yesterday, the circumstance of a Harper's Ferry conspirator having been arrested in this city naturally produced considerable excitement.-Memphis Reporter, 9th, ull.
Mr. Palmer has since applied for a harbor <illegible> to test the legality of the proceedings against him, but the Court refused to entertain that motion, and he was held to bail in the sum of $2,600 for his appearanc4e at the next term of the Circuit Court.
Capt. Brown was born in Torrington, Ct., May 9th, 1800, and is now consequently fifty-nine years and six months <illegible>
<c02>
THE VIRGINIA FRIGHT.
BALTIMORE Nov. 27.
A steamer arrived from Norfolk, to <illegible>, with two companies of troops, numbering on <illegible> and seventy men, who will go on to <illegible> to night on a special train. Two companies left <illegible> today for Wheeling, to guard the Chicago line, The Virginia Cadets, and a company of over one hundred volunteers, went up in a special train this afternoon. These reinforcements will make the force at Charles-town ever one thousand strong. Every car that passes through is searched at all the stopping places in Virginia for armed men. What new information has been received has not transpired. There seems, however, a determination to keep up the panic Companies from all parts of the State have tendered their services to Gov. Wise; also four companies from f Georgia and one from North Carolina, but the services of these ware declined. The citizens of Rockingham county have tendered one hundred mounted men to proceed to any point the Governor may designate.
The Richmond Dispatch says the people of Virginia ought to stay away from the execution of Brown and his comrades. It also says that visitors from other States, if they are permitted to be present, will have assigned to them a position where they can do no mischief. 
It is now said that the new and extensive military movements have grown out of a confident belief, on the pan of the Virginia officials, that an attempt at rescue will be made to-night. 
Gov. Wise and Attorney-General Hunter profess to hare received reliable information to that effect. 
CHARLES TOWN, Nov.27. 
All is now comparatively quiet. We have exciting rumors occasionally, but are getting used to them.— They have been so numerous that if there should be a report of a genuine attack, the people would moat probably think it a joke or a hoax. The howitzer company of Richmond, who went back with Gov. Wise, returned here again to-day. Gov. W. professes to have received information after his return, which induced him to send them back. 

The barn of Thomas H. Willis was set on fire by an incendiary, and destroyed. Loss $2000. 
NEW YORK, NOV. 29. 
The Charlestown correspondent of the Herald says the arrangements for Brown's execution are nearly completed. The military lines will enclose a mile aqusre around the scaffold. No civilian will be admitted inside these lines under any circumstances. This precaution will prevent any remarks Brown may utter from being heard by the spectators. 
Gov. Wise states that the cause of this exclusion of spectators from the enclosure is, that in the event of an attempted rescue, an order to fire upon the prisoner wilt be given, in which case, should there be people within the lines, they would run the risk of sharing Brown's fate.
 A special dispatch to the Tribune, from Charles-town, says the town is now guarded by 1000 troops, and the circumspection is closer than ever. No one is admitted to the jail without a written order from Gen. Taliaferro. 
Brown is engaged in preparing a long letter, to be published after his death, explaining his course, and correcting certain newspaper statements. He looks to his fate with perfect composure. 
The other prisoners are also occupied with correspondents. All of them, excepting Stephens, are chained. Cook, alone, fails to retain his self-possession. 
The rope to which Brown is to be hung is on exhibition at the Sheriff's office. It a made of South Carolina cotton. 
CHARLESTOWN, NOV. 28. 
On Saturday and Sunday, the town was crowded with strangers and soldiers. Extensive preparations are making for the reception of additional military forces, which are hourly expected. 
The churches have all been taken possession of for barracks. Sentinels nightly fire at imaginary foes, and a number of citizens have narrowly escaped their bullets. 
On Sunday night the military confidently expected an attack, and the sentinels were doubled. No disturbers appeared, however. 
It Is stated on good authority that Gov. Wise has sent spies into Ohio and Pennsylvania, and it is from their reports that large bodies of men are arming and moving towards Virginia, that the military forces are being so largely augmented. 
About 700 additional troops have arrived here since Saturday, including two companies from Wheeling, so that we now have about 1500 soldiers under than. 
A letter from Hunting ton county. Pa., states that large bodies of armed men are moving toward Virginia, across the North Mountain, supposed to be on their way to Charlestown. 
These reports cause constant excitement among the people. Arrangements are making for the gallows. 
CHARLESTOWN , Nov. 29. Gov. Wise has issued a proclamation, announcing that the State has taken profession of the Winchester and Potomac Railroad, and that on the first three days of December they will be used entirely for military purposes. He also warns the. people of the State to remain at home on patrol duty on the day of the execution, to protect their own property. 
Women and children will not be permitted to approach the Scene of the execution, and strangers are cautioned that there will be danger in approaching Charlestown or near it, on that day—that, if it U deemed necessary, martial law will be proclaimed and enforced. 
Gen. Taliaferro has also issued a proclamation to-day, announcing that all strangers who cannot give a satisfactory account of themselves will be promptly arrested; that all strangers approaching Charlestown by railroad or otherwise, under the pretext of witnessing the execution of John Brown, will be met by the military and turned back or be arrested. He also emphatically warns the people of the country to stay at home and protect their property, assuring them the information from reliable sources indicates that by so doing they will best consult their own interests. 
NEW YORK. Nov. 29. The Tribune says that Gov Wise has written a letter to Mrs. Brown, in reply U one from her, begging for her husband's remains, assuring her that they shall be placed at her disposal An order was enclosed for a safe conduct of her messenger to Charlestown, and that the remains, unmu tilated, should be decently committed to his care. 
A Charlestown correspondent of the New York Times, whose signature is ' A Virginian,' writes as follows on Saturday night, in regard to the programme of the execution, and the state of feeling in that section:—
' As the day of Brown's execution approaches , the excitement intensifies. Richmond is contributing all her forces to defend the Commonwealth against lawless invasion. Charlestown is under martial law; picket of soldiers extends from here to Harper's Ferry. So extreme is the alarm that the entire population pass days of terror and sleepless nights.
The programme for the execution, as arranged by. Wise, is substantially as follows: All good citizens will be requested to absent themselves from the scene and about the scaffold; the troops, two thousand strong, will form an immense square, with the object of keeping the people beyond the reach of Brown' voice, should be desire to deliver an incendiary speech If Brown desires to address the public, he must do so
in writing. The soldiers are having a jolly time, at the expense of Virginia, It will cost the treasury a quarter of a million at least. The men all raw rations , and conform otherwise to regular military discipline. Among sensible men no rescued is feared, or regarded as probable or practicable. But the masses, as you have seen, are frightened even by a cow.
There was a fresh sensation to-day. Dr. Rawlins, special correspondent, and Mr. Burghams, artist of Frank Letslie's Newspaper, having again relumed, the were taken before the commander and examined, but their documents saved them from trouble.
I called on Brown this morning. He is cheerful as| possible, and answers freely. He speaks of their interview with Gov. Wise, and says their conversation was misrepresented; and he is now engaged in writing the corrections to reports to which Gov. Wise gave currency. No one would suppose he was under sentence of death. Best assured he will die game.'
LEX TALIONIS.'—A subscriber to the Cincinnati Times writes from La Salle, Illinois:— 
'I noticed in your issue on the 9th inst., an advertisement copied from the Richmond Whig, (Va.) offering $10,000 reward for the safe delivery of Joshua R. Giddings at Richmond, or $5,000 for his head.-As he (the advertiser) offers to be one of an hundred ) I offer to be one of seventeen, to take Richmond and destroy it root and branch, if one hair of the head of this aged man (J. R. Giddings) be harmed.' 
PARKER PILLSBURY ON OSAWATOMIS BROWM|N. Parker Pillsbury delivered a free lecture at Manchester , N.H., on Osawatomie Brown, which was attended by about 1500 people, crowding Smyth's Hall, the largest in the city, to its greatest capacity. It was thought, that not more than half who intended to be present were able to get in. The aisles and all other standing places were occupied, and many ladies remained standing during the evening. The lecturer dispose of his subject in accordance with his well known views, but his remarks are described as more than usually eloquent, and sounding in much cutting entire-Boston Traveller of Monday.
<c03>
THE ALLEGED INSANITY OF JOHN BROWN.-We understand that the affidavits respecting the insanity of John Brown, presented to Gov. Wise of Virginia by George H. Hoyt, Esq., of this city, prove conclusively the prevalence of insanity in his family. People knowing the family are never surprised to learn that any of its members have become insane. These affidavits were procured principally by Judge Tilden of Cleveland, who is a personal friend of Brown. When Mr. Hoyt passed through Virginia on his way to Cleveland, after having been warned to leave Charlestown, his movements were watched with much suspicion, dispatches having been forwarded by telegraph for people to look out for him. The attentions of the Virginians were at times unpleasant, but no violence wan offered. 
This morning, Geo. H. Hoyt, Esq. received a letter from Brown, written on Thursday. He thanks Mr. Hoyt for his services in fats behalf, and expresses his regret than he this nothing but thanks to offer. He exonerates Mr. Griswold, his counsel, from all blame for having taken pay for services, and speaks of receiving every day more letters from his many kind friends than he can answer. 
Mr. Brown receives as many as a hundred letters each day, large numbers of people writing simply to obtain his autograph.—Traveller. 
THE QUESTION OF THE INSANITY OF BROWN. The Atlas and Bee publishes a number of affidavits of inhabitants of Ohio, in regard to the insanity of Brown, which were submitted to Gov. Wise with the following letter from his counsel:— 
Hit Excellency Henry A. Wiss , Governor of Virginia: 
SIR—I herewith submit for your consideration the affidavits of the following named persons, to wit: Harvey Baldwin, Edwin Wetmore, Sylvester Craig, Ethan Ailing, Milton Lusk, Gideon Mills, George Leach, James W. Welds, Sylvester and Mills Thompson, David L. King, Jonathan Metealf, Salmon Thompson, E. N. Sill. O. C. Kendrick, S. W. Goodale, Wm. S.C Otis, Jeremiah R. Brown, and Orson M. Oviatt, showing the insanity of John Brown, now under sentence of death, for some years, and that his grandmother, two aunts, one uncle, five cousins, one sister, one niece and two sons, have been insane. 
I submit this proof, together with the certificate of the United States District Judge for the District of Ohio, certifying to the responsibility of the most material of the witnesses, with the object of praying you to grant a postponement of the execution of the prisoner, in order that the opportunity may be afforded me as his counsel to have an issue framed and tried under the laws of Virginia, respecting the sanity of said Brown. I am, with great respect, your ob't servant, SAMUEL CHILTON, 
Counsel for Brown. 
THE PRISONERS AT CHARLESTOWN, VA. A Charlestown, Va., correspondent of the New York Times writes:— 
' Brown was visited yesterday by Rev. James H. March, of the M. E. Church. The reverend gentleman having advanced an argument in favor of the institution of slavery, as it now exists. Brown replied to him, saying, ' My dear sir, you know nothing about Christianity; you will have to learn the A B C's in the lesson of Christianity, as I find you are entirely ignorant of the meaning of the word. I of course respect you as a gentleman, but it is as a heathen gentleman.' The reverend gentleman here thought it best to draw such a discussion to a close, and therefore withdrew. The other prisoners are awaiting the execution of the sentence passed upon them with seeming composure, with the exception of Cook, who is quite crestfallen since the visit of Gov. Wise, as the only hope he had is blasted by the positive assurance given while here, that under no circumstances would he interpose to save him. 
Every thing in the shaped of business is suspended, and the inhabitants seem to do nothing but make efforts to provide for the military. Schools are suspended, and school-houses occupied as barracks, churches are in a manner closed, and the closet must now be resorted to by those whose thoughts are directed from things carnal. 
Much anxiety is evinced to know who the Charlestown correspondent of the New York Tribune is. I was offered twenty dollars yesterday for his name, but I was as ignorant of it as the man making the offer. If found out, he will fare badly.' 
The Richmond Whig publishes the following: 
UNIVERSITY IOF VIRGINA, Wednesday. Nov. 23, 1859. 
To the Editor of the Richmond Whig: In view of the present state of affairs at Charlestown, a mass meeting of the students was held on Monday afternoon, and it was unanimously agreed to tender the services of the whole body to Gov. Wite, in case he should need them. Several eloquent and patriotic addresses were made by gentlemen from all parts of the South, and the liveliest enthusiasm prevailed during the meeting. The excitement is great indeed, and several hundreds are willing, at any moment, to march to the scene of action. 
The Southern Panic—Frankfort, the capital of Kentucky, and the town of Versailles, in Woodford county, have appointed an extra police force patrol, through tear of a rising of the negroes. The information of the rising was received in a dispatch from Harper's Ferry, and was obtained through an intercepted letter from an abolitionist named Day, addressed to Osawatomie Brown. 
Napoleon and John Brown.—It will not escape the notice of those who are given to observing singular coincidences, that the day fixed for the execution of John Brown is the 2d of December, the anniversary of the famous Napoleonic coup d'etat.—Providence Journal. 
Frederick Brown, of Salem, Mass., a brother of John Brown, delivered a lecture at Cleveland on Wednesday evening of last week. His lecture comprised incidents of the early life, habits, and peculiarities of his brother, his eventful Kansas and. Missouri history, and his deadly hostility to slavery. 
Two tinsmiths of Trenton, N. J., who had been hired to go to the vicinity of Charlestown to do some roofing, returned a few days ago, having been prevented from doing their work, and driven, by threats of arrest, to leave the place. Their employer was at the same time informed that his house might remain uncovered if he could not get it roofed without sending to the North for Abolitionists to do the work. 
 The authorities of Cynthiana, Ky., have passed an ordinance requiring the police marshals to imprison all slaves found in the town limits after certain hours, and retain them in custody until released by , the payment of a fine of two dollars by their owners or masters. 
The New Orleans Picayune cautions the Southern press against the danger of copying the inflammatory Abolition documents with which the New York Herald has been filling its columns since the Harper's Ferry affair. It says that' Abolitionism has succeeded, in these few weeks, in penetrating into all parts of the Southern with papers that never reached us before, and in quantities unheard of until they were dispensed under such patronage.' 
HE CONFESSION OF COOK. The confession of John E. Cook, one of John Brown's accomplices, now under sentence of death, has been published. It does not disclose any new fact of importance, nor implicate a any persons whose names have not already been mentioned in. connection with the Harper's Ferry affair . In regard to the more prominent citizens at the North, he disclaims all knowledge which could implicate them. He has apparently no documents or notes relating to the scheme, except a few brief business billets from John Brown, or anonymous, staling from time to time, very indefinitely, that the work was going on, &c.
A conflict having risen between President is Buchanan and Gov. Wise as to which shall have the honor of hanging poor Brown, it is respectfully suggested by a high intervening party that he be hung between the two.
JOHN BROWN MEETINGS.A correspondent says, At all meetings held on the day of John Brown's execution, one of the exercises should be the reading of his speech on being sentenced. It should be hand somely printed in large, fair type, for circulation .It is fit to be framed and to hang by the side of Emmett'e great speech on a similar occasion.' 
We understand that the pikes found in Old Brown's possession were manufactured at Unionville a,' by C. Hart, who voted for ' J. B. for President, and has ever since voted the Administration ticket. Of course, according to the logic of the Buchanan papers the Administration is implicated!—Hertford Press. 
Mr. Whittemore, an anti-slavery man of New port, Ky., has received a letter from 'determined citizens' of that place, notifying him to leave the city on or before the first of December next, or he must abide the consequences of his own folly in promulgating such principles as Abolitionism. It is only a few weeks since Mr. Bailey's paper, published in the same city, was destroyed by a mob. 
On Saturday, Gov. Wise sent a dispatch to Col . Colt of Hartford for the immediate shipment of 400 of his revolving rifles. They wert sent on Monday They sent about $30,000. 
<c04>
CALEB CUSHING'S GROUNDS FOR KIDNAPPING IN MASSACHUSETTS! 
At the recent trial for kidnapping at Hyannis, in this State, the Honorable Caleb Cushing, as counsel for the defendants, (who were acquitted upon a technical point,) laid down and defended the following monstrous propositions. They strike at the foundations of all personal liberty and security. 
The first clause of the Constitution relative to fugitives , contemplates the right of master to secure and return him, which State laws cannot impair. 
2d. He is clothed with authority to do this in any State. 
3d. It would be no breach of the peace to use sufficient coercion to capture and return the slave. 
4th. The Constitution requires no aid from Congressional legislation to confer such power. 
5th. The owner needs no process of law to legalize the seizure and return. 
6th. Any person has the right to arrest sad return a fugitive as the agent of the owner. 
7th. A slave secreting himself on a ship without the owner's consent is in their custody as an involuntary deposit. 8th. Such custody 8th. Such custody continues unimpaired while in the jurisdiction of the United States until the slave is returned. 
9th. A vessel duly registered in the United States is always a part of ins territory, unless in the jurisdiction of a foreign government. 
10th. Fugitives escaping on a vessel are not discharged by the entrance of a Teasel into the jurisdictional limits of a State. 
11th. The question whether a person is a slave in any State depends on the United States Laws. 
12th. All rights of recapture and return appertaining to owner, an agent may exercise. 
13th. The agent may be constituted by deed, letter or other unsealed proof, acts or implications. 
14th. Subsequent notification by owner sufficient to establish a person as agent. 
15th. In extradition of fugitives, agency may proceed as in civil proceedings.
 16th. Burthen of proof as to the jurisdiction rests upon the government. 
He then spoke for two hours in support of these propositions, claiming an acquittal under the United Slates Law, because the case was out of the jurisdiction of this Court. 
The District Attorney, for the prosecution, argued that the alleged offences were committed within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. He admitted that Jones was a slave and fugitive, but argued that the defense had not proved that the defendants were authorized agents. 
KENTUCKY REPUBLICAN CONTENTION. The Cincinnati Gazette of the 17th says:— 
'Representatives from several counties in the State of Kentucky met yesterday at the office of the Free South, Newport, to nominate representatives for the State to the Republican National Convention, to be held in 1860. The house was surrounded by groups of "rounders," some of whom, in a state of semi-intoxication, made their way into the mom where the meeting was held, and at every opportunity interrupted the proceedings.' 
Cassius M. Clay was present and addressed the meeting, and that gentleman and George D. Blakey were appointed as delegates to the National Convention. 
The resolutions were brief and to the point, and a pattern well worth following, as follows:— 
Resolved, By Republicans of Kentucky, that they reaffirm and stand by the Philadelphia platform of 1856. 
2. That they are in favor of law and order, of State sovereignty, of National supremacy, of the Constitution and the Union. 
3. That they are determinedly-opposed to servile insurrection and illegal interference with slaves from at home or abroad. 
4. That they stand by and defend the freedom of speech, the liberty of the press, like all other policies and institutions, open to the will of the legal majorities, the omnipotence of conventions, and the progressive civilization of ages. 
A FUGITIVE SLAVE ARRESTED IN CLEVELAND AND SENT SOUTH.—United States Deputy Marshal William L. Manson, penetrated the very heart of the Western Reserve, on Thursday, seized a negro in the City of Cleveland, and without encountering either Sharp's rifles or Sheriff's writs, brought him safely to this city. He arrived per the Little Miami Railroad, at 7 1 2 o'clock yesterday morning—thus coming the entire distance in the night. 
The negro, whose name is given as Henry Seaton, was immediately taken before United States Commissioner Brown, and granted a trial. The claimant, Mr. John Seaton, L. D. Ross, attorney-at-law, and R. M. Robb, all claiming to be citizens of Greenup burg, Greenup County, Ky., identified the negro, and —that ended the examination. 
The ceremonies here were conducted with the usual quietness and celerity, and before any of our citizens (outside of the United States Court) were aware of what had transpired, the negro was a captive on the Slave soil of Kentucky.—Cincinnati Gazette 12th. 
A fugitive slave who came into New Bedford in a vessel, on board of which he had secreted himself, came ashore on Saturday in rather a damaged condition, after a passage from the South, in which his accommodations were none of the best. Ill clad, cold, weary, hungry, dispirited, without money, and without friends, and not fully knowing the route which he should take, he presented rather a pitiful sight. Bat he was taken in and cared fur; on Monday morning furnished with a little change, and a through ticket to Boston, on the underground railroad. In the evening, word arrived from friends to whom he was consigned, that he was sent to Portland the same afternoon, and the next day he was to go to Montreal.—Taunton Republican. 
ST. JOHN, N. B., Nov. 27.
The steamship Indian, Capt. Smith, of the Canadian line, which left Liverpool on the 9th inst., for Portland, was totally wrecked at Maria Joseph, a fishing village about seventy miles from Halifax. The Indian had eight cabin and thirty steerage passengers, with a crew that made the total number of souls on board 115. Of this number 25, or it may be 27, including two women, the stewardess and another, were drowned. 
Washington Irving Dead.—The telegraph brings us the sad intelligence that Washington Irving died on Monday night. In him has passed away one of the noblest specimens of American genius. As an author, he was read and admired the world over, and, as a man, he was beloved wherever he was known. 
The Wanderer Trials.—The trials of Brown, Rejesta and Arguirer, at Savannah, for piracy in being concerned in the voyage of the barque Wanderer to the coast of Africa, for negroes, resulted, on the 23d ult., in a verdict of not guilty. 
Premiums for 'Southdown' sheep and ' Short Horn' cattle hare become rather a common, everyday occurrence at agricultural exhibitions. The South Carolina State Agricultural Society have introduces a new feature, and at their late Fair offered a silver goblet for ' the best specimens of native Africans. The prize was taken by Dr. Browel of Edgefield who brought two on the grounds. The public exhibition of kidnapped negroes shows the impunity with which the laws against tits slave trade are violated. 
Cassius M. Clay made a speech at Covington Ky., on Wednesday evening of last week, in which he denounced slavery with his accustomed force and bitterness, and predicted the triumph of the Republican party. Near the dose of his remarks, he was interrupted by some one calling out, ' Let him down, ' tar and feather him,' &c. The speaker informed these parties, in reply, that he was used to that kind of thing, and he ' would like to see it done.' It was not done. 
The Charleston Mercury very frankly and truly ' says:—'. The Democratic party mast be a Southern party or no party. It cannot serve slaveholders and also free-solders, with their arrogant and ruinous pretensions.' 
PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW—VOICE OF THE PEOPLE . We observe that, in Ontario county, Mr. Shotwell Powell, who, in the test Assembly, reported and advocated the Personal Liberty Bill, is re-elected; while his colleague, Mr. Warner, who spoke and voted against the bill, is left at home. It is also significant that Speaker Littlejohn, a warm friend to the bill is re-elected by nearly 1900 majority—about doubt his usual majority. Mr. Meeks, of Queens, about the only Republican who opposed the bill, is defeat —N.Y. paper.
SOUTHERN IDEAS —CONSISTENCY! While the courts in Charlestown, Virginia, are preparing to hang Brown for attempting to run slaves out of Virginia, the United Slates Court at Charleston, S. C is releasing the recently captured slave ship which brought a cargo of slaves into South Carolina! Brown is insane, and will be hung. The South Carolina slave traders are respectable <illegible> and are to be set free.
<c05>
JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY. The undersigned having, at a meeting held in Tremont Temple, on the 19th inst., been appointed a Committee to take charge of such funds as may be tendered for the benefit of JOHN BROWN'S FAMILY, are ready to receive donations for that object, to which hey shall be faithfully applied. Contributions may be sent to the Treasurer, or to either of the undersigned in Boston. 
S. R. SEWALL, Chairman, 46 Washington street; 
JOHN R. MANLEY. Treasurer, 24 Dock square; 
GEORGE BIGELOW, 23 Essex street; 
JOHN AYRES, 11 Liberty square. 
HUMPHREY JAMESON, 484 Washington st.
 Boston, Nov. 23, 1859. 
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made in January last, on previously to that time, are now payable; and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. 
All donations, in furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, will be faithfully applied to the swelling of that Just and Righteous Public Sentiment, before which j SLAVERY cannot stand, and must fall. 
All payments to be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent, 21 Cornhill, Boston. , 
ADVERTISEMENT.—A young woman from Demarara , who has lived several years in this country, wishes to return to her native land; and, in order to support herself there and help her mother, she has a very earnest desire to learn the milliner's trade. Her brown complexion has hitherto frustrated all her efforts for that purpose. Is there any one , who has sufficient good sense and good feeling to rise above this absurd prejudice, and aid her in her auliable undertaking? She is a person of intelligence reliable principles, good manners, and industrious habits. She is a very neat seamstress, and has general capacity. If she cannot learn a trade, she would like a situation as parlor girl, or chamber maid. Please give an early reply to 
L. MARIA CHILD. 
Wayland, Mass. 
ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES. 
The Fifteenth Annual Course of Anti-Slavery Lectures will be held in Lyceum Hall, Salem, on successive Sabbath evenings, commencing in December inst. 
The following persons are engaged as lecturers: 
Rev. E. B. W1LLSON, of Salem, 
"F. FROTHINGHAM, of Portland, Me. 
"B, F. BOLLES. of Melrose. 
E. H. HEY WOOD, of Worcester. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, of Boston. 
GEO. W. CURTIS, of New York. 
Single admission, five cents. 
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. See. 
 REV. E. B. WILLSON, of Salem, will repeat, in Lyceum Hall, in that city, on Monday evening, Dec. 5th, the sermon delivered in the North Church, on Sunday, 13th ult., from the text, Remember those in bonds as bound with them.' 
Single admission, five cents. 
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. See. 
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY FOR WOMEN.—County Woman’s Rights Conventions, to be addressed by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Lucy N. Colman and others, will be held as follows:— 
Bath, Steuben Co., Tuesday, Dec. 6. 
Havanna. Schuylkill Co., Friday, "9. 
Elmira, Chemung Co., Tuesday, "13. 
Pen Yan, Yates Co., Tuesday, "20. 
Lyons. Wayne Co., Tuesday, "27. 
By Mrs. Tracy Cutler and J. Elisabeth Jones: 
Angelica, Allegheny Co., Tuesday, Dec. 6. Ellicottville, Cattaraugus Co., ""13. 
Jamestown, Chatauque Co., ""20. 
Collins Centre, Erie Co., ""27. 
Each of the above meetings will be at 2 and 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day named. 
FREEDOM IN NEW YORK. 
An Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Pen Yan, Yates Co., on Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 6 and 7. Sessions at 2 and 7 o'clock, P. M. Parker Pillsbury, Marius R. Robinson and others will address the Convention. 
LECTURES.—THOMAS VICKERS would respectfully inform Lecture Committees that he will deliver any of the following lectures, in the New England States, during the two weeks immediately succeeding January 28, 1860:—
 Rufus Choate: an Ethical View of his Character and Genius. 
Horace Mann. 
Thomas Carlyle. 
Psychological Manifestations of Opium and Hashkesh. 
Oliver Cromwell, and the Revolution of 1642. 
Representative Men of the Temperance Reformation. 
 Address: Box 173, Mesdville, Pa 
 CHARLES LENOX REMOND, with others, will speak at MILFORD, this evening, (Friday, Dec. 2d.) being the day fixed for taking the life of Capt. JOHN BROWN. 
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will attend the meeting called for this day, Friday, at PROVIDENCE ,R. I., in reference to the execution of Capt.; JOHN BBOWN. 
CHARLES L. REMOND will speak at NEPONSET on THURSDAY evening, Dee. 1st, at a meeting called in reference to the Execution of JOHN BROWN, by the conjoined forces of Virginia and the United States. 
ANDREW T. Foss, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:— 
Plainfield, Friday, Dec. 2.
Ashtteld, Sunday, "4.
Buckland, Tuesday, "6. 
Shelburne Falls, Wednesday. "7. 
MARRIED—In this city. Nov. 27th, by Rev. John W. Lewis, Mr. WILLIAM H. JACKSON to Miss LOISA PROPHET , both of this city. 
DIED—In this city. Nov. 6, Mrs. NANCY PRINCE, aged 60. 
 Nov. 14, Mr. GEORGE C.HOWARD, aged 29. 
PILLS AND POWDERS. 
FORTY YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS THEREOF. 
By the late Dr. Win. A. Alcott. Is one of the most amusing and instructive books of the year. Price $1. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., Publishers, 
No. 20 Washington street, Boston. 
Nov. 18. 4w 
Dunallan and Father Clement, 
In two handsome 12mo. volumes, from new type, being the first and only American edition of those admirable old English Novels from the graceful aad elegant pen of GRACE KENNEDY. 
Price $1 per volume, bound in cloth. 
Published by JOHN P JEWETT & CO.,
 No. 20 Washington street, Boston.
 Nov. 18. 3w 
Another Slander Hailed to the Counter. 
IT has been so often said that most people now believe it. That cultivators of the soil do not read.
The fact that in so short a time THREE EDITIONS each COPELAND'S COUNTRY LIFE and DR.' DADD'S NEW CATTLE DOCTOR have been called for, gives the lie to this libel upon our intelligent. yeomanry. These books should be in the hands of every mam who cultivates an acre of ground, or owns a cow.
Price of Country Life, third edition, $2 50
"Dr. Dadd's New Cattle Doctor, third editions----1 00
Agents would make money by selling these valuable works.
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co., Publishers,
No. 20 Washington st., Boston.
Nov. 18. 4wis 
The Original 'Sensation Book,' 
ALL others, excepting ' THE LAMPLIGHTER being mere abortive imitations. A new edition of ' UNCLE TOMS CABIN,' 310th Edition, making a sale of THREE HUNDRED AND TEN THOUSAND COPIES of this unrivalled book, Price $1 50 for the two volumes, with portraits of the Author and Little Eva
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., Publishers, 
No.20 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 1. 4 wish
<c06>
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES
IN PRESS: 
THE LIFE OF 
CAPT.> JOHN BROWN, 
THE
LIBERATOR OF KANSAS, 
AND THE 
Hero of Harper's Ferry. 
BY JAMES REDPATH. 
AN elegant 12 mo. volume of 400 pages, illustrated, and embellished witha superb.
STEEL PORTRAIT
OF THE 
GLORIOUS OLD MAN.
This book will be issued before the first of January , I860, and will be a work of thrilling and fascinating interest . Price, $1.00. A liberal per centage of the 
PROFITS 
resulting from its publication will be 
Given to the family of Brown. 
THOUSANDS OF AGENTS
will be wanted to supply the demand in every town, Village and hamlet, throughout the country. 
Address, THAYER & ELDRIDGE, Publishers,
Nos. 114 and 116 WASHINGTON STREET,
N25 3w BOSTON. MASS.
Portrait, of John Brown. 
Will be published, on FRIDAY, DEC. 2d, by 
CHARLES H. BRAINARD
322 WASHINGTON STREET. 
A magnificent lithographic portrait of JOHN BROWN, drawn by Thomas M. Johnston, from a photograph taken for T. H. Webb, Esq., and the last picture fee which the old hero ever sat. 
A liberal portion of the profits will be given to the family of Captain Brown. 
PRICE. ONE DOLLAR.
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price. 
For sale by Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street; Elliot & White, 322 Washington street; Wm. C. Nell, 21 Cornhill; and by print sellers generally.
D2 2w 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla, 
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the wont cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULIUS COMPLAINTS, ERRUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HRAD, SYPHILIS NAND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURRUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPHLAS, ROSE OR SIR.ANTONY'S FIRE and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
 This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that seasons of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its imparities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; uat with this pabulum of he disordered, there can be a lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. Bat the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparillas, or any thing else. 
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run at the diseases it is intended to cure, In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken , according to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED BY 
DR. J. C. AYER & COO.
LOWELL, MASS. 
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bootless for $S.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral 
has won for itself such a renown for the care of every variety of Throat and Lung; Complaint , that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has least been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills, 
FOR THE CURE OF
costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsis, Indigestion, Dysentry. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions ands Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tettur, Tumors and Salt <illegible> Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the meet sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best <illegible> in the world for all the purposes of a family Physics.
Price, 25 cents per Box, Five boxes for <illegible>
Great number of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their <illegible> but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish great our <illegible> ALMANAC, in which they are great; with shall fall descriptions of the above complaints and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
DO not be put off by unprincipled declare with their preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S and take no others. The sick want the <illegible> aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are far sale by
THEODORE METICLAS & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H.H.HAY, Portland;
J.N/ MORTON & CO., Coward, N.H.
Sold by Druggist and <illegible> in Medicine every where 6w  May?
J.B.YERRINGTON & SON,
<illegible>
21 Cornhill  Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
TO THE REV. SAMUEL J. MAY.
on his Visit to England, 1859.
We heard of thee, noble friend of the slave,
Friend of the wronged and appeared;
For, worn with the burthen and host of the day,
God's tired laborer needed rest.
And we hoped to see thee with Spring's leaves and flowers,
Still waited and hoped, day by day;
Till, amid the full splender of Summer's bright reign,
We welcome ANOTHER MAY!
We heard thy grand works of Love, Freedom, and 
Truth;
They thrilled like a war-trumpet's call,
That bids Chriat's valiant soldiers arm for the fight,
Stern hearts that no dangers appel.
We saw, with delight, how in calm social hours
A true-hearted man dares unbend;
And innocent mirth, and wit, gentle as bright,
Charm the circle who claim thee as friend.
Oh, that said thy still widening circle of friends,
The Good, and the True, and the Free,
All where love and whose reverence here thou hast won,
May recal pleasant memories to thee!
And God grant, in the Master's vineyard to toil,
His brave workman fresh health and strength,
Till its spreading stema, bending with glorious fruit,
Meward all thy labors at length.
Tenterden, (England) JANE ASHBY.
For the Liberator,
WEBSTER'S STATUE AT BOSTON.
With what regretful feelings did we read,
How, Maseachusetts, thy degenerate cons,
Sons of those pilgrims who, for conscience sake,
Dared want, dared shipwreck, should disloyal prove
To liberty, to conscience, should forget
That unto all are given two great commands:
'Love God, your Father, first; and, next to him,
(Jesus says nought about a brother's skin,)
Love all mankind, your brethren, as yourselves.'
Talent and genius are rich, heaven-sent gifts,
And men bow down before them, and forget,
Though they exalt a man above his fellows,
He is God's servant still; as such, must give 
A strict account to his most righteous Lord.
O'richly gifted Webster! hadst thou, then,
Power to revisit Boston, when its crowds 
Did such mad, reverent homage to thy statue,
As ignorant heathen, worshipping carved gods,
What deep repentance for those gifts misspent,
For opportunities lost, and past recal,
For treason against conscience, hadst thou felt!
Once didst thou call the negro thy dark brother,
Once feel, once advocate the equal rights
Of all thy countrymen, whate'er their race.
O' poor, heart-broken, disappointed man!
Who, Esau-like, impatient, gavest up
Thy great, thy glorious birthright, thy true freedom,
Hungering after power, and the applause
Of men thou could'st but secretly despise:
O' thou heart-broken man! hadst thou then heard
The noise of shouts and music, which arose,
Like that from Dura's plain, when the proud king,
Nebuchadnezzar, bade his subjects kneel
Before his statue, with what pangs of shame
Had thy awakened heart its sin confessed;
Its guilt, its vast, its terrible mistake!
And, desply penitent, humbly declared,
That to stone for all the mass of wrongs
Thy cruel, wicked law caused the poor slaves,-
For all the ills thy words, thy influence,
And thy example add to their hard lot,-
Thou, Bosten's worshipped one, would'st gladly bear
Even the fate of the poor fugitive,
Whom vainly flying from his degradation,
He hears the human hound's voice, as it cheers
Its aid, the bloodhound, rushing on to seize,
And tear him-him thy brutal law has doomed;
Humbly hadst thou declared, that to annul
Thy most vile law, thou gladly would'st endure
Its terrible results; the bloodhound's fangs,
The lash, the untold tortures-even that death,
When the also fire consumes the shrivelled frame.
There was a hero-prophet in old times,
Who stood erect amid a prostrate crowd
Of Baal's worshippers. Yet not alone 
Was he in Israel; for ten thousand more
Brave men and women steadfastly refused
All idol worship-steadfastly refused,
Loyally true to conscience; joined no crowd,
However rich or great, in doing evil.
Honor, due honor to like noble ones,
The sons and daughters of the Pilgrim State,
Loyal to principle, loyal to Christ;
That Christ who taught, who lived the law of love 
To God and man; that Christ who gave his life,
A willing sacrifice, to prove his faith
In this ennobling, generous, God-made law.
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.
We publish the following effusion as sent to us, leaving our readers to decide for themselves as to the authorship of it. Its sentiments al least are true, and its spirit commendable.-[Ed. Lib.
[Form the Sprit of John Quincy Adams, through Dr. Stiles.]
DEDICATED TO JOHN BROWN,
BY DR. T. JOHN LEWIS.
'LIBERTY OR DEATH!'
No! Massachusetts cannot give
The boon thy soul doth fondly crave;
The poor and panting fugitive
Must on her soil REMAIN A SLAVE.
Her Bunker Hill, where patriot blood 
In Freedom's cause was freely spent,
Cannot a shelter give to thee,
Beneath its towering monument!
For tyrants even there may tread,
And hunt the flying bondman down;
May walk the spot which Werren's blood
Made ever -consecrated ground!
Nor Faneuil Hall can ope its door
To give a welcome unto thee;
Thou canst not press its sacred floor,
And think thyself as truly free!
O, no! poor salve, thou cannot not find 
A home where man for freedom fell;-
Th' oppressor there thy limbs may bind,
And force thee back to Slavery's hell!
In ether <illegible>, 'neath other skies,
Thy lying form must seek alone
The bear America denies-
The precious right thyself to own!
And there la peace thou may'st enjoy
The blessing England gives to thee;
No tyrant fest dare touch her coil,
To <illegible> away thy libarty!
What a <illegible> that America's gifted sons, and unlawful bondmen, whose faters' blood was <illegible> for universal freedom, are new obliged to <illegible> their freedom under the lica's paw of <illegible>England!-O! give us liberty on give us death!'-' I was<illegible> grans to believe that God is respecter of <illegible>-ToNN BROWN.'
The head of history was <illegible>
The <illegible> of  <illegible> J.Q.A.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. Delivered at a Public Meeting hold in the Tremont Temple, Boston, Nov. 19th, in aid of the Family of john Brown.
I hardly know, ladies and gentlemen, what there is left for me to say in regard to the cause which has called us together an sight Certainly, the speakers who have addressed us have covered almost all the points which would be spoken of naturally, in a meeting like this. It is hard to say any thing, gleaning after them. And it is an unwonted pleasure to me to know that a clergyman of the Old South pulpit has taken from me the choicest morsel of the speech I was about to make. (Laughter.) Mo man could comes to this meeting, Boston-born, without that parallel in his mind which he Has so eloquently presented to us, of the massacre of the 5th of March. Then, as now, full-fed Conservatism said it was 'madness-a few insane men flinging themselves against an empire.' Then, as now, the question was before the courts, and the courts pronounced the law to be against the martyrs of the 5th day of March. They acquitted the men who shot Attacks. My eloquent friend has omitted only one point of the parallel. Then, as now, this citizens flocked to the Old South Church as the appropriate place to express their indignation; and to-day, we do not go to the Old South Church, but, thank God! The Old South Church comes to us, speaking for us better than we can for ourselves; I like this Old ' South-side View of Slavery.' (Applause end laughter.) It smacks of the revolutionary flavor. If there is truth in Spiritualism, the man that stands in the pulpit of the Old South Church is a medium betwixt us and Joseph Warren and John Hancock; for truly, the sentiments with which they woke the patriotism of the town to Boston are identical with the doctrine which he has preached to us to-night. (Applause.) True, as he has told us, the critical history of modern times has picked flaws in the brave scenes of that March night; but he recollects well, as I do, that in John Hancock's oration, and Joseph Warren's, the men who felt the full flow of revolutionary fervor in their veins, and who felt what, standing at the head of the Revolution, they owed to the martyrs of the 5th of March-in none of these contemporary judgments is then one word of adverse criticism. On the contrary, there is the fullest and most complete endorsement. I know modern history has picked many flaws in the character of the men of the 5th of March, and later down. At this hour, as far as we can see, if we had asked God to make us a man that should stand before the nation as the representative of the American idea, unspotted, dignified, modest, resolute, merciful and Christian, it would seem as if a more perfect representative could not have been given us than the martyr of Harper's Ferry. (Applause.) In every word that he has spoken, in every act that he has done, in the whole history of the conflict and of every thing that has followed it, in the long life upon which the blaze of this event throws backward its light, there does not seem to have been a trait that we cannot with a whole heart honor. (Applause.) We have no apologies to make; we have no excuses to frame; we have no incidents to hide; we have no words to take back. It is the old Mayflower cropping out, and every son of the Pilgrims is able truthfully to say, that what he imagined Plymouth Rock, John Brown is. (Applause.) Read that simple recital in the Independent from the lips of his wife; honest, truthful, kneeling daily at his family altar, bringing up his children with daily recognition of their allegiance to God, banishing from his military troops, even in the tumult of Kansas, every man whose lips were familiar with a profane word, allowing neither intemperance nor any thing that could be called sensuality, drawing to himself the very model of the Puritans, passing his life in that guise, with one polar star before him from his very boyhood; for you know he says that the font thought that ever turned his heart toward the black rues was when, on a Pennsylvania farm, a boy of ten, he found himself yoke-fellow with a negro of the same age-a smarter boy than himself, says the old man, more capable, brighter, and yet he was half starved, oppressed, turned out to the elements, treated half like a beast, and he said to himself (this thoughtful boy of ten years old)-'Why should a black skin make that difference between me and him?' and he has never been able to answer that question until today. His whole life has been an effort to answer it, and if Virginia sends him to his audit, we may believe that the Supreme Judge will hold that he has answered it at last. Look at him there in that Armory! Not an unnecessary act of violence, not one moment provoked into intemperate action-neither by the death of his son nor comrades, nor by the ferocity of assailants provoked into a forgetful moment. What scene can History paint for us more impressive-thank God, it is an American scene!-than that old, poor man, brought up at his mother's knees, and taught, in the language of inspiration, that s he that loved father or mother more than me is not worthy of me'-leaves wife and children alone and needy, standing in that Armory wall, one hand holding the musket, and the other feeling the pulse of his dying son! Match it in the sublime moments of human patience, disinterestedness, and daring! (Applause.) 
What a contrast to the State of Virginia-what s revelation of national character
The man who inflicted three wounds upon his body testifies with shameless pride, bearing a military title, that he entered that Armory, saw an unarmed, defenceletfc man, who had acknowledged his surrender, and was pointed out to him as John Brown, he advances toward him with his sword, and wounds him through the body. The old man, folding his arms, bows his head, and the wretch repeats the blow on that uncovered head. ('Shame!') The man was asked, 'Could you have the heart to strike the blow?' 'I would hare cut his head off with another,' said the chivalry of Virginia, with the usual oaths. Well, is not that, with the folded arms and quiet demeanor, a proper representative of what the Northern idea should be? Could we ask a better symbol for history? Do you say the world forgets him? I tell you such instances mean more than they seem. They symbolize a universal feeling. Virginia has seen the only noble heart that this event has manifested within her borders, a girl, throwing herself between the muskets and the defenseless breast of one of the victims, clinging to his bead and neck to shield him from bayonet and bullet-Miss Fouke. She symbolized the heart of Christendom, throwing itself between Virginia aid that infirm old man; and Virginia will yet wake to see herself in the ruffian, and Christianity in that humane girl. (Applause.)
So much for the man. We come hen to remember his children, his wife. He looks back upon the world is quitting, and says to us who owe him the example of such virtue, ' I leave to you my wife and children.' Let as prove worthy of the legacy. Let us send, him a message to-night from Boston-' We lay your wife and children in the very con of our hearts; they shall be sheltered as our own; be sun of it before you die.' Men say this enterprise was hopeless, that it was an imprudent enterprise. Goethe says then prudent virtues, and then higher virtues- virtues that never remind us of prudence. This is one of the latter. (Applause.) To be sure, it was an imprudent virtue, but we have lived many yean, aid we have hoard of a great many instances of imprudent virtue. I have lived twenty years in Boston. I can remember a Western clergyman of this same Mayflower blood-God be praised that it ends out its veins East and West to bubble up wherever to be needed, for wherever there is a fierce bustle to be thought for an <illegible> you can almost always trace its <illegible> book to ole Plymouth Rock, They talk of building a moment of granite and the 
<C03>
Question down then is, where to fix if foundations. Well, I will tell you; they may lay one corner-stone at Harper's Perry and the other at Alton, where Love-joy flung his life away in the foolish attempt, so Boston said, to vindicate a free press. An Attorney General said in Annuli Hall, 'He died as the fool diet;' and a Boston pulpit said, ' The guilt of the murder was not on the mobcaps, but on the man that died.' The Boston press paid ' what a fool-what a fanatic- what a failure-what good has he done?' If you will go to Alton to-day, you will find that the repentant city has taken up his ashes for more sacred interment, and will yet build a more honorable monument to the only name that gives a moral interest to Alton. Some night, ten years hence, you will not find this platform to empty; all Boston will have found out that John Brown's enterprise was not a failure. When did man ever do man? Can you point me to a life, even if it was seventy years long, and had statues risen to it, that taught the American people half as much in seventy years of public life as this Litchfield schoolmaster has taught us in a week? It seems to me that in judging lives, this man, instead of being a failure, has done more to lift the American people, to hurry forward the settlement of a great question, to touch all hearts, to teach us ethics, than a hundred men could have done, living each owe to eighty years old. Is that a failure? Than whole world talks about him. Every man's heart is stirred because of him. A great, bad State turns pale at the thought of him. But an enraged town and drunken soldiery, starting at the motion of a dry leaf, allow a stranger to remain among them, free from suspicion, when John Brown, the chief prisoner, certifies that they may trust the man! His word is better than a judge's warrant or the State law, and saves a life which the Constitution of the Union was impotent to shield! The whole world will yet ring with the heroism of his attempt. He has opened a light upon the Bastille of America. Is that a failure? Look at that anti-slavery catechism, his conversation with Senator Mason! See the New England fanner looming up a great man, and the dwarf Judges and Senators that stand about him, and the press printing that anti-slavery catechism to the number of 500,000 copies, forcing every American citizen to read it. Men say he ' should remember that lead is wasted in bullets, and it much better made into types. Well, he fired ohm gun, and has had the use of the New York Herald and Tribune to repeat its echoes for a fortnight. (Applause.) Has any man ever used types better? Bu: there is another item. What has he done? He has done this. Edmund Burke says a nation that calls itself a civilized society, and keeps one half its citizens in slavery, is but another name for tyranny. John Brown believed it. We see in this country despotism doing great things illegally, and liberty doing nothing at all exactly according to law. We have seen the Missouri ruffians break into the United States armory in these State of Missouri, take possession of the United States arms, carry them to Kansas, and bathe them in the blood of honest men, and the United States government has yet to utter its first word of criticism. Sworn testimony, spread out on the pages of a Congressional document, shows it; and yet the government is silent. John Brown takes possession of the United States armory in Virginia, and never touches a gun or a dollar. The world says he is a madman, guilty of treason, and the United States government air about to try him; that is, to try him in the person of his confederate. They ought to have tried him at first, but you recollect, in the words of the Dared Scott decision, the United States government has no rights which Virginia is bound to respect. The consequence is that Virginia, after trying most of the men, has left the United States government only a test man to try the question. Now, John Brown takes these two principles. He says, by every rule of ethical, this is no real government. Justices is but a sham in the government. I look, up at the United States government, and I see that it has a rule that suits if party purposes, not justice. It is not just, it is not impartial, and it is not universal. Such a man as our friend Browns who recognizes justice as more than law, and right as his polar star, determines that he will do what in him lies to establish justice. Men say that he is flinging away his life. That is for him to judge. Men say that the result air not worth the sacrifice. Suppose I could carry you back to Boston streets, on the evening after Bunker Hill fight. I will carry you into Hutchinson's house; I will carry you into the parlors of any of the old colonial families. You will hear them saying, ' What a pity! Warren's dead; Hancock and Adams have fled; there is a warrant out against them; those deluded soldiers, and Mayhew, and Warren, and Sam Adams; how can these men answer it to the widows and children? What fools! A few farmers, to fling themselves against the embattled phalanx of the British Government!' It seemed so to men who were accustomed to look up to England. Doubtless the Tories strengthened themselves, and many a patriot heart sank. But it was the beginning of the end. Was Warren's life worth giving? What did he establish? He established the example of resistance. He bade the colonies try their strength. He showed them that blood was equal to blood, and that right was right the world over. At Worms, Luther faced the princes of Germany, and went home, and the princes hid him, and the Catholics said, ' Then are your brave man that dare not show himself in the street; what a boaster he is! A ruined man!' Thus the world always attacks on the eve of one of those defeats which is a victory. But this is Brown's position. Dr. Channing said in one of his last essays, we have glued our swords to our sides; we have pledged the physical force of the State against the black man, and in favor of oppression; we an all the more bound by every Christian and humane consideration to let no opportunity slip for giving our moral influence in behalf of the slave. That is the way it lay in Caning’s mind. We have given the sword to the white man; now give our tongues to the black. John Brown reasoned differently; he was a Calvin is t of the old stamp. That faith is said to be at some discount now; but after John Brown, I think we nay pardon a dozen New York Oftener. He said, for sixty years, we have given the sword to the white man; the time has come to give it to the black. What right had we to give it to oppression? You say it is the government; you say it is law; you say then is a parchment oath hid back then in 1787. He said to himself, I wonder if, when I go up to God, when, according to Hondo phrase,' Alone west thou born, alone salt thou die, and alone salt thou go up to judgment'-if, when God asks me, What did you for those that went in bonds, when I ordered you to have a heart as bound with them? Can I hide myself under the cobweb Constitution of 1787? And he said to himself, Lo! In that hour when I shall stand before the judgment seat eternal, as an American with this guilt of two generations of forgetfulness upon me, I will carry up the gratitude and forgiveness of the black race in my right hand. If my fathers sinned by promising to support the tyrant air his tyranny, I will not put off repentance to my children, but I will give the best I have, my life and my right hand, for the service of those whom my fathers forgot. In 1787, Massachusetts said, Let ma go homo and make money; lot me go home and fill my harbors with commerce; let me hear the noise of the shuttle; let me see luxuriousness climb up the sides of my hills; and I swear to forgot the bondmen; aye, in the language of one of the sons that is to be born to me, "I will be ready to buckle on my knapsack to pat down the slave insurrection if it should occur."' And for sixty years she has stood with her foot oak the heart of than black man. When the slave air his Carolina bowl was calculating his thanes of escape, he brought into the scale against bus hopes the marshalled ranks of the white men that he was to pass through before be was to reach the foreign soil He saw us standing 
<C04>
Pledged to put him down. No protest that we could utter could reach him. Our white faces, under the Constitution of 1787, were conclusive demonstration t that he had nothing to hope from us. John Brown has taught him, at Harper's Ferry, that there is hope for him amid the millions of the North. He hiss sent the gleam of a hopeful sun into the hovels of Carolina; he has taught the heart of the bondman to leap up and thank God for the Mayflower. If he has not taught the slave insurrection, and I do not think he has, he has sent him this message: 'Then are friends] for you working-abide your time, and help us.' I think, therefore, he has taught us a great lesson. He has exemplified a great moral; he has relieved us from servility to forms; he has taught us to pierce down to the essence of things. We deify intellect, till we fancy every man mad, who cannot give three reasons for every act, and cite seven statutes to justify raising his right hand rather than his left. But every now and then some sublime madman strikes the hour of the centuries; straightway fossil pedants and bloodless attorneys insist on proving how the world ought not to admire. Still the million hearts will melt; and looking back over centuries, bathed in the sunlight of that great deed, posterity wonders at the blindness which could not see in it the very hand of God himself.
Of what, after all, is John Brown accused? Might he not say, in the touching words of Burke, 'The only charge against me is, that I have pushed the principles of benevolence and justice too far-farther than a cautious policy would warrant, and farther than the opinions of many would go along with me'? And might he not add with him, ' In every accident of life, in sorrow, in distress, I will call to mind this accusation, and be comforted.' 
Can you look at that old man, on his pallet on the banks of the Potomac, can you know what he is there for, and can your heart gird itself up to accuse him? Can you look back to his home, and not encircle it with your protecting arms? He has taught us the sacredness of impulse. Men say he will die. Perhaps he will. That indictment is a rag. It is a net with every thread broken. You might expect it-no blame to Mr. Hunter. He prepared it when a whole State was quaking in an earthquake, and had five minutes to do it in. You might as well have asked a man to model a constitutional Lisbon, during its! Earthquake. It is no shame to Mr. Hunter that he has put on record an indictment with rents in it so large that you might drive the whole population of Charlestown through it, and not touches either side. (Laughter.) Every criminal lawyer knows it. Some men are simple enough to believe that there is professional character and legal pride and State dignity in the Virginia Court of Appeals to sustain the objections to that indictment. I do not believe it. I do not believe there is any thing in Virginia but great swelling words. There is nothing there to make a judge out of. 
If there was any thing there to make a bench of judges deserving the name, if there was a profession then, that had any professional pride, feeling the eye of the legal profession upon them, they would scout that indictment as a disgrace to judicial annals. But there is not. Virgins, with all her refinements, is too frightened to know which way she is looking, and if John Brown was a raving maniac, with both hands tied, he would be hung all the same. That is my belief. Ana yet every lawyer knows there isn't yet a thread on whish to hang him. Virginia will find the warrant in her fears. But if he is sacrificed, the banks of the Potomac will be doubly dear to history and to man, for the ashes of Washington rest there, and history will see for ever on its bank that old man on his pallet arraigned before the pirates. And if they hang him, the Father of his Country will be proud to make room far the ashes beside his own. (Great applause.) And let history add to the record, that he left wife and daughter, and they found son and father and husband in the American people, that never forgot to tend their footsteps and to shelter them, while God spared them the sight of those in whose veins the blood of the noble martyr is running. (Immense applause.) 
CLAIM FOR DISCRIMINATION US TRUTHTELLING. 
The Evangelist is distressed at some of the concessions made by Henry Ward Beecher respecting the (UN) veracity of ministers and the (dies) honesty of church-members. It makes a formal remonstrance to him on that subject, which is ludicrously compounded of these two elements, one addressed to the reader, thus-' What can he possibly mean?' and the other addressed to Mr. Beecher, thus-' It's too bad of you to tell!'
Now, each of these considerations might be urged by itself with a certain amount of effect, but, brought together in one article, they not only reveal their own discrepancy, (like oil and water poured into the same glass,) but show that it is 'the galled jade' that winces, and that the coat cut by the eccentric Brooklyn artist fits the Evangelist's back. 
This representative of the church says, commenting on Mr. Beecher's lecture entitled ' Bargain-Makers,' and crying out when the tender places are touched by the probe:- 
' For instance: he informed his hearers that there was a great deal of double-dealing in the world, not only in the counting-room, but in politics, and at the bar, and then added, with a mock solemnity, ' The Church is the only place where men speak the truth!' which, if it meant anything, meant that Ministers of the Gospel are about as honest as the common run of men, and no more; and that we are not to expect of men sincerity and truth, when they stand up to proclaim the Gospel of Christ, any more than when they are trading in a store, driving a sharp bargain, or pleading a case at the bar.' 
And again, the Evangelist says:- 
‘Next to sneers at religious men, Mr. Beecher seems to delight in sneers at religious doctrines. For example; He was exposing the hollowness and want of principle of men of our time, and said, perhaps truly, that there was as little faith now as in the days of Christ. 'If the Savior should come, he would find plenty of faith of a certain kind--faith in the Trinity (with a shrug), faith in the Atonement-but no faith in truth and honesty.' Now what does Mr. Beecher mean by this? Does he mean to say that a man, who devoutly believes in God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and in the Sacrifice of the Son of God for his salvation, is not more likely to be a man of truth and integrity, honest, upright and pure, than one who believes in none of these things? Is there no connection between religious faith and common morality?' 
‘What does Mr. Beecher mean by this?' do you ask? I will tell you, honest and devout Evangelist what he means. He means what was said by your representative in the American Tract Society, Reverend William A. Hillock, one of the Corresponding Secretaries, in reply to the question-' Has not the Society published, on intemperance and other evils, what many Evangelical Christians do not approve?' To this he answered (in connection with the late Rejoin Knox)-' it has not, so far as we know'!
This answer was made in the attempt to justify the Tract Society for refusing to publish about slavery.- The Society's claim was (and is) that Evangelical Christians went divided, both in opinion and practice, la regard to that subject, and that the invariable custom of the Society had been not to publish in relation to matters so controverter. The question above cited was asked for the purpose of bringing out in opposition to this utterly false claim, the notorious fact that the Society had published, in regard to tube use of vice, tobacco, dancing, theatrical entertainments and the observance of the Sabbath, sentiments in regard to which, both in opinion and practice, the people whom they call Evangelical Christians an as absolutely divided, and as diametrically opposed, as in regard to slavery. But the unscrupulous Secretary took this bull-by tube horns, and boldly said-' It has not'!
What do you say to this answer, Reverend Editor the Bengalis! Is a lie told in the Tract House? 
<C05>
And for the benefit of the Tract Society, thus made better than another lie? Is it 'justified' and 'sanctified' by these two circumstances? Is it taken out f the domain of Mr. Beecher's review and comment? 
Another thing that Mr. Beeper means is what was said by your representative in the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Rev. Dr. S. L. Pombo. Secretary, in his recent visit to England. In answer to charges then made of a proSlavery position held by the Board, this Reverend Doctor promptly replied:-'The Board now hold anti-Slavery position.' Ha thus, for the time, silenced those who paid him the compliment of believing his word. But he know that, at that moment, the Board were allowing the admission of slaveholders to their mission-churches in the Choctaw and Cherokee nations, just as you know that, at this moment, hey are allowing the same thing in those of the Cherokee nation. Neither then nor sins has the Board assumed ' an anti-Slavery position.' You join Dr. Pombo in praising the Board, asking contributions for it, winking its delinquencies out of sight. But what do you say to this deliberate lie air its behalf? 
Another thing that Mr. Beecher means is such things as were said by Rev. Baron Stow, of the Rowe Street Baptist Church, in his recent visit to England. There was a natural curiosity felt then among his Baptist brethren, as well as by the members of the London 'Young Men's Christian Association,' to know something more about those 'respectable white persons' to whom the ownership of the Rowe Street pews is, by deed, restricted. The inquiries of these persons, made in a public meeting, put the Reverend Doctor in a difficult position. He met the emergency with courageous promptitude, and changed the impending censure into applause, by saying, as seriously as if they had been true, these two things: first, as to the ' respectable white' limitation in the pew-deeds of his church-that he knew nothing about it-never had seen it; never had heard of it'!-next, as to his individual self-that he was en anti-slavery man!
What does the Evangelist think of statements like these? Why should they be tabooed subjects, Mr. Beecher? When he preaches or lectures on truth and the violation of it, why should his illustrations be confined to dealers in dry goods and politics, pure wines and spirits, cream of tartar and calico? Will the Evangelist tell us?-c. K. w. 
WORTHY OF ENCOURGMENT.
PHILADELPHIA, November 20, 1859. 
MR. EDITOR-Permit me to say a few words, through your columns, in regard to an estimable lady of this city. I allude to Mrs. Sarah M. Douglass.
She hiss been known for many years among the Anti-Slavery people of Philadelphia, as a warmhearted, self-sacrificing, intelligent advocate of the rights of her own race. I venture to say, that but few among the ranks of reform would be more generally known throughout the State, at this time, were it not that a strong dislike to notoriety, amounting almost to reserve, is an essential element of her character. As it is, she enjoys the. Friendship and respect of many, very many of the prominent. Friends of the cause in this city.
Mrs. Douglass has always thought that one of the best means of elevating the condition of the colored people is to educate them, and thus strengthen their self-respect by satisfying them that they possessed powers equal to those of their oppressors. With her, the, transition from thought to action was easy. What her conscience and mind taught her was right in principle, she determined to act upon. Quietly, unobtrusively, in the early days of her girlhood, she entered upon her vocation of teacher, and, for more than thirty years, she has steadily pursued it. Her success has been great. Several generations of children have j received their education at her bands. Owing to her ' well-directed efforts, many colored man and women now enjoy the respect and esteem that intelligence and refinement always command.
For several years, Mrs. D. has occupied the situation of Principal of the 'Preparatory Department of the Institute for Colored Youth' in this city. In this position, it is among her duties to teach reading. She possesses that rarest of accomplishments, reading well, to an eminent degree-and, unlike many other tutors, she knows how to convey her knowledge to others. At the late examination of the pupils of this Institute, the admirable performances of her classes in reading and elocution received the hearty commendation of all who had the privilege of hearing them. 
For some time past, Mrs. Douglass hiss been qualifying herself for lecturing on the subjects of Anatomy and Physiology, and for this purpose has studied several seasons in one of the Female Medical Colleges in this city. During last winter, she delivered a course of lectures on these subjects to women, some of which I had the pleasure of attending, and was highly gratified to find that the earnestness of purpose that was so prominent; in her as a teacher of children, was equally prominent when she performed the part of a teacher of women. 
In scientific knowledge she proved herself the equal of any lecturer on Physiology that has appeared in this city, while her literary taste and culture enabled her to heighten the interest of her naturally interesting subject, by her style and illustration. Her text is explained by reference to a French Manikin Drawing, and the many other aids which have become indispensable in treating the science. 
The object of this notice is to call attention particularly to Mrs. Douglass as a lecturer. She will, I am informed, repeat her highly interesting course this winter. J. J. 
Slaveholders' Lash applied at the Worcester Old South Daily Morning Prayer Meeting. 
FRIDAY MORNING Oct. 28.-The subject of Slavery in connation with the case of John Brown was introduced. A brother claiming to be from the South was led to say, he felt very sorry the subject of Slavery should have been spoken of, that it hurt and wounded his feelings, that he wanted to meet and talk only about Jesus, (!) and leave out all matters of controversy, and that the Chairman should call such brethren who spoke for freedom to order, and not allow them to proceed. Brother S. G. Deploys said, we see brethren the necessity of confining ourselves to the Bible text (!) which was first road by the chairman; the danger and peril of turning aside on any matter of division is very great. Another brother from Cambridge spoke of his late experience, and told what the Lord had done for his soul, adding that a revival was going on in Cambridge, and that it began with tube Temperance reformation. I felt my heart moved to ask the brethren how rescuers would feel to hear such reference to their traffic, how it would affect their piety and wound their feeling and how it was possible foray Slaveholder to boo any better friend of Jesus than a Rustler. I earnestly hope my brethren who attend this Prayer Meeting will boo faithful, and bear witness constantly to the two greatest sins of our day and country, (Intemperance and Slavery,) by speaking and praying both air meeting and out, with perfect freedom.
AN ORTHODOX CHURCH MEMBER OF TWENTY-FIVE YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
THE CHILLICOTHR KIDNAPPING CASE.-A Committee of the citizens of Chillicothe, appointed at the indignation meeting in that city to inquire into ice circumsunces of the kidnapping of Anderson, have reported the result of their investigations through The Scioto Gazette. No facts an developed which were not already known to the public; but from these, the Committee give their opinion that Anderson was taken from Ohio, not only without law, but by persons who had no claim to him, even under the fictions of the Southern code. The attention of the Ross County Grand Jury is called to the case.-Ohio State Journal.
<C06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER.
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many year by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?
'We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis. St. Louis Presbyterian,
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESORATIVE
Given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been a used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Chan Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicles.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N. Y. Evangelist.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
'Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair. Published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate.
'Another objection to dyes is the unlike-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESORER will do this.' U.S. Journal.
'In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Is properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
'Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produce for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.'
Philadelphia Mercury.
'There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
'We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESORER ' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated Rahway Register.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR PRSTORER.-As we were traveling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. after some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedied for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer, She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word’s Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
'It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the princes wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cubs, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREETS, N. Y.
Where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more yogis. Write to <illegible> for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Rev is of counterfeits.
See next these of this Paper for <illegible> information or send to Depot for Circulars.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
