THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROHERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisement making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICKS, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 36. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1497.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE TRADE DEFENDED-CUBA A NECESSITY.
Extracts from an Address of the Hon. (!) Jefferson Davis before the Democratic (!) State Convention in the City of Jackson, (Mississippi,) July 6, 1859:-
Though the defence of African Slavery, (thus it is commonly called,) is left to the South, the North are jointly benefited by it. Deduct from their trade and manufactures all which is dependent upon the products of the slave labor, their prosperity would trade, and poverty would come upon them as one that travaileth.’
So far as the abstract right to hold the African in bondage is concerned, we have cause to congratulate ourselves on the progress which the last ten years truth and sound philosophy have made.
Anterior to that time, it had been the habit of Southern men to refuse to discuss a question of strictly domestic concernment with these who assumed to invade it. Thus for a long period, error scattered her seeds broadcast over the land, while reasons in over-confidence, stood passive. The recent free discussion by the press, and on the forum, have dispelled delusions which had obscured the mind of a generation, until even among ourselves it was more easy to find the apologist than the defender. The case is now so far reversed, that many Northern men have addressed themselves to the task of defending our constitutional rights, on the ground of their justice; and there is not probably an intelligent mind among our own citizens who doubts either the moral or the legal right of the institution of African Slavery as it exists in our country.
How stands the case in relation to the act of 1820, declaring the slave trade to be piracy? From what clause of the Constitution is the authority for that act derived? It is commonly assigned, and I know of no other source, to the grant of power to define and punish piracies, and felonies committed on the high seas, and offences against the law of nations. To define is not to create or to give a new meaning; and to punish offences against the law of nations is not authority to introduce a new article into the code. Conceding the power for justifiable reasons to exclude the importation of a particular class of persons, authority surely cannot be thence deduced to assume control over the trade of other nations, and by a police of the seas to destroy a trade between two foreign nations which is recognized by the laws of both; or to brand as nefarious a traffic which has existed from the earliest period of human history, and been conducted by nations which have most illustrated the annals of man. So great a departure from well-established policy and obvious principle suggests the inquiry by whom and for what purpose was it made? I have been satisfied that it was one of these departures which results from substituting a temporary expediency for immutable truth.
Regarding the slave trade as sanctioned by the immemorial usage of mankind, as a commerce recognized by the Constitution, but which, from motives of internal policy, it was thought proper to prohibit, and conceding that sufficient power for hat purpose existed in the General Government, it may well be asked whether the fine of act of 1818 is not excessive-whether the penalty of both fine and imprisonment does not so far exceed the offence as, at least, to be impolitic. In our land of liberty and jury trials, laws, to be efficient, must not violate the settled, well-considered public opinion, nor go so far between the legitimate object as to wear the semblance of vindictive pursuit, lest they thus excite the heart of a generous people to sympathy with the offender. It will be a sad day for our Government, and for the public morals, when unwise legislation shall drive Juries to the practical nullification of laws.
I have said that I would prefer to leave the subject of the importation of African slaves to the States respectively; but, viewing it as utterly impracticable to obtain the repeal of the act of 1818, so as to reopen the African slave-trade, it is perhaps such contingency. Yet, as my purpose is the freest interchange of opinions, I will say that in such event, the state being left free from any Congressional intervention on the subject, my policy would be to maintain the existing law of Mississippi, which was designed, and would no doubt be effective, to prevent the importation of Africans into the limits of our State. Let no one, however, suppose that this indicates any coincidence of opinion with these who prate of the inhumanity and sinfulness of the trade. No consequence which would justify such denunciation can flow from the transfer of a slave from a savage to a Christian Master. It is not the interest of the African, but of Mississippi, which dictates my conclusion. Her place in history, her rank among the Sates, her power to maintain constitutional and natural rights, depend upon her people-the free, intelligent, high-minded sons of the governing race.
Her arm is no doubt strengthened by the presence of a due proportion of the servile caste, but it might be paralyzed by such an influx as would probably follow, if the gates of the African slave-market were thrown open to the present wealth, enterprise and staple stimulants of the State. I would prefer a policy which would promote the more equal distribution of these we now have.
This conclusion in relation to Mississippi, is based upon my view of her present condition, not upon any general theory. For instance, it is not supposed to be applicable to Texas, to New Mexico, or to any future acquisitions to be made south of the Rio Grande.
All of these countries which can only be developed by slave labor in some of its forms, and which with a sufficient supply of African slaves, would be made tributary to the great mission of the United States, to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, and to establish peace and free trade with all mankind. 
The demand for cotton increases more rapidly than the supply. A freer trade with China, adding the consumption of which her three hundred millions people are capable, will, in a few years, require an increase of production, which can only be met by an additional supply of laborers. Where are they to be obtained? If Negropholism seeks to substitute China or India man for the African, it will but neglect the lessons of experience, and uselessly repeat the cruelties for the suppression of which the African was originally imported into America. I am stating on this subject facts familiar to you, conclusions confirmed by your every-day observation, but which are denied by these who are not practically acquainted with the cultivation of our staples, the influences of the climate suited to their growth, or the characteristics of the negro race, and continue to assert that our system of labor is unnecessary, because these crops could as well be produced by white and free negro laborers. What can better show their unfitness to legislate on this subject of democratic interest? What more fully justify the propriety of leaving the importation of laborers to be regulated by State legislation, according to a policy to be determined by these who can best understand it, and on whom its consequences must fall?
<c02>
It was said of the members of a once powerful family which gave kings to Europe, that they learned nothing and forgot nothing. If we credit the anti-slavery agitators with sincerity, such would seem to be their condition. Though investigation and experiment have disproved the assertions and refuted the theories on which their movement commenced, they neither learn the correction nor forget exploded errors unsubstantially founded upon the popular phrases which they have brought into disrepute by constant misapplication. A declaration of rights made by bodies politic is construed as an essay upon the individual relations of man to man. Arguing to their own satisfaction for the unity in origin of the races of men, they draw thence the conclusion of his present equality. If the premises be correct, the conclusion in surely a non sequitur, and the student of facts as they exist in our time will not be disturbed in his inquiries. As to him, it matters not whether Almighty power and wisdom stamped diversity on the races of men at the period of the creation, or decreed it after the subsidence of the flood. It is enough for us that the Creator, speaking through the inspired lips of Noah, declared the destiny of the three races of men. Around and about us is the remarkable fulfillment of the prophecy, the execution of the decree, and the justification of our literal construction of the text.
The judgments of God are not as these of man. To the former all things are accommodated, and the fate of the subject is thereby his nature, but the victim of mans decree rebels and struggles against his condition.
When the Spaniards discovered this continent, and reduced the sons of Shem to bondage, unsuited to the condition, they pined and rapidly wasted away in unproductive labor. The good Bishop Las Cases with philosophical humanity inaugurated the importation of the race of Ham; they came to relieve from an unnatural state the dwellers in tents, and to fulfill their own destiny, that of being the servant of servants. In their normal condition, they thrived, and by their labor the land was subdued and made fruitful. The West India Islands became marvels for their productiveness, and so continued until man, assuming to reverse the, working of natures laws, gave to the black a boon he could not utilize or estimate save as it brought to him slothful or vicious indulgence, and thus remanding him to barbarism, robbed him of the plenty, the comfort and the civilization with which in servitude he was blessed. Reckless, indeed, must that man be who, in the face of the results which have followed negro emancipation in the West Indies and Hispano America, would seek under similar circumstances to repeat the experiment!
It is a common and natural mistake to attribute to others the sentiments and feelings, which move ourselves, but this is only excusable as the basis of political action, in the absence of more reliable data. The history of man, traced back to the period which has left none other than pictorial records, exhibits the negro in all times as the subservient race. No where has he shown capacity to found civil government. At no time has he asserted his equality by separating himself from the master race, to establish an independent community of his own. In the Northern States, where a false sentiment has prevailed, and the greatest efforts have been made by enthusiasts to raise the negro to social equality, he is still subjected to such odious discriminations, as persons fit to be free would not for a day voluntarily endure.
It has been so long the habit to speak of African, Slavery as an evil only to be excused because forced upon us, and now irremediable-so many well meaning persons have confounded the policy of other times and circumstances with the obligations of morality, that it has come to pass that our property in the labor of Africans is regarded as an exception to the general obligation of the Government to protect; and hence the laws which have been enacted to restrain within prescribed limits a property which, by recognition of the Constitution, was placed upon the same footing throughout the United States as other property, the right to hold which is everywhere recognized by the common usage of mankind.
Your resolution in favor of the acquisition on Cuba is a gratifying endorsement of the position which your delegation in Congress has taken. It is placed on the ground of a commercial and political necessity, which in the event on it transfer to any foreign power would become absolute.
It will be remembered that at the last session of Congress, the President recommended the acquisition of Cuba, and a bill was introduced into the Senate to appropriate thirty millions of dollars in aid of that object. It is to be regretted that the vote was not taken on the bill; there is little doubt that after some amendment, it would have passed the Senate, and the ugh it should not have been acted on in, the House, the moral effect of its passage by the treaty-ratifying body would greatly have fortified the executive power of negotiation.
The Opposition as usual inveighed against Slavery, and assumed that its extension was the object of the proposed acquisition. Seldom have the advantages of a great measure been so general and so equally balanced between the sections, the peculiar benefits being almost exclusively to the North.
That the presence of slaves in the island made it more desirable to me, I will not deny. The cultivation of the island requires African labor, and the African as a rule will only work in the condition of servitude. Thus the presence of slaves increases the value of the island, and so much the more as the number in the United States would not enable us to supply the requisite amount of labor. It was also true as one of the minority section that I desired to increase the number of slave bolding constituencies but so far from its being the only object, the meat are rested on other and distinct grounds.
There need be nothing wounding to the pride of Spain in our negotiation. The considerations to be offered, would not necessarily be restricted to these of a pecuniary character. We have retaliatory statutes which discriminate against her mercantile marine; these could be abrogated. The trade of her colonies is relied on to sustain her naval power. For one, I would be willing to make her trade with all the ports of the United States as free as the winds and the waves which bear it.
But if all peaceful means should prove unarming, then, whenever her island is about to become, in the hand of an enemy, dangerous to the United States, or whenever just cause for war shall be given by Spain, I say we should take possession of Cuba, using for that purpose a force so large as to admit of simultaneous debarkation at every important port, that resistance should be crushed by a single blow and the fiendish threat to renew in Cuba the scenes of San Domingo be pat to rest before its execution could be attempted.
That Great Britain, having by an ill-judged emancipation of her slaves, ruined her West India colonies, has sought to involve other slaveholding countries in the same fate, the acts of her statesmen sufficiently demonstrate. That her movement in retain to Cuba and other portions of tropical America have been prompted by hostility to the United States, does not admit of a doubt. That wiser counsels and better feelings have recently prevailed, there is reason to believe. What result will fol-
<c03>
low the recent change of ministry remains to be seen.
Our countrymen have two paths before them, either of which the majority of the States and of the people are free to choose. The one leads by the way of usurpation and tortuous construction, through discord and civil strife, to these destruction of this text hope of republican government. The other through peace and prosperity, by the perpetuity of the institutions we inherited, mounts to an eminence which looks down on a continent of equal, sovereign, confederated States. We are near, I believe, to the point at which that selection is to be made. Our fathers feared the convulsion which the election of a President would produce. The next generation regarded the apprehension as unfounded; to us, its realization may be appointed, because to us it has been reserved to witness the organization of a party seeking the possession of a Government, not for the common good, not for their own particular benefit, but as the means of executing a hostile purpose towards a portion of the States.
The success of such a party would indeed produce an ‘irrepressible conflict.’ To you would In presented the question, will you allow the constitutional Union to he changed into the despotism of a majority, will you become the subject of a hostile Government, or will you, outside of the Union, assert the equality, the liberty and sovereignty to which you were born? For myself, I say, as I said on a former occasion, in the contingency of the election of a President on the platform of Mr. Seward s Rochester speech, let the Union be dissolved. Lot the great, but not the greatest of evils come. For as did the great and good Calhoun, from whom is drawn that expression of value, I love and venerate the union of these States-but I love liberty and Mississippi more.
A LAWLESS, ILLITERATE POSTMASTER.
The following is a verbatim letter addressed by a Kentucky Postmaster to the editor of The Free South, published at Newport, Ky. Its illiterate character is matched only by its official audacity. 
‘Gratz Owen Co Ky Aug 16 1859.
Mr. W. S. Baily
Edditor of the Free South 
The Black Republican herald of freedom and blackit is as Satin himself, it is
Sir
I received your paper again the other day and noticed your Spicy Remarks on the culum you marked with your pen and in Reply to it. I would say I Just consider the source from whence it came you say that you never Receive Such Letters from p. in. in free States Well Mr. Baily it would not Be Reasonable for you to Receive them from Black Republicans and I would give you a timely warning to remember parker of misory about 2 yrs ago I Repeat it I aSK you to Remember parKer of misory. for once Ky noble Sons is aroused you and your press might finde a RestinG place in the Bottom of the Ohio River (& you say you would have p. m., not so vulgar and not so tyranical and vicious in their character) well if you dont want P in to be so vicious dont send them your Black Republican paper and I will assure you that if you dont send your paper to them that they dont pester you (you say that the Spirit of Slavery does not stop at inflicting cruelties upon the Black people as its passion may dictate. But extends to the free Born Whites with Equal if not more vehement accrimeny) well I think it would Be Better if they would Be a little tighter on all Such Black Republicans as you are. I dont think such men as you should be allowed to live in a civil Community as they have the tendency to wards corrupting the morals of good men or of Such men as old Ky can Best of with these Remarks I would also ask you to Remember the noted Republican of Cy C,. m,, Clay he also undertook as you have to print a Black Republican piper at Lexington Ky and the citizens of Ky took his press down and sent it too Cincinnati, and I Think you had better move over there yourself-if you feel disposed to you may publish this in your paper and Just say what you please for I am like the Boy was when the mule kicked it Just considered the source from whence it came. So any suggestion you may offer I will consider the source if you offer any more Remarks I would be pleased to see them in print in your paper as you have got them in the habit of sending your paper down here it will make good woding for our shot guns and for other purposes which would not be well to say as it would Be vulgar. Yous &c
W. H Lowderback P M.

SELECTIONS.
SLAVERY A CRIME.
There can be but one true way, and, consequently, but one effective way to treat the question of chattel slavery in this country. We must certainly recollect that slavery is a crime-a dire and over-shadowing crime-and we must act upon this basis and assumption. We must make this fundamental truth the central, motive power of all our efforts against slavery. Working from any other premise is nonsense-losing sight of this, we are anchorless and floating. Vain is he who builds his anti-slavery faith on any other grounds-such faith bears not the test of compromise; it is faulty in its purpose, and the rights of Humanity are not to be trusted with it in the hour of peril. Whenever we wander from the first principles of a reform, we cease to be efficient reformers. The world asks what our motives are, for it has a right to know. If our motives are faulty, if they are not true to principle, the world places no confidence in us, and we are able to attract neither sympathy nor aid.
Robbing a man of himself is the highest form of robbery. It is, indeed, the infernal climax of all robbery. No man can go further in theft than this, because there is nothing more valuable to steal-it is the point where the thief graduates, and takes his highest degree. To thus rob a man, and reduce him to chattel hood, is to offer the highest possible insult and indignity to Human Nature and to Natures God. It is the crime of crimes-the embodiment of all wrongs- the sum of all villanies. And it cannot possibly be different. No matter how tenderly the master may treat the slave, how slightly be may work him, how sumptuously he may feed him, or how elegantly he may clothe him, his guilt as a slaveholder is not essentially altered or lessened. He robs the slave of himself, and here is the essence of his crime. Man cannot hold property in man; this is the fundamental truth upon which Freedom erects her citadel. The incidents of slavery are nothing-the fact of the existence of the relation of master and slave is the crime with which we have to do. To be owned by another to be ranked with things, to have nothing but what belongs to your master, to be utterly subject to his dictation and caprice-this is slavery. A model master you may have to-day, tender to a fault, treating yon with all kindness, arraying you in fine linen, and setting before you the fat things of earth;
<c04>
to-morrow you may be sold to some Legree, who will make your life one of bitterness and horror, This is slavery. To hold this system, then, up to public hatred and execration is our duty. We need to nourish anew that stern detestation of the principle of slavery which unperverted manhood ever feels. We need to arouse again the spirit of true freemen, to break the spell of apathy and indifference which despotism has flung over the people. We want to impress upon the public heart and judgment the fact that slavery is an incomparable crime, to be continually considered and treated as such.
With this view of slavery-this conviction of its inherent criminality indelibly stamped upon the conscience of the community, we have a basis for rational action toward its extinguishment.
But when we lose sight of this foundation-principle, and base our opposition to slavery upon any, other assumption, we are fatally at fault. Our reasoning is necessarily defective. If slavery has any rights, it has all rights necessary to its sustenance and perpetuity. If man can be property anywhere, he can everywhere. If the slave belongs to his master in Maryland, he belongs to him rightfully in Pennsylvania, or wherever else he chooses to take him. If the master has a valid property-right in him, local law ought not to confiscate the same. My horse is mine, whichever side of a geographical line I may happen to ride him. So of the slave-holder and his slave, and we ought each to have equal constitutional protection.

From the N. Y. Evangelist.
SONGS OF THE BLACKS.
The only musical population of this country are the negroes of the South. Here at the North we have teachers in great number, who try to graft the love of music upon the tastes of our colder race. But their success is only limited. A few good singers are produced, and some fine instrumental performers; but the thing never becomes general. Music may, perchance, be the fashion for a winter; but it does not grow to a popular enthusiasm. It never becomes a habit or a passion of the people. We are still dependent on foreigners for our music. Italian singers fill our concert-rooms, and German bands parade our streets.
Throughout the country, the same holds true. Singing-masters itinerate from village to village, to give instruction in the tuneful art; but the most they can muster is a score or two of men and maidens to sing in church on Sunday. Brother Jonathan is awkward at the business, and sings only on set occasions. Let him be enrolled in the ranks of the choir, and placed in the front of the gallery, and he will stand up like a grenadier, and roll out lustily the strains of a psalm. But all his singing is done in public. He makes little music at home, or at most only on the Sabbath day. During the week his melodies are unheard. He does not go to his labor singing to himself along the road. No song of home or country, of love or war, escapes his lips, as he goes to his shop, or follows the plough. Our mechanics work in silence, like convicts in a penitentiary. They go to their tasks, not with a free and joyous spirit that bursts into song, but with a stern, resolute, determined air, as if they had a battle to fight, or great difficulties to overcome.
Even the gentler sex, who ought to have most of poetry and music, seem strangely indifferent to it. Young ladies who have spent years in learning to play on the piano and sing Italian airs, drop both as soon as they are married. Enter their houses a few months later, and they tell you that they are out of practice; they have forgotten their music, their pianos are unopened, and their harps unstrung.
Compared with our taciturn race, the African nature is full of poetry and song. The negro is a natural musician. He will learn to play on an instrument more quickly than a white man. They have magnificent voices, and sing without instruction. They may not know one note from another, yet their ears catch the strains of any floating air, and they repeat it by imitation. The native melody of their voices follows without art into the channel of song. They go singing to their daily labor. The maid sings about the house, and the laborer sings in the field.
Besides their splendid organs of voices, the African nature is full of poetry. Inferior to the white race in reason and intellect, they have more imagination, more lively feelings, and a more expressive manner. In this they resemble the Southern nations of Europe. Their joy and grief are not pent up in the heart, but find instant expression in then eyes and voices. With their imagination, they clothe in rude poetry the incidents of their lowly life, and set them to simple melodies. Thus they sing their humble loves in strains full of tenderness. We at the north hear these song only as burlesqued by our negro minstrels, with faces blackened with charcoal. Yet even thus, all feel that they have a rare sweetness and melody.
Mingled with these love songs are many plaintive airs, which seem to have caught a tone of sadness and pathos from the hardships and frequent separations of their slave life. They are the songs of their captivity, and are sung with a touching effect. No song of a concert-room ever thrilled us like one of these simple African airs, heard afar off, in the stillness of a summer night. Sailing down the Mississippi, the voyager on the deck of the steamer may often hear these strains, wild, sad, and tender floating from the shore.
But it is in religion that the African pours out his whole voice and soul. A child in intellect, he is a child in faith. All the revelations of the Bible have to him a startling vividness, and he will sing of the Judgment and the Resurrection with a terror or a triumph which cannot be concealed. I religion he finds, also, an element of freedom which he does not find in his hard life; and in these wild bursts of melody, he seems to give utterance to that exultant liberty of soul which no chain can bind, and no oppression sundae. As hundreds assemble at a camp-meeting in the woods, and join in the chorus of such a hymn as
When I can read my title clear
To mansions in the skies, 
the unimpassioned hearer is almost lifted from his feet by the volume and majesty of the sound. No voices of well-trained choir in church or cathedral no pealing organ nor mighty anthem, ever moved us like these voices of a multitude going up to God under the open canopy of heaven. <illegible> power of music! that <illegible> raise the poor and despised above their <illegible> and poverty. It is a beautiful gift of God to this oppressed <illegible>, to <illegible> their sorrows in the house of their bondage.
Might not our countrymen all <illegible> a lesson from these simple children of <illegible>. We are a silent and reserved people. <illegible> think us taciturn and gloomy. <illegible> are, compared with the European nations. The Germans sing along the banks of the <illegible>; the Swiss shepherd sings on the highest passed or the Alps, and the peasant of the Tyrol fills his valleys with stains wild as the peaks and the torrents around him. But Americans, though surrounded with everything to make a people happy, do not show outward signs of uncommon cheerfulness and content. We are an anxious,
<c05>
care-worn race. Our brows are sad and gloomy. Songless and joyless, the laborer goes to his task, This dumb silence is ungrateful in these who have such cause for thankfulness. Americans are the most favored people on earth, and yet they are the east expressive in their joy; so that we almost deserve the severe comment of a foreigner, who, on seeing the great outward prosperity, and yet the anxious look of the people, said that in America there was less misery, and less happiness, than in any other country on the earth.’
Let us not be ashamed to learn the art of happiness from the poor bondmen of the South. If staves can pour out their hearts to melody, how ought freemen to sing! If that love of music which is inborn in them, could be inbred in as, it would do much to lighten the anxiety and care which brood on every face, and weigh on every heart. The spirit of music would beguile the toilsome hours, and make us cheerful and happy in our labor.
‘Nor would this light and joyous heart make us too gay, and so lead to folly and frivolity. On the contrary, it would prove a friend to virtue and purity. The sour and morose spirit, when it recoils from its oppressive gloom, is apt to plunge into the worst excesses. The absence of a cheerful buoyancy is one of the causes which drive men into vice and sin. If every family sung together at early morn, that lingering melody would render their spirits more light and elastic. With his children’s voices in his ear, the hard-working man would go more cheerfully to his labor, and these melodies would make his spirit sunny and joyous through the day.
If common domestic joys, home, health, and fireside love, can thus fill the heart with happiness, and cause it to break forth into singing, surely, when that heart is bounding with immortal hope, it may rise to the highest strains of exultation and of ecstasy.
Let these refuse to sing
Who never knew our God,
But children of the Heavenly King
May speak their joys abroad.

EXTRAORDINARY DISEASE AND DEATH OF A HANDSOME MULATTO SLAVE.
Mary Fall, a young mulatto woman residing on Culvert street, near Seventh, died recently under singular circumstances, and from a disease that has not yet become familiar to medical science.
During the early part of July, she was afflicted with soreness in the eyes and a violent pain in the temples, which Continued to increase until she was often maddened, and would lose her senses by its excess. Her optics grew greatly inflamed, and her face and head began to swell visibly, her pain often diminishing in proportion to the swelling, the ugh she complained of fierce throbs, shooting through her brain, that appeared like her recollection of shocks from a Leyden-jar which she had taken at the Sycamore-street Museum. 
Every few days the swelling would slightly subside, but her head had obtained twice its natural size, and sometimes even became a third greater than that. At times she could not see at all, nor hear, nor experience any sensation through her senses, and would sink into a state of lethargy, in which she would remain for twenty or thirty hours. When recovered from this, she would be so weak and prostrate that the only difference between her then condition and that preceding it was in the possession of her faculties.
Mary remained thus for several weeks, fluctuating between unconsciousness and prostration and violent pain; and at last it was evident she could not live more than a few days, her nervous system being totally destroyed. As her end drew near, the pains in her head extended below, affecting her heart, back and breast, and frequently throwing her, by their severity, into convulsions, succeeded by the old stupor, a temporary death, in which she would lie motionless and pulseless for hours.
On a certain Monday morning, she had more than usual strength, but said she felt she should not live I until the following day; that she knew she would die between the hours of eleven and twelve o'clock. Her mother, who was much attached to her and only relative, endeavored to comfort her, as she had done from the beginning, and by assuring her that she would soon recover from her peculiar malady. Mary shook her head, and said her opinion was a firm conviction, and that she could even see herself dying at midnight.
The day passed, and the night came on. Mary was in much better spirits and stronger than usual until eleven o'clock, when she remarked to her mother, watching by her side:- I am sinking; I feel it here, placing her hand upon her heart; but I am quite happy at the thought, for you know I have suffered terribly. It will soon be over-and I do not think I shall have much more pain. She remained quiet, talking with her parent in an undertone while the minutes passed, and the hand of the clock, opposite the bed, had nearly reached the figure of twelve.
‘There, said her mother, hopefully, painting to the dial- there, the boar has passed-you will not die.
Yes, mother, I shall, was the low-toned reply, and you will see it.
The third stroke of twelve, Mary shuddered; she lifted her head a little, but it sank back; a tremor ran through her frame; a pallor flashed with an unearthly whiteness over her neck and face; her features grew rigid-she was dead. 
Mary was about nineteen, and formerly lived in Louisiana with her mother, at that time a slave on the sugar plantation of a wealthy gentleman near Baton Rouge. She was very good looking, and had been carefully educated by her master, who was generally believed, and with truth, no doubt, to be her father. He had liberated her mother about five years before, the girls death, who, after residing in Massachusetts some time, removed here in the autumn of 1857.-Cincinnati Inquirer, 6th.
THE TORTURE IN MISSOURI.
Our Southern brethren not only preserve the good old custom of burning people alive, but the torture, that ingenious method of examining witnesses, and arriving at the truth, is retained among then. In the experience of Dr. Doy, recently rescued from the St. Joseph jail, is the following incident, related to a correspondent of the New York Tribune-
‘A negro had been caught somewhere, and was brought to jail. Negroes are confined in the lower part, and communication could be had through a hole for a stove pipe. Through this, Dr. Doy learned from the captive that he was a free man, at and had been born in the State of Illinois. He had-has-80 acres of land, with some improvements, near Aurora, Illinois. He had come to Kansas to look at it, expecting to locate there, and on his return was seized by the Missouri thieves, and hurried to the county jail. The day after his arrival, he was taken out. stripped, and tied to a post. The iron whip, with its sharp knife edges and dagger points, was produced. The Sheriff, ox his deputy, and other legal parties were present. The unfortunate negro was asked when his master lived, and
<c06>
what his masters name was, and when he ran away, In vain did the poor fallow tell his story. It was received with oaths and abuse, and be was told, "That kind of style would not do," while the instrument of torture wait applied ferociously to his naked back. Blood started from the wounds, and the victim writhed and shrieked in his agony. At last there was a cessation, and the question:
"Well, tell us who’s your master, and when you an away."
"I told you I never bad a master. I was born in Illinois. I am free."
"Oh, d-n you! we have heard such stories as that before. Give it to him. Ton, till he confesses."
Again the horrid seen was renewed. It was in the jail court-in the precincts of justice,-and the prisoners through the grates could witness it. In agony, the writhing victim cried for them to tell him what they wanted.
The questions were repeated, bat the immediate horrors being respited a little, the trembling, bleeding victim hesitated to repeat words that would consign him to a fate even more horrible than death. Again a torrent of profanity was poured on him. He had fallen down, as the cords had been somewhat loosened.
"Put him up! put him up! well bring him to yet; and the poor, crushed victim was made to writhe under the horrid torture. At last, almost too faint to shriek, bleeding and weak, the execution was once more stopped, and questions asked.
"Who’s your master?"
"Oh, anybody you like."
"Well, was it Mr. Brown?"
"Yes, yes."
"Of Culpeper County, Virginia?"
"Well, just as you like; I don’t know any counties in Virginia; I never was there."
"What!"
"Yes, yes," cried the trembling victim," that was the county-Virginia."
"And it is rather more than six months since you ran away from him?
"Yes, yes-oh, yes," and the shrinking man, without a hope in all the world of despotism around him, let his bead fall forward on his breast, and his agony broke in tears and sobs.
"You have got all that noted down?" said one of the officiating villains to the sheriff.
"Yes: all right."
The victim was unfastened, and led away. It was nearly two weeks before his wounds were well enough for him to travel, and then be was taken away. WHERE? 
THE DEMOCRACY AND THE 'NIGGER.'
The Democracy pretend to have a great horror and disgust of the negro. He seems constantly present to their distempered visions as a black angel of death. He forms the only stock in trade of their politicians, big and little. But we further observe this, that so long as the negro is to be a slave, they haven’t the slightest objection in the world to him. On the contrary, they take him into their families. He cooks the victuals, nurses the children, drives the carriages, and is a constant attendant upon their persons. They then find no fault with him. His color is good, his odor is good. They have no objection to his living with white folks then. Then you cant have too many of them in the State, and they will labor, as our Kansas Democrats have been doing for the last five years, to get the State full of them. They will go so far as to clamor for the piratical slave-trade, that the whole country may be overrun with cheap niggers. But once you have given the poor colored man his freedom, once you have taken him from the category of cattle and sheep and hogs and marketable things, and placed him upon Gods platform of men, and straightway Democracy looks through altogether different eyes, and smells through different nostrils. He is now nothing but a free nigger-be now looks bad, smells bad, is bad. Now nothing must be done but to persecute him. Kick him, cuff him, hunt him down, banish him. He is free now! Is it, really, after all, the negro that Democrats so much hate, or the freedom of the negro? Is it the nigger that smells so bad, or only his freedom?
The proposal to banish free colored people from the State is a very wicked and inhuman one. The Border-Ruffians did not even go as far as that. It is only the most besotted among the slave States, like Arkansas, where every third man is an ignorant savage, that have done it. For five yearn Kansas has been open to free colored people, and yet they have not overrun us or troubled as. They will not for a the us and years to come.
Such banishing laws are a dead letter, any way. It is only the most brutal and degraded among us who will enforce them,-men who would sell their own souls to the devil for a dime, and cheat him at that. They are a species of the most marked and obnoxious special legislation, and have no place! whatever in the Constitution. We trust no Republican will so far demean himself as to give the slightest countenance to these paltry electioneering dodges of the Democrats. Let them have the sole honor of lugging the nigger in, and logging him out again.-Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.
NO COOMPLEXIONAL DISTINCTION.
Before it gets out of date, (says the Canada Colonist,) we would mention a circumstance referred to is a report of the Synod of the Diocese of Huron, to the effect that two of the clergymen present at a public breakfast when colored, and that there was no distinction made in the treatment shown to them and others by their brethren. We have not seen it stated whether they belong to Canada, or were visitors from abroad. It is to be presumed that they are Episcopal clergyman, and therefore that they had received orders from a Bishop of the white race. The occurrence is the more remarkable as having taken place in London, and among clergy of the West, where prejudice against the African tinge is much more rife than in other parts of Canada. Honor, then, to the Bishop and Clergy of Huron, who thus expressed the feeling that would display itself upon any suitable occasion that might offer in the other Diocesses of British America or England! Presuming, as we do, that these clergymen are duly qualified in learning and religions character, we exult in their honorable position among the energy of the Church of England, African clergymen have rendered the highest service, and occupied the most influential positions in Christendom-as witness Cypriot of Cartage and Origin of Alexandria.- Wherever else class alienation's are allowed, there should be no place given to them in the Church, where there cannot properly be Greek or Jew, Barbarian or Scything, bond or free. America is singular in having the three races-the white, the black, and the red-on one soil; and it them calories lead in the amelioration of reciprocal regards between these divisions of the one great human family, it will be a distinction for which pride may justly be constrained. The conquest of prejudice will never be made under a system of separation; and all who wish well to the colored races will do well to discourage segregation, and both falcate and urge their intercourse with the whites, as fast an education can render them fit for it.-Colonist.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The united States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
The free States are the guardians and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are wither excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, it experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending."-WILLAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the New Bedford Republican Standard
RUFUS CHOATE.
The death of this distinguished individual has been followed by a aeries of almost indiscriminate eulogies from all ports of the country, holding him up as a model of the lawyer, the statesman, and the man. So far as Mr. Choate's private and domestic relations are concerned, these eulogies may all well be deserved. At any rate, it is a matter with which the public have no concern. But his public life is a fit matter for criticism, as well after as before his decease. And criticism of this kind is especially necessary when false notions of morality and low ideals of life are held up for admiration and imitation. The evil that men do lives after them, and the bad influence of men who hold prominent positions in a community is perhaps more injurious after their death than during their life. Of the dead, nothing but good,' is a commonly received but false maxim. Let us speak the truth of men at all times, and not allow any superstitious feelings to bias our judgment of them. Men are to be criticised not by their learning, their abilities, or their success in life, but by the use they have made of their talents and opportunities, and by the tendency of their example.
Mr. Choate possessed in an eminent degree the special faculties necessary for success in his chosen profession. His intellect was characterised by acuteness rather than breadth or profundity. He was intimately acquainted with all the meshes of the law, and no man knew better than he how by subtle distinctions to evade the provisions of a statute, or to turn the strong position of an adverse discussion. He was a master of the art of cross-examination-an admirable instrument, but as often employed to confound the simple but well-meaning witnesses, to brow-beat and to insult, and to put a false covering or the truth as to bring it out in its simplicity. He had cultivated his powers of speech to the highest degree. He had a brilliant, flashy and meretricious style, abounding in long, involved, and parenthetical sentences, and well calculated to dazzle and bewilder the plain men who sat on the jury bench before him. Those powers and this culture were for sale to any one who would buy them-although we do not mean to assert that Mr. Choate was without generosity in the bestowal of his professional ability, and that he did not often render services without remuneration-and they were used indiscriminately in behalf of a good cause and a bad one. Mr. Choate carried out to its fullest extent the famous but most immoral doctrine of Lord Brougham, that an advocate is justified in resorting to every means to procure the success of his client. His life as a lawyer was spent in confounding the distinctions between right and wrong, in bewildering the conceptions of juries by brilliancy of rhetoric, dazzling corruscations of speech in support of what he knew to be sophistry and not <illegible> be law, leaving them very much in the condition of a drunken man, and almost utterly incapable of calmly weighing the cane before them, and of deciding it upon its true merits. The celebrated Tyrrel case, in which he succeeded, upon an absurd hypothesis, in procuring the acquittal of a man doubtless guilty of murder and arson, was a signal instance of both his ability and his unscrupulousness. We have heard that he was not a favorite with the judges. We do not think such a career one which should be held up for imitation to the young men of America.
Mr. Choate achieved far less as a politician than as a lawyer. He exercised no influence over the politics of the country. His career in the Senate of the United States was a failure. He displayed no remarkable powers of statesmanship, He had no sympathy with the progressive movements of the age, but clung tenaciously to ideas which the world is fast outgrowing, and which are among the things of the past. When the Whig party expired, he threw himself into the arms of the Democratic, and wrote in its behalf. But his efforts were not attended with much success. He inculcated a sentimental doctrine which he called patriotism, but which was nothing more than a blind submission on the part of the many to the direction of the few, submitting implicitly to their guidance; the same means by which monarchical institutions and state religions have been so long upheld, and unworthy of a free and intelligent people.
He especially endeavored to impress the people with a reverence for the Judiciary, seeking to transfer to it those feelings with which the throne and the established church are regarded in England. He seemed to consider the judicial branch as to be regarded with sacred awe, above the reach of criticism or reproof. In this, too, he seems to us to have been in the wrong. For we regard our Judges as equally the servants of the people, their conduct as much open to public scrutiny and animadversion, as any other civil officers. The Judiciary should be independent of all personal and party considerations, but they never should be out of reach of the people, nor should means ever be wanting to the Constitution by which, when they have shown themselves unworthy of their station, or have overstepped the line of their appropriate duties, they may be brought to account.
The Union was the frequent topic of Mr. Choate eloquence. He perhaps felt all that he said on this topic. He delighted in picturing its glories, and trembled at the dangers to which he thought it exposed. But the real dangers seem not to have occurred to him. He had no word of warning against the encroachments on the Constitution, against the perversion of the law, against doctrines subversive of all that our fathers held dear, against the infamous fugitive slave law, against the wicked institution of slavery itself. He held the Declaration of Independence to be a tissue of 'glittering generalities,' (an expression which his admirers have since been anxious to explain away;) reform was with him another name for cant; one of his latest public efforts was a defence of quietism in the pulpit on public topics, and a reproof of those who desired to see the doctrines of religion applied to the practical affairs of life. 
Looking at Mr. Choate's public career in this light, we cannot think it a model for imitation. We see nothing in him to entitle him to be called great. His was not
One of the few, the immortal names
That were not born to die.'
He left behind him no durable work. He made no impress upon his age. He did not help forward the car of human progress a line. He lived in the past, net for the future. His professional course was a brilliant but a fatal example. His memory will not outlive his personal attachments, nor is he, in our opinion, a worthy model for those who shall come after him.

From the Maine Evangelist.
Mr. Choate is known more for his legal abilities than for his success as a statesman and politician. Although he made several able speeches while in Congress, yet it is not to be denied that, on the whole, considering his acknowledged ability, his political life was a failure. It was in the Courts of Justice that he shone conspicuously, towering far above all compeers-the first lawyer in America, if not in the world. No matter where was the forum-whether in the presence of the Judges of the highest court, or of a commissioner in his private rooms, whether before a jury of twelve men and a large audience, or before a referee in private Mr. Choate always scattered the most brilliant gems of rhetoric and logic. He would weave around the driest points of law and the most uninteresting canes, such a network of illustration and argument as to chain the attention and carry captive the judgment of the court and jury. A distinguished College professor, who had been accustomed to hear many of our most distinguished advocates, once remarked to us, that the ablest forensic argument to which he had ever listened was one by Mr. Choate, where the point in controversy was whether or not the cogs of a mill<illegible> were made as they should have been.
We have said that Mr. Choate was a lawyer, with little taste for public affairs. He seems to have carried the bad intellectual habits of the bar into his theory of statesmanship, and to have looked upon its duties from title stand-point which these habits had formed. How much do we find in his public speeches of that bad habit of the profession, the worst' idol of the cave,' a morbid unreasoning, and regretful passion for the past, that bends and weeps over the stream, running irreversibly, because it will not return, and will not pause, and gives back to vanity every hour a changed and leas beautiful face! A wise conservatism, such as Lord Bacon held, 'that antiquity deservth this reverence, that men should make a stand thereupon, and discover what is the best way, but when the discovery is well taken, then to make progression, is most commendable; but that conversation which would keep the Union as a relic, a memorial, a tra-
<c02>
dition, for what it has done, and not what it is now or hereafter to do-comes from a morbid imagination, and produces diseased speculations. Such was the conversation of Choate, and such were the fruits it bore. In public life, in discouraging on affairs of State, that 'worst idol of the cave' led his judgment captive; but in the courts of law, to whose glad some light he loved to return-putting on again the robes of that profession which himself tells us is ancient as magistracy, noble as virtue, and necessary as justice-he broke the fetters which had bound him, and stood forth undeniably the first orator and the first lawyer in America.

From the New York Express.
The style of oratory of which Mr. Choate was ever guilty, was one of the very worst specimens of a very bad school. Sparkling, creative, brilliant, dazzling, it needed often the essential element of sense, and hence had very little weight in public life. Affected, unnatural, strained, it could not be comprehended without study, and everybody would not take the trouble to study it. Webster could and would say more in five minutes than Choate would say in five hours. Nevertheless, it was a style of oratory that charmed, and especially charmed the young mind.
One of the most ludicrous spectacles we ever beheld in life was Mr. Choate at the Baltimore Convention, which nominated Gen. Scott. Mr. Choate was there as the great Webster champion, and Massachusetts was sure, if Choate could only get a hearing, Webster would certainly receive the nomination. Choate, therefore, was shut up in a room to prepare his Webster batteries for attack and defence and a Massachusetts sentinel was put over his door. Circumstances made it necessary that he should have some talk with us, and we with him, and hence we were sent for we found Mr. Choate in all the agonies and contortions of a Pythian deity. He was coruscating and vibrating, his eye in fine frenzy rolling, every muscle and feature in his passion swollen! One could not help roaring with laughter to see the orator thus, when only an arithmetical was wanting to ward off the forthcoming nomination of Gen. Scott. Words then were worth no more than winds. The figures were then indispensable, not the fancies. He made the speech-a bright, brilliant one, very-but the nomination was making while he was word-spinning.
We had this brilliant genius once in our printing office, the occasion being a lecture he had to deliver before the New England Society here. His penmanship was accursed, and his hieroglyphics, to the uninitiated, worse than those of the Pyramids or the Theban ruins. To print from his manuscript was impossible, and to copy from it equally impossible. The great orator, then, whose lecture was to be unpremeditated, extempore, was compelled to come to the office, and speak it all over to a reporter. To the whole scene he gave a thrilling interest by his emphasis, his intonation and his gesture, and the way he worked up a very common lecture into an extempore oration, that astonished the Puritans here, was one of the best lessons we ever saw or head of in oratory.

MR. CHOATE'S COURSE.
Mr. George S. Hillard is at present in England. In a letter to the Boston Courier, he refers to 'Mr. Choate's course' on the slavery question as follows, as though it were something to be proud of!!-
Mr. Choate's course at the last Presidential election was a heavy and great discouragement 'to the Republican party,' and very hard things were said of him in consequence; but no man has ever acted from more conscientious motives than he. He had much to lose, and nothing to gain. No man's nature was more opposed to slavery than his; no man could have handled anti-slavery themes with more force and beauty than he. But his love of the Union, and his sense of nationality, were the dominant and controlling ideas in his mind; they called forth his most fervid eloquence; they were the convictions that struck their roots deepest into his mind; and under their inspiration, he spoke and acted as he did. It is certainly a stubborn fact for the Republicans, that among the dead-for we will deal only with them-the wisest and most far seeing men in New England have been opposed to the anti-slavery agitation: I mean Judge Prescott, Mr. Mason, Mr. Webster, and Mr. Choate. It was a striking proof of Judge Prescott's sagacity-than whom New England never gave birth to a wiser or better man-that when the first anti-slavery resolutions were passed by the Massachusetts Legislature, he expressed his regret, and said it was the beginning of mischief. This fact could be met only in two ways: either that these men, whose judgment would have been deemed of the highest value, if not absolutely conclusive on any other point, were mistaken in this; or that, from some base and unworthy motive, they suppressed their real convictions, and expressed those which they did not believe to be true. Against Mr. Mason and Judge Prescott such charges would have been simply ludicrous; how cruelly and persistently they were made against Mr. Webster and Mr. Choate is well know. They are now gone where cruel indignation can no longer lacerate their hearts; and posterity will do justice alike to their conduct and their motives.

PARKER AND PHILLIPS
A New York correspondent of the Taunton Gazette referring to a recent letter of Rev. Dr. Bellows, of New York, says:-
There is a passage or two of the letter of Mr. Bellows that I have read, and find, to my surprise, that for once he has not waited till the next day to be inconsistent with himself. He forgets Theodore Parker's virtues, to find fault with his theology, and forgets Horace Mann's theology, to praise his virtues. Why the two men, if referred to at all, should not be praised alike or blamed alike, seeing that praise or blame belong to both for similar qualities, passeth my dull comprehension; unless, indeed, we come to the reluctant conclusion that this apostle of the new Evangel is like unto other men, and while advocating the need of a higher spiritualism in the church, presents himself as a notable instance of how much her ministers need even the spirit of common fairness and of Christian charity. Broad, it strikes me, is not the most fitting adjective to describe a Church, whose First Epistle to its disciples is imbued with so large a share of the odium theologicum.
Again-referring to the letter written by Gov. Wise of Virginia to Barney Donnelly of New York, the same writer says:-
People talk of the letter of your compatriot Wendell Phillips, to Judge Shaw and President Walker. Commend me, if God in his inscrutable Providence should visit me with such an affliction as greatness, to letter-writers of the Phillips sort, rather than of the Donnelly. Some one once said to a well-known merchant in Boston, 'Do you know that everybody says you are a d--d rascal?' Ah! said the merchant, 'but does anybody say that I am a d--d fool?' Explain it by what moral law you will, I believe that in their secret hearts, everybody would rather be considered the rascal even with the adjective, than the fool without it. If law really is of any sort of moment, and obedience in any sense a duty, then Phillips's letter was not an uncalled for epistle. And I doubt if either your Chief Justice, or the President of your college, good men as they are, would not rather know that everybody in the State approved of the anathema which the terrible reformer has hurled at them, than be the victim of a Donnelly tickling.

THE BOSTON POST.
The Boston Post is so far gone it its championship of slavery, that it actually interferes against freedom in a slave State. In Missouri, there is an 'Emancipation Party,' led by F. P. Blair, Jr., and other old Democrats, who take the ground that slavery is a curse to the State, dishonoring and thwarting free labor, obstructing internal improvements, and making impossible a very high degree of general intelligence and prosperity. The Boston Post regards this Emancipation party with an evil, eye, and would gladly see it confounded and crushed out. That paper never tires of ridiculing, misrepresenting, and denouncing Mr. Blair. That gentleman recently delivered at St. Joseph a very sensible and successful speech in favor of emancipation; and, day after day, has the Post assailed him on account of this speech, misrepresenting what he said, calling him a 'patent politician,' and taking the ground of uncompromising hostility to him, and all who agree with him.
And yet, when the plain, unvarnished truth is spoken of the Post and its championship of slavery, that paper has the assurance to say: 'It is totally false; the author of it knew he lied when he wrote it.'-Worcester Spy.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNIONWITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON. SEPTEMBER 9, 1859.

CIRCULATE THE PETITIONS.
The following forms of Petitions-the first having exclusive reference to Massachusetts, the second to Congressional action-have been sent to many tried friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in various parts of the Commonwealth, for the purpose of a speedy and through canvassing for signatures in every town and village, without distinction of sex. Let the work be thoroughly done, and WITH A WILL. Who that claims to love God and his fellow-man will refuse to put his signature to either of these petitions?
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING, in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person who has been held as a Slave shall be delivered up, by an officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one the slave States of this Union.
To the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled:-
The undersigned, citizens of State of earnestly petition your Body to repeal the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850; to abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia and in the United States Territories; to prohibit the Inter-State Slave trade; and to pass a resolution, pledging Congress against the admission of any Slave State into the Union, the acquisition of any Slave Territory, and the acquisition of any Slave Territory, and the employment of any Slaves by any Agent, Contractor, Officer, or Department of the Federal Government.

THE STATUE MUST BE REMOVED.
THE WEBSTER STATUE, in front of the State house, will be inaugurated on the afternoon of the 17th of September. Rev. Dr. Lothrop will offer the prayer, Prof. Felton will deliver the statue into the hands of Mayor Lincoln, representing the city, and His Honor will immediately place it in the custody of the State, Gov. Banks receiving it. Brief addresses will be delivered, and Mr. Everett will then pronounce his oration on Webster.
So reads the announcement in the daily papers. Many centuries ago, a certain 'herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people, nations, and languages, that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of music, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up.' The object in the erection of the Webster statue is essentially the same as Nebuchadnezzar had in view in the erection of his image-namely, contempt for 'the higher law,' repudiation of the one living and true God, and the triumph of despotic power; but there are some features in these two cases which are dissimilar. Webster's images is of iron; that of Nebuchadnezzar was of gold. Those who refused to bow down and worship the latter, were to be cast into a burning fiery furnace; those who shall refuse to do homage to the former are not to be subjected to any legal penalties. But the reason which led to the rejection of the one, are quite as imperative in demanding the condemnation and removal of the other.
The grant of a portion of the State House grounds for the erection of this statue, by the last Legislature, was an outrageous abuse of trust, and an insult to the moral and humane feelings of the people of this Commonwealth. It was adroitly obtained at the heel of the session, without debate, in a thin House, through Boston pro-slavery management and the connivance of Gov. Banks, who, since his elevation to the Chair of State, has evidently sought to conciliate the 'cotton accuracy,' and to adulterate the little Republicanism he ever possessed, hoping thereby to promote his elevation to a still higher position. There is no reason to doubt that is was his private influence that prevented the passage of a law at the last Legislature, forbidding the arrest or trial of any one claimed as a fugitive slave within the limits of Massachusetts. It is true, he has performed one praiseworthy act, in the removal of Edward Greeley Lording as Judge of Probate; but the popular feeling was too strong, in that particular, to be safely contemned.
The people of Massachusetts would, if permitted to register their votes on the question, reject by an overwhelming majority the proposition to erect this Webster statue in the place assigned to it. The last years of his life were so tarnished and disgraced by his sub serviency to the Southern slaveocracy, his recreancy to the rights and interests of the North, and particularly his shameless defence of the unutterably atrocious Fugitive Slave Bill, that, great as had been their admiration of his transcendant ability and public labors, their cheeks flushed with indignation and their lips uttered the strongest language of condemnation, mingling pity and astonishment in view of his downward course:-
'Blot out his name, then-record one lost soul more,
One task more declined, one more footpath untried,
One more triumph for devils, and sorrow for angels,
One wrong more to man, one more insult to God!'
What has his death cancelled or changed? Nothing. 'The evil that men do lives after them. And who has done more-who, by his high official position and magnetic hold upon the popular feeling of new England has done so much-to pervert the patriotism and debauch the moral sentiment of all classes as himself? Happily, with all his weight of brain and potency of speech, he was baffled in his infamous designs. He called upon the people to 'conquer their prejudices'-meaning thereby to stifle their conscientious scruples and their humane feelings, and join 'with alacrity' in hunting the flying fugitives, from Plymouth Rock to Faneuil Hall, frm Faneuil Hall to Bunker Hill, from Bunker Hill to Lexington and Concord, from the sands to Cape Cod to the hills of Bershire; but he called in vain, and went down to the grave broken-hearted!
Every effort will be put forth, no doubt, by the partisans of Mr. Webster, to make as imposing a celebration on the 17th as possible. There will probably be no lack of foolish, thoughtless, vain, unstable, and unprincipled persons to participate in it. What share the Republicans will take in it remains to be seen; but we anticipate some striking displays of self-stultification and moral obliquity on the part of some who are conspicuous in the ranks of the party.
Of course, Edward Everett is to be the orator and eulogist for the occasion. Nothing could be more appropriate. Webster went for the Fugitive Slave Bill, and did his best (which was his worst) to cram it down the throat of Massachusetts men and women. Everett is ready, at any moment, to put on his knapsack, shoulder his musket, and march to the South, to reduce insurgent slaves to the bloody rule of their masters, or put them to death for imitating the example of the men of 76! By all means, let him be the orator when that grim image and 'hideous mass of iron' is elevated on its pedestal.
In spite of the grant that has been made by the Legislature-in spite of the display that will be made in carrying that grant into execution-THE WEBSTER STATUE MUST BE REMOVED. This must be the special business of the next Legislature, coupled with the act of making Massachusetts free to every hunted slave who seeks an asylum upon her soil, <illegible> in order to effect this, let the people send in their petitions, and especially <illegible> to it that no Senator or Representative in elected who is not ready to discharge this duty.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY. G. C. Merriam, Springfield, Mass., have just published a new edition of WEBSTER'S AMERICAN DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE; containing the whole vocabulary of the first edition in two volumes quarto; the entire corrections and improvements of the second edition in two volumes royal octavo; to which is prefixed and introductory dissertation on the origin, history and connection of the languages of Western Asia and Europe, with an explanation of the principles on which languages are formed. Revised and enlarged by CHAUCKY A. GOODRICH, Professor in Yale College. With pronouncing vocabularies of scripture, classical and geographical names. To which are now added FIFTEEN HUNDRED PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS, table of synonyms, (comprising more than two thousand,) peculiar use of words and terms in the Bible, appendix of new words, pronouncing table of names of eight thousand distinguished persons, abbreviations, Latin French, Italian, and Spanish phrases, &c. The whole making a volume of 1750 pages, in small type, quarto form.
Of this stupendous work of profound learning, indefatigable research, patient toil, and noble enterprise, it is impossible to find words to speak, even among the hundred thousand here grouped together. The testimonials to its surpassing excellence, on both sides of the Atlantic, by those most competent to give a true judgment, are multitudinous and conclusive. Lord Brougham says-'The book is full of learning,-necessity to every educated man.' The late venerated Thomas Dick, of Scotland, says-'It is the most complete Dictionary of the English language that has ever been published, and ages will elapse before any other Dictionary of that language will be required.' Chancellor Kent says-'This Dictionary, and the language which it embodies, will perish; but it will not be with the gorgeous palaces. It will go with the solemn temples, and the great globe itself.' Bancroft, Irving, Prescott, speak of it in strong terms of panegyric. The New York Tribune styles it 'emphatically the Dictionary of our language.'
For some time past, there has been a warm partisan controversy going on as to the comparative merits of Webster's and Worcester's Dictionaries, and a strong competitive rivalry between the publishers of these works, in regard to their sale and general adoption. It is not our province to attempt to settle an issue like this. This result of it, however, will be to bring the English language as near perfection as possible. The judgment of the learned world, as well as the popular mind of the country, is, we believe, with Webster's though highly appreciating, and in some respects preferring, Worcester's. The last number of the American Phrenological Journal, in noticing the present edition, says-
'For twelve years past, Webster's Quarto Unabridged Dictionary has been the book of the age. During this time, it has been in use through out this country, and also in Europe, and so valuable is it esteemed by scholars, and all who have use for and know how to value a Dictionary, that it has become an indispensable requisite and standard. When a dispute arises, the question always is-'what does Webster say?' and from his decision is seldom any appeal.
The new edition, with all these valuable additions, costs but half a dollar more than the old. We are at a loss how so much additional matter, with beautiful engravings, can be furnished for even twice the extra sum charged. The old edition was the best Dictionary the world had ever seen; the additions to it make it superlative.
Noah Webster has a prouder monument, and one more lasting, than those made of marble crumbling over the dust of heroes. Forty years ago, "Webster's Spelling Book"-we remember it well-was our only literacy treasure; and our latest purchase, in the book line, is WEBSTER'S PICTORIAL UNJABRIDGED DICTIONARY. We like the book, and it is not among the least sources of self-congratulation that we do. No young man, especially if he be poor, and his education limited, can put six and a half dollars to better use than by securing for himself a perpetual partnership with this great work.'
how admirable is the unaffected modesty displayed by Mr. Webster in the concluding paragraph of his original Preface-viz.:-
'To that great and benevolent Being, who, during the preparation of this work, has sustained a feeble constitution, amidst obstacles and toils, disappointments and infirmities, and depression, who has borne me and my manuscripts safely across the Atlantic, and given me strength and resolution to bring the work to a close, I would present the tribute of my most grateful acknowledgements. And if the talent which he instructed to my care has not been put to the most profitable use in his service, I hope it has not been 'kept laid up in a napkin," and that any misapplication of it may be graciously forgiven.'
FORTY YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS OF PILLS AMD POWDERS; or, the Cogitations and Confessions of an Aged Physician. Boston: John P. Jewett & Co. 1859.
This is a posthumous work by the late Dr. William A. Alcott, and one of the last upon which he was engaged, the facts contained therein having been gathered from the experience and observation of a long life. It is an autobiography of one who has done much by his writings to promote the physical health and moral elevation of all classes in society, who was imbued with the spirit of a broad philanthropy, whose struggles and victories over his own impaired constitutional organization were remarkable, and who lived emphatically to do good, and be useful to all in his day and generation. Whatever he did was conscientiously done, and with a resolution unsurpassed by any hero on the battle-field. Of a naturally amiable character, and more than usually cautious in all his undertakings, it must have been a severe struggle with him sell to take a course, which he knew would subject him to the charge of fanaticism, or a: least of a weak eccentricity, and excite 'the world's dread laugh,' if not its violent denunciation. There has been many a reformer more bold and aggressive than himself, but none more sincere, decided or persevering, ' after his own method, and according to his own convictions of duty. It is pleasant to look upon his engraved countenance, which accompanies this treatise, and which is so true in its expression and delineation.
Dr. Alcott has divided his work into a hundred chapters, each illustrating some of his peculiar opinions, or narrating some entertaining or instructive incidents. His characteristic ingenuousness is displayed throughout, and he makes a number of confessions personal to himself during his medical career. No one can spend an hour more pleasantly, hardly more profitably, than by reading his adventures and experiences. If what he has recorded shall be the means of reducing, to any extent, the popular credulity in regard to 'the saving effects of 'pills and powders,' however administered, and leading to more reliance upon the recuperative and healing powers of nature, a beneficent work will be accomplished. His own case was so unique, that it ought not to determine the precise course to be followed by others; yet it holds out strong encouragement to the greatly debilitated to 'throw physic to the dogs,' and to find in diet, exercise, air, and a determined will, the true cure for 'the ills that flesh is heir to.'
Medical science is yet a mystery and a chameleon. Thomas Jefferson, in a letter to Dr. Casper Wisteria, of Philadelphia, thus writes:-' I have lived to see the disciples of Hoffman, Boer have, Stall, Cullen and Brown succeed each other, like the shifting figures of a magic lantern. And 'the cry is still, they come!' The line will probably 'stretch oat till the crack of doom;' for, however much the medical faculty may be caricatured, reprobated, and in health theoretically discarded, their aid in any serious emergency is seldom rejected, and almost universally sought.
When Voltaire was told that a friend of his was studying to become a physician, he exclaimed, 'Why will he be so mad? He will have to thrust drags, of which lie knows little, into a body, of which lie knows
<c05>
less.' But this sarcasm, by one not identified with the medical profession, is not comparable in potency to the grave confessions of those who compose it. More than half a century ago, the eminent Dr. Rush said, Dissections daily convince us of our ignorance of disease, and cause as to blush at our prescriptions, What mischief have we done under the belief of false facts and theories! We have assisted in multiplying decease; we have done more-we have increased their mortality. The art of healing is like an unroofed temple, uncovered at the top, and cracked at the foundation.' Dr. Goode, a learned and voluminous British writer, says, 'The science of medicine is a barbarous jargon; and the effects of our medicines upon the human system are in the highest degree uncertain, except, indeed, that they have already destroyed more lives than war, pestilence and famine combined.' This is a frightful admission. Dr. Alcott makes the inquiry, 'Is there not reason for believing that the truly wise men of the medical profession, at the present, time, are beginning to see, in certain facts which in the providence of God are forced upon them, that in he general management of disease, and as the general rule of treatment, no drugs or medicines are needful' Again he says:-
'It is a notorious fact, that while the number of physicians and the expenditure for drugs and medicines is constantly increasing, in every civilized country where they have been much employed, diseases have been multiplied in proportion. Perhaps, too, hey have, in a like proportion, become more fatal; but this does not so clearly appear.
While nearly half our children die under ten years of age, and the mortality is increasing, are we tending towards the point when a child shall die hundred years old? And are our physicians and our medicines likely to bring us there?
If not, and if a radical change is desirable, when is it to be made? Shall we wait till we have run down a century or two longer, or shall we begin the work immediately? And if we are to begin it at once, on whom shall the work devolve?
These are questions, I grant, more easily asked than answered. Nevertheless, they must soon be met; they cannot much longer be shuffled off.'
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, No. CCXV., for September, 1859, contains the following articles:-
The Future of Man and Brute. II. The Growing and Perpetual Influence of Shakespeare. III. Art and Artists. IV. Congregationalism. V. The Poet Percival. VI. The Book of Job. VII. The War and the Peace. VIII. Review of Current Literature. The first and second articles are particularly well-written, ingenious and interesting. It is a valuable number, and worthy of the high reputation of the Examiner.
There is a brief criticism upon Mr. Parker's recent letter to his congregation, entitled 'Theodore Parker's Experience as a Minister, with some account of his early life and education for the ministry,' in the course of which the writer speaks of its lack of calmness, its sweeping impeachments, its loose statements, and its antagonistic spirit, and concludes with the following tribute:-
'But the main thing in this Letter, and that which gives it the greatest permanent value, is the very extraordinary testimony it bears to the industry, the energy, the copious scholarship, and the intense convictions of the author. The earlier portions in particular, which speak of the growth of character and opinions, the influence of parental training, the hopes and purposes with which the toils of manhood and the special path of service were approached, cannot be read by any one, we venture to say, without interest and sympathy. As to the later narrative, even those who have best known the diversified resources of Mr. Parker's intellect will be surprised at the immense range of his reading and the amount of his intellectual toil; while those who have worked most constantly by his side will hardly have estimated the activity and energy of his labors,-of pulpit, platform, lecturer's desk, or walks of mercy,-as the memory of them is brought back in this review. And, whatever the verdict finally pronounced upon the labors here recorded, the record itself will remain as one of the most curious, instructive, ant! characteristic chapters in the history of New England Theology.'
Crosby & Nichols, 117 Washington Street; by the Proprietor, 21 Bromfield Street, Boston.
THE OLD FARMER'S ALMANACK, for 1860, No. 68, established in 1793 by Robert B. Thomas, has just been published by Hickling, Swan and Brewer, Boston. As usual, besides its large number of astronomical calculations, and the Farmer's Calendar for every month in the year, it has much new, useful and entertaining matter. 
We have received from A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, No. 18 of 'All the Year Round,' by Charles Dickens. The story, 'A Physician's Ghosts,' will particularly interest those who are inclined to modern Spiritualism. Single copy, only five cents.
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston, have just published the following pieces of music:-
Peri Valse, No. 12, and I'm a merry Zingara, No. 16, of the Garland-a selection of Popular Melodies, arranged for the piano forte, by E. F. Rimbault.
The Alarm Clock Polka, by Charles Spindlier.
Beer's Bouquet de Melodies, No. 42-Deer Freischutz.
Ever of thee I'm fondly dreaming. Words by George Lineally, music by Foley Hall.
Cherbourg Quadrilles, by Charles D 'Albert.
Bouquet of beautiful Duets, by Stephen Glover-The Irish Emigrants.
La Futile-Gallop brilliant poor piano, par Rene Lavarger.

EX-PRESIDENT PIERCE.
Ex-President Franklin Pierce has returned from his European tour, and received here in Boston, and in Concord, N. H., the place of his residence, an ovation on the part of those who, like himself, are Democrats only in name, but in spirit and action are among the worst enemies of freedom, by their affiliation with the lords of the lash and cradle plunderers at the South. The Boston Traveller very pertinently says:
'Gen. Pierce is now at home, having had that sheepish affair, an ovation, or little triumph-all his triumphs are small affairs-in Boston, which supported him in 1852. Whether any of the asses
that bought the horses for him were present, we do not know. He has gone home, or is going there, where he will, we do not doubt, enjoy that dignified retirement which is so becoming in an ex-President, who, having had all that his country can bestow upon any man, can never think of asking for more. He has served his time, done his work, fulfilled his duties, drawn his salary, eaten his allowance, disappointed his friends, gratified his enemies, and discharged all the rest of those deeds that go to make up the sum of political life. With the sense of 'duties fulfilled,' he can pass the evening of life in peace and Concord, and, as the memory of the ' agitation ' he caused shall die out, he will be regarded with something of that feeling with which the American world regards a Tyler and a Van Buren, now that they are beyond the power and out of the position to do mischief. That the illustrious Granite State statesman means to be a candidate for the next Presidency, if he can get a nomination, is believed by many, but such belief is owing to the existence of an uncharitable spirit, which seeks to belittle him in the world's eyes. All know that he couldn't carry a single free State, should he be so unfortunate as to be nominated, and it is to be hoped that he will be pat up, like a ninepin, to be bowled down by a political ten-strike. His worst enemies couldn't ask any worse fortune for him than that he should be nominated at Charleston.'
The proceedings of the West Randolph, (Vt.) Anti-Slavery Convention have been received, but too late for insertion in oar present number.
A faithful and eloquent address to churches and church-members generally, showing that the fellowship of slaveholders is incompatible with a Christian profession, occupies a large portion of our last page. Do not fail to read it.
<c06>
REV. NEHEMIAH ADAMS.
MR. GARRISON:
In your last week's paper is a communication from a Worcester correspondent, who could not conscientiously go to hear Dr. Nehemiah Adams, because there was no way of protesting against the <illegible> of inviting him to our pulpits. Being one of those who went to hear him without protesting, I will give expression to a few thoughts that came into my mind to hear all the time. Not occupying a seat that enabled me to hear all the discourse, I cannot give you much idea of it; but my impression is, that it would have been well enough for an Orthodox minister, if some one else had preached it, and left no doubt of his own sincere faith in the doctrine of total depravity, of which none of the rest of us can doubt he is the most complete living specimen. It is something to see a man of such unenviable notoriety. It is something derogatory to the liberal character Worcester has always sustained, that we have no opportunity of protesting against what we consider injustice, to the slave. After attending the Fourth of July celebration here, I sent a few words of criticism to the editor of the Spy for publication. He objected, he said, not because the article alluded to the subject of slavery, but the was not strictly confined to it, instead of criticizing the church. The Abolitionists, he said, served themselves of Anti-Slavery as a cloak under which to assail the church, while results were wanting to prove they had accomplished anything toward liberating the slave. He professed to be 'as much anti-slavery as anybody,' but his comprehension of the whole subject is evidently very limited. So much for our most anti-slavery press.
Of our churches, yon are already well informed I was startled that any of them should presume to invite Dr. Adams to their pulpits, and especially where Rev. Mr. James preached his thorough, Disunion sermon, after the conclusion of the tragically farce that has immortalized the name of Anthony Burns, But his anti-slavery was all summed up when, a few years ago, at the Church Society in Boston, he disclaimed all connection with the Abolitionists. Did the church understand its own mission, it would not be so careful "to repudiate the term Abolitionist. Suppose them to be what they are represented, infidels, disorgan<illegible> Bible-haters, the claim of the slave is none the less binding upon those who set themselves up as the true lights of the world. This extreme selfishness reminds us of that class of people who, when solicited to <illegible> any cause, refuse, because they have not been treated with sufficient deference by those engage in it. The charge may be true, but it proves the lack of genuine interest, which would not be so easily repulsed. If the church were fulfilling its high behest to proclaim peace on earth, and good will to men, it would go on steadily in the performance of its duty, regardless of criticism without, and fearless of division within, confident that truth and right are of themselves sufficient to withstand all opposition.
It is objected that we do not make sufficient allowance for difference of temperament, &c., which prevents others from seeing things in the same light we do. Very well. It is no part of our mission, as Abolitionists, to enter into metaphysics. Did we stop to investigate all the influences that control this man's actions, and the early training that has molded man's faith, we should have little time to devote to our special object. Enough for us to know that, in a land broad enough to keep in bondage four million slaves, under the sanction of the church, there is not a rood of ground so sacred that the man who dares to prostitute the Bible to its defence may not openly and unblushingly assume the priestly office as the representative of divine inspiration; while another, who would prove the opposite from the same volume, would be promptly excluded, if he should chance to be so heretical as to believe in the doctrine of universal salvation.
We believe in a charity that takes the part of the poor and bleeding slave, who has none to defend him against those who have all the wealth, all the learning, all the aristocracy of the country on their side.
Next comes our arraignment for harsh language as being unchristian, admitting our charges to be true. This might come with very good grace from future ages, when the divine law of Love shall be so fully revealed as to show even hard words to be a violation of it, which is not impossible in the onward march of the human soul that is veiled in the future. Such timeouts, however, cannot be advanced until mankind have risen to a higher level than to regard Christ and the Bible as the highest revelations of divine law; for this is almost the only point on which all sects and all ages can agree,-the outspoken denunciation of every species of iniquity, without concealment, and without compromise. But then, we have too much respective the human intellect to suppose it possible for nay man, or body of men, to be so low in the scale of moral perception as to believe that, by any distortion of logic, Jesus Christ will accept the sacramental bread and wine as the homage of the soul's devotion in remembrance of him, so long as it is 'made the livery of heaven to serve the devil in,' being set up as the landmark between saints and sinners, admitting the Judas's and excluding the Christ's.
That there is a retrogression of anti-slavery sentiment here is not to be denied. Perhaps it is so in other places; but, instead of proving that the cause itself is declining, is it not rather the result of the law of the human mind, action and reaction?
If the political element has thinned our ranks, it has absorbed only the fleeting, evanescent strata, swaying to and for upon the surface; and now that the people have found themselves the dupes of their own fully, in trusting too implicitly their leaders, lacking the moral insight which would teach them that immediate emancipation is the only hope of the slave, they are discourage, and the only hope of the slave, they are discouraged, and sit down as complacently to listen to Dr. Adams as to Dr. Cheever-in one sense with as much consistency, perhaps. Their position as ministers is precisely the same, although as men they are not to be compared. Dr. Cheever opens his ears to anti-slavery truth, and preaches it with his lips, while his <illegible> are tied, so that he can accomplish no more with them than Dr. Adams, who closes both ears and lips to the most dim perception of it. The former is manufacturing ideas that will eventually free his hands while the latter is clumsily manufacturing wedges the more effectual to secure within his own brain whatever ideas, relative to the rights of man, may have found their way therein.
It is useless to expect much from-broken down office-seekers and disappointed politicians. Perhaps they will never revive again. Our hope lies in the young men of the country, who are every year joining our rank. Into their hands the scripture will soon pass, and it is not too much to except of the rising tendencies of humanity, that they will bring into the field of action the generous impulses of youth, unreported by prejudice, unfettered by the conservation of age unshelled by disappointed ambition. Let Dr. Adam, go on preaching a crucified Savior, and terror to sinners-a voice more powerful than that he as creed his own doom, more certain than that he has awarded to Rufus Choate, in the stigma posterity will affix to his name, when his hypocrisy shall be unmasked by the impartial judges of the future. Let Mr. Richardson and the Salem Street Church go on seeking peace and union, rather than justice and righteousness; if he honest, he will soon see his mistake, and honor those who have tried to point it out to him, by following their example: if not, the sooner we cut aloof from his ministrations, the better.
That movement can be worth but very little whose advocates all move harmoniously in one channel. The independence, strength of will, self-reliance necessary to originate and sustain a reform, are not the elements to yield easily, neither is it necessary. Each has points of merit and demerit worthy of consideration, often-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
times only presenting different phases of the same subject; and the individual or organization who regards agitation, or dissension even, as calculated to weaken any causes, lacks a knowledge of the first principles of that great moral warfare whose vital, animating spirits is individual fidelity to convictions of truth, which will never fail to lead us ultimately into the right channel. S.E.W.
The following is the communication referred to by our correspondent, which the Spy declined to insert:—

THE LATE CELEBRATION.
MR.EDITOR— It is generally conceded that the individual who fails to elicit any criticism of his life, has done nothing worthy of note. The same may be said of public organizations or demonstrations. So far as regards the immediate objects in view, and the limited time of preparation, the late Floral Celebration of this city must be considered a brilliant success. It was rather anomalous that, on a day commemorating the anniversary of a nation's freedom, not a single motto or device, not a single word alluded to the four million slaves held in bondage by this government. That such an assemblage of people, of all sects and all parties, comprising every shade of religious sentiment, and the future church in embryo, could come under the magnetism of each other's influence, amid the associations of such a day, without letting slip, unpremeditatedly, from the overflow of the Christian feeling, and sympathy with the oppressed of all lands, some reference to this great question of this age and nation, is ominous of the fearful stupor resting on the hearts and consciences of us all. It as true the time for speaking was very brief, but allusion was made to the struggling patriots of the old world. Washington was eulogized, and patriotism was extolled. How, in the presence of so much childhood, presenting a golden opportunity for the application of a great principle, it was possible for a Christian minister to hold up to them, as a model of goodness and greatness without any qualification, the man who signed the first fugitive slave law, and was himself a slaveholder, is beyond comprehension. Had he, in speaking of Washington's virtues, pointed out this great stain upon his character, and brought forward, as an illustration of the true spirit of Liberty, the conduct of Judge Harrington, when he made that brave answer to the summons of Washington for the rendition of a fugitives slaves,’ Bring me a bill of sale from Almighty God!' he would have served the cause of freedom, and done justice to the memory of Washington. Public men are the criterions of public morals; and just in proportion as their faults are discovered and rebuked, do we count the milestones of human progress.
None who listened to the eloquent lecture given here last winter, by Joshua R. Giddings, can forget the earnestness with which he besought his hearers, when he shall have passed from this stages of action, faithfully to point out his errors to coming generations, that they may avoid them. Noble words of a noble man!
So far as the Fourth of July is connected with freedom, we have really nothing to celebrate. Tyranny is tyranny, whether perpetrated under the sanction of the royal ermine, or the banner of democracy. What national freedom do we enjoy, when not one of us can go to a Southern State, and register our names as citizens of Massachusetts. Without falling into the hands of the Inquisition? What freedom have we to boast as a Common wealth, when all the majesty of Massachusetts law was insufficient to protect from the violence of a Carolina mob, the honored father of one of our own fellow-citizens, sent on a commission by his native state? What <illegible> of Liberty have we to raise, when, in the face of American Christianity, over the blue waters that wash the shores of the old Bay State was echoed her funeral dirge in those memorable words of Thomas Sims, as he was borne over them to be scourged to death in a Southern prison, for his hatred of that oppression, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which our father rose in rebellion to oppose,' This is Massachusetts Liberty!'
There is not so much lack of anti-slavery feeling deep down in the recesses of the human soul, but it is so misdirected, so misapplied and smothered, it is only when some great crisis comes, bringing it home to our own firesides, that it assumes a tangible form. The truth is, that we do not begin to realize our true position as a nation, socially or morally. We want an Anti-Slavery that steadily and unflinchingly resists the encroachments of the Slave Power, with the same Zeal that shook the walls of the Old South Church after the rendition of Anthony Burns.
The community say they are tried of this eternal cant about slavery. So we are. It is discordant music to our ears. But what shall we do? The slave is tried of wearing his chain; the Slave Power is reaching with its giant grasp after our fairest territories; the slave-trade is being revived in all its horror; and we are a nation twenty millions strong, with the name of Jesus ever on our lips, quietly yielding assent! We are accustomed to speak of the church and the government as if they were mere automatons, moving at random, and government by chance; instead of being the intelligent expression of thinking and intelligent human beings, each responsible before God for the benefit or misery conferred by each. Let the American people will it, and slavery would be abolished throughout our domains; let the church withdraw its base. The severity and un charitableness of the Abolitionists is complained of; yet what have they ever said or done, but demand of church and State that 'the sum of all villanies' should be treated with at least as much severity as one villany alone, and arraign them accordingly? What words ever escaped Stephen S. Foster, that would not fall from the lips of any man, if his own cherished daughter were placed on the auction-block, a victim of that infernal system by which mankind is brutalized, womanhood outraged, marriage desecrated, and religion defiled? Is it fanaticism to condemn slavery on the soil of the Carolinas as being just as much a violation of the Golden Rule as slavery on the soil of Massachusetts—to 'remember those in bonds with them? or was that a mere figure of speech? Was it a mere figure of speech when Christ said unto his disciples, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature'? Yet the American Bible Society cannot be bribed to distribute its Bibles among the slaves.
We want new voices and new theatres of action. We want discussions like those lately held in Salem Street Church; but we would not have resolutions passed as those were, with the understanding that they were to remain a dead letter on the records of the church, making them of none effect, unless those young men who so nobly and eloquently defended them shall persevere in their application.
The admissions there made by the opposing party, of the guilt of slaveholding, the complicity of the Republican party, and all the religious organizations, corroborated every charge that has ever been brought against them.
As Abolitionists, we have no quarrel with any person's creed or from of worship; but as men, as women, as Christians, we are in duty to demand of the American Church, that while she professes to be the conservator of all that is pure and sacred, to fellowship sin, and be the guiding star of salvation, she shall not conceal within her folds that foul viper, the mention of which suggests all that is vile, impure and licentious in the whole category of sin, against which the God of Israel thundered forth his ten commandments on Mount Sinai. S. E. W.
Our Worcester correspondent writes like a noble Anti-Slavery woman-as she is. We shall be glad to hear from her frequently.]-Ed. Lib.
<c02>
REV. MR. POPE, OF HYANNIS.
HYANNIS, Sept. 4th, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:—I see by the last Liberator a report of some remarks made by Rev. Mr. Pope of this place, in a conversation with an Anti-Slavery friend in Milford, in reference to the kidnapping of Columbus Jones. As some of the statements made a by the Rev. gentleman are very far from the truth, If which to make a few brief corrections.
He said, according to your correspondent, that an Abolitionist is now an owner of the vessel that carried Columbus back, and that said owner took his part of the money for that service, and put it in his pocket, This statement is a sheer fabrication, and has no foundation in truth.
The vessel is, and has for several years been owned by widow Louis Bacon and Capt. Franklin Bearse, a both residents of this place, and neither of them known as an abolitionist. Nevertheless, Capt. Bearse did have the manliness to tell the commander of the a vessel, that no part of the money for that service should ever go into his pocket—that he did not take blood money, &c So much for that charge.
Again—Mr. Pope says that a leading Abolitionist knew that the slave was on board, and might have taken him; and that Capt. Crowell would hare been a glad to hare been rid of him, &c.
I know of no Abolitionist of whom this if true, and am very confident it is not so. I will say for myself, that about one hour before the schooner Elizabeth B. left our harbor, on the 9th of May last, with Columbus Jones on board, bound to Norfolk, Va., I heard a rumor that there was a vessel in port with a fugitive on board, bound to Boston—that she came into our harbor to telegraph to the U. S. Marshal at Boston to be in readiness to take charge of the fugitive, on the arrival of the vessel there. I doubted somewhat the correctness of the report, it having come from a questionable source, but concluded, if it was true, it would , be best to let the vessel go on to Boston undisturbed, where there would be much more likelihood of a successful attempt to rescue the man—intending, of course, to give the Vigilance Committee due notice of the fact. But, to my astonishment, I soon heard that the Elisabeth B. had been chartered to carry the man to Norfolk, and that she had sailed for that place. I could see no prospect of my being able to rescue the man; but, as the matter turned, I am very sorry that I did not make the attempt.
As to that part of the statement, that Capt. Crowell desired to be rid of the’ unpleasant duty 'of sending the man back, I can only say, that if that was his feeling, he has a strange way of showing it.
The brig came into our harbor on Sunday morning. The fact that there was a fugitive on board was kept a profound secret until Monday, and then was not publicly known until arrangements were all made for his return. During the day, Sunday, the slave was kept in double irons, and fastened in the house on deck, and guard kept over him, until some time in the afternoon, when, the officers being on shore, the man who was standing guard also went on shore, There were several colored passengers on board, who , were ordered to keep below, lest they should be seen, and excite suspicions; and all precautions were observed to prevent the fact of the fugitive's presence becoming known to the public. After the man who was guarding Columbus had left the vessel in the boat—thinking, doubtless, that all was safe—Columbus soon broke out of the house, broke off his irons, and, the crew not being at all opposed to his escape, was about making a raft to float himself to the shore, when he discovered a man in a boat some little distance from the brig, whom he hailed, and bargained with for a passage to the shore.
But, unfortunately, before getting to the land, they met the Captain going to the brig, who is reported to have told Columbus that if he landed there, he would surely be taken, and sent back to the South; that there was a great excitement on shore; that every man who saw him would be after him, &c.; but to go on board with him, and he would land him in a safe place, so that he could escape.
Columbus returned to the brig. The Captain then told the man who was taking Columbus to the shore, that it was fortunate for him that he had not landed; otherwise, he would have made him pay for the fugitive, and have sent him to State's prison besides, Does this look as though Captain Crowell was anxious to be rid of sending the man back? If that was his desire, all he need to have done was to have done nothing, and Columbus would soon have been out of his way. But, no! That Southern trade was jeopardized—and no man's liberty must jeopardize that!
As to the immaterial statements, that $500 was paid for taking the fugitive to Norfolk—that he was lashed to the capstan, &c,—although the Abolitionists have repeated these blunders, I have good reason to know that they did not originate with them.
As to Mr. Pope's endorsement of the Christian character of Capt. Crowell, I have only to say, that his Christian character may be quite as good as any Mr. Pope seems to cherish, or have conception of; yet be so far from bearing any similarity to that of Jesus of Nazareth, that the keenest of Philadelphia lawyers could not detect it.
Mr. Pope charges the Anti-Slavery people with lying. It seems, from his reported conversation with your Milford correspondent, that he is determined they shall not do it all: but he is bound to keep his reputation for that accomplishment as good as ever. Although he is one of those who are as much Anti-Slavery as any body,' yet we see him in his old position —that of defending the kidnapper, and slandering the Abolitionists.
He probably did not expect this conversation to be made public. He might not hare uttered it, if he had. But pro-slavery, like murder, 'will out'; and the present prospect seems to be, that this Rev. gentleman will soon make himself so well known, that he will not be able to retard much longer the Anti-Slavery struggle. Yours, hopefully, F. HINKLY.

THE WEBSTER STATUE.
MR. GARRISON,—I consider the vote of the last Legislature, allowing the ground of the State House to be occupied by the Webster Statue, to be an insult to the moral sense of the people of Massachusetts; and if the question were to be decided by their votes I do not believe that one quarter part of them could be obtained for the measure. It was accomplished entirely, probably, by the desire of Gov. Banks, and, perhaps, some other leaders of the Republican party to ingratiate themselves with the leaders of the old Whig party of this city, and, in this way, to effect a sort of coalition between them and the Republican party, in order to advance the ambitious schemes of Gov. Banks for the Presidency. There has evidently been a desire on the part of Banks, recently, to obtain the support of this party, which has been manifested in many ways, particularly by courting the personal attentions of Mr. Everett and others, which have not passed unnoticed. Now, we of the Commonwealth, and of the Republican party generally care nothing about this defunct, and, in point of numbers, insignificant remnant of the old Whig party. They are powerless either for good or evil, in a political point of view; and the people will never sacrifice their moral principles, or the dictates of their consciences, by sustaining the action of Gov. Banks and the last Legislature in regard to this measure. They are not disposed to gratify a few besotted adherents of Mr. Webster, who have clung to, and supported him in all his measures, good, bad and indifferent, without regard to their moral or political character. Mr. Webster was the mere tool and slave of these men, during most of his political life, and was feed by them like a paid attorney to advance their pecuniary interest in Congress. During the last year, an individual belonging to Boston was on trial before the House Representatives at Washington, for attempting to
<c03>
bribe some of its members to rote for a Tariff bill, and his conduct was universally condemned. Now. it is well known that, at different times a large sum of money, raised by certain persons in New York and Boston, was given to Mr. Webster, with undoubtedly a secret, if not an avowed understanding, that he should give his influence and his vote in favor of the favorite schemes of these persons for the advancement of their own personal interests. What was this but bribery? And what must be the character of men who would resort to such a measure, or the man who would receive such a bribe? Is he fit to be a legislator in the halls of Congress? And is he not morally as criminal as one who receives a bribe for this express purpose? And this is the man whom the people of Massachusetts are called upon to honor, by placing his statue upon the State House ground, as being a man of unsullied integrity, and unswerving devotion to the public good! Out upon such miserable pretences, such unblushing effrontery! They will not go down with the people of Massachusetts, however they may with their Representatives. And the next State election will show these same Representatives, that they have grossly mistaken the sentiments of their constituents, and that they are not willing that the character of Massachusetts should be outraged by such an infamous proceeding!
I trust that measures will be taken, at the next State election, to prevent the chance of any person, to any office, who will not pledge himself to vote for the removal of this Statue, so that it shall no longer disgrace the State of Massachusetts, or the ground on which it stands. HANCOCK.

GREAT MILITARY DEMONSTRATION.
An eye-witness gives the following sketch of the recent imposing military display at Paris:—
Presently, at ten o'clock, the roll of cheering flows the Rue de Castiglione, and reaches us.
The cry is 'Vive imperative! It is caught up, and every one rises and re-echoes it as the popular and beautiful Eugenie passes with her child to the balcony prepared for her and her Court, on the west side of the Place. 'They will soon be here,' is now said, and every one grows nervous. Again a cheer rises—the little Prince Imperial has run forward on the balcony, and he is seen by the multitude in his uniform as corporal in the Imperial Guard. Every glass is fixed on the lovely child, who is now a fine little fellow with a curly head of fair hair, and with a charming animated manner. After the dozen tender epithets always given to pretty children, the fever of impatience again seizes the crowd, and the minutes seem long. Suddenly an electric shock runs through all The first faint roar is heard rolling down the Boulevards. Down it comes towards us, down the Rue de la Paix, increasing in volume till it bursts in a tumult of sound,’ Here they Are!' The Cent Grades, the escort, wheel to one side—a few second more, and the Emperor appears, a solitary horseman on his charger, saluting the shouting people. They are throwing flowers and garlands in his path, and the vault rings with the noise of many mouths—one voice Vive Empereur!'—a shout so long and loud that it might waken the sleeper in the Invalided. On he, comes, saluting, then rides to beneath the Empress's balcony, and salutes her; then turns to review the army of Italy. He is in undress uniform, as he appeared in the field, and so will the whole army appear just as they have come from the wars.
His Majesty is followed by a small host of great ones, generals and staff dignitaries; they go to the rear beneath the balcony, and the one horseman stands forward in front. All this while the mighty sound continues in the distance, the shout of men in strong emotion. Here let me once more recall to you the vastness of the scene, which you must bear in mind you cannot see all at once. First, you see vaguely the distant object, then understand what it is. Well, you hear the waves of sound of a strangely thrilling nature, rolling in on you, and then from the Rue de la Paix come moving masses, all green; all around you cheer. On come the mass, and you distinguish the moving men, covered with wreaths and garlands. But in the distance, at the entrance, you see the waving of kerchiefs on a sudden more sharply waved. You see arms suddenly thrown up; you see a more fierce excitement seize the crowd; there is almost a shriek in the cheer that comes from that end of the Place. ’Why?' the mass comes nearer. Ah! there are no bayonets, no muskets; nearer, you see the men distinctly; they are limping, bent, hurt; they are the wounded of the army. Then a shout from the men, and sharp sympathetic cries from the women. Poor fellows! They pass the Emperor, they turn their faces to him. Vive l'Empereur!' one waves his. arm—his one arm; another stops to wield his crutch; those nearest to Napoleon throw at his feet the green decorations which the people gave. On they come, more and more of them, and’ Vive l'Empereur!' and now they pass us closely.
How the women came towards them! poor fellows. Such yellow faces! Such lines of suffering; thin forms—strong men maimed, pulled down, wrecked. They march in companies with their officers, all wounded too. See that tall fellow! that young officer of the Guard, with the Gardena face, that his mother loves and some sweet Marie or Lucille adores —see, he has lost both arms—a cry of pain is all about us. 'See him, see him,' yet he walks proudly, his coat slung from his broad shoulders. He sees the eyes bent on him. With a glance he acknowledges the sympathy; suddenly he steps towards us with: his full face glowing with fire, and cries with such a brave enthusiasm, true as his valor, noble as his suffering—such a clear, strong voice—voice from the heart' Vive la France!' 'Vive l'Empereur!' and waving kerchiefs, and hats taken off, respond with the loud cry, 'Vive la France!' 'Vive l'Empereur!' and the mutilated man strides on, conscious of duty done and glory won. I cannot tell the pain and pride of that scene. Thousands passed by, all wounded, all so cheery in their suffering, saying in every look,' I am happy to suffer for my country, for the glory of France.' Nor can I paint the gaze of the men spectators, nor can I convey the sympathy of women's eyes. But deep sympathy was there; and they, the wounded, knew it, and it paid them for all they had undergone. Noble and glorious soldiers! but so many —wearily, so many—so many that the heart ached at the streaming columns of crippled heroes. At last they all passed by, and then came along the strains of military music, and regiment after regiment passed in review before the chiefs.'
THE SPECTACLE AT PARIS.—For a week preceding the day fixed for the entry of the troops, strangers from all parts of France and Europe commenced to arrive, till on the night preceding the ceremony, many people passed the night in the street, unable to find a bed. The Prefect of Police estimated the number of strangers in Paris at 600.000. There were English, Americans, Germans, Italians, Spaniards, Russians, and even Austrians. Windows on the route of procession were let as high as one hundred dollars, and balconies at three hundred. Certain companies were organized, who hired and then sub-let whole houses for the occasion.
THE AMNESTY.—Victor Hugo, Leduc Rollin, Louis Blanc, Pierre Leprous, Gen. Lamoriciere, Colonel Charras, Dr. Bernard even, the refugees of New York, of London, Brussels, Geneva, everybody, and they are numbered by tens of thousands, are invited to return to forget, and to re-commence their lives with full political and personal liberty in the country that gave them birth. This is perhaps nothing more than justice, but there is something so grand in it, the act was so unlooked for under the circumstances, that one hardly knows how at first sight to estimate it.
The decree in contained in four lines, and is worded in that happy manner so habitual to the Emperor. It is directed to no one in particular, but to the whole lies of proscribed in a body, so that no one can refuse accepting, because not directed personally to him. It implies forgetfulness and not a pardon, for a pardon would not be accepted by men who contend they have committed no crime.
SALES OF WERSTER'S DICTIONARIES. From certain published statements of the leading booksellers from every part of the country, it would seem that the sales of the various editions of Webster's Dictionaries are enormous, exceeding many times the sales of all other dictionaries put together. We learn that there are fives different editions of our great American lexicographer now published in England, besides several English dictionaries which are confessedly based on Webster. A recent article in the London Critic admits that the orthography of Webster's Dictionary is all but universal in the United States.—Boston Journal.
NEW YORK, Sept. 7. Last night, at a late hour, party of three men, evidently Dead Rabbits, entered the prets room of Williams & Co., in Spruce street, and in the presence of some dozen persons attached to the press room, smashed the form of the Anti-Slavery Standard, and made good their escape.
It is supposed their object was to break up the forms of Porter's Spirit of the Times, which is printed in the same office, so that it could not be issued to-day.
<c04>
DEATH OF A FUGITIVE SLAVE IN THE HOLD OF A VESSEL.—We find in the New York Times the following account of the discovery of the body of a colored man in the hold of a vessel arrived at that port from North Carolina:
'The schooner Neptune's Bride arrived in this port yesterday from a port in North Carolina, loaded with naval stores. She was hauled into the Atlantic Basin to Messrs. Haff & Co.'s wharf to unload. Upon removing the main hatch, a horrible stench greeted the men who were at work on the vessel, and many were the conjectures as to the cause, but no one could solve the mystery as to what produced the disagreeable smell. The work of breaking cargo was commenced, and continued with all possible dispatch until last evening, when there was discovered in the forward part of the hold the body of a negro in a state of decomposition.
The first sight was sufficient for the stevedores, and a stampede from the hold took place. It was some time before they could be induced to return to their work again. The services of an officer of the Third Precinct Police were finally obtained, and upon assuring the men that there was no danger, they were induced to assist in removing the body to the wharf. — Deputy Coroner Case how soon after arrived, and took possession of the body, and an inquest will be held today.
The negro was apparently a strong, well made young man. How or when he got on board is not known, as all on board deny all knowledge of him.—When found, he was in a sitting posture; his head dropped forward upon his breast, his right arm resting upon the cargo, and near him were some provisions. Apparently, the last act of his life was to partake of some food. He was in very close quarters, where he could scarcely sit upright. From the state that his body was in, it is supposed that he must have died soon after the vessel left port. His death was doubtless caused by inhaling the foul air of the hold, strongly impregnated with turpentine.
FINDING A STOWAWAY.—In Southern ports it is customary, before a vessel sails, for an inspector to board the vessel, and make strict search for runaway negroes. If none are found, the vessel is allowed to a clear. A short time since, a vessel had loaded at St. Mary's, Georgia, for a Northern port, and when she was ready to sail, one of the gang of negroes that loaded her was missing. It was suspected that he was on board. He had secreted himself under the forecastle floor, and the strictest search among the cargo failed to show his hiding place. In this extremity the inspector, who was in the forecastle, remarked that the negro must be found, if the vessel had to be burned. The poor darkly hearing the remark, and fearing that the threat might be executed, called out,’ No, Massa John, don't burn de vessel, dare's no nigga here.' This led to the discovery of the poor fellow, and he was dragged out.—N. Y. Com. Adv. 
A FUGITIV SLAVE HURRIED OFF TO CANADA.-The Vigilance Committee of Boston have had reason to suppose, within the past two or three days, that a planter of North Carolina had reached this "city in pursuit of a fugitive slave who left for the North one day quite suddenly about a year since. The fugitive in question had obtained a comfortable berth, on board one of the Eastern Steamboats, the arrival of which at this port, the Committee believed, was awaited by the master, in order to arrest the fugitive, Accordingly an arrangement was made by which the fugitive was taken from the boat at Portland, who started at once for the British Provinces, where he is now free from his self-styled owner.
KIDNAPPING AT BELLEVILLE.—On Friday, evening last, about 4 o'clock P. M., two men in a buggy came to the farm of Albert Wilder man, cultivated by Geo. Shoelken, near Belleville, and inquired of the men engaged in threshing wheat for the price, saying they wished to purchase some for sowing. With these men at work was a negro man named Burton Ellis, who has lived in this county three years, and is about thirty years of age. The men on seeing Ellis, who was at work near the threshing machine, got out of the buggy and approached him, and presenting pistols at his head and breast, commenced tying him. He resisted, and one of them knocked him down with a pitchfork. He arose immediately, and being a large and powerful man, threw off his assailants and ran, pursued by the two men, who shot at him five times. One shot took effect, the ball striking him in the back, passed through his body and came out at the breast. He fell to the ground, when he was immediately seized, bound hand and foot, and in this wounded condition thrown into the buggy, and carried off. He has not been heard of since. All this occurred in the presence of several white men, neighbors of Ellis, and for whom he was working at the time, without any interference whatever by any of them in his defence. If such outrages are to pass without punishment, our laws and our rights as a State are as worthless as a rope of sand. The names of the kidnappers and their destination are as yet unknown. They did not come through the toll-gate to Belleville. Will our Sheriff, Coroner, Prosecuting Attorney and other officers, let this matter sleep?
ANOTHER DISPLAY OF THE AURORA BOREALIS.— There was another display of the Aurora Borealis Friday morning, which was quite brilliant at 2 A. M. The light was of a very deep red color, and not as changeable as that of Sunday night last. The electric disturbance has continued with varying intensity through the forenoon, greatly interrupting and impeding the working of telegraph wires. Some curious phenomena were seen on the wires of the American Telegraph Company, and results obtained surpassing any heretofore recorded.
The following conversation between the Boston and Portland operators on the American Telegraph Line will give our readers an idea of the effect of the Aurora Borealis on the working of telegraph wires:
Boston Operator (to Portland Operator)—' Please cut off your battery entirely from the Line for fifteen minutes.'
Portland Operator.—' Will do so. It is now disconnected.'
Boston.—'Mine is also disconnected, and we are working with the Auroral current. How do you receive my writing?'
Portland.—'Better than with our batteries on. Current comes and goes gradually.'
Boston.—'My current is very strong at times, and we can work better without batteries, as the Aurora seems to neutralize, and augment our batteries alternately, making currents too strong at times for our Relay magnets. Suppose we work without batteries while we are affected by this trouble'
Portland.—'Very well. Shall I go ahead with business?'
Boston.—'Yes. Go ahead.'
The wire was then worked for about two hours without the usual batteries, on the Auroral current, working better than with the batteries connected. The current varied, increasing and decreasing alternately, but, by graduating the adjustment to the current, sufficiently steady effect was obtained to work the Line very well.
A correspondent who was fortunate enough to witness this rare spectacle, thus describes the scene:—
'Those who were fortunate enough to be up at between quarter of and one o'clock yesterday morning, were witnesses of one of the most beautiful auroral displays ever vouchsafed to man. At that time, the rays of the aurora formed a complete dome (or crown, as it is sometimes called,) the base or rim of which was clearly defined by a ring or band of pinkish red, from which converged to the apex the rays in divers colors of blue, silvery white, pink, red, and almost scarlet— these different colors flashing, rolling, waving and scintillating from bar to bar of this sublime and truly grand spectacle, for the space of nearly three minutes, when it faded from sight, leaving an impression of scenic grandeur and heavenly beauty upon the mind of the beholder that years will not efface. A.F.L.' 
THE HUTCHINSONS.-Asa B., Lizzie C., and Fred. Hutchinson have begun a concert tour, and will sing during September and October through Western Massachusetts, Northern New York, Vermont and New Hampshire.
ST. JOHN, N. B., Sept. 3.—A boat containing ten persons upset off this harbor this morning, and one man, four women and three boys were drowned.
NEW YORK, Sept. 2. Three colored boys, aged from 10 to 13, have disappeared within a few days, under circumstances which lead to a suspicion that they have been kidnapped, to be taken South.
The Suspected Slever Atlantic. This vessel, which has been under the strict surveillance of the U. S. authorities at New Bedford for a month or more, has been released, with her cargo, to Capt. Sylvia, by order of the District Court.
Prof. Cochran, of the State Normal School of New York, has ordered a first-class sewing machine in order to teach the female pupils the modus operandi of one of the amount useful inventions yet discovered.
Jefferson Davis declares that Mississippi is dearer to him than the Union. If Gov. Banks were to say the same about Massachusetts, what a yell would come up from the janizaries! But it is all right when it comes from a Southern, who is a sovereign, and can't do wrong, let him try never so hard to become a sinner —Traveller.
<c05>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by J. A. Howland.
At Orange, Mass., $1 75
Florence, Mass., 5 00
Westport, Mass., 1 27
West Dartmouth, Mass., 3 50
Sheldonville, Mass., 1 86
Cyrus Cook, Cumberland, R. I. 2 00
FRANCIS JACKSON. Treasurer.

FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE PHILANTHROPIC CONVENTION.
At the Fifth Session of the First Philanthropic Convention, which was held at Utica, N. Y., in September. 1858, Mr. Giles B. Stebbins, of Rochester, offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That this Convention become an anniversary, of all who seek wisdom to overcome.' evil with good,' and that the time, place, and arrangements for the next meeting be left to a Committee consisting of Ira S. Hitchcock, of Oneida, Dr. Robert T. Hallock and Andrew Jackson Davis, of New York, and Amos Rogers, of Utica.
In accordance with the above resolution, the Committee have completed arrangements for the First Anniversary of the Philanthropic Convention, to be held in St. James Hall, Buffalo, Erie County, on the 16th, 17th and 18th of September, 1859.
The Convention will open in St. James Hall, Buffalo, N. Y., on Friday, the 16th of September, 1859, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continue three days. The following persons, residents of Buffalo, constitute the Committee of Arrangements:
John N. Gardner, Cyrus O. Pool, George Whitcomb, Louise Whitcomb, Alanson Webster, Thomas Rathbun, Sarah Rathbun, E. A. Maynard. Mary F. Davis, J. H. Lusk, Giles Husted, Lester Brooks, W. G. Oliver, E. G. Scott, Benoni S. Brown.
Any member of this Committee can be addressed by those wishing to secure accommodation in advance, at Hotels and Private Boarding Houses. The Hall procured for this occasion is convenient and commodious, seating comfortably 2000 persons. The friends of Reform in Buffalo and vicinity, will do all in their power to entertain strangers, and to aid the objects of the Convention; and the locality of their beautiful city is so central, that Reformers from all quarters can reach it readily, and at small expense.
The Committee have made favorable terms with Wards's Line of Steamers, as follows: From Toledo to Buffalo and return, $4,00; from Sandusky and return, $3,50; from Cleveland and return, $2.00, (Meals and Berths included.) A corresponding reduction of fare for persons attending the Convention will probably be effected on the New York & Erie Railroad.
A Quartette Club of Singers is engaged to be present, and will enliven each session with appropriate music.

MICHIGAN YEARLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF PROGRESS,
At Ann Arbor, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 23d, 24th, 25th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Not a meeting of a sect, bound by arbitrary authority, and therefore shrinking from freedom of thought and speech; but an assembly of men and women
'Who seek for Truth, wherever found,
On Heathen or on Christian ground,'
and, to gain it, welcome the frank and earnest utterance of the matured thoughts and convictions of any who may be present, on the great questions of Reform, Religious Freedom, Spiritual Life, and Social Order, which are moving the world more than ever before.
Let many meet, from far and near, for three days of candid thought and well-ordered free speech, that we may know better now to aid the rule of Wisdom, Justice and Love, how to gain that health of spirit and body so needed for the advent of’ Peace on earth, and good will among men.'
Able speakers are expected, and it is confidently hoped the occasion will be one of interest and importance.
Come! Orthodox and Heterodox, Spiritualists and Materialists.
Strangers wishing homes will call on the Committee below named:—
Washington Weeks, Robert Glazier,-Kellogg, A. Widermann, Z. Pulsipher, J. Sprague.
H. C. Wright, J. M. Teebles, Mr. Greenleaf of Ilinois, and Mrs. C. M. Stowe, both able trance speakers, and G. B. Stebbins, have engaged to attend; and correspondence is going on with W. L. Garrison, T. W. Higginson, Emma Hardinge, S. J. Finney, Jane Elizabeth Jones, &c. &c.

FAIR IN WEYMOUTH.
The Weymouth Female Anti-Slavery Society will hold their annual FAIR some time in October, (time and place to be given hereafter.) In former years, we have had articles from the Boston Fair to help fill our tables. This year, we solicit contributions from friends of the cause. Articles, useful or ornamental, will be thankfully received, and acknowledged in the Liberator.
By order of the Society, M. E. P. HUNT, Secretary.

CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY.
New York State Civil and Political Equality Coanty Meetings, to be addressed by Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, and others, will be addressed as follows:
Canton, St. Lawrence Co. Sept. 9.
Tiptonville, Jefferson Co. Sept. 13.
Martinsburg, Lewis Co. Sept. 16.
The meetings will commence at 2 and half-past 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day.
Admission to day sessions FREES—evening sessions, 10 cents. 
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the State of Maine, for several weeks to come, as follows:—
Ellsworth, Sunday, Sept. 11. 
Hampden, Friday, Sept. 16. 
Bangor, Sunday, Sept. 18.
J. H. FOWLER having returned to Cambridge would be happy to receive invitations to speak upon Slavery, Temperance, Religion, or any other subject connected with the great interests of Humanity. 
BLACKSTONE, Mass.—Dr. WM. SYMINGTON BBOWN will lecture at the Blackstone Hall, SUNDAY, September 11, at 5 o'clock, P. M. Subject: — 'The Origin of Mankind. One first pair or many.
DIED—In Chelsea, Aug. 30, Mr. HUGH B. LOUGE, aged 73 years and 3 months. He was for many years a subscriber to the Liberator, and a warm friend to the Anti-Slavery cause, giving it every aid in his power. On the score of conscientiousness and integrity of character, he had no superior. His was’ the path of the just, which shines brighter and brighter to the perfect day.' His memory shall be blessed.

WEBSTER UNABROCED
PICTORIAL EDITION!
1500 Pictorial Illustrations.
GET THE BEST.
WEBSTER'S
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY.
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION.
1500 PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS.
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary.
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH.
With other new features. Together with ail the matter of previous editions. In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers.
G. C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass.
Sept. 9. 3t.

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R. CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No. 23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased to favor him with their patronage.
Boston, Sept. 9. tf
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A Compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extracted of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strum us complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How complexity this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILLIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURRUI, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSLA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to, rid it of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body of an alternative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed ands sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it partly because the drug alone has not all the virtues that is claimed for it, but more because May preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtues of Sarsaparilla, or anything else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract on Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonyms with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the disease it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.

PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
Has won for itself such renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.

Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tatter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner pill and for purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperients in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; five boxes for $1.00 
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, hare lent their names tidy the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, to our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they ate given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and, the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER’S and takes no others. The sick want that best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J.N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine everywhere.
6 m May7

HIS LAST WORK!
THE late Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT left among his papers a most remarkable manuscript, entitled,
Forty Years in the Wilderness of Pills and Powders.
OR,
THE COGITATIONS AND CONPESSIONS OF AN AGED PHYSICIAN.
This most interesting, curious and valuable book will be published by us on THURSDAY, SEPT. 1.
It is a book for very household and every individual-presenting for the benefit of others a wise man's experiences and observations in the world of medicine, illustrated with a superb portrait on steel of the venerable and beloved author. In one volume 12 mo. Price, $1.
Tens of thousands will buy and read this book-it will therefore be a great book for Agents. All applications should be addressed to the publishers,
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co.,
S2 3tis 20 Washington Street.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,
SALEM, MASS.
THE next Term will commence with an Examination of Candidates for admission, on WEDNESDAY, Sept. 14, at 9, A. M.
This Institution is open to young ladies not less than 16 years of age,(without limit as to place of residence,) who wish to pursue a Course of Study extending through three terms, or a year and a half, in direct preparation for the work of teaching. To all who intend to teach in the public schools of Massachusetts, TUITION IS FREE. Text-books are mostly furnished from the Library of the School. Good Board can be obtained at from $2 to $3 per week. From the State Appropriation, and other sources, more than $1000 are annually distributed among pupils who may merit and need the aid. For Circulars, or further information, address
ALPHEUS CROSBY, Principal.
Aug. 19. 3w
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THIS Institution is designed to combine thorough instruction in Science, Art, and Literature, with judicious training of the physical and moral nature. To secure the children and youth, resorting to it for educational purposes, such home and neighborhood influences, together with such specific culture as may be primitive of positive growth in virtue and true excellence, is its sacred aim. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely mainly upon the patronage of those sympathizing with the better tendencies and movements of the age for support.
The First Term of the Scholastic Year 1859-60 commence on Wednesday, Sept, 9, and continues Fifteen Weeks.
For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals, Hopedale, and Milford, Mass.
W. S. HAYWOOD,
A. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Aug. 10. 3w
WORCESTER WATER-CURE.
DR. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, where he has spent several months in medical observations, will resume July 1, 1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
CHURCH-GOING.
How various the reasons are
Why people to the church repair!
While most would have it understood
That they go there to warship God
Some go to listen to the preacher,
some go to gaze at some frail creature;
But more go there applause to win,
Or get an anodyne' for sin.
How many for whom Christ has died,
Go there that they may foster pride!
They tell us to the world they're dead,
yet none more sure its ways to tread.
In words they point our souls to heaven
Upon one day in every seven; In deeds the other six they show
More clear the path that leads to woe.
The worldling, grasping tight his pelf,
Exclaims,' Physician, heal thyself!'
If you're a saint, then I'm secure
For you than I are not more pure.
O Lord, help each of us to pray
that we may do as well as say;
Make us a 'city on a hill,'
That man may learn of us thy will.
Boston, Aug. 23, 1859. JUSTITIA.

From the Atlantic Monthly for July.
DANIEL GRAY.
BY J.G.HOLLAND.
If I shall ever win the home in heaven,
For whose sweet rest I humbly hope and pray,
In the great company of the forgiven
I shall be sure to find old Daniel Gray.
I knew him well; in fact, few knew him better;
For my young eyes oft read for him the Word,
And saw how meekly from the crystal letter
He drank the life of his beloved Lord.
Old Daniel Gray was not a man who lifted
On ready words his freight of gratitude,
And was not called upon among the gifted,
In the prayer-meetings of the neighborhood.
He had a few old-fashioned words and phrases,
linked in with sacred texts and Sunday rhymes;
And I suppose, that in his prayers and graces,
I've heard them all at least a thousand times.
I see him now,—his form, end face, and motions,
His homespun habit, and his silver hair,—
And hear the language of his trite devotions
Rising behind the straight-backed kitchen-chair.
I can remember how the sentence sounded,—
'Help us, 0 Lord, to pray, and not to faint!'
And how the 'conquering-and-to-conquer ' rounded
The loftier aspirations of the saint.
He had some notions that did not improve him;
He never kissed his children—so they say;
And finest scenes and fairest flowers would move him
Less than a horseshoe picked up in the way.
He could see nought but vanity in beauty,
And nought but weakness in a fond caress,
And pitied men, whose views of Christian duty
Allowed indulgence in such foolishness.
Yet t here were love and tenderness within him;
And I am told, that when his Charley died,
Nor Nature's need nor gentle words could win him
From his fond vigils at the sleeper's side.
And when they came to bury little Charley,
They found fresh dew-drops sprinkled in his hair,
And on his breast a rose-bud, gathered early,—
And guessed, but did not know, who placed it there.
My good old friend was very hard on fashion,
And held its votaries in lofty scorn,
And often burst into a holy passion
While the gay crowds went by on Sunday morn.
Yet he was vain, old Gray, and did not know it!
He wore his hair unparted, long, and plain.
To hide the handsome brow that slept below it,
For fear the world would think that he was vain!
He had a hearty hatred of oppression,
And righteous words for sin of every kind:
Alas!that the transgressor and transgression
Were linked so closely in his honest mind!
Yet that sweet tale of gift without repentance,
Told of the Master, touched him to the core,
And tearless he could never read the sentence—
Neither do I condemn thee: sin no more.'
Honest and faithful, constant in his calling,
Strictly attendant on the means of grace,
Instant in prayer, and fearful most of falling,
Old Daniel Gray was always in his place.
A practical old man, and yet a dreamer,
He thought that in some strange, unlooked-for way,
His mighty Friend in heaven, the great Redeemer,
Would honor him with wealth some golden day.
This dream he carried in a hopeful spirit,
Until in death his patient eye grew dim,
And hit Redeemer called him to inherit
The heaven of wealth long garnered up for him.
So, if I ever win the home in heaven,
For whose sweet rest I humbly hope and pray,
In the great company of the forgiven
I shall be sure to find old Daniel Gray.

THERE'S NOTHING LOST.
There's a nothing lost. The tiniest flower
That grows within the darkest vale,
Though last to view, has still the power
The rarest perfume to exhale;
That perfume, borne on zephyr's wings,
May visit some lone sick one's bed,
And, like the balm affection brings,
"Twill scatter gladness round her head.
There's nothing lost. The drop of dew
That trembles in the rosebud's breast,
Will seek its home of ether blue,
And fall again as pure and blest;
Perchance to revel in the spray.
Or moisten the dry, parching sod,
Or mingle in the fountain spray.
Or sparkle in the bow of God.
There's nothing lost. The seed that's cast
By careless hands upon the ground,
Will yet take root, and may at last
A green and glorious tree be found;
Beneath its shade some pilgrim may
Seek shelter from the heat at noon,
While in its boughs the breezes play,
And song-birds sing their sweetest tune.
There's nothing lost. The slightest tone
Or whisper from a loved one's voice,
May melt a heart of hardest stone,
And make the saddened soul rejoice,
And than, again, the careless word
Our thoughtless lips too often speak,
May touch a heart already stirred,
And cause that troubled heart to break.
There is nothing lost. The faintest strain
Of breathing from some dear one's late,
In memory's dream may come again,
Though every mournful string be mutes.
The music of some happier hour-
The harp that swells with love's own words
May thrill the soul with deepest power,
When still the hand that swept its chords.
[ANONYMOUS.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE FELLOWSHIP OF SLAVEHOLDERS INCOMPATIBLE WITH A CHRISTIAN PROFESSION.
To the Salem Street Congregational Church, Worcester, Mass., and to Church-Members generally.
A great crisis impends. God puts a pregnant and solemn question to the American Church. He demands an immediate and explicit answer. He that has eyes mast see the issue between Freedom and Slavery. He that has ears must hear the voice of God calling upon the Church—calling upon you and me— to stand on his side. Have you such faith in him, that you are willing to follow him, regardless of consequences? Dare you stand alone, if need be, for the right? Will you side with slavery, or against it? that is a test which no American church-member can evade. You shall encounter this touchstone at every corner. Whoever falls upon it shall be broken; but on whomsoever it may fall, it shall grind him to powder.
It is not my purpose to paint the features of that great crime, which is enthroned in our political Constitution, and which, ' as God, sixtieth in the temple of God, showing itself that it is God.' I have not the ability, had I the disposition, to delineate or compute the wrongs of the slave, multiplied as they are million-fold, and perpetuated through centuries. My business is with those who admit that slavery is a sin, but fellowship the sinner. He who is so stupid as not to be able to discern, by a simple application of the Golden Rule, that slavery is a great crime, may as well read no further. He would seem to be too stupid to be a Christian.
Slavery then is confessedly a transgression of God's law. Unlike many other sins, however, it is powerful in State and Church. Those who study, even superficially, its relations, are amazed at its multifarious and intricate connections with all our political, religious and social life. It is entwined with every muscle and fiber of the body politic—nay, of the professed visible body of Christ, the organized Church. That, religious society, which has seriously endeavored to free itself from all complicity with slavery, will smile at the question,' what have we to do with this evil?' ( To dissolve all connection with it—all such connection as can fairly convey the impression that the Church sanctions it—all such connection as gives it aid and comfort, is found to be like the sundering of soul and body. Most of those who have looked deepest into the subject declare the Anti-Slavery case to be the entering wedge that shall cleave in twain, the visible Church. Be it yours and mine to drive that wedge home. Out of agitation will come purity; out of death, life. Paradise lies beyond the grave.
Ask the man who has gone farther than this; who has made it his life-work to weaken and destroy the monster; ask him what he thinks of the connection of the Church with slavery. But I forget. You may not wish to be seen with him. The Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. 'Infidel' is branded on his brow. ‘Fanatic’ is howled in his ears. His good name is blasted. His pathway is through throws and among pitfalls. He runs a gauntlet through a million lashes, kicks, stings. With a heavy cross and bleeding feet, he is ever toiling up some new Calvary.
There is no help for this. It must needs be that offences come. In this boasted land of light and freedom, and beneath the shadow of its hundred thousand steeples, it is as true an ever it was in Palestine, that whosoever will follow our Savior must deny himself, and take up his cross; must be hated of all men for his name's sake; and whosoever would save his life must lose it; and if any man in comparison hate not his father and mother and wife and children, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be his disciple. He needs something of that fiery earnestness which characterized the apostle Paul, burning on indestructible and unquenchable through the blackest night of malice and the deepest waters of affliction— pouring forth its radiant light to illumine the dark, and condensing that light into lightning to thunder-blast the wrong! You need not be told, my friend, it is a pretty serious matter to be a Christian. To play pious is a different thing.
For this reason: Whoever professes to be a Christian, professes to stand on the abstract right. He pledges himself before angels and men, and in the presence of almighty God, to renounce all sin; he surrenders himself unreservedly to the divine will and disposal; lie covenants that, whatever he does, he will do all to the divine glory. Between him and every form of iniquity, there must be an eternal and exterminating war. He is to hate all sin, without exception, without evasion, without compromise. Though the sin look fair and beautiful, it makes no difference. He must hate it all. Though the universe combine in support of the wrong, it makes no difference. He is to stand, if need be, alone with God. Though friends vanish, and enemies frown, though property and family and respectability must be surrendered, though a myriad tortures rack his flesh, and the cruelest death impend over him, it makes no difference. Our dear Master walked that path. Earth and hell were leagued to put him down. With unfaltering step and unbalanced cheek, he trod the wine-press alone. Alone! You and I must follow him. Apply the principle. To human vision, the system of Southern slavery looms up as the most gigantic sin of this nation. The churches, however, occupy a guilty partition in regard to it—a great number directly upholding and justifying it—a still larger number sanctioning and encouraging it by complicity and silence—the remainder condemning it in words, but supporting it by deeds, inasmuch as they refuse to treat slaveholding as they treat other sins, viz: by renouncing all church association, connection and fellowship with the confirmed slaveholder, and his apologists and justifiers. I repeat it; ninety-nine of every hundred churches refuse to treat this atrocious sin with as much severity as they treat the most trivial sins. At the communion-table, in the administration of baptism, at ministerial ordinations and installations, in church correspondence, in letters of dismission and recommendation, by the customs and courtesies of the pulpits, in the fellowship and action of great representative religions organizations, both State and national, ninety-nine hundredths of all our churches uphold, publish, and solemnly authenticate confirmed slaveholders and their confirmed apologists as Christians ' in good and regular standing.' For in the creed of every one of these churches, in one form or another, it is proclaimed that none but true disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ an thus entitled to public recognition as Christians. The inference is irresistible that they openly, by their acts, no matter what their language may be, support and countenance this great enormity. Sinning willfully after they have received a knowledge of the truth, they tempt the world to brand them as hypocrites. Holding up by their conduct the idea that Christianity is not inconsistent will this wickedness of oppression, they bring scandal upon the Christian name, and thus crucify the Son of God afresh.
Suppose that our churches should publicly, on all occasions, treat known thieves, robbers, adulterers, gamblers, or their upholders and apologists, as Christians in good and regular standing. Would you disown and repudiate such a Christianity, or not? Yet this is precisely what the Church has done, only a thousand times worse. 'One murder makes a villain; millions, a hero.' The slave system steals men steels infants as soon at they an born. It robs the slave of all his rights. Its central principle is, that the slave is not a man, but property. It denies him the right to come and go at will. He is confined to
<c03>
the narrow limits his master may assign, comprising a few rods, or at most a few miles. He is denied the right to make any legal contract, even for earning his own freedom. He is denied the right of free speech, to any nothing of the freedom of the press. He is denied the right to acquire property; for not a slave in the South can be the legal owner of a single cent, he is denied the right to marry; for by the laws of all the slave States, not one of the slaves can have a lawful wife or husband. They live in enforced concubine. Not a 'legitimate child is ever born of a slave father or mother. He in denied the right to the society of father or mother, wife or child. Dr. Adams acknowledges that in a slave prayer-meeting, he could not explain the 'our Father' of the Lord's Prayer, to slaves. They know nothing of father or mother. The fifth commandment is annihilated. The family is broken up—worse than annihilated. They have to home. The endearments that cluster around that sacred spot, the thousand sweet memories which that word awakens in your heart and mine—what can the homeless slave knew of them? He is denied the right of self-defence against violence. If a slave lift his arm against the stripes that tear his flesh, the master may strike him dead, and then is no redress, Christian mother, wife, daughter, the slave woman can be compelled, on penalty of death, if no white witness be present, to submit to the lust of the most beastly monster, that ever polluted the earth, and there is no redress. The slave is denied liberty ' conscience. The master's will is his conscience. The master is his God. What a God! Corresponding often precisely to our devil. He can have no more character than an ox. He is denied a hearing in any court of justice. His testimony against a white man is forbidden by law. In some States he is denied the right to choose freedom even if it be conceded by a will; in others, the master is not permitted to emancipate him. He is denied education. It is a State's prison offence to teach him to read the name of God. Even in the Cherokee churches, sustained by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, slaveholders are members in good standing; though the law, which is one of the very mildest of the kind, reads, ' It shall not be lawful for any person or persons whatever to teach any free negro or negroes, not of Cherokee blood, or any slave belonging to any citizen or citizens of the nation, to read or write'; under a penalty of $100 to $500, at the discretion of the court.' Some of the most influential men in procuring the passage of such enactments have been members of our churches in good and regular standing. The slave is denied the right to improve his mind. One of the most alarming evidences of the wickedness of slavery s, that it so destroys the slave's manhood, that he is sometimes even contented and willing to be reduced to a level with the ox or horse. But why pursue the sickening catalogue further? In the language of the highest (lowest?) judicial tribunal in our country, the black man, whether slave or nominally free, has ' no rights that the white man is bound to respect.' I lave no time to show how unequal and cruel are the penult laws of the slave States. One example may suffice. By the laws of Virginia, sixty-eight crimes are punishable with death, if committed by a slave; if by a white free person, only four crimes are punishable with death. Nor have I time to enumerate the evil influences upon the white man—to show how it makes labor dishonorable: makes free schools utterly impossible; makes slaveholders indolent, insolent, tyrannical; tempts them to licentiousness by supplying a, race of unprotected females; rewards vice by making offspring follow the condition of the mother, thus offering a premium for unbridled lust; deprives the Northern citizen of all right to speak or print freely, or to travel freely in the South, if he be a known friend of the black man; imprisons our innocent seamen; sells our citizens for their jail fees; turns us all into bloodhounds to hunt fugitives from bondage, annulling and exactly reversing the higher law of God, 'Thou shaft not deliver unto his master the servant that has escaped from his master unto thee'; corrupts and blunts the moral perception of leading men in the Northern Church, until President Lord, Prof. Stuart, Dr. Adams, and the great majority of Doctors of Divinity cannot discern its sinfulness; and everywhere excites a cruel prejudice against the colored man, until at least two of the leading churches of Boston will not permit a negro to occupy the same floor with the white man at divine worship. Thus practically saying they would rather his soul should be forever lost, than gain salvation on an equality with themselves.
But why dwell upon this point? 'Every man knows that slavery is a curse. Whoever denies this, his lips libel his heart. Try him! Clank the chains in his ears, and tell him they are for him; give him an hour to prepare his wife and children for a life of slavery; bid him make haste, and get ready their necks for the yoke, and their wrists for the coffle chains; then look at his pale lips and trembling knees, and you have nature's testimony against slavery.'
What, then, is the duty of the American church in regard to slavery? If the incorrigible sheep-stealer be excommunicated, shall the incorrigible man-stealing escape? If those who countenance sheep-stealing be deemed worthy of excision, shall the accessories of man-stealers be authenticated as Christians in good and regular standing? How much, then, is a man better than a sheep?
There is one thing the Church has not yet done— one measure to which it has never resorted. It has never taken the decisive steps of excommunicating acknowledged supporters of slavery. It has never cut off all church association, connection and fellowship with those individuals and churches that knowingly and persistently countenance slavery. That is, t it has not treated slavery as it professes to treat all sin. It has made an exception in favor of the open or silent upholders of slavery—makes especial saints of them. Witness the great Nehemiah Adams.
Now, in the name of eternal truth, and with all the seriousness of one who believes that eternal consequences hang on the decision of the present hour, I ask by what right the Church suppresses its condemnation of this vast system of wrong? By what right does she blast with her anathemas the characters of all true Abolitionists? By what right does the professed Church of the living God fold to its bosom in fraternal embrace the man-stealer, or his accomplice in crime? By what right does it torn a deaf ear to the cry of the stolen and helpless African? By what right do you, professing Christian, walk to the communion-table of our dying Lord, arm in arm with one whose every step is on the bondman's soul?
Suppose the fugitive slaves in Canada, being a majority, or the actual slaves of Carolina, being a majority, should enslave the whites there; and, being.' professing Christians, should desire to be fellowshipped as such! Is there a church in the North that would not feel insulted and shocked by the proposition? Yet no ingenuity can show that black slavery is any better than white slavery.
What, then, an the alleged reasons for neglecting to dissolve all the religious bonds that connect us with the slaveholder and his open and silent supporters? There are two reasons to which, I believe, all others may be reduced, for I will not answer the blasphemy which makes Christ and the Apostles to have countenanced the atrocity.
First, it is asserted that some slaveholders are Christians; that their sin is one of ignorance, and we ought to be charitable towards them. Christian sinners! My charitable evangelical brother, you are not so illiberal at to deny that then are some Christians among Unitarians or Universalisms: why not fellowship these? You answer that their doctrines are corneous. But can any false doctrine be more fundamentally hostile to the spirit and teachings of our Savior, man fatal to our Christianity, than to hold that man may become property, and be rightfully
<c04>
bought and sold like an ox or a sheep? Is it not as, bad as a denial of total depravity or endless future punishment? Did God give his only begotten Son to die for furniture or real estate? Did our blessed Redeemer shed his blood for cattle? Can He in the person of the slave be sold like a calf in the shambles of oppression? Alas! That there should be any need of asking a professing Christian such a question as that!
You still insist that some shareholders are Christians; that their sin is of the head, and not of the heart; and that they an entitled to be treated as it Christians, in obedience to the dictates of charity. But is it thus you deal with other Christians, guilty of the sin of ignorance? Are there not Christians who neglect to comply with the ordinances of baptism and the Lord's Supper? Are there not some, who, unconscious of the deep sin they incur, partake; partake too freely of the intoxicating cup? Are there not some, who, for a like reason, practice gaming, or habitually frequent theatres? In the name of consistency, how can you refuse to recognize publicly as Christian the character of such sinners, while you at the same time publicly treat the slaveholders his abettor, as a true and unblemished disciple? Have you charity for no sinners but slaveholders? What kind of charity is that which accepts the plea of ignorance as a sufficient excuse for the sinful practice of slaveholding, but instantly rejects it as insufficient to excuse the other sinful practices?
The slaveholder’s sin that of ignorance! How came he so ignorant? Have the thunders of God's word; in never startled him from his dreams? Has the Christian Church stifled the utterance of Christian truth? Have you neglected to warn him of the frightful danger he incurs of everlasting punishment? Have you been faithless so long? Will you not, then, instantly make amends for your long delay, by warning him now in the most effectual way you possibly can do it, by solemnly withdrawing Christian fellowship from him until he repent? Hasten, Christian, for charity's' sake, to undeceive the slaveholder, by letting the light of your stern and solemn condemnation flash upon his sin! It is no kindness, but cruelty, to him too keeps calling him your Christian brother. It is not charity, but the exact opposite, to allow him any longer to remain self-deceived as to his true character, conduct, and position. He misinterprets your meaning, and is comforted in his sin. 'Woo unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put light for darkness, and darkness for light; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter.' Hear Paul, 2d Theses. 3, 6: ' Now we commend you, brethren, in the name ‘of the Lord Jesus Christ that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walked disorderly.'
A word more in regard to charity. What kind of charity is that which heeds not the four millions oppressed, while it welcomes the oppressor? which is tender as a girl's heart to the feelings of the tyrant, but deaf as an adder, blind as a Pharisee, heartless as a stone, to the miseries of his victims? For be it remembered, it is the respectable sinner that gives most encouragement to sin. It is the respectable rum seller that most supports intemperance. It is the respectable wine-drinker, theatre-goes, gambler, liar, sweater, whose example is most ruinous. And it is, in a preeminent degree, the professedly Christian slaveholder, and the professedly Christian apologist, that are most responsible for the continuance and the immense progress of this great wrong. It is the professed Christian that gives it character. If he countenances it, people think it must be all right. He inspires the Legers with boldness. He, and not the profane, not the vulgar, not the brutal task-master, slave-breeder, slave-hunter, gives respectability and assurance to this sin.
In this light, how fearful the mistake of that Christian minister who occupies an equivocal position, — facing both ways, execrating the crime, but fellow-sniping the impenitent criminal,—with one hand dealing heavy blows against the abstract sin, but with the other pointing to the actual sinner, and saying, in actions that speak louder than words, ' That man aria true disciple of Christ.' Men do not fall into open gulfs, but into covered pits. An acknowledged teacher of Bible truth; his mission to show by precept and example the path to heaven; his lips touched with fire, like Isaiah's, to kindle s flame against all wrong; an almost idolized shepherd, to whom the lambs of the flock turn lovingly for light, and guidance, and spiritual food; an ambassador of Christ, sanctifying the circle in which he moves; standing as an angel by the bed of the sick and the dying, at the marriage and the funeral, at the baptismal altar and the table of our common Lord; kneeling with the penitent and the sorrowing; usually foremost in works of charity; generous, kind-hearted, loved, trusted, implicitly followed as a pillar of cloud and fire through the wilderness of this world; possessed of learning and culture; a pattern man, a model Christian; what a responsibility is his! What a power to lead right! What a power to lead wrong! When he goes, the multitude thinks it safe to go. What he does, the multitude think it right to do. Into his pulpit he invites the pastor of a church that contains slaveholding members in good and regular standing! He even gives money to sustain churches of slaveholders! Not satisfied with this, he encourages his people to do the same! All the while, his voice is as thunder against slavery in the abstract! When now are your moral distinctions? Who shall guide me, when sun, moon and stars give a wandering and uncertain light? The moral vision of well-meaning but uninformed church-members is confused, their moral sense is blunted, their moral standard is lowered, their conscience is lulled asleep, and just in proportion as such a minister stands high in their esteem and confidence. ‘If the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!’
I say it is the professedly Christian slaveholder, who, by his example, presses, with tightest grip, the throat of the black man. Nay, it is the professedly Christian church, which treats the persistent and willful apologists for slavery as brethren in good standing that, by its example, crushes its iron heel deepest into the black man's heart. With pious hands it forges, rivets, twists to the bone, the chain that cramps his body and soul. Lips perfumed with prayers, and honeyed with texts of Scripture, forbid the slave to learn to read the name of Christ! Eves streaming with philanthropic tears for the benighted heathen in foreign lands cannot see the four million perishing heathen in our own country! Hands locked in the dear fraternal clasp of the slave-monger, cannot loose that blessed hold, even for an instant, to try to give the sweets of freedom or the bread of life to the enslaved and starving millions! Charity forbids it I they may go to perdition first!
Charity to the Christian slaveholder! To the Christian countenancer of slavery! If he be a Christian, he will cheerfully consent to be excommunicated, rather than have Christianity saddled with his sin. The true follower of Christ will not allow, if he can prevent it, that his wickedness should be charged to the account of his Master. His language will be, ' Do not sully the white robe of Christianity by making it a cloak for my iniquities. Let no man suppose that my wrong deed a permitted by the church. If my equivocal position be a stumbling-block in the path of truth, let me be removed, rather than right be impeded. If my presence bring scandal upon the clutch by reason of my weakness, let me he removed, and the good name of the church restored. ' I could almost wish that I were accursed from Christ, for my brethren and the church's sake.' Romans, ix, 3.
Secondly, it is alleged that to attempt to cut loose from all complicity with slavery, would involve awful consequences; it would carry us we know not where; perhaps outside of all religious organisations—perhaps out of our churches; it would tend to Garrisonianism and 'infidelity'; it would shiver the church; destroy our influence: subject as to ridicule, contempt and enmity; and, after all, we might not succeed in get-
<c05>
ting entirely free from the sin,—&c, &c. To all such argument, then is one short and decisive answer. What business have you to look at a question of duty in the light of mere expediency? Here is a sin to be repented of and renounced. 'Now is the accepted time; now is the day of salvation.' Your work is to follow Christ, no matter when it leads you. Here is a plain, moral obligation resting upon you: how dare you hesitate, or reckon the consequences? When you gave yourself up to God, was; it with a stipulation that you should serve him only so far as it might be easy and safe? or had you a prior contract with the devil, which you did not cancel? Away with such a time-serving, eye-serving, sneaking, whimpering Christianity! Listen to the Great Teacher:— 'No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.' And again:— He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me; and he heat loveth son or daughter more than me, is not worthy of me; and he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.'
Do you answer that the church, as it is, must be regarded as, on the whole, a great instrumentality for good, though she may come far short of her duty in this matter? Do you say that therefore you would do better to support it just as it is, than make a great outcry and agitation, and so run the risk of breaking it in pieces? Do you affirm that the church as it is enjoys manifest tokens of the divine favor, increasing in numbers and wealth and influence? Be not deceived. Such are not the tokens of God's blessing which our Saviour enumerates. 'Blessed are ye when men shaft revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for, my sake.' 'We unto you when all men shall speak well of you, for so did your fathers of the false prophets.' So it must be in a corrupt age like this. I do not say that the church is not, on the whole, a blessing. Possibly, Mahometanism, Mormonism, or Paganism is better than no religion. Possibly, God over-ruling the wickedness, many sinners may be converted under an apostate ministry. But the chances are that a corrupt tree will hardly bring forth good fruit. Christ told the Pharisees that they made their proselytes two-fold more the children of hell than themselves. A corrupt church may seem to be accomplishing much for him, prophesying in his name, and in his name casting out devils, and in his name doing , many wonderful works; but at the last there comes the terrible ' I never knew you! Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity!'
However glorious the American church may have been in past generations, its present position must be; judged by the light of this. A great conflict has arisen between true Christianity and the mightiest of despotisms. For more than a quarter of a century, the church has been implored to throw her enormous weight into the scale, and decide the struggle in favor of the right. Rev. Albert Barnes has said that there is no power outside of the church that could sustain slavery an hour was it not supported in the Church. But where does it stand? What position does the professed living, visible body of Christ occupy in this contest? Behind Russia, behind piratical Algiers, behind despotic Austria, thirty years behind those whom it stigmatizes as ' infidels!' Behind them? It is opposed to them. It is in fellowship with the, man-stealer, and with those who countenance man-stealing.
By its professions, it should lead the gathering hosts in this great battle against oppression. It remains to be seen whether it will at last wheel into line. Its position is watched with intense interest; for if it side against Christ, it cannot consistently rebuke any sin. False, shrinking, time-serving, pusillanimous, double-dealing in regard to the 'sum of all villanies,' can such a church have the impudence to rebuke smaller offence? With the enormous beam of slavery, projecting visibly from its own eye, will it dare profess to see motes in the visual organs of other sinners? Swallowing this huge came! without a sign of choking, will it strain out the little gnats that come in its way? I have heard the triumphant and scornful laugh of a Mormon, as he bade the evangelical Christian lock in a mirror, and see the lineaments of a Pharisee who countenanced the traffic in human bodies and souls. Shall the church—the bride of Christ —thus muzzle her own lips? Then, hereafter, when lesser sins fling defiance in her teeth—when swindlers and blasphemers knock at her doors for admission— when bloody hands demand the communion bread, and lying lips claim the consecrated wine—when lust and shame and violence present themselves at her altar for solemn baptism—when heathen polygamy, or caste, or licentiousness, or idolatry, or any crime, flaunts its banners in her face—let her be dumb as she is now. Or if she dare utter a word of remonstrance, let her expect the stinging rebuke, ' Hypocrite! Countenancing this million fold robbery, concubine, and dethronement of God! Look HOME! 'Thou that preaches, a man should not steal, dost thou steal? Thou that safest, a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Thou that abhorrent idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? Thou that make thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonors thou God?’
A very pious and prominent deacon of one of our most influential churches told me he regretted this anti-slavery agitation in the church, because it was impossible as yet to come anywhere near the Christian standard and we must tolerate many sins. It was enough, he said, that when we joined the church, we thereby professed hostility to all sin. Great imperfections existed, but he thought it better to go on with the good work of saving souls, than to disturb the quiet of the church by introducing an agitation that might excite angry feelings. As to his first point, that we must overlook many sins because our Christian attainments are so low, and the church is well-nigh dead in trespasses and sins—it only shows more clearly the need of instant action. As to the second, that we did our whole duty in this matter when we joined the church—it is unworthy of the deacon; for it is the argument of those who are willfully ignorant, superlatively lazy, and grossly self-deceived in regard to the effect of uniting with the church.
‘They hear not—see not—know not; for their eyes Are covered with thick mists:—they will not see.'
As to the third argument, that we must have peace in order to save souls—the scripture doctrine is, 'first pure; then peaceable'. When the church is deeply ' guilty, it cannot have peace. ‘There is no peace, smith my God, to the wicked.' To a corrupt people, Christ ever says, ' Think not that I am come to send peace on earth; I am not come to send peace, but a sword.' Peace in a degenerate and wicked church! It is the stupor of a fainting man, already in than embrace of death. The more vital religion it has, the greater the agitation will be. Saving souls! The stagnant waters of this Bethesda must be troubled, before they can have a healing power.
You ask, ' What can I do?' Yon can protest against this cruelty to Christ's little ones, in public and in private. You can investigate and diffuse anti-slavery truth. You can repudiate pro-slavery publications. You can rebuke those who shrink from the practical application of anti-slavery preaching. You can encourage the despised and persecuted friends of than slave. Yoga can reform or renounce a pro-slavery church, and join or help form a true church. Yoga can pray and labor for the bondmen.
You dare no two this plain duty, for fear it will rand the church? Who made you controller, of than destinies of God’s church? How dare you, like Uzi, stretch forth your hand to steady than ark of God? The principle on which you refuse to expel slavery, for fear of disturbance, would make—is making—the church a sink of pollution. No, the devil must be cast out; the 'dumb and deaf spirit' that
<c06>
Sanctions the devil must also be cast out, though it cost foaming, convulsions, agonies.
You want peace in the church, and so you will quietly tolerate slavery, and trust to other simple gospel to eradicate this evil in God's good time? Have forty years of toleration begun to eradicate it among the Cherokees? Have two hundred years of toleration begun to eradicate it in the Southern State? Peace with slavery in the church will be fatal. The church will go down, and ought to go down, if it persists in hugging this sin. What brave, generous youth will join a church like that? The work has already commenced. It is a fearfully significant fact, that the very words 'Christian' and 'infidel' have almost exchanged meanings. How many a thinking man would rather be known as an infidel philanthropist than a Christian slaveholder! What a satire in the popular lines,
'Man is more than constitutions; better rot beneath the sod,
Than be true too Church and State, while we're doing false to God!'
In conclusion, Christian Brother, study this subject. You have no right to be ignorant of duty. The sin of ignorance is one of the crying sins of the American church-member. Follow the right as fast and as far as you see it, regardless of consequences. Every man, who, by any act or omission of his, allows the inference to be drawn that he recognizes the slaveholder, or the willful apologist, for slavery, as a true Christian, stands on the platform that is crushing the helpless bondman down to rain here and hereafter. No matter what the intention; no matter what the language. Good wishes, brave words, cannot offset the fact that his foot is on the bondman's neck—his weight is grinding him in the dust. In god's name, stand off from your fallen brother! Lift him up if you can. But if you cannot do that, see to it at least that you add not a feather's weight to his chain, lest his blood forever stain your soul. Thunder their duty to the enslaved. Bear them in the arms of your faith and love too the dear God who made us all. And thou, blessed Savior, our elder brother, Son of God, Son of man, with thy mysterious nature keenly sensitive to every pang the humblest feels, help us to hear and heed they voice, saying, 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.'
HOMER B. SPRAGUE.

LANDS FOR SALE.
ALARGE number of parcels of land is hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass, and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale , or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of through, symmetrical, and practical Education—will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R., by which communication may be, had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E.D. DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E.D. Draper's advertisement as above offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Drat. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each; with a view to offer those for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally at traced us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success.—Practical Christian.

WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass, on the line of the boson and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes ' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education. together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the reaches will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school ago large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each.

TEACHERS.
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, Principal.
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
CYRUS PEIRCE.
Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy.
WILLIAM F. ALLEN.
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature.
GEORGE F. ALLEN, Assistants.
ANNA C. BASSETT, Assistants.
B.F. BAKER,
Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music.
E.L. MERRILL,
Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing.
SARAH R. BASSETT,
Teacher of the Primary Department.
'Father Pierce' is at present prevented by ill health from giving instruction in his department.
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into other families; it is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N.T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass.
REFERENCES
Rev. E.S. Gannet, D.D., Wm. Brigham, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D.D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Amasses, Cambridge. 5t Aug. 25.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS;
21 Cornhill...BOSTON.
