

THE LIBERATOR.
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLORS, if payment made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letter revisiting to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisement inserted at the rule of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACESON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINGTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXXII NO.44. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1862. WHOLE NO.1656.
Refuge of Oppression.
AN AMNESTY.
<c01>
We cannot but refer again to an amnesty. The time for conquering the will of the South has passed. The Administration has not pursued the war with the necessary spirit, nor with the sagacity needed for the occasion. There has been too much political chicanery at work. It is not the country that has been most at stake with our officers, but the interests of politicians—of electioneering friends. Hence the appointment to a Major-Generalship of Fremont, of Pope, of Phelps, and the elevation of many other incapable men. The Hon. C. J. Biddle denounced the war as a “Black Republican Job” This was very severe; but, inasmuch as the Black Republicans have been enormously <illegible> by the war, it is an undoubted truth. It is not without foundation, too, in the sense that those Republicans, who are filling their pockets by the campaign, have no wish that there should be a cessation of hostililties; and because the rebellion has much of its cause in Black Republican politics—which is a compound of whiggery, know-nothingism and abolitionism—it is difficult to prove that Colonel Biddle made an unjust denunciation. But, however this may be, the time for subduing the will of the South has gone. That will is now too rampant. It has won too many victories to submit quietly to arms. Its victories over those Black Republican <illegible>—McDowell and Pope—have given it pride that it will never acknowledge defeat. Fighting has only injured our cause. We are able to exterminate the South—to giver its lands to Northern settlers-to emancipate its slaves—to leave it no public work—to remove completely its population; but we cannot conquer the Southern will. While a Southern man remains, there will be a Southern will that cannot be conquered. We can put the South under foot, but its spirit is indomitable. What profit can spring from such a victory? None. If the Southern army was defeated to-morrow, the temper of revolution would grow all the stronger. The President has issued many proclamations which he President has issued many proclamations which he patriotically believed would be followed by an increase of Unionism in the South; but his manifestoes are spit at, and himself derided. His documents are of no avail but one—that of enlarging the spirit of rebellion. Can he mention a single proclamation of his that has realized his hopes? We should be sorry to impede him in saving the UNION. But his past experience should tell him now that an armistice would do good. What does the South want? Can he not put a question of this nature? Can he not try the value of a suggestion for peace? This may not be the highest spirit—it may not be according to the way in which guilty rebels should be treated—but it is prudence. We cannot break the spirit of the South by arms; and without their spirit in its freedom, their overthrow would lead to nothing. Enough of blood has been shed; enough of lives have been lost; enough of desolation to all braches of industry has been done; and enough coercive proclamations have been issued; let us now try the virtue of peace. The President is, indeed, in a most unpleasant situation. There is no doubt that he is honest; but the faction that elected him to the White House want the war continued, for their enterprises to realize large fortunes are in the balance: and, not withstanding the pre-eminence of his position, Abraham Lincoln is, in too many instances, the flexible tool of an unscrupulous party. But he should remember his oath of office, and be untrammelled by anything save the Constitution. That is now in the worst danger, and as it owes most of that danger to the havoe of war administered by know-nothings, abolitionists and republicans, an armistice—a suspension of hostilities—might be offered .
The election in Philadelphia has gone entirely against the Democratic party—the Republicans who are composed of Abolitionists, Know-nothings and Whigs—having carried the point by tremendous majorities. The fact is owing to the principle that possession is nine points of the law;—perhaps it has dependence also on unscrupulous chicanery. At all events, the success of the Republicans is much to be deplored. They are the main cause of this unnatural war. It is their profit that it broke out—it is thesr advantage to have it continued—because they get the contracts. So that in truth their triumph is a continuance of the war—a further estrangement of the South—a new shedding of blood—a new violence on the Constitution—an indefinite adjournment of peace. This iniquitous faction is suffering from what Parson Brownlow calls “nigger on the brain;” and it has the itch of avarice on the palms, But its highest ascent in power has been reached. A few more elections will see the Republicans defeated as the Know-nothings were.—Boston Pilot.
GARIBALDI COMING TO AMERICA.
Garibaldi is a warrior of infidelity, as Voltaire was its essayist. The sword of the one is sharpened by the infamous doctrines of the other. The accursed philosopher looked upon the ejection of infamy on the Popes as the most splendid thing his talents could perform; and he was incessantly engaged in the execution of his bad design. The villainous <illegible> always regarded the utter military demonstrations made by the Papacy as the most necessary act the world has yet required, and he is now, after having vainly shed the blood of thousands, in order to carry it our. The two are precisely in the position of master and scholar. Had Francois de Aronet given his talents a moral direction, it is certain that Ganseppi Garibaldi had not been to-day the excommunicated scoundrel that he is. The worst condemning remark that can be made on any criminal is this, that his career has been to realize the diabolical principles of the satan of France; and that such has been the career of Garibaldi, the voice of St. Peter’s representative himself, that of all the Cardinals, and Bishops and Priests of the whole Church, and of all the faithful, sufficiently attest. A universal decision of this nature cannot be wrong. It weighs against Protestant England—against Protestant America—against all Protestantism—against every opposition that can be found. Evidence like this can never be logically rejected. Protestants, to be sure, give it rejection, and there are some contemptible Catholics whose absurd spirit of independence would revolt at it; but universal judgments stand for ever; the decision of the prejudiced few soon disappears; and while the world endures, the majority of its inhabitants will hold that Garibaldi has been the villain the excommunication of the Church declares him to be. We might present his desperate character by enumerating his deeds; but they are too many to be confined in a newspaper article; and the judgment (which we have given,) that has been pronounced on him, describes the entire case. That judgment is replete with universal condemnation; it has, therefore, a cause of inexpressible wickedness.
<c02>
It is now said that this Voltairian pirate, finding himself unable to take Rome from the Pope, and to stir up rebellion in Sardinia, has offered himself and six thousand Italian soldiers to the American government, as aid in suppressing the rebellion; and many are of opinion that the whole country would generously accept so magnanimous an offer.
The Republican press is clapping hands very boisterously on this circumstance. The New York Tribune, and many other papers of that fanatic stamp, and all the violent Protestant journals in the laud, have taken it up with much glee, and given it the widest commentary they could command. Garibaldi is another Lafayette; his braves will be accepted; there will be eagerness, as there is high honor, in enlisting among such veterans, and their fighting in America will be the best means that has yet happened of furthering the down-trodden liberties of Europe—say the majority of our contemporaries.
It is singular with what facility the American people may be played on. Louis Kossuth humbugged them out of their time, out of their money, out of their admiration, out of their wits. The infamous Lola Monies had almost as great success. No man yet has understood his countrymen so well as Barnum. And are they now to have Garibaldi foisted on them? Is it from true generosity that he has offered his six thousand Italian cut-throats? Both he and his men are rebel war dogs out of business, and together they are willing to become mercenaries. This is really the case of Garibaldi and his men. There should be no doubt that Jefferson Davis could get a bargain of these Italians, and they would suit him admirably,—for, like, his own unfortunate troops, they are rebels. Six thousand Italian rebel mercenaries! Who could command such a herd of revolutionists? The Administration would deserve immediate dismissal from power, if it accepted into the army revolutionary troops from another country. Such an act would make the world say that we have no right to put down the rebellion of the South, for the act would be eminently encouraging to revolutionists. May the Union never see the disgraceful day of suppressing domestic rebels by foreign rebels’ swords! Anything but that! And who would join these six thousand scoundrels? The curse of the Church is on their heads. What Catholic would like to draw sabres by the side of such men? It is a falsehood that there would be any eagerness to unite with them.—Boston pilot.
NEGRO IMMIGRATION.
Do the people of Indiana desire their State to be overrun with lazy, helpless and thriftless Negroes? Do they want the State to be Africanized? Large numbers have already been brought into the State, in violation of our Constitutional provisions against such immigration. If Lincoln’s Proclamation is carried into effect, our State will be flooded with a population, which, by an overwhelming vote of the people, it was determined to exclude. By order of the Secretary of War, thousands of contrabands, men, women and children, are being carried into Illinois. The same thing is going on in Ohio. Unless protested against, the Federal military authorities will Africanize the Western States. We do not want that population amongst us. We do not want the industry of the State taxed for their support. We have already burdens enough, without this addition to them. If Abolitionism triumphs at the polls to-morrow, our State will be flooded with negroes, devouring our substance like the locusts of Egypt. The only remedy for this threatened evil is to elect men to Congress, who will insist that the local laws and policy of the State shall be respected by the officers of the general government, and by the election of a Legislature and public officers who will see that the laws are faithfully executed. There is no hope that a Republican Legislature or Republican officers, unless constrained by heavy fines and penalties, will do their duty in preventing the immigration of negroes. The white men of Indiana must not be degraded by placing the negro in competition with them in the workshops, or in any department of labor.—Indiana State Sentinel, Oct. 10.
SPECIMEN OF INDIANA DEMOCRACY.
The abolition platform used to be “free soil, free speech, tree trade, and free men.” Their free soil is now under martial law, their free add is imprisonment by the government of those who differ from them, their free trade is the infamous Morill prohibitory tariff, and their free men consist of negroes only!—Evansville (Ind.) Gazette.
An orphan white girl, living with a family in Illinois, was removed from her home, a short time since, to make room for a contraband from the South. This is the way it works—poor white folks have to stand aside to make room for Mr. Sambo and Miss Dinah. It will not be long until this will be seen and felt all over the country.—Ibid.
An enthusiastic Democrat, writing from one of the “overwhelming” counties, says: “We have mot the niggers, and they are ours. Our majority is not less than 300. Two years ago, the abolitionists beat us about 200. Glory!”—Ibid.
The Republicans will have a harder time going up Salt River than the Democrats had, not be cause the waters are low, but each fellow will have to “tote” a big nigger on his back.—Ibid.
Butternuts are very abundant this year, but the Republicans are complaining that the shells are so thick that they cannot be cracked with the teeth.—Ibid.
THE PRESIDENTS PROCLAMATION.
The Yankee government has at last laid aside all disguise. Lincoln openly proclaims the abolition of slavery throughout the entire South, wherever a slave is held. The time for issuing this proclamation has been singularly well chosen. It is when the discharge of Pope’s last officer has left our government, for the present, entirely without the means of retaliation. It is singularly consistent with the behavior of Lincoln when Pope’s infamous proclamation was issued. That document was not sent forth until Lincoln had assured himself that the cartel had been or would be signed.
For the proclamation itself, it does not in the least alter die character of the war. It has been an abolition contest from the beginning, and is no more an abolition contest now than it was at first. The Yankees have stolen and set free all the negroes who were willing to go wherever their soldiers have had possession of the country. It is best for us, indeed, that the mask should be entirely laid aside, since our people, no longer deluded into the belief I that slave property will be respected, wilt be careful hereafter to remove it beyond the reach of danger.
This document is merely carious from the clear
<C03>
demonstration which it affords of the entire possession which the abolition party has taken of the federal government, that the utter prostration of the last remnant of what used, with so much unction, to be termed by the canting knaves of New England, “, “the bulwark of our liberties,”—we mean that ridiculous old Constitution of the United States, which no party ever paid any attention to when they were strong enough to disregard it, and from which no party, too weak to justify its position with the sword, ever received the slightest protection. That the whole North will acquiesce, in this last kick of the expiring Constitution, cannot be doubted. Experience has proved that we have nothing to hope from any party in that quarter. Eager as they may be to cut each other’s throats, they are still more eager to cut ours, and to that pious work, we may be assured, they will devote themselves with all their energy. They are already calling for a million more of men, and the probability is that they will have them long before Christmas. We must make up our minds to meet the men, and to beat them, as we both can and will, if they come here.— Richmond Dispatch, Sept. 30th.
Selections.
THE EMANCIPATION QUESTION.
To the Editor of the Toronto Globe:
SIR,—I have read with much satisfaction your recent articles on the emancipation of slaves in the United States; they were in direct contrast and a just rebuke to that pro-slavery sheet, the Leader. It out-herods Herod in its love and praise for the man-stealer, and his hellish institution. The colored man, as well as every member of the human family, has much cause to rejoice that we have here such an advocate of the rights of man, without distinction of color; one that is not dependent upon the blood-stained money of a few slaveholders and their sympathizers to keep up his circulation, but rises above low prejudice and pecuniary consideration to take up the cause of the oppressed. And, sir, when the history of this rebellion is written, the Globe will hold a prominent place in that galaxy of stars which shall be noted for their advocacy of freedom to all men. The Leader has all his sympathy laid up in store for the Slaveocrat, who has grown fat, rich and arrogant upon the bones, blood and muscles of human beings, and deals it out with a profusion that knows no bounds; but he has none for the poor defenceless slave, who has been cut, slashed, burnt, and outraged in all manner of ways, his flesh been torn by bloodhounds, his daughters prostituted, his wife and children sold away thousands of miles from him, and the sleeping babe of his wife stolen from the cradle while its mother is absent on her daily duties.
The Leader pretended some time since that, if the North was fighting for the freedom of the slave, he and the people of Canada could sympathize with her; but as soon as Congress passed the Confiscation Act, to liberate the slaves of the rebels, he labored with all his might to prove it to be barbarous and unconstitutional! And when President Lincoln performs the crowning act of his administration, and issues his proclamation of emancipation,—for which millions of hearts all over the world will beat in thanksgiving to God,—the Leader, true to his instincts, commences to hurl his epithets against him and his proclamation!
It seems the Leader fears that emancipation will cause an influx of free colored people into Canada. Nothing can be more erroneous. On the contrary, it will be the best thing that could he done to prevent an influx either into the North or Canada. And I think any one who asserts that the slaves will, when free, desert the places of their nativity in the sunny South, and come to this cold and inhospitable climate, where they will be subject to the diseases incidental to it, and from which they enjoy perfect immunity there, (to say nothing of the cold-hearted and cruel prejudice exhibited towards them here by certain evil-disposed persons,) must either be a fool or a knave. But suppose, Mr. Editor, for argument’s sake, a few thousands of those stout fellows, with whom John Mitchell, the convict, wished to have a plantation down South well stocked, and who have made the South what it has been by the sweat of their brow, who have kept the Lancashire looms going so long, the stoppage of whose productions is now dealing such a heavy blow to Britain, and reducing her operatives to famine and beggary, were to settle upon some of our rich lands not now under cultivation, and make them to yield their natural productions so as to increase their value, what objection could there be to it? For the country is certainly in want of laborers, and it cannot be said that we have not, good farmers amongst us; for it is proverbial that some of the best farms in Western Canada are owned by colored men, and some, too, that they have bought from white men who had failed to succeed, and were obliged to sell out themselves, to prevent the sheriff from doing it for them.
It cannot be disguised, Mr. Editor, that both the North and South are getting well scourged for their oppression of the colored man; and Canada may now learn a lesson from which she should profit, rather than take a retrograde movement to oppress the poor and helpless. And let her not forget the words of Thomas Jefferson who said, “When I remember that God is just, I tremble for my country.”
But, says the Leader, you are better off as slaves than if you were free. Well, if slavery is such a benign institution, let him and his coadjutors make a trial of it; and as old uncle Abe is going to deprive the black race of its great blessings and benefits, they will have a good chance of monopolizing it. Nor need they fear any competition, or that they will not succeed for want of capital. It only wants willing hearts, with union and perseverance; and although at first it will come a little awkward to them, they have only to keep trying, when I am sure they will be able to transmit to their posterity some of the imprints of its beauties—namely, fiat noses, retreating foreheads, projecting teeth, thick lips, large feet, and long heels; and, should they get down in some of the rice swamps of South Carolina, perhaps they may even succeed in handing down a black skin and a woolly head of hair. For Hugh Miller tells as, in his “Testimony of the Bocks,” page 272, that “There are cased in which not more than from two to three centuries have been found sufficient thoroughly to alter the physiognomy of men.” And further, “On the plantation of Ulster in 1611, and afterwards on the success of the British against the rebels in 1641 and 1689,” says a shrewd writer of the present day, himself an Irishman, “great multitudes of the native Irish were driven from Armagh and the south of Down, into the mountainous tract extending from the Barony of Fleurs eastward to the sea; on the other side of the kingdom the same race were exposed to the worst effects of hunger and ignorance, the two great brutalisers of the human race. The descendants of these exiles are now distinguished physically by great degradation. They are remarkable for open, projecting mouths, with
<C04>
prominent teeth and exposed gums; and their advancing check bones and depressed noses bear barbarism on their very front.”
In conclusion, Mr. Editor, I have to express to you, what I am satisfied every intelligent colored person feels, gratitude for your noble and manly advocacy of our cause, with a wish that God may speed you in the work of imbuing in the minds of the people pure principles of liberty and equality to all men. I remain, dear sir,
Your humble servant,
ONE OF THE SONS OF HAM.
Toronto, Oct. 2, 1862.
THE PEOBLEM OF RACE.
Some of our exchanges come to us with long leaders under the above heading. They are endeavoring to establish the fact of inequality of races, and argue thence that the weaker races are naturally and inevitably to be enslaved by the stronger. They say that the black race is inferior to the white race, and that whenever the two have coexisted, the whites, if sufficiently numerous, have held the blacks in slavery. Because this has been, they argue that it must continue to be. In their view, the President’s proclamation is aimed against a social status, fixed and permanent by the laws of God. This “higher law” receives their homage. They are its willing subjects, and evidently hope it will over-rule anti-slavery proclamations and acts of Congress.
But the equality of races is not the point in question. In this argument we do not care whether the ancient Egyptians, whose armies overran and subjugated nearly all Asia, were white or black. It is of no consequence, whether or not the black race in the person of Hannibal gave to the world its greatest general. Suppose we grant, for the purpose of argument, that the black race is inferior to the white race. This being the fact, the superior race would undoubtedly, so long as it remained in a state of semi-barbarism and heathenism itself, hold the inferior race in subjection and bondage. In the earlier ages of the world, when the normal state of all races seems to have been war, the more powerful tribes, after defeating their weaker neighbors in bloody battles, devastated their territory, robbed them of their property, and reduced them to slavery. This was in accordance with natural laws, so long as the human race was subject to the base and uncontrolled rule of its animal nature.
But Christianity and civilization have changed all that, and whoever should now argue that we ought to treat our enemies as the old nations did, as even the Israelites—the chosen people of God—did as they believed under his express command, would only subject himself to the imputation of cruelty and barbarism. He would be regarded as an anomaly, a waif from the dark ages, which, somehow or other surviving its day and generation, had come down to us that we might know what manner of men these old barbarians were.
The advocate of slavery, as the necessary result of the inequality of races, at the present time stands in the same category as would the advocate of the enforcement of the old rules of barbarous war in this age of Christian enlightenment. He is out of his place. Existence in this era of light and progress must be as painful to this estray from the dark ages as it would be to an owl to be exposed to the full sunshine of day. We must bear with him patiently, for he is an object of pity as well as of blame, and is the cause of more suffering to himself than to others. The “higher law” of the Christian, in contradistinction to that of the, pagan, teacher us that the strong should sustain and encourage the weak instead of tyrannizing over them should elevate rather than oppress them. If the blacks are inferior to the whites, then it is doubly our duty, as a Christian people, to remove the yoke which superior power has imposed upon them, and assist them in attaining to whatever social and moral elevation their natures may be capable of.
The men who believe in the inferiority of the black race, and thence infer that it should be held in slavery, prove themselves to belong to a past semi-barbarism, rather than than the present civilization, and to be possessed of the nature of bullies and cowards, rather than of brave men and Christians.—Worcester Spy, Oct. 8th.
CONFEDERATE PERSISTENCE.
What has the South gained by rebellion? Agricultural impediments from which famine is sure to result; mercantile ruin that can never be repaired; manufacturing losses of the most unfortunate nature; and domestic desolations which no earthly circumstances can liquidate. These are the profits the South has gained by its treason; and the same profits are increasing every day. Each twenty-four hours the Union has a new victory to exult in; and as time passes, the Southern resources are becoming tremendously crippled. But for all this—in the very presence of the worst disasters already in extence, and of a certain repetition of them, if the treason continues—the Confederate authorities still hope to carry their point, are as inveterate as ever in their wicked resolve to split the Republic. Firmness, when guided by a good understanding, deserves the highest commendation, but when it degenerates into surly stubbornness, there should be no patience with it. That it is stubbornness which now influences the Richmond government, no one can deny. What hopes of success can the Confederacy entertain? Can it recover back Tennessee? Is it able to restrain North Carolina from re-entering the Union? Will Maryland—now loyal Maryland—join it? What means has it for expelling General Butler from New Orleans? Are there any more Merrimacs in its capacity? Has it a navy? What can it do to take Norfolk from General Wool? Can it prevent General McClellan from taking Richmond? In a word, what hone of success of any description can the South legitimately entertain? It can entertain no hope. Is it blind to this fearful condition of things? Have its leaders no perception of the utter—the glaring—the most certain impossibility of success? Those men most have some intelligence; they cannot but have clear convictions that their cause is entirely under the iron heel of the loyal North. Why then do they persist? What do they hope to do for the South? Has not their treason overwhelmed it sufficiently with misfortune? Is it for themselves, or for what they call their country, they persist in treason? If they have any patriotism for the latter, they should at once break up. Their persistence is murderous cruelty. It will entail in the most direct manner the worst consequences on the South; for the North is able to restore the Union, and it will do it at all hazards. After  “”Bull Run,” there was a shadow of hope for the Confederacy; bat that battle has been reversed more than a thousand fold, and new reversions are happening every day. Further persistence is not only a great crime, it is also a most blind imprudence. But if our friends will persist, so will the North; and the North will carry the victory.—Boston Pilot, June 7th.
<C05>
WHO ARE THEIR FRIENDS?
To the Editors of the Boston Daily Advertiser:
Let the mudsills of Massachusetts read what the chivalry say of them and their masters, the friends of the rebels here.
Dr. Bellows informs us that the slaveholders are brave and fascinating aristocrats, with small hands and feet!
Lucky for us, since we were made only to be trodden upon. Their fingers are certainly light enough! Witness their exploits in pillage, before which the chivalric Dick Turpin and Captain Kidd sink into insignificance.
We always knew they were born to rule us, but, until lately, they claimed to do it through their dear friends, the pro-slavery democrats.
What new light has broken in upon Mr. George Fitzhugh?
He now talks of waiting until the “gentlemen, conservatives, scholars and Christians, who have always ridden our masses, shall be again in the saddle!”
If we are such asses as to let them mount, may their spurs be sharp and their lash- heavy, for we shall deserve it!
What has lately happened in Massachusetts, to lead these chivalric, small-footed gentry to expect a revolution here in their favor?
Can it be the “No Party” movement for sustaining the President?
Are they so infatuated as to believe that the people of Massachusetts, entrenched behind their common schools, are to be caught by such flimsy chaff as this “No Party” concern?
The old proverb says it is wise to learn from our enemy!
Let any honest and patriotic men, who have been seduced by their prejudices into this “No Party” movement, read Mr. George Fitzhugh, and consider what sort of company they are getting into!
Let the people of Massachusetts read him, and keep a sharp look out for the virtuous and intelligent governing class which he so soon expects to see riding them! AUDAX.
“We shall not offend our friends in Massachusetts by legislation directed at the party now in the ascendant. Never was a baser set of wretches in possession of power than those who have ruled and voted in that State ever since the time of the Hiss Legislature; and yet no State possesses so many men eminently fitted to rule. The creatures born with saddles on their backs, have thrown their riders. The dogs have escaped from the kennel. But horses and dogs need masters; they cannot long live without them. The present governing class in Massachusetts are naturally the lower layer of society. They are incapable of fulfilling, for any length of time, any other offices than those belonging to that lower layer. They will soon subside into their proper position, and be glad to get gentlemen, and conservatives, and scholars, and Christians, to rule over them, while they ‘hew the wood and draw the water.’ These outbreaks of society, in which ‘the meanest get uppermost,’ will occasionally occur. But, in the long run, virtue governs vice, intelligence governs ignorance, religion controls infidelity. Let us of the South be patient, and wait for that process of subsidence and stratification in Northern society, which will be sure to put our friends uppermost; for it is as natural for them to ride, as it is for the masses to be ridden. He who denies that God made the multitude to be directed, governed and controlled by the few, and that this common multitude is happier, more virtuous and prosperous, when governed, than when governing, quarrels with the course of nature, and disputes the wisdom and beneficence of Deity. Universal suffrage may put society wrong side up, but nature is all-powerful, and soon brings down the lower layer or stratum to its true place.”—[GEORGE FITZHUGH, of Virginia.
ADVICE OF GEN. SCOTT.
WASHINGTON, March 3,1861.
DEAR SIR,—Hoping that in a day or two the new President will have happily passed through all personal dangers, and find himself enstalled an honored successor of the great Washington, with you as chief of his Cabinet, I beg leave to repeat, in writing, what I have before said to you orally—this supplement to my printed “views,”  (dated in October last,) on the highly disordered condition of our  (so late) happy and glorious Union. To meet the extraordinary exigencies of the times, it seems to me that I am guilty of no arrogance in limiting the President’s field of selection to one of four plans of procedure subjoined:—
1.	Throw off the old and assume a new designation—the Union party. Adopt the conciliatory measures proposed by Mr. Crittenden or the Peace Convention, and my life upon it, we shall have no newcase of secession; but, on the contrary, an early return of many, if not of all the States which have already broken off from the Union. Without tome equally benign measure, the remaining slaveholding States will probably join the Montgomery Confederacy in less than sixty days; when this city, being included in a foreign country, would require a permanent garrison of at least thirty-five thousand troops to protect the government within it.
2.	Collect the duties on foreign goods outside the ports of which the Government has lost the command, or close such ports by acts of Congress, and blockade them.
3.	Conquer the seceding States by invading armies. No doubt this might be done in two or three years by a young and able General—a Wolfe, a Desaix, or a Hoche—with 300,000 disciplined men, estimating a third for garrisons, and a loss of a yet greater number by skirmishes, sieges, battles and Southern fevers, The destruction of life and property on the other side would be frightful, however perfect the moral discipline of the invaders. The conquest completed at that enormous waste of human life to the North and Northwest, with at least $250,000,000 added thereto, and cui bono? Fifteen devastated provinces! not to be brought into harmony with their conquerors, but to be held for generations by heavy garrisons, at an expense quadruple the nett duties or taxes which it would be possible to extort from them, followed by a protector or an emperor.
4.	Say to the seceded States: Wayward sisters, depart in peace.
In haste, I remain, very truly, yours,
WINFIELD SCOTT.
Hon. William H. Seward, &c, &c.
This letter was read by John Van Buren, at the meeting in the Cooper Institute on Monday evening. No possible turn of events can ever wipe out from history the stain which it casts on the reputation of General Scott, and, in part, upon the President, for entrusting the conduct of the war to a leader whose opinions were against it. The Commander-in-Chief says to the President, in effect, You can do either of four things: give the rebels what they want, blockade their ports, fight them, or let them depart. The first he strongly recommends; the second be would not oppose; to their departure as “wayward sisters,” he has evidently no insuperable objections; but when he comes to the question of fighting, the only thing possible, with honor, under the circumstances, be argues against it with all his power. How could the President, after such as avowal, entrust him with the management of the war? How is it that be did not say to him, “Sir, your sentiments disqualify you for directing in this terrific contest which has been forced upon me; I most have a General who believes the
<C06>
rebellion must and can be put down by actual war, by conquering and not compromising with traitors in arms; notwithstanding your previous gallant services in behalf of your country, stern duty requires that in this emergency I should confide the interests of the nation to other hands”? Would not this have been the universal feeling of the loyal North, could they have known at the time that such a letter had been addressed to the President? Who is there that would have recommended our entering upon this war under such auspices? Long and anxiously did the people watch and wait, and wonder at the course of events, disaster upon disaster, and apparently without any sufficient reason; the whole was to them a perfect mystery.
This letter makes all plain: General Scott never meant to fight. When forced to it, his army, as might be expected, met with defeat. His successor was selected by himself; General McClellan was one who held the same views, and was prepared to carry on the campaign in the same manner. The result is that a hundred thousand of our brave champions have slept the sleep of death; a thousand millions of debt lie like an incubus on the heart of the nation; and what have we accomplished? Are we in as good a condition, physically or morally, as when the war began? Are we as capable of giving a short, sudden, decisive blow as we were a year and a half ago? This it is that makes our cup so bitter: the thought of our sons and brothers sacrificed in vain, is as gall and wormwood to the hearts of hundreds of thousands.—American Baptist.
GOV. TOD OH THE PROCLAMATION.
An immense Proclamation ratification meeting was lately held at Columbus Ohio, at which stirring speeches were made by G. Volney Dorsey, State Treasurer; Gen. Wallace, T. Buchanan Reed, the Hon. Samuel Galloway, and Gov. Tod, the Democratic Governor of the Buckeye State. A letter was read from ex-Gov. Dennison, who was too unwell to be present. All of these were earnest and thorough in favor of the proclamation. The main objection which Gen. Wallace had to it being that it was ill-timed in that it did not take effect Jan. 1, 1862, instead of 1863. Mr. Galloway, in referring to the fact that the rebels do not like it, said, we do like the letter and spirit of the Proclamation, because the rebels don’t like it, and because it strikes at the liver and lungs of the rebellion. Mr. Dorsey said that the only two questions which a loyal man asks about the Proclamation are: ‘Is it necessary?’ and ‘Will it be effective?’ To both of which he would answer, yes. As will be seen by the speech of Gov. Tod, which is published below, he cordially indorses the Proclamation in every syllable and sentiment. He said:—
“My neighbors, it is very gratifying to be thus cordially and kindly received. But I hope you will excuse me, and not be disappointed that I make no speech. I would be glad to do so, but the labors of the past few days, and the pressing labors now on hand, forbid. A few words will suffice for me to speak my views on this proclamation. I have studied it calmly; I have given it my faithful attention; and I here say to you, that I cordially indorse every word and syllable of it. I would be sorry to differ with the distinguished General  (Wallace,) as to its being in any wise ill-timed. I think that it is well-timed—perfectly well-timed in every regard. We must remember the position that Mr. Lincoln occupies. He is as much the President of South Carolina and Virginia as be is of Ohio sad Illinois. And I tell you that his long forbearance in laying his hand upon Slavery entitles him to a monument that shall reach high towards the heavens.
Few men in this world could have acted so carefully and so calmly as Mr. Lincoln has done. This proclamation is, in my judgment, perfectly well timed; particularly so as to Ohio. For affairs had come to such a pass that the question was forced upon us—whether we, with our army, should stay at home to protect oar homes and families from the rebels, or whether they should be sent home to protect theirs. Stupid though he may be, yet only let this African be made free, and, my word for it, they will soon give these rebel rascals enough to do to take care of their own homes and families. And, for one, I prefer that they should be put to the work of looking out for themselves, rather than we should.
I have seen for months, my friends, that exhaustion on the one side or the other is to be the only end of the rebellion. For the spirit of their master, the devil, has so completely entered into and possessed the hearts of those leaders, that nothing but exhaustion will be able to reduce them to obedience to the requirements of their allegiance. And this proclamation is the very thirty to weaken them in a most vital part.
This proclamation—what is it? The President simply says to these rebels,—Cease your ungodly war—lay down your weapons of rebellion—return to your allegiance by due representation in Congress and obedience to law, and all is right. Then the proclamation of emancipation of your slaves won’t hurt you. Now, are nut ninety days time enough for them to determine the point as to which course they will take? If, within these three months, the rebel States return to their proper and lawful condition in the Union, this proclamation becomes a dead letter. But if they choose to continue in their ungodly rebellion, who is to blame but themselves? They invoke the consequences on their own heads. And who will be willing to stop them? Go ask the father, whose manly son has yielded up his young life before those rebels’ guns, if he would have the government stop there. No! If I have any influence with the government, I will urge it to go farther, and to go on till every one of those infamous leaders is hanged, as an example to all future time. The best blood of Ohio cries from the battle-field, and demands the death at these leaders. To beggar them by confiscation is not enough. They must die! There is no loyal man in Ohio that can condemn the President for his proclamation. We must have no divided issues amongst us.
I am happy, my friends, to say that I have made the acquaintance of Abraham Lincoln. I had known him before, as we know men whose hand we take, and are gone. But now, I‘ve come to know him. I have had a long and confidential conversation with him. He is calm and undismayed; and I am satisfied, that in his bands we have confided the affairs of Government to hands able and faithful. And let me assure you, whatever the newspapers may say to the contrary, that there is perfect harmony in the Cabinet at Washington. And, in my opinion, all bids fair to end the war right soon; and that, as I believe, after this winter, we shall have hot little left to do but to catch and hang the leaders of this infernal rebellion.”
The Richmond Despatch thinks that too many masters “are deluded by implicit confidence in the fidelity of their servants.”
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GEN. MITCHELL’S SPEECH TO THE CONTRABANDS.
On Sunday, Oct. 12, the negro church at Hilton Head was dedicated to divine service. The pastor is to be a black man named Abram Murchison, from Savannah, of the Baptist persuasion. The exercises were conducted by Rev. H. N. Hudson, chaplain of the New York Engineer Regiment, and Gen. Mitchell was present, and made the following address: —
“I have been requested to say a few words to you by your teacher who is a good man. Any good man I like, regardless of color. I respect him as much whether he is black or white. It he be a had man, I shall treat him as such, whether he is white or black. Most of you know that I have talked to all my soldiers nine I came here, and now I am talking to you, who are another set of soldiers, who have not yet arms in their hands, but who are under my protection and guidance, and in whom I take deep interest. With your past life I fully sympathize. I know and understand it all. I was reared in the midst of slavery, born in Kentucky, and know all about it. While there are many things connected with it that are pleasant, to which you will testify, there are a vast many other things which are not pleasant, and I think that God intends all men shall be free, because he intends that all men shall serve him with their whole heart. I think this is true. I am not certain. I don’t know. But in any condition we can all love and serve God. That privilege cannot be taken away. I care not how savage and wicked the master may be, he cannot prevent you from praying in the midst of the night, and God hears and answers the prayers of all, slave or free.
But it seems to me that there is a new time coming for you colored people; a better day is dawning for you oppressed and down-trodden blacks. I don’t know that this is true, but I hope that the door is being opened for your deliverance. And now, how deeply you should ponder these words! If now you are unwilling to help yourselves, nobody will be willing to help you. You must trust yourselves to the guidance of those who have had better opportunities and have acquired superior wisdom, if you would be carried through this crisis successfully. And I believe the good God will bless your efforts and lift you up to a higher level than you have yet occupied, so that you and your children may become educated and industrious citizens. You must organize yourselves into families. Husbands must love their wives and children, clinging to them and turning from all others, and feeling that their highest object in life, next to serving the good God, is to do all they can for their families, working for them continually.
“Good colored friends, you have a great work to do, and you are in a position of responsibility. The whole North, all the people in the free States, are looking at you and the experiment now tried in your behalf with the deepest interest.  This experiment is to give you freedom, position, home, and your own families—wives, property, your own soil. You shall till and cultivate your own crops; you shall gather and sell the products of your industry for your own benefit; you shall own your own savings, and you shall he able to feel that God is prospering you from day to day and from year to year, and raising you to a higher level of goodness religion and a nobler life.
“Supposing you fall down here: that will be are end of the whole matter. It is like attaching a cable to a stranded vessel, and all the strength that can be mustered is put upon this rope to haul her oft. It this only rope breaks, the vessel is lost. God help you all, and help us all to help you! If you are-idle, vicious, indolent and negligent, you will fail, and your last hope is gone; if you are not faithful, you rivet eternally the fetters upon those who today are fastened down by fetters, and suffer by the driver’s goad. You have in your hands the rescuing of those sufferers over whose sorrows you mourn continually.  If you fail, what a dreadful responsibility it will lie when you come to die to feel that the only great opportunity you had for serving yourselves and your oppressed race was allowed to slip!
“And you, women, you must be careful of your children. You must teach them to be industrious, cleanly, obedient and dutiful at all times. You must keep your houses neat and tidy, working all day if necessary to have them in the best possible condition, always thinking and contriving to make them cleaner and more comfortable. When your husband comes home from the labors and fatigues of the day, always have something good and nice for his supper, and speak kindly to him, for these little acts of love and attention will bring you happiness and joy.
“And when you men go out to work, you must labor with diligent and zeal. It seems to me, had I the stimulus to work that you have, that I could labor like a giant. Now you know who I am. My first duty here is to deal justly; second, to love mercy; and third, to walk humbly. First, justly, — I shall endeavor to get you to do your duty faithfully. If you do, I shall reward you; and if you refuse, then what comes next? Why, the wicked must be punished and be made to do right. I will take the bad man by the throat, and force him to his duty. I do not mean that I will take hold of him with my own hands, but with the strong arm of military power. Now do we understand each other? I am working for you already. 1 am told by your superintendent that a gang of fifty men are building you houses at the rate of six a day. These houses are to make you more comfortable. You are to have a patch of ground, which you can call your own, to raise your own garden truck, and you may work for the government for good wages.  And you women must make your houses shine; yon must plaster them and whitewash them, and gradually get furniture in your cabins, and a cooking-stove. I have arranged in such a way that you will get your clothing cheaper and better than before, and you are to have a school for your children. And you must have flowers in your gardens and blossoms before your doors. You will see in a little while how much happier you will be made.
“Are you not willing to work for this? Yes, God helping, you will all work.  This is only for yourselves; but if you are successful, this plan will go all through the country, and we will have answered the question that has puzzled all good thinking men in the world for one hundred years. They have asked. “What will you do with the black man after liberating him? We will show them what we will do. We will make him a useful, industrious citizen. We will give him his family, his wife, his children—give him the earnings of the sweat of his brow, and as a man we will give him what the Lord ordained him to have.
“I shall watch everything closely respecting this experiment. It is something to be permanent— more than for a day, more than for a year. Upon you depends whether this mighty result shall be worked out, and the day of Jubilee come to God’s ransomed people.”

MR. SUMNER AND THE PROCLAMATION.
Senator Sumner’s speech in Faneuil Hall defines and defends the new stroke of war which President Lincoln has delivered in his Emancipation Proclamation. It well became him to appear before his constituents in this great cause, and at this momentous time; for he, more than any other, has been the national champion of the military necessity of the measure. All men who love their country above any part or party of it, and who so see its extreme peril that they would weigh all counsels that propose its swift and perfect triumph, will read and ponder his eloquent and commanding argument. We mean this, not as a mere compliment to the great orator, but the more emphatically to urge its perusal, not only as a duty but a pleasure, by every loyal American who has not yet given his entire assent to the ways and means pointed out in this elaborate oration for liberty.  It is not wise to delay this decision longer, for we have at length arrived at the parting of the ways. Henceforth, men cannot plead that, in opposing Mr. Sumner’s views, they are supporting the President. In the most authoritative manner, and in the broadest sense, it is now known to the world that the President has reached and occupies the position, with regard to slavery, which that Senator had pointed out, and on which he knew, and again and again proclaimed, that he was advancing with firm but most deliberate steps. Those who opposed this extraordinary course have had time and opportunity to be heard, and they have improved it in every form known to the liberty, and even the license, of discussion. However they may continue to vilify the statesman, who foresaw, and it may be accelerated, the adoption of this war policy, it is plain that the final stage of argument is passed. To offer reason against it now may unfavorably affect the public Bind, and restrain
<C02>
the individual. To talk further of the pressure brought to bear, and of the yielding to it if not utterly false in fact, is to be disobedient to orders which, in essence, are strictly military. This insubordination may be tolerated far a brief space, but evidently it time is short. That the occasion would be used by some to assail the Government with a view to intimidation, or at least to draw off extreme conservative partizans from its support, was not unconsidered by the Executive, and, therefore, the articles of martial law which followed close upon the Proclamation. Certainly, this question cannot divide patriots now, however, before, it may have parted them in opinion. It is not from them that we shall hear views adverse to a national course, deliberately and solemnly determined. Those who cannot receive this new policy as something long desired should at least accept it in silence; for it is a blow for victory over traitors, struck in the sacred name of Liberty. And, moreover, those who have raised the arm of the nation to deal it know well how far it will reach, and how deep it will smite; and their brief forbearance and warning are because they have the complete evidence wherewith to measure its impending terror, and believe its weight will be irresistible. — Taunton Gazette and Democrat.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1862.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The subscribers to The Pine and Palm are hereby notified that arrangements have been made, by which The Liberator will be supplied to them until the close of their several subscriptions. As soon as the number of copies now due by me are furnished, The Liberator will be no longer sent, unless my friends promptly renew their orders for it, accompanied by the cash. It is not probable that The Pine and Palm will be revived this year.
Boston, Oct. 27, 1862. JAMES REDPATH.
STATE ELECTION.
The annual election in Massachusetts will take place on Tuesday next. There is the most lively interest felt in its results in every part of the country—in Rebeldom no less than in all the loyal States. In spite of the combination and active efforts of all the sham loyalists, secession sympathizers, spurious democrats, and brutal and depraved tools of unprincipled aspirants for office, the triumphant relection of Gov. Andrew and Hon. Charles Sumner is unquestionable. Since the rebellion broke out, none have been more zealous for its suppression, and in support of the government, than themselves; and their labors have been truly herculean. Animated by the purest patriotism, they have discharged the multifarious duties devolving upon them most creditably. The opposition waged against them is of the meanest and most malignant character; and the difference between those who support and those who oppose them, in intelligence, virtue, moral worth, and exalted patriotism, is precisely that which exists between the light of heaven and the darkness of the pit. “Hell from beneath” is stirred to prevent their reelection. Whether their rancorous assailants are traitors in spirit and design or not, one thing is beyond doubt or denial—their defeat would cause shouts of infernal exultation to go up from every part of the rebellious South. It follows, therefore, that whoever aide by his vote or influence in procuring their defeat is doing a traitorous work, and making himself the accomplice of the wickedest and most desperate conspirators against God and Man, against Liberty and Justice, the world has ever seen.
The “no-party” candidate for Governor, in opposition to John A. Andrew, is Col. Charles Devens, whose rendition of Thomas Sims (as U. S. Marshal), and baseness in placing chains around the Court House in Boston, beneath which Judge Shaw and his associates were forced to crawl to gain admittance to their court room, make him eminently fit to represent such a party. Owing his present military position to the generosity and magnanimity of Gov. Andrew, his readiness to enter the lists as the Governor’s competitor, backed up by all that is factious and desperate in the Commonwealth, indicates destitution of patriotic nobility as well as base ingratitude. Verily, he will have his reward!

BE NOT DECEIVED.
It is a patent fact, that the greatest peril of the North is not from external attack, but from internal dissension. It was a proud boast for us to make, that the first shot which startled the garrison at Sumter melted all differences, and made us brothers in a common cause. Apparently we were a unit. Had the Boston Courier at that time printed such sentiments as it does today, popular indignation would have destroyed its office. Had John Van Buren ventured to utter a speech one half as treasonable as his late one in New York, he would have paid the forfeit of his life or liberty.
That golden hour for the nation passed unheeded. With a leader who comprehended the vastness of the issue and the precious value of time, rebellion could have been crushed by the thunderbolt of emancipation, and a lengthy civil war nipped in the bud.
But the past is irretrievable, and it profits us nothing to recur to it complainingly, except as it helps us to be wiser in the future. Perhaps, in the light of impartial justice, it is better that the scourge should come upon us as it has, rather than that we should escape the well-earned retribution of our sins. “Not what we wish, O Lord, but what we want,” be our prayer.
Eighteen months crowded with gloom and disaster have brought us to the point from which we should have started — the proclamation of emancipation. Eighteen months in which the governmental policy was so incomprehensible to loyal men that they grew wearied and disheartened, while traitors waxed bold and defiant.  The decree of freedom comes like a ray of light to invigorate loyalty and confound treason.  But the penalty of postponing so long this inevitable necessity cannot be escaped. The factious and disloyal element will assert, that the proclamation is the cause of the dissension so suddenly developed in our midst; whereas it has only made apparent, not created, the determined opposition to the government which has secretly been gathering head for months.
Many will be deceived by this plausible lie. It is even said by Washington letter-writers, that the President is disposed to regard the State elections, West, as the result of his proclamation. Let him, rather, seek the reason in his own procrastination. Let him remember the length of time his name has been used by traitors to entrap the unthinking into their nefarious designs. Let him not forget that his equivocal position gained for him the eulogies of the republic’s enemies and the tears of his true friends. He should thank God that his name is no longer a savory morsel in the mouths of the Van Burens, the Seymours, and the Joel Parkers.
We are most grateful that the line is drawn. “Never any wounded the Commonwealth,” says old Thomas Fuller, “but they first kissed it, pretending the public good.” The proclamation is the touch-stone which reveals the Judases who are seeking our betrayal. It came too late to save Pennsylvania and Ohio, but in time, we doubt not, to rescue New York and Massachusetts. The issue in both these States is to decide whether the people are ready to become the vassals of Jefferson Davis, or to prosecute the war vigorously for national unity and impartial freedom. Every vote cast at the election in November answers affirmatively one or other of these questions.
“Have ye chorea, O my people, on whose party ye shall stand,
Ere the Doom from its worn sandals shake its dust against our land?
Though the cause of evil prosper, yet the Truth alone is strong,
And, albeit she wander outcast now, I see around her throng
Troops of beautiful tall angels to enshield her from all wrong.”
W. L. G., JR.
<c03>
PRAYER INSTEAD OF WORK.
We have been accustomed to say, and to prove by abundant evidence, that the Church is the main bulwark of slavery. The buying, and selling, and flogging, and working, and breeding of slaves have constantly been practised and defended by ministers and church-members at the South; and ministers and church-members of the same sects in the North hare fraternized with these a true Christian brethren, and refused to recognize their slaveholding as incompatible with the Christian character. The customs and traditions of the churches wrought so decidedly to this end, that when a man joined the church, it became from that moment less likely than before that he would either regard slaveholding as a sin, or work against it as an evil. Even when, from some outside influence, or from some evidence brought to his individual knowledge, a church-member came to regard slaveholding as an objectionable or injurious practice, the influence of his church connection tended to make him regard this as mere matter of opinion, and to feel that a brother, North or South, might hold the opposite opinion, and pursue the opposite practice, without ground of impeachment of his Christian character. Thus it comes about, that those church-members in Boston who now, in the altered state of things that has come upon us, call themselves “anti-slavery,” still look upon Dr. South-side Adams as a Christian equally with themselves. They differ in opinion with him. But the version of Christianity which the church has given them allows free difference of opinion, and of practice too, in the matter of slaveholding. We must distinguish, they tell us, between matters of opinion and matters of principle. If Bishop General Polk shall be proved to have committed the sin of schism, let him be cast out of the church; but let no man interfere with his Christian privilege of slave-holding.  If Dr. Adams should ever commit the wickedness of believing that God exists in one person only, instead of in three—or that he has carried on the affairs of this world without the occasional interposition of miraculous acts instead of with them—these are matters essential, fundamental; here is something absolutely incompatible with Christianity; let him be excommunicated; but let no man interfere with his Christian privilege of believing and teaching the lawfulness of holding men in slavery.
When, thirty years ago, it now and then happened that an individual church-member used his Christian liberty to form an opinion that slaveholding was a great sin, it was quite natural for him to pray, in the church-meetings, that it might be overthrown. This, however, produced a troublesome conflict of opinions, and was so distasteful to the majority as to be discouraged by the weight of church influence, and sometimes arbitrarily ruled out, as an irregularity; an unjustifiable infraction of “the peace of the church.” And even so lately as in “the great revival” of 1857-8, it was customary to hang upon the walls of prayer-meetings placards conspicuously inscribed— “No Controverted Topics,” meaning—No allusions to slavery.
But the great change which the last ten years have made in our country in regard to slavery is now, at last, making its mark upon that most conservative of all bodies, the church; and many of its members who, as far as church influences are concerned, would probably have remained pro-slavery all their days, have been led by outside influence (mainly that of the Republican party) to hate and oppose slavery. When this change has once been wrought in them, of course they wish to use their influence as church-members, as well as their personal, social, and political influence, against that great public nuisance. Of course, they are disposed (and in the new order of things they are permitted) to express these feelings and desires in social prayer. But church action is so much a matter of routine, and the traditions and customs of the church make such steady, quiet resistance to any deviation from that routine, that its members, as such, do not think of applying themselves to any other action than prayer upon this subject. They pray, and pray, and pray, and then adjourn.
Far be it from me to say anything against praying. Truly says the old proverb—”Prayer and food hinder no man’s journey.” When work and prayer go hand in hand, they mutually help each other. But if prayer be made the substitute for work, if a man, like Simon Stylites, undertakes to make prayer the sole business of his life, that man’s life will be a waste and a failure, and even his prayers will be comparatively barren and worthless.
My complaint of the church brethren in question is that, in this particular matter, they confine their church action exclusively to prayer, neglecting a method of church action which might be made promptly effectual for the utter overthrow of slavery, and thus disregarding an apostolic injunction to manifest their faith by their works.
The method of church action above referred to, which I again affirm might be made promptly effectual for the utter overthrow of slavery, is this: —
Let all those brethren and sisters, in every church of every denomination, who really wish the extermination of slavery, not only ask God for it as they are accustomed to do, but join, at the close of their next church-meeting, in the signature of a letter, assuring President Lincoln of their wish, as Christians, that he would immediately use to that effect the special power which God has now providentially placed in his hands.
President Lincoln has strong adverse influences to contend with, and he has had the manliness frankly to acknowledge that he needs help in the accomplishment of the great work before him. He has repeatedly asked, not only that prayer be made for him without ceasing, but that those who wish action taken against slavery will make manifest their desire to that effect, and produce before the world such a mass of influence in that direction as to be at once his assurance of the existence of such a wish, and his support against opposing influences in the process of its execution. If a body of church-members, men and women, to the amount of even one in ten of the whole number in the North, would ask Abraham Lincoln to finish the good work he has begun, and use his power as President and Commander-in-Chief, to proclaim, the immediate and entire obolition of slavery throughout the nation, it is unquestionable that that work would speedily be done.  No red tape in the Cabinet, no party influences outside, no intrigues of pro-slavery Generals, not even the pernicious Border-State influence, could stand against such a movement.  The churches of this country have in their hands the heart of the President, and can turn it whithersoever they will.  Upon them, therefore, rests a responsibility and a duty in this matter, second only to his.
As church-members are wont to demand Scriptural warrant for any new proceeding, I will give them from the book of Esther, the precise parallel of the action now asked for.
There is no reason to suppose that Esther ever neglected the duty of prayer to God. But, in the great peril recorded in the book which bears her name, and as a means towards the great deliverance there recorded, another duty also was required of her. And this duty was faithfully urged upon her by Mordecai.
When evil was determined against the Jews by an evil counsellor who had the ear of the king, but whose purposes the king might counteract if he chose, Mordecai saw that something else was to be done besides praying to God. He saw that work must go with prayer. And he did these two things:
First, he rent his clothes, and went out into the streets of the city, and cried with a loud and bitter cry. That is to say, be made appeal to the eyes and ears of the people implicated in this danger.
Next he sent word to Esther, “to charge her that she should go in onto the king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him for her people.”
Esther made objection to a measure so unusual, and Mordecai replied with these two suggestions: —
“If thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time,
<c04>
then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place: but thou and thy father’s house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?”
Esther followed Mordecai’s wise counsel. Praying fervently, she worked diligently also. And the result was deliverance to herself and her people. The following of her example must include work as well a prayer.
God works by means; and he requires us to use appropriate means for the supply of our necessities. The man who has land and seed-corn, but who lets these lie idle and merely prays for a harvest, misuses prayer as well as wastes his opportunities. We must do the work appropriate to the object desired.
Abraham Lincoln holds in his hands power and authority amply sufficient for the oppressed of our land, that their entire deliverance from slavery may be accomplished. This is the great work for the completion of which our nation waits. This is the work, the doing of which would put as in a right position, both towards God, towards the slave, and towards the rebel enemy. God has given to the President the power, and thus laid upon him the duty, of doing this work. He has done one part of it. Let the voices of American Christians call upon him without delay to finish the work, to remove the sin, to do justice to the slave, and to give our national cause the mighty Strength of complete rectitude. — C. K. W.

FOURTH FRATERNITY LECTURE.
THEODORE TILTON, Esq., of New York, well known as one of those to whom the vigorous progressive spirit of the Independent is chiefly owing, lectured this week on “The Nation’s Next Duty.”
He confessed himself sometimes subject to a feeling of despondency in regard to the position and destiny of our nation. Many great nations in the world’s history have sunk, and been obliterated. And our sins were so great, and the moral standard from which recovery must-come, if at all, was in the minds of many so low, that the case sometimes seemed doubtful. Nevertheless, hope and not despair, resolution and not despondency, was the duty of the hour; and in spite of doubts and fears, he believed in a time when this nation would look back on the present troubles from a period of quietude and prosperity far exceeding any we have yet known.
He objected to the popular statement that this immense war in which we are engaged is only for the maintenance of the Constitution; that is, for the sake of so much difference as exists between the Constitution of the Union and that of the rebel Confederacy. It was, in a much more real and actual sense, a war for liberty.
The Emancipation Proclamation was a great event in our history, a mighty weapon in the hands of the President. Considering that the rebels must often, in their desperation, have been driven to contemplate the possibility of being themselves forced to this step, and considering that Emancipation on their part, any time within nine months, would have secured for them an intervention by the European powers—it was most providential and auspicious that our movement had preceded theirs.
There were, however, serious deficiencies in the Proclamation. He would not complain so much of the delay of three months, if the emancipation had been promised to all the slaves, and if the just and proper grounds of it had been the ones stated. Our duty and our interest alike required us to make an end of all slavery, but the high considerations of duty were the proper ones to be recognized by ourselves, and stated to the country and the world, as the controlling motives for our action. The Proclamation intimated nothing about either justice or humanity; nothing about previous fault on our part, or the requisitions of present duty towards God and the slave. It was a cold State paper, not only putting the act in question on the ground of military necessity, and ignoring any call of duty in the matter, but actually offering the rebels a permitted continuance of slavery as a bribe for return to their allegiance. If they should now make submission and return, slavery, as far as the Proclamation is concerned, would still stand as firmly as ever.
This was not the right ground to be taken; and the Nation’s Next Duty is to supply that which is wanting in the Proclamation, see that its work of justice is fairly done towards all the slaves, and frankly state as the ground-work of that act the right of these human beings to their freedom. The next document issued on that subject ought to stand fair, clean and bright, a worthy parallel to our Declaration of Independence, free from all lowness of motive and shifts of a temporizing expediency. The nation must call upon its servant, the Government, to put this work in speedy execution. Mr. Tilton would prefer to see this great act of justice done by Congress rather than by the President. He wanted the work done by law, and with every solemn formality which would give it weight and permanence, rather than as an exceptional act, the dictate of military necessity. But by one or the other, the President or Congress, it should be done strongly, firmly and speedily. Not only our duly, but the blood of the thousands of our sons and brothers who have fallen in this war, calls for liberty, universal and impartial freedom, to be made, henceforth, the possession of every man and woman in our land.
Our Government — either the President or Congress — has now legitimate power to free every slave in the nation. They are bound in duty to use this power. And it is the People’s part to insist that it be so used.
Mr. Tilton was opposed, alike on grounds of justice and expediency, to expatriation of the slaves. Natives, for the most part, of this country, they have a right to live here, and even if their expulsion were possible, it would be the greatest of follies to send away 4,000,000 of the nation’s laborers. But of all the schemes of changing their portion, far the best was that which proposed to give them lands in Elorida and the Carolinas.  The sea-island cotton region should still be worked by them, only worked now for their own benefit; and such labor would give immense aid to the declining foreign trade of our country.
Fowell Buxton, the great English reformer, after spending his life in labors for the slave scarcely paralleled, except by those of him who sits beside me, [pointing to Mr. Garrison,] was able to write to a friend on the evening of August 1st, 1834, that not one slave then breathed in all the territories of Great Britain. May Mr. Garrison, may we all, soon see the time when that boast may be made of our own country.
Mr. Tilton asked leave to show the audience a great and rare curiosity which he had brought from the city of New York. It was a paper published by the Tract Society there, containing a picture of a negro, and a statement in favor of freedom and in opposition to slavery. The American Tract Society long made steady refusal to all solicitation that they would speak against the enslavement of the negro. Their reply to all such requests was that their Constitution forbade it. Their Constitution has not been altered in a word or a letter. Yet they now do what they before refused. Those venerable hypocrites now illustrate the force of the “logic of events.” We have seen many such changes, and we shall see more.
The lecturer received frequent and hearty applause. The next lecture will be given by Rev. Moncure D. Conway, on — “The two Capitals; Richmond and Washington.” And, by vote of the audience, it will be on Wednesday, Nov, 5th, instead of Tuesday, Nov. 4th, the day of an election most important and exciting to ail Massachusetts men. — C. K. W.
Circumstances have transpired, during the past week, to prevent the Editor from resuming his duties, at he had intended to do.
In what a treasonable strain the Boston Pilot now dares to speak, see Refuge of Oppression.
<c05>
COMMERCIAL CIRCULAR.
MANCHESTER, (England.) 1st Oct., 1862.
GENTLEMEN, —The Civil War in America is still the engrossing internet in mercantile circles, while to those in any way interested in the Cotton trade, the question of the probable duration of the struggle is indeed fraught with increased importance, the nearer we arrive at the point of exhaustion of the available stocks, and the higher prices are carried. If there be any uncertainty as to the prolongation of the war, the risk in holding Cotton at present prices is enormous.
It is not, therefore, surprising that the recent course of affairs on the other side of the Atlantic should have checked the advancing tendency of the Cotton market, and led all parties to pause in the race which they have been running, and to calculate their past profits and possible losses. Nor is it strange that events should even have inclined them to forego a portion of their estimated gains, in order that they might feel sure about the balance. And this tendency has been increased by the continued closing of mills, owing to the fact that Cotton at such high prices cannot yet be profitably spun. Hence American Cotton which touched 2s. 6d. per lb. a few weeks ago, receded to 2s. 11/2d.; and East Indian (fair Broach) which was 211/4d., has declined to 181/4d. All are now anxious to know what influence upon the duration of the war will be exerted by the appalling series of defeats recently sustained by the Federal armies, resulting, as they already have done, in the abandonment of the siege of Richmond, and the removal of the theatre of war to the neighborhood of Washington.
One thing appears inevitable: that the general idea prevailing hitherto in England, as to the relative military strength of the Northern and Southern Confederacies, must be essentially modified. Even among those who, like ourselves, entirely disbelieved in the possibility of the conquest of the Southern States and a reconstruction of the Union, reliance was placed, not upon a presumed superiority or even equality of the South in military strength and fighting qualities, but, while the courage, energy, and desperation it gives to men to fight for independence were not forgotten, the confidence was mainly based upon the difficulty of penetrating, overrunning, and subduing a country so enormous in extent, so poor in supplies, so destitute of roads, so overgrown with wood, and so infested with swamps, as the Southern States. It was quite anticipated that, in invading the South, the Northern forces would be worn out by sickness and fatigue, or harassed by guerillas, and unable to leave the protection of their gunboats, like the army of the West; but not that they would be driven back, almost at their own thresholds, and unable to save their own country from invasion, like the army of the Potomac. How is it that the South has thus fought so much better, and the North so much worse, than anticipated by impartial lookers on? and what bearing is the fact to have on the termination of the war? These are the pregnant questions of the moment.
The reason of the Confederate successes is, no doubt, to be found partly in the accidental superiority of their Generals, but mainly in the fact of the hearts of the whole Southern people—with a very few unimportant exceptions—being passionately enlisted in the struggle. To them it is a life and death affair; and they no more entertain the thought of submission, or value their lives or their properties, as compared with their interest in this contest, than Englishmen would in case of a French army being in possession of London, and proceeding to impose the French yoke on the inhabitants of these islands. With the people of the North it is comparatively an outside interest. They have no fear of being subjected to the yoke of a hated enemy; and, in spite of all the eloquence which is used to convince them that their national existence is at stake, they have at bottom a quiet confidence that they would still exist, and be a great nation, even should the independence of the South he established; although that event would rudely dissipate their dreams of an empire to embrace the whole continent. But, notwithstanding this (relatively speaking) inevitable want of zeal, we regret to say that we cannot, in the present state of affairs, see any reason to anticipate an early peace. It is only necessary to look at the map, and consider for a moment what peace, now, would imply, to conclude that it is impossible.
In their present position, the Southern leaders would undoubtedly claim all the Bonier States—even Maryland, Western Virginia, and Missouri. In these States, slavery has long been dying out, and under the United States its days are numbered. The same may, in a lesser degree, be said of Kentucky. The loss of these States would leave the North a mere strip of country, between the vast areas of the Confederacy on the South, and Canada on the North; and ultimately reduce her to the position of a second-class power, even on her own continent.  It is not to be supposed that her citizens will consent to this, unless when her strength is utterly broken down and exhausted, nor could any friend of humanity desire it. With their large population and immense resources, it must be admitted, even by those who smile at the pretension of one nation to possess and govern an entire continent, that the Northern States owe it to themselves and to the cause of free labor, to maintain the leading position in America. This they can only do by retaining everything north of 36 deg. 30 min., the old Missouri compromise line, except Eastern Virginia, which is so thoroughly Southern that its adherence to the North need not be looked upon as a possibility. And this is so well understood by all intelligent men in the North, and, indeed, it is so self-evident that, when satisfied of the impossibility of reannexing the States which have actually seceded, there can be little doubt that they will wage a war of years, if necessary, rather than concede a more northern frontier. Were the South ready to accept this line, there might now be some hope of peace. But, unfortunately, the very disasters which might well be expected to bring one party to reason, so stimulate the pride and self-confidence of the other that they will listen to no reasonable arrangement. So was it when the Northern forces were victorious, and so it will undoubtedly prove now the tables are turned.
The impolicy of having chosen the issue of war rather than allow the Cotton States to try the experiment of self-government, is now strikingly exemplified.  At first, the Confederates only claimed liberty to withdraw from the Union, and govern themselves. Had the United States let them go, and satisfied themselves with garrisoning the Border States, where free labor is already in the ascendant, they would by the: same stroke have got rid of their only irrepressible difficulty, —slavery, —and have secured their preponderance on the continent; a preponderance which they might hereafter have used for the advancement of their free labor system. Satisfaction with the recognition of their independence, fear of the destruction of their property by blockade, or by an emancipating policy on the part of the North, the desire for time to consolidate their new system and to obtain the recognition of Foreign Powers, and many other reasons, would have bound the Southerns to a pacific policy long enough to enable the North to deal with slavery in the Border States, where it was already dying out. Thus would the North have retained over half the lands of the Union, some three-fourths of its population, and seven-eighths of its wealth, comprising all the States which exhibit in any high degree the commercial, manufacturing, scientific, or intellectual qualities or attainments which go to make up a great nation. Instead of this, the challenge of the South was accepted to a competition in one of the few things she can do well; and she has been allowed through her prowess in the field to excite the admiration of the world, and to appear among the nations as at least the equal of the North. She has, in fact, been granted an opportunity to fight herself into respectability, to prove to the world—what it would otherwise have been slow to admit—her power to maintain herself in the field, notwithstanding the poison of slavery, pervading her system, beside a powerful and naturally hostile nation. If there he
<c06>
any longer hesitation on the part of European Powers in acknowledging her independence, it cannot now be due to any doubt of her ability to maintain it, but to their disinclination to recognize a Power based upon a system so universally condemned by civilized nations. 
There cannot be a doubt, had the object of the North, on going to war, been merely the preservation of herself and the non-seceding States from Southern dictation, she would have had the approval as well as the sympathy of the whole of Christendom, whose interest it was that a Power with free institutions should retain the ascendancy. But in the evidently future attempt to reunite by force of arms systems as much opposed as fire and water, and whose unnatural alliance had just fallen to pieces, it has been impossible for her best friends to foresee anything but mortification and ruin. It has, indeed, from the first, been evident to observers at a distance, that the reannexation of the South, after the consolidation of her Government and the appeal to arms, could only be accomplished, if accomplished at all, at the cost of almost extermination, and the enactment of scenes of butchery upon a scale never yet witnessed upon earth.  Americans generally are too sanguine to admit this even to themselves; but by some among them who have not found it convenient to publish their sentiments and who were willing enough to let others try the war experiment, it has been feared from the first Possibly the failure of the policy of the party in power may now bring these men to the surface, and hence it may be asked, may not the policy of peace prevail? “Not yet,” must, we fear, he the reply for while these men would never have fought to force union at the cannon’s moth, they, like all other men, not members of the Peace Society, consider a safe and desirable frontier, and the possession of what really belongs to their country, worth fighting for.  Thus the ideas, 1st, of a union of free-solders and slave-<W>built upon force; 2d, of the abolition of slavery and conquest of the South by arming the slaves against their renters; and, 3d, of the complete yielding up by the North of all the South demands, will all probably disappear gradually, and the war degenerate, by mutual consent, into a contest for a boundary. When it reaches that point, less passion will be enlisted on either side, less warlike enthusiasm will be felt by the Southerners to sustain them amidst their privations, and a desire for peace may grow up on both sides that will render it possible for mediators to render useful offices. But while the South is determined to go, and the North is determined that she shall stay, mediation would be a farce, and no solution seems possible. Any one who reads the Northern newspapers must see that, so far from yet being brought to the point of conceding the principle of separation, the utmost confidence in the final triumph of their armies prevails, and it is absurd to suppose that the Southern leaders, flushed by their recent successes, will give their enemy time to recuperate, unless upon the acknowledgment of their independence as a basis of negotiations. To suppose that the resources of the North are yet near the point of exhaustion is preposterous while the value in gold of the United States is over 80 per cent., and while the well-being of the mass of the people is hardly perceptibly affected.
The fluctuations of the Cotton market for the past three months have been entirely unprecedented, the extreme rise in middling Orleans having been over 16d. per Ib., from 13 3/4d to 6d., of which about <W>has lately been lost, owing mainly to the hops of a termination of the war, founded upon the recent disasters to the Federal armies. The fluctuations in the Stock held at Liverpool have also had their influence. The total held at quarterly periods for the past fifteen months, and the course of prices, are illustrated by the following scale:
Stock at Liverpool, thousands of bales.
1861 21st June. 20th Sept. 20th Dec.
American, 843 487 230
East Indian, 193 275 303
Other sorts, 70 56 48
Total, 1106 818 581
Price of mid. Orleans, 8d. 9.5.8d 107-8d
1862. 21st march. 20th June. 19th sept.
American, 150 82 16
East Indian, 179 94 40
Other sorts, 74 84 34
Total, 403 280 50
Price of mid. Orleans, 121/2d. 13 3/4d. 281/2d
But on the 5th of September, when middling Orleans was quoted 29d., the stocks of all sorts was reported as low as 58,000 bales. It is generally considered, how ever, that the real stock was then and considerably in excess of the figures reported. At that time the spinners held fair supplies which they have probably now reduced to a bare working stock. We estimate the rate of consumption for the past two months at about 20,000 bales per week, or two-fifths reduced rate is not now supported, many mills ceasing work as their stocks of cotton became exhausted. The supply known to be afloat from India now amounts to about 397,000 bales, or 7000 bales in excess of the quantity afloat on the 15th oh July, the date of our last circular, so that the arrivals small as they have been nearly kept pace with the quantity shipped from ladia, even under the incentive of the prevailing high prices. The shipments from Bombay to Great Britain, since 1st January to latest dates, have been 692,000 bales, against 728,000 the same date last year while to all quarters, including China, the shipments have been limited to 717,000 ales against 804,000 last year. Contracts were being made fro delivering at Bombay, next December, at higher than greatest prices, and for delivering next April of May, at only 10 per cent. Below present rates, that is, below the rates prevailing at latest dates. This is not encouraging for a very disappointing to those who have believed that the extent of the East India supply was only a question of price. During the arrival of the bulk of what is now a float, however, a temporary increase of the Liverpool stocks must be anticipated; but whether the influence of this upon prices has been already fully “discounted” or whether it is to cause increased pressure on the market, will no doubt depend mainly upon the complexion of the then advices from America. It is probable that the surplus stock of goods everywhere is now greatly reduced, so that it is doubtful if anything but an anticipation of a cession of hostilities in America can long hold the Manchester market in check, while the production is on so small a scale, and any revival there would of course immediately re-act upon the cotton market at Liverpool.
As regards the various substitute for cotton which have been so far suggested, while some of them may prove useful as auxiliaries during the period of scarcity and famine prices, we have seen nothing which appears to us at all likely to be supplied at low enough prices, and in adequate quantity, to materially afloat the market for a long time to come. The “Zostoro Marina” has a beautiful silky fibre, but so fine and delicate that it seems extremely doubtful if any method can be found of disengaging it from its covering substance without of destroying the fibre. The suggestion, however, is a happy one, and crediatable to the discoverer, and it is to be hoped that practical chemists and others will experimentalize till the best and simplest means is discovered of separating the staple from the glutinous and to give spinners the opportunity of testing its spinning qualities.
We are yours, very respectfully,
NEIL BROTHERS.
[NOTE. This circular come to us on a printed sheet from the highly respectable and not unfriendly house by whom it has been issued, with a request that we would past perusal; and we accordingly print it in our columns as the readiest way of doing this. It is ably drawn up; but we do not, of course, endorse any of its reasoning or position respecting the terrible conflict going on in this country, by simply giving it publicity. J—Ed. Liberator.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PENNSYLVANIA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The twenty-fifth annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society was held in Horticultural Hall, West Chester, on Saturday last, Oct. 24.
James Mott, the President, occupied the chair, supported by Thomas Whitson and Robert Purvis, Vice Presidents. In the absence of Reuben Tomlinson, the Recording superintending and teaching the freed black, J. E. M. Davis was appointed Secretary.
A Business Committee, consisting of J.M. Mckim, Hannah M. Darlington, Oliver Johnson, E. F. Penny packer and others, was appointed to prepare a series of resolutions.
Thomas Garrett and Chandler Darlington were appointed a Finance Committee, and M. Linton, Oliver Johnson and others, a committee to nominate officers for the ensuring year.
A written address was delivered by Wm.  H. Furness D. D. in which the cause was reviewed, and the Society congratulated on the near approach of its final triumph. Dr. Furness was followed by other speakers in a similar line of thought, and the meeting took a recess till afternoon. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. The Chairman of the Business committee reported the following propositions for the action of the Society:-
EXPRESSION OF SENTIMENT.
Met to celebrate our twenty-fifth anniversary, to review the events of the past year, and to consider the prospects and obligations of the year to come, we, the members and friends of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, adopt for record the following as an expression of sentiment suitable to the occasion:-
1. Our faith is implicit that our cause is of God, and not a mere human invention; that He has brought it thus far on its successful way, and that He will conduct it to a triumphant conclusion.
2. Looking back over the quarter of a century of our Society existence, and recalling the vicissitudes of joy and sorrow, cloud and sunshine, temporary defeat and partial victory, through which we have passed, we are taught impressive lessons of religious faith, and derive new incentives to obedience to duty.
3. The fundamental principles on which our enterprise based –that Justice is the highest expediency –that it is always safe to do right, and that no compromise should ever be made between good and evil –have been fully vindicated as just in themselves, and wisely applicable as rules of human action.
4. The leading events of the past year, beginning with the feeble efforts for freedom on the part of individual members of the Cabinet, and ending with the President’s Proclamation, not only indicate the sure ultimate triumph of our cause, but inspires us with hope that events is imminently near at hand.
5. The President’s edict, though not so wide in its scope, nor so immediate in its action, as we had hoped and had a right to demand, is, nevertheless, a wise and beneficent act of statesmanship, entitling its author to the grateful consideration of all who love their country and desire the happiness of their kind.
6. The present attitude of the National Government making as it does, the entire abolition of slavery its avowed policy –proposing immediate emancipation on the 1st January next in the revel States, and “gradual abolishment” in the loyal –entitles it to the hearty support of every friend of impartial freedom.
7. The war now in progress between the National Government and the insurgent slaveholding States is, in all its essential features, a war between liberty and slavery; it is the anti-slavery contest transferred to a new field; it is the question for which this Society had in vain sought a peaceable solution, now submitted –by appeal of the slaveholder–to the arbitrament of the sword, and no true friend of freedom and the right, whatever may be his horror of bloodshed, or his aversion to war in itself considered, can fail to sympathize, in this contest, with the champions of the Government, and to wish for defeat to those who are battling for its overthrow.
8. This war is not a more local conflict, the results of which are to terminate with our own country; it is part of that great controversy between despotism and freedom, which has been going on from the beginning in all countries and in all ages; the right decision of which, here and now, must prove an incalculable blessing to all peoples, and mark to glorious epoch in the history of the world.
9. While we rejoice in the continued fidelity of our coadjutors in England, we are shocked at the development of pro-slavery spirit lately manifested among the ruling classes of the country;  and, laying aside all narrow views of a one-sided patriotism, and speaking only as friends of universal freedom, desiring the equal happiness of all men, and the honor and glory of every nation, we feel constrained to pronounce the sympathizing course of the classes toward our slave-holding conspirators as shameful to the last degree, and to warn those who are pursuing it, and their apologists, that a persistence in this course will prove fraught with dishonor to themselves, and disgrace and calamity to their country.
10. The conduct of the colored people of this country, North and South, bond and free, since the breaking out of the war, has been such as to challenge respect and excite pleasing hopes of the future. In the North, forgetting their life-long grievances, they patriotically offered their services for the defence of the country, and, being rejected, quietly withdrew, and have since continued in the peaceful pursuit of their usual avocations. In the South, as slaves, they have waited patiently for the day of deliverance, hating their chains, but resisting all temptation to vindictive massacre; as freemen, they have worked industriously on their plantations and in the trenches, as at Port Royal, Newbern, Fortress Monroe, and in Kansas, and where an opportunity has offered, have gladly enlisted as soldiers for the defence of the country; this proving –what should have needed no illustration –that the black man may be safely entrusted with his liberty, and that the country has in this element of her population resources of strength and prosperity which have never been duly estimated.
11. The vulgar prejudice against people who are wholly or in part of African descent, though still virulent, is steadily yielding to a more enlightened sentiment, the evidence being seen in the fact that, in obedience to popular demand authority has been granted by the Government for the enlistment, in certain localities, of black men as soldiers; and, in the additional fact, that the anti-negro clamor, though still an effective expedient with demagogues, has lost its potentiality with respectable people, being only of avail with the most debased and ignorant.
12. The progress of anti-slavery truth, and the prevalence of a better public opinion, are visible in the improved tone of our ministers of religion, and the more unexceptionable action of ecclesiastical assemblies; so much so that it may no longer be said, with propriety, that “the American Church is the bulwark of American slavery.”
13. While we find much so cheer and delight us in a review of our past history, there is, nevertheless, in the reflections incident to such a retrospect, not a little to inspire us with sadness. Our ranks have been thinned loved ones have departed, and time and care have ploughed deep furrows in the faces of those who remain. The venerable patriarch whose voice on occasions like this used to be heard in supplication for Heaven’s blessing on our counsels, has gone to his rest. Henry Grew, the faithful, the gentle, the uncompromising, the true, after a long life of well-doing, reposes from his labors. The memory of his example is our consolation for his loss. Benjamin S. Jones, one of the first to take the field at the origin of our movement, one of the founders of this Society, and ever one of is most faithful coadjutors, has also gone to his reward. His services to the cause, by his voice and pen, and in times when such services were most needed, were of uncounted value. We mingle our tears with those of his stricken widow, as fellow sharers in her loss, and tender her our condolences with unfeigned sympathy.
<c02>
14. We commence the labors of another year in the earnest hope that its end may witness the substantial overthrow of slavery, and that our chief function as a Society, hereafter, may be to “build the old waste places,” and to act the part of “repairers” of the breach, restorers of paths to dwell in.”
15. In any event, our course for the future is plain—our duty being to maintain the integrity of our organization, and to keep up such of its instrumentalities as are necessary to its existence; these being especially the Anti Slavery office and its appliances—never more useful than at present—and the National Anti-Slavery Standard, the value of which it would be hard to over-estimate.
16. Finally, regarding our duty to the country and our obligations to the Anti-Slavery cause us running in parallel lines. and believing, as we have ever believed, that whatever promotes the interest of the one conduces to the welfare of the other, we, of necessity, as consistent Abolitionists, range ourselves heartily on the side of the National Government; and, while retracting nothing of what we have hitherto had occasion to say of the nature and effects of the Federal compact, we deem it but just to here add, that the preservation of the National Union against all efforts of its enemies, either at home or abroad, to dismember or destroy it, is an object which lies near to the heart of every Abolitionist, and claims his best assistance for its accomplishment.
These propositions were considered at length. They were all agreed to without dissent, except the last, and that, as originally reported, was objected to, on the ground that its terms were too unqualified to permit peace men, of whom there were some in the Society, to vote for it without inconsistency. It was altered into its present form, which obviated all objection, and the whole was adopted by a hearty vote.
The evening session was devoted to a verbal report of the proceedings of the Society, and general review of the state of the cause, by J. M. McKim, corresponding secretary, and addresses by Geo. H. Earle, Esq., Oliver Johnson, Lucretia Mott, and Miss Anna Dickinson. Mr. Earle’s address was delivered by special invitation. The general tone of the speakers was congratulatory, and the impression seemed to prevail that the next year would probably be the last of the Society’s existence.

MR. WASSON’S SERMON.
Mr. Wasson’s sermon, at Music Hall, last Sunday, was a forcible and eloquent exposition of the truth, that trial and endurance are the constant and necessary conditions of integrity and virtue.  Moral excellence is an attainment of inestimable value, and. like other valuable attainments, costs labor and sacrifice.  Christ taught this in his own history and by his precepts, admonishing those who would follow him, that they must leave worldly considerations behind, and that the world would hate them in proportion to their faithfulness. The speaker illustrated this by many pertinent and timely instances. The faithful general, who sees the national need, and strikes at the root of the public calamity, loses his place, and is “laid on the shelf.” The faithful statesman, who sees and sustains the only policy that can save the nation—the policy of right—must be prepared for the ruffian’s bludgeon, the demagogue’s coarse abuse, and the smooth detraction of an Abbot or a Joel parker. All this should not be accounted a hardship. It is in accordance with a universal law—the law, as Emerson says, of “give and take.” For the excellence of character which you would take and possess, you must give price, in pain, and peril, and worldly loss. The luxury of exalted worth cannot be had, any more than any other luxury, without paying its cost.
This principle applies to nations as to individuals. The price of national virtue, security and prosperity is justice. We assumed the credit of virtue and liberty, but neglected to pay the price. We compromised with slavery, and scorned the plea, of the black man who was God’s mouthpiece to us, calling for justice.  For a long while we seemed to prosper, and to give the lie to God’s law, which makes righteousness the only condition of a nation’s exaltation. But we were running up a heavy account.  The price which we refused to pay had not become “outlawed.” Judgment is rendered against us, with costs. Execution is taken out and “served,” and all our goods are “going” at a fearful sacrifice.  It is well go, if we can get back the possession of virtue. Better be bankrupt in everything else.
The reporter was pained to hear what he considers an ill-considered reflection upon the character of the Irish patriot, Daniel O’Connell, that he appropriated a part of the national contributions for emancipation, to his own private advantage. This is a charge so specious in its nature, so difficult to refute, so generally founded on sordid prejudices, and so universally made against all advocates of reform, that generous-minded men should be careful how they endorse it. O’Conwell vindicated himself completely against that charge, in a pamphlet addressed in reply, I think, to the Marquis of Lansdowne, in which he rendered a full account of all the income from the Irish “rents,” and of the manner in which they were appropriated. That account, indeed, showed what may appear to us a large allowance for O’Connell’s private expenses, and the support of his establishment; but matters like this are not within the proper sphere of judgment of those acquainted only with the habits of American life. I have heard a country farmer impeach the sincerity of a city philanthropist and advocate of reform, because he received $1500 salary, and expended it for the maintenance of his family; and another, an anti-slavery lecturer, has been stigmatized for receiving $600 a year from his friends. Beecher, Cheever, Gough and others, also, like Paul, have been obliged to “live of the gospel”; and even Phillips and Gerrit Smith, whose private means have enabled them to dispense with compensation for services in behalf of humanity, have, notwithstanding, been accused of mercenary motives.  In regard to O’Connell, in addition to the well-known fact (stated and proved in the aforesaid pamphlet) that he refused a place under government worth three times the amount he received as reformer, because its acceptance would require him to forego his efforts in behalf of Ireland, it should be considered that his friends and supporters, who were the best judges of his motives and the value of his services, were satisfied of his integrity, and that not only he considered his pamphlet, notwithstanding its admission of a pretty large amount (as we reckon money) spent for his own support, a sufficient vindication of his integrity, but that the British public also generally admitted it to he so. D. M.

CHARLES SUMNER.
This noble champion and friend of the bondman is to lecture at Milford, (Mass.,) in the Town Hall, next Friday evening, Oct. 31st.  As this is the last opportunity before the election, let me earnestly beg of every Abolitionist, who designs to vote, to be sure and remember the many and sublime obligations he is under to give his vote to Charles Sumner. Instinct alone cannot fail to show that the intense and personal hatred centred upon the faithful Senator, whose record is so clean—so true to human rights and universal freedom—proves him to be the man for the hour. “Gentlemen of property and standing,” united with the coarse and unprincipled rabble, stand at every avenue, and belch out their hate and curses. They have no reason to give—enough that they can pronounce their anathemas without a cause. Ask these loud-mouthed defamers what evil stands at the door of Mr. Sumner’s glorious career, their only reply is—Away with him! The no-party fraternity have but one watchword, and that being interpreted is—Crucify I Charles Sumner! If they could effect their diabolical plot, what a bowl of exultation the satanic press would give! The rebels would be in full glee! Men of Massachusetts! let not this evil be done ! That chair, South Carolina, most continue to be filled by the noblest ton of Massachusetts,—Hon. Charles Sumner.
Milford, Oct 17. 1812. G. W. S.
<c03>
[From the St. Louis Democrat, Oct. 21.]
SERENADE TO GENERAL FREMONT.
Immense Outpouring of the People—chouteau Avenue Crowded with Enthusiastic Citizens—Speech of Gen. Fremont.
The friends of General Fremont assembled last night in front of his residence, on Chouteau Avenue, to welcome him to St. Louis. Rarely has our city seen such an imposing and enthusiastic assemblage of citizens. As early as half past eight o’clock, thousands were crowded around Centre Market with banners and music, and each succeeding minute brought new comers or processions from the upper and lower wards. By nine o’clock, the assembly left Centre Market, and proceeded to the residence of the General. Chouteau Avenue was already crowded from Seventh to Ninth Street with a thick mass of people, when the procession arrived from Centre Market. As far as the eye could reach from the steps of the Brant House, nothing could be seen but a multitude of human beings swaying to and fro. Cheer after cheer for General Fremon was given by the crowd at intervals, and evidently with hearty good will and honest and earnest enthusiasm. In the meanwhile, the splendid hand of Waldauer and Vogel struck up some exquisite pieces of music, which were followed by renewed cheering.
In obedience to the repeated calls, the General at length made his appearance, and was welcomed with rapturous applause. Cheer after cheer rent the air, as the lamps were brought up to throw light upon the features of the General. The General then spoke with great deliberation, and in a clear voice, frequently interrupted by enthusiastic applause, as follows: —
SPEECH OF GENERAL FREMONT.
My Good Friends of St. Louis, —I am really glad to find myself among you again. Naturally my mind goes back, seeing you here, to the time and the events out of which grew the friendly relations which make the immediate occasion for our meeting tonight. The retrospect is full of satisfaction. When I landed in your city last year, on the representation of the Government, the wharves were silent and the streets deserted. I met few and gloomy faces, and no hands offered me friendly welcome. No Union flairs brightened the sky, and the city seemed to be in sullen gloom as it pestilence brooded over it. But I had come here full of the hope that I would be able to serve you—ardently desiring to bring back to their old allegiance, as quickly and happily as possible, and before rebellion had become war, those of our people who, temporarily, I hoped, had been estranged from their Government.
You recognized the sincerity of my intentions and gave me your cordial support, and as time, wore along in the busy preparations which centred at this spot, the patriotic fervor which animated us became contagious. The little knots which in the beginning had gathered at this door, grew rapidly larger, and in a few weeks the thronging battalions which the brave West poured along the streets were received with the cheers of welcoming crowds, and the city blossomed like spring with the national flag. (Cheers.)
Later, returning from the field where my hopes of usefulness were buried, oppressed by injustice, under the attempted humiliations of subordinates seeking to please power, I came upon the unexpected and magnificent welcome in which you gave vent to your generous indignation, and offered me your warm hearted sympathy. Fixed in my mind as one of the I most grateful events of my life is that night when, with my heart chilled and contracted by the undeserved severity of the Government, I stood here and I felt it glowing and expanding amidst the deafening cheers of the friendly multitude which filled this space.  I felt rebuked that I had for a moment doubted the inevitable justice of the people. Not unworthy a place among the battle scenes of your State was the moment when you opened your crowded mass that night to honor in its passage the tattered remnant of that brave young guard which made the 25th of this month of October the anniversary of a heroic deed. I mention them here, not only because they come up among the incidents of that night, but because they deserve mention at my hands, and because they deserve to be held in remembrance by you. From their brilliant field of victory they returned to meet with humiliation; to be dismissed from service in the army of that country which they had served so nobly, and to share in the unmerited severity which was visited upon all connected with me in my brief administration. Our patriotism was repulsed, our services ignored, and our labors repudiated; our best measures annulled or subverted; the very works erected to defend the great interests that centre in your city declared ill-judged and useless. But time has already I brought us some consolations, and it must have been a great one to you who were co-laborers with me when lately you read the order directing these fortifications to be put in complete equipment and readiness for service. And if it be true that in the misfortune of our “best friends, there is always something to I please us,” you must have found pleasure in seeing the violent haste which your neighboring cities threw into the building of fortifications, when you were resting securely in the protection of your own. (Loud cheering.) And then, too, in the case of the city defences, the repudiation was so thoroughly classic! The builders of the walls of Troy were refused payment for their work, and surely we ought to remain! entirely satisfied under the authority of such an old time precedent. There was no “irregularity “here. It is true that those other builders were violent and did mischief, but then they were gods and had power, and heathens liked the law of retaliation; but we were mortals and lived in a Christian era, and every incentive of patriotism required us to be satisfied, if only our work went to the benefit of the country. (Cheers.) But what was really the cause of all this? What was it that scattered the fruits of our labor, and: struck so many good soldiers from the field of successful duty, and paralyzed the career of our victorious troops? Perhaps our War Secretary had been reading old campaigns, and his mind had become excited by the rapidity which characterized the great soldiers of Europe at a time when war was in its normal condition.  He had read about the celerity of Petersborough, and carried in his mind what an English minister said of him—“That he could never write to him, but was always obliged to write at him.” (Laughter and loud applause.)
Perhaps with these and other such examples before him, the Secretary thought that we in the West were too slow. We had suffered a post only 200 miles off, to surrender for want of reinforcements. Or, perhaps, he had later events in his mind, and thought of the French Emperor’s brilliant campaign into Italy: he beheld that splendidly appointed force, for which the: great Dictator of Europe had drawn upon all the resources of the East, all that science could give him on the earth or in the air—railroads to carry his troops into the battle-field, railroads to bring off his wounded, and balloons to carry his scouting parties through the air. The Secretary had all this in his mind, and grew impatient with us. He forgot how few of these appliances we had, and how poor the West was in all the ready materials of war, except, indeed, in that one indispensable material, of brave and loyal men, which she has so lavishly given to the service of the country. We may pause here for a moment to make the reflection, that if we had not these great appliances for rapid-and brilliant successes, we are safe on the other hand from the arbitrary use made of them. The Italians were promised freedom from the Alps to the Adriatic, but the great army won fruitless battles, and the hopes of a brave people were deluded. But we “comprehend our epoch.” In this country it is not possible that two commanders of opposing armies can meet together at a breakfast table, and compromise away the hopes and liberties of a great people, (Cheers.)  But it was not that we had disappointed some high-wrought expectations of the Secretary. It was not because we had failed in a soldier’s duty, or suffered, at the hands of the enemy, inglorious defeat, that we incurred ministerial displeasure. It was because, in our uncalculating eagerness, we were too hasty in striking that enemy a vital blow. Like the Trojan, whose spear against the treacherous horse made the clang of arms resound, and whom the angry goddess punished for the blow upon her sacred property, so, too, did we undergo sudden punishment for devotion to our country. (Loud cheers.)  Upon me too, as in the old story, were the serpents set. They wound around me their loathsome coils—they strained me with their foul embrace—they breathed on me their pestilential breath—they lacerated roe with their venomous fangs—but a greater than Pallas rules the contest, and the power to destroy was not equal to the will. I lived through the unclean struggle. I come I back to you a second time, and you receive me with the same old regard, the same warm welcome as heretofore.  No matter how often struck down and rudely thrown back among you, the friendly contact restores I my strength, and I rise again full of confidence and hope, and ready again for another effort to serve you. (Wild and prolonged cheers.)
With you I feel myself in sympathy. I think your thoughts, and I know that my heartbeat responds to I your own. I believe in your justice, and not only in your justice but in your generosity which I have so often und so largely shared, and I submit contentedly to your verdict. (Loud calls and cheers.)
In face of the great issues which are before us, it does not seem right to speak upon personal matters, I but this is an occasion purely personal, a meeting of friends, and I feel like a man revisiting an old battle field, where naturally the incidents of the day come up in review before him. The occasion too, of my visit to your city, is altogether personal. One of my principal objects in coming here is to be present, during the trial with my friend, that true soldier, and good and loyal citizen, Gen. McKinstry. (Cheers.) During the period which the prosecution against him is directed especially to cover, I was his commanding officer, and, therefore, in a better position to become ultimately acquainted with the nature, extent and
<c04>
value of his services, than any others, except perhaps yourselves, who more immediately felt their influence. Having the opportunity to be present there with him, I could not have reconciled it with my conscience to be absent, believing, as I do, that the assaults upon him were made solely because he felt it an honorable duty to stand faithfully by the side of his chief. (Cheers for McKinstry.)
But I will not trespass farther on your attention tonight, except only to say that I thank you very sincerely and warmly for the honor and pleasure I have enjoyed in your visit, and for the indulgence with which you have listened to me. (Long continued applause.)
After the close of the speech, the doors of the house were thrown open, and a number of citizens availed themselves of the opportunity to shake the hand of the Pathfinder, and speak a few words to him.  The crowd outside remained for some time, and cheered lustily, while calls arose for Charles P. Johnson, Esq., who finally appeared, and in a few brief but eloquent words pail a glowing tribute to the talents and character of Gen. Fremont.
Later in the night, about 12 o’clock, the General received another serenade from the silver band of Mr. Waldauer.
[Translated for the liberator from Die (St. Louis) Neue Ziet, of Oct. 19 ]
FREMONT.
Like storm upon the mountain height,
There swells a cry from battle-plain,
From lost, betrayed and bloody fight,
Of horror full and full of pain.
Hark! how the echo wakes around,
At voice of those whose faces wan
Haunt the grave’s mirk and yawning ground:
“Give, Lincoln, give to us a Man!
“Give us a Man—a hero yield,
Worthy to lead us in our eyes; 
Who gained his glory in the field,
Nor aught of trick or intrigue plies.
Give one who stands the proof, ’fore all,
Give to us one who battle can,
Who’ll with us stand and with us fall:
‘Give, Lincoln, give to us a Man !’
Not one who flees before the foe,
Whose drum beats only for retreat,
Whom following, thousands, rank and row,
In marshy graves oblivion meet.
Not one who leads but on the heels
Of slaves who from their bondage ran;
Nor yet a hypocrite who kneels.
‘Give, Lincoln, give to us a Man!’
“Give us the Man that’s unsurpassed
For nobleness in East or West;
Give us the Man whose lips are fast,
Conscious that deeds speak ever best.
That Man give us; his banner clear
Shall shine in Freedom’s army-van; 
Give us the Man that has no peer—
GIVE US FREMONT! HE IS THE MAN!”
HEINRICH BINDER.
JUDGE CURTIS’S VIEW OF THE EXECUTIVE POWER.
To the Editors of the Boston Daily Advertiser:
There are three questions concerning the President’s emancipation proclamation. One, has he a constitutional power to issue it as a civil, political or administrative act? The second, was it expedient? The third, has he constitutional power as Commander in Chief, to issue it, at this time, as a military act?
These questions are perfectly distinct. One of the most common and most fruitful causes of error upon all subjects is the mingling of questions which are distinct in themselves, but so near each other that they confuse each other.
Judge Curtis mingles these questions so entirely, that no study of his pamphlet enables me to see clearly as to much of his argument upon which of these questions it is intended to bear.
Let us separate these questions.
I am sure that the President has no power to emancipate a single slave, as a civil, political or administrative act.
Was it expedient? I leave this question to the President. For he is honest, he is capable; he has considered the question long, carefully and painfully, and in all the relations in which it can present itself. However wise I may be, or Judge Curtis may be, on this subject, the President must be wiser, or all rules of probability fail. 
As to the remaining question, —I have not the slightest doubt of his constitutional power as Commander-in-Chief, to issue this proclamation as a military act.
If Halleck, when before Corinth, might have sent a force a hundred miles to catch and bring into his lines a hundred negroes with the wagons, horses and provision they were bringing to Beauregard, the President and Commander-in-Chief, sitting in the centre, with wider views, wider necessities, and wider rights to meet those necessities, may, if he can, prevent the whole mass of slaves from laboring to feed the rebellion. He may, if he can, by the danger of insurrection, or of starvation, or of loss of property, dishearten the rebels, and drive their armies home.
To say otherwise, would be to say that he might strike at rebellion, but must be careful not to strike away its corner stone.
Can he do it in fact? This question touches the expediency of the measure, and this I leave to him. But it does not touch his military right, to threaten it, and to do it if he can.
Judge Curtis speaks much and eloquently of the President's right to inflict “penalty” and “punishment,” and the rights of the rebels to the protection of the law.
Rebellion has no rights. If rebellion means anything, it means the renunciation and destruction of all law. And THERFORE it is accursed before God and man.
No rebel has any right, a regard to which should weaken or obstruct any military measure needed to I subdue the rebellion.
Judge Curtis’s argument would give the Constitution and the law to the rebels, as their sword to smite with, and their shield to save them and leave it to us only as a fetter.
Then he tells us the innocent must suffer with the guilty. This is true, and it is sad But when the mingled fire and hail of God's vengeance run along the ground, they pursue no devious path that they may leave the homes of the innocent unharmed; for when national sins bring national calamities, the innocent suffer with the guilty. This may be one of the mysteries of Providence; it is, at all events, a fact. And what has been will be.
Cambridge. THEOPHILUS PARSONS.
THE REBEL PRIVATEERS.
At a meeting of the New York Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday, the subject of English encouragement of rebel privateering was discussed, and the following resolutions, offered by Mr. A. A. Low, unanimously adopted: —
Resolved, that the Chamber of Commerce has heard with profound emotion, the graphic account by Captain Hagar of the burning of the ship Brilliant, on the 3d day of October instant.
Resolved, That, in view of this atrocity, it is the duty of the Chamber to announce, for the information of all who are interested in the safety of human life—the life of ship-wrecked passengers and crews—that henceforth the light of a burning ship at sea will be come to the American sailor the signal that lures to destruction, and will not be, as in times past, the beacon to guide the generous and intrepid mariner to the rescue of the unfortunate.
Resolved, That henceforth self-preservation will be the first dictate of prudence, as it is the first law of nature, and consequently the destruction of the Brilliant can be only characterized as a crime against humanity, and all who have knowingly and willingly aided and abetted must be considered as perpetrators in the crime.
Resolved, That this Chamber has not failed to notice a rapid change in British sentiment, transforming a friendly nation into a self-styled neutral power, the nature of which neutrality is shown in permitting ships to go forth with men, and in permitting an armament to follow them for the detestable work of plundering and destroying American ships, thus encouraging upon the high seas an offence against neutral rights, on the plea of which, in the case of the Trent, the British government threatened to plunge this government into war.
Resolved, further, That the outrage of consigning to destruction by fire, without adjudication, British and American property together, is an aggravation of the offence against the rights of neutrals, and ought to be denounced at a crime by the civilized nations of the world.
Resolved, That this Chamber has heard with amazement that other vessels are fitting out in the ports of Great Britain to continue the work of destruction begun by the Alabama, an enormity that cannot be committed on the high seas without jeopardizing the commerce and peace of nations.
Resolved, further, That it is the duty of the Chamber to warn the merchants of Great Britain that a repetition of such acts as the burning of the Brilliant, by a vessel fitted out in Great Britain, and manned by British seamen, cannot fail to produce the most wide spread exasperation in this country, and hence they invoke the influence of all men who value peace and good will among the nations to prevent the departure of other vessels of the character referred to, from their ports, and so arrest the calamity of war.
Resolved, That it is the desire of this Chamber, as it is the interest of all its members, to cherish sentiments of amity with the people of Great Britain, to maintain those cordial relations which have led to profit.
<c05>
table intercourse, and to strengthen the ties that knit them together in mutual courtesy and respect.
Resolved, That copies of the foregoing preamble and resolutions be sent to the Secretary of State and to the Secretary of the Navy of the United States, and to the Boards of Trade of London and Liverpool; and that the Secretary of State be requested to transmit copies of the same to the diplomatic agents of the United States for distribution in other commercial countries.
Mr. Low made an eloquent speech on the occasion, and to show how strongly the conduct of the British government contrasted with that of our own under similar circumstances, related an incident which occurred during the Crimean war.  During that war, a vessel was fitted up at New York for the Canton trade, and the British consul, having heard of it, and suspecting the ship was intended for Russia, remonstrated with the American government.  The consequence was that she was detained, though her owner was perfectly innocent of any intention of violating the neutrality laws.  Yet this same British government permits English shipbuilders to construct and tit out as many vessels as they please for the express purpose of being employed in destroying our commerce! Four gunboats and a frigate are now building for the rebels at the same yard where the Alabama was launched.

SENTIMENTS OF LEADING DEMOCRATS.
GEN. LEWIS CASS, (of Michigan.)	
In a conversation with Col. F. A. Eastman, also a Democrat, Gen. Cass said:—“I approve of the Emancipation Proclamation.  Whether the President has the constitutional right or not to declare the slaves tree, the circumstances of the country clearly justify it.” He said he did not fear its effect in the South; he only hoped it would prove effectual.  He did not understand how any old Democrat could have any sympathy with the South in this matter.
GOVERNOR TOD, (of Ohio.)
At an immense meeting in Columbus, Ohio, held to ratify the Proclamation of Emancipation, Governor Tod said:—“I have studied the Proclamation calmly; I have given it my faithful attention; and I here say that I cordially endorse every word and syllable of it.  President Lincoln’s long forbearance in laying his hand upon slavery, entitles him to a monument high as the heavens.  The Proclamation is perfectly well timed.  It is the very thing to weaken the rebels in a most vital part.  Stupid though he may be, yet only let this African be made free, and my word for it, they will goon give these rebel rascals enough to do to take care of their own homes and families.  If they choose to continue in their ungodly rebellion, who is to blame but themselves, if their slaves are set free, and confiscated, and the rebel leaders hanged?”
GEN. LEW. WALLACE, (of Ohio.)
At the same meeting, Gen. Wallace said the main objection to the Proclamation was that Emancipation had not been made to take effect January 1, 1862, instead of January 1, 1863.
DANIEL S. DICKINSON, (of New York.)
“If the President’s Proclamation weakens rebellion and strengthens the Government—as I hope and believe it will—I am for it and all its consequences.  Slavery is to pass away during the present struggle if continued; and as an element of mischief and disturbance, and as a just retribution to those who have taken up arms against the Government in its name for vile political ends, it has my permission to start at the earliest possible moment, and to make the exodus a complete one.  One such Government is worth all the slavery that has existed since Joseph was bold into Egypt.”
“The cry that released contrabands are coming North is for political effect, and to secure votes from alarmed laborers.  When slavery is no longer recognized in the Southern States, the colored race will not straggle to the cold North to compete with our laborers, but those now with us will seek a more congenial home in the Sunny South, where the climate and productions are better suited to their wants and habits.”—Speech at Cooper Institute, New York.
ORESTES A. BROWNSON, (of New Jersey.)
“It is not as an Abolitionist that I demand the emancipation of the slaves.  I demand it as a war measure, necessary for the suppression of the rebellion, to restore the integrity of the national territory, and to preserve the national life.  The war powers of the Government are just as constitutional as the peace powers.  Under the rights of war, if Congress or the President judge it necessary to the success of the Federal arms to abolish slavery, to declare the slaves free, they have a right to do so.  I believe it necessary.  The President seems to have adopted the same opinion.”—Speech at Elizabeth, New Jersey.
GEORGE BANCROFT, (of New York.)
“The party at the South which has made this rebellion is not and never was a Democratic party.  It was and is the most embittered hater of Democracy.  It rests on the most narrow and most selfish of oligarchies, which seeks to extinguish Democratic principles, to crush the Union and the power of the people.  The people have chosen their President, and we who preferred another public servant must now consent to give vigor to the man who is President under the Constitution.  Let then our voice be distinctly heard in favor of an immediate, vigorous prosecution of the war.  For one, I will not give a vote for any man whose election would be an encouragement to the rebellion to hold out.”—Letter to the Union Committee, Oct18th 
ROBERT DALE OWEN, (of Indiana.)
The time has come when it is constitutional to redress the wrongs of slavery.  The rebellion has made it so.  Property in man, always morally unjust, has become nationally dangerous.  The President may now emancipate the slaves, the suppliers of food to the rebel army.  If he did not, would he not be giving aid and comfort to the rebels? The day of the Proclamation of Emancipation will be to the rebels a day of despair, to every loyal heart, of exultant rejoicing.  A day of which the anniversary will be celebrated with jubilee while the American Union endures.”—Letter to the President, Sept. 17th.
COL. LYNCH, (of Illinois.)
Of the 68th Illinois Regiment, taken primmer at Shiloh.
“I hardly need tell you that I have always been a strong, uncompromising Democrat.  I have been an apologist for the Southern people.  I pronounced the stories of their cruelties to be gross fabrications.  I considered the Abolitionists and Republicans the enemies of the Union.  I will not say so now.  I, as you know, have never been an Abolitionist.  I have turned negroes who came into my camp over to their rebel masters.  I cannot say that I like a negro now; but if it should be necessary to save this glorious Union, I would take a regiment of negroes, and march into Dixie.
(Immense applause.) Every party now should be merged into one.  There should be no Republicans, no Democrats.  Every man should sacrifice his personal feelings.  I was opposed to Abraham Lincoln; I am now opposed to every man who opposes Abraham Lincoln.
You may talk about the unconstitutionality of the President’s Proclamation.  I tell you if that Proclamation is lived up to, it will prove the hardest blow this rebellion has yet received. But to make this Proclamation effective, it must have the support of the people, and no loyal man will ret use it his support.” —Speech at Chicago.
RICHARD BUSTEED, (of New York.)
Sneaking of the Proclamation, Gen. Busteed says: 
“Slavery is dead, and the Republic lives! Lives a new life, graduated by the principles of God's eternal justice.  The footfalls of advancing Freedom throw their forward echoes upon the gladdened ear of liberty-loving men.  The American Republic henceforward is free in fact and in name.  ‘God bless Abraham Lincoln!’”
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS,
A short time before his death, said:—
“There are now but two parties in the country— the friends and the enemies of the Government.  Every man who does not stand up for ALL MEASURES that may be adopted for the maintenance of the honor of the country, at whatever necessary cost, is a TRAITOR at heart.”
Mr. John Pettit, of Indiana, recently said:—
“If old Abe will just come to me, I’ll tell him how to stop this rebellion.  EXTEND SLAVERY OVER EVERY FREE STATE IN THE UNION, and the rebellion will be stopped in sixty days.”
Very likely! Who votes for Pettit's method? 
“There can be but two parties, one for the Government and one for the Rebellion."
This list might be much extended, bat want of space forbids.  We can only mention JOSEPH HOLT of Kentucky, Col. FORNEY of Pennsylvania, Col. HARRIS of the 54th Illinois Volunteers, Generals LOGAN and MCCLERNASD, Judge SCATSS of Illinois, Generals BURNSIDE and CORCORAN, and Governor SpRAGUE of Rhode Island, as well known Democrats, all of whom cordially recognize and welcome the Policy of Emancipation.
Democrats of Massachusetts! Will you vote against these able, wise, and leading men of your party, and against the Government of your country duly chosen? It is said you will! Vindicate yourselves from this libel, at the polls! Sustain your best men, and sustain your country! Vote in such a manner as to carry dismay into the ranks of the rebels!
<c06>
FRATENNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully in formed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on WEDNESDAY EVENING, November 5, 1862, at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address on the Capitals, Richmond and Washington, will be made by MONCURE D. CONWAY.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lecturers from the following persons:-
November 11. –ANNA E. DICKINSON.
`` 18. –HENRY  WARD BHECHER 
`` 25. –OWEN LOVEJOY.
December    2. –B. GRATZ BROWN.
`` 9. –WENDELL PHILLIPS
`` 16. –RALPH WALDO EMERSON
`` 23. –JACOB M. MANNING
`` 30. –GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
Lecturers to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett’s, 234 Washington st: Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.;  of solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept. 26tf
THE FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. LOUISE DgMORTIE, the wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or “contrabands” of Washington.
SARAH A.L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St.
President of the Fujitive Aid Society.
We are earnestly hope, both for the sake of the suffering and destitute contrabands at Washington, and to bring before the public an accomplished and most successful dramatic reader, that Mrs. DeMortie will receive numerous invitations in this State and elsewhere to give specimens of her reading and delineating powers, as we are confident that she will in every case give entire satisfaction. –ED.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., will deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth congregational Society at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon next, Nov. 2d. Subject –Public Educators: The Pulpit, the Press, etc.
ANDREW T. FOSS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:
Claremont, N.H.,	Friday Oct, 31.
Springfield, Vt.	Sunday, Nov. 2
Brattleboro’ “		Sunday, ,,     9.
Keene,      N.H.,	Sunday, ,,   16.
MERCY B.JACKSON,  M.D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children References. –Luther Clark, M.D. David Thayer, M.D. office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
WANTED –An ex-slave woman, acquainted with general housework. Apply to 104 Mt. Verson Street.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.,
October 24. 6m
600,000 Male of Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd’s New Steel Plate County Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys;  complete August 10, 1862; cost $20,000 to engrave it, and one year’s time 
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colton or Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370000 names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a country map, but it is also a 
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
Of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving 
EVERY RAILROAD STATION,
 and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
 Send for $1 to try.
 Printed instruction how to canvas well furnished all our agents.
Wanted –Wholesale Agents for our Maps in every State, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition. J.T.LLOYD,
 No. 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which care marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights Williamsport Ferry, Rhorrersville, Noland’s Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD’S 
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS,
is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding as error in it Price 50 cents. 
From the Tribune Aug. 2.
“LLOYD’S MAP OF VIRGINIA MARYLAND and PENNSYLVANIA. This Map is very large its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchsed.”
LLOYD’S 
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER 
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, Mo., shows every man’s plantations and owner’s name for St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico –1350 miles -every sand-bar, island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river –colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form and $250 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept, 17, 1862. J.T.LLOYD: Sin-Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles 
H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron, is authorities to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. 
GIDEON WELLS, 
Secretary of the Navy. 

DENTIGTRY
D. DANIEL MANN has removedhis office to 146 Harrriosn avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite bass, in the use of which he has made some improvements. IT is better then gold, when well made, being lighter, strenger, and more durable, and is also much chesper.
Dr. M.also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for <illeligible> with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20, 1862.
ICH <illeligible>
GLOBE HOTEL,
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,) 
NEW YORK.
A.J.GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collection Claims for Eastern Merchants August 8. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Servant and Son of Liberty, well done!
God from His throne of Light smiles down on thee, 
Standing erect, and in thy country’s name
Proclaiming to the slave that one word, “Free!”
So Standing, and with utterance so grand,
Before thee Treason foul shall quake with fear,
And rank Rebellion, in that word of thine,
Its righteous doom of death shall trembling hear. 
For a great empire, founded on the slave,
Traitors have lifted up their impious hands, 
Frenzied to tear this fair Republic down,
By breaking all its Union’s sacred bands;
Thou, to preserve it from their rage and hate, 
Hast uttered the long hoped for word of might-
The clarion sound to startle Slavery’s realms
With the clear notes of God’s own truth, and right.
Then praise be unto God, and thanks to thee,
A light is breaking in our darkest sky-
The herald of a sun before whose beams
The murky clouds of Slavery shall fly,
Lift up their black, decay-begetting pall,
Dissolve in fleecy vapors, pass away,
Leaving fair Freedom’s temple all unharmed,
Bright and resplendent in the light of day.
Within that temple, noble patriot chief!
When death shall hush thy honest, fearless voice,
And when thy word of truth has worked its spell,
Bidding all freemen on the earth rejoice,
Thou still shalt live, in proudest niche enshrined;
Still live, as memories immortal live
Of those who unto greatness good ness joined,
And to whose deeds all centuries reverence give!
By Washington thy high and honored place,
His task an Empire of the free to found;
Thine, Lincoln, Slavery’s fell hand to stay
From hurling all its pillars to the ground!
Servant and Son of Liberty, well done!
God from His Throne of Light smiles down on thee,
And through all coming time freemen shall rise,
And bless thee, Lincoln, Champion of the Free!

CONSOLATION.
BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
Ah, many-voiced and angry! How the waves
Beat turbulent with terrible uproar! 
It there no rest from tossing-no repose?
Where shall we find a haven and a shore?
What is secure from the load-dashing wave?
There go our riches, and our hopes fly there; 
There go the faces of our best beloved,
Whelmed in the vortex of its wild despair.
Whose son if safe? whose brother, and whose home?
The dashing spray beats out the household fire:
By blackened ashes weep our widowed souls
Over the embers of our heart's desire.
By pauses in the fitful, moaning storm,
We hear triumphant notes of battle roll;
Too soon the triumph sinks in funeral wail;
The muffled drum, the death-march, shakes the soul!
Rocks on all sides, and breakers! At the helm
Weak human hands and weary human eyes;
The shout and clamor of our dreary strife
Go up conflicting to the angry skies.
But, for all this, O timid hearts! be strong;
Be of good cheer; for though the storm must be,
it hath its Master: from its depths shall rise
New heavens, new earth, where shall be no more sea.
No sea, no towing, no unrestful storm;
Forever part the anguish and the strife;
The poor old weary earth shall bloom again
With the bright foliage of that better life.
And war and strife and hatred shall be past,
And misery be a forgotten dream;
The Shepherd God shall lead his peaceful fold
By the calm meadows and the quiet stream.
Be still-be still, and know that he is God;
Be calm, be trustful; work, and watch, and pray,
Till from the throes of this last anguish rise
The light and gladness of that better day.

THIS WAR.
BY MRS. CLARA L. MEACHAM.
War! the ending, when will it be?
And when will the "boys" come home?
The meadows are clothed with waving grass, 
And the fattened herd go lowing past;
 The harvest is ripening all o'er the fields,
 And nature her rarest bounty yields;
All round your dwelling there plenty is seen;
But A LONE ONE walketh on the green.
War! the ending, when will it be?
And when will the "boys" come home?
The shady orchard is filled with fruit,
But the spiritless horses wander mute;
The clover blooms near the crimson berry,
And the roses ‘neath the ripening cherry;
A vine is trailed all round your door,
And a face so sad looks forth once more.
War! the ending, when will it be?
And when will the "boys" come home?
We met that face,—one eve last summer,
—Down where the waves in gladness murmur:
SHE talked of a SOLDIER far away,—
"He’ll surely come ere the flowers decay;"
But rammer went by, and winter came round,
And tear-filled eyes watched the snowy ground.
War! the ending, when will it be? 
And when will the "boys" come home?
For the winter is past, and the summer is here;
A quivering lip names "a soldier dear;"
Must the harvest ripen, the flowerets fade,
And golden fruits blush in crimson shade,
Ere the soldier's return with victor's plume,
To kiss from that face the sadness and gloom?
Leipsic, Ohio, June, 1862.

OCTOBER.
The year grows splendid « on the mountain steep
Now lingers long the warm and gorgeous light,
Dying by slow degrees into the deep,
Delicious night.
The final triumph of the perfect year,
Rises the woods' magnificent array;
Beyond, the purple mountain-heights appear,
And slope away.
The elm, with musical, slow motion, laves
His long, lithe branches in the tender air;
While from his top the gay Sordello waves
Her scarlet hair.
Where SPRING first hid her violets 'neath the fern,
Where SUMMER’S fingers oped, fold after fold,
The odorous, wild, red rose's heart, now burn
The leaves of gold.
The loftiest hill—the lowliest, flowering herb—
The fairest fruit of season and of clime—
All wear alike the mood of the superb
Autumnal time.
Now Nature pours her last and noblest wine!
like some Bacchante beside the singing streams,
Reclines the enchanted Day, wrapt in divine,
Impassioned dreams.
But where the painted leaves are falling fast,
Among the vales, beyond the farthest hill,
There Sits a shadow—dim, and sad, and vast—
And lingers still.
And still we hear a voice among the hills—
A voice that mourns among the haunted woods,
And with the mystery of its sorrow fills
The solitudes.
For while gay AUTUMN gilds the fruit and leaf,
And doth her fairest festal garments wear,
Lo! TIME, all noiseless, in his mighty sheaf
Binds up the year.
The mighty sheaf which never is unbound!
The Reaper whom your souls beseech in vain!
The loved, lost years that never may be found,
Or loved again!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR 
LETTER TO HON. CHARLES SUMNER 
MANSFIELD, Mass., Sept 21, 1862. 
Hon. CHARLES SUMNER: 
DEAR SIR—In your letter, dated .Senate Chamber, June 5th, 1862, addressed to a friend of yours in Boston, you fully endorse the conduct of President Lincoln in dealing with the slavery question. You say, "The President cannot be held responsible for the misfeasances of his subordinates, unless adopted, or at least tolerated by him. And I am sure nothing unjust or ungenerous will be tolerated, much less adopted, by him." Now, it does appear to me that The President has been very ready to tolerate all actions of our pro-slavery Generals, such as Gen. Gob. B. McClellan, Gen. T. W. Sherman, Gen. Robert Patterson, Gen. Halleck, &c.; while be has refused to, tolerate the anti-slavery actions of Gen. John C. Fremont and Gen. David Hunter. He was prompt to undo the righteous anti-slavery effect of the emancipation of the slaves by the proclamation of the two latter, while the pro-slaveryism of the former, by their proclamations, stands unrebuked by Abraham Lincoln, to this day.
In Gen. McClellan's proclamation, when he opened his campaign in Virginia, dated May 26th, 1861, I find the following:—
"Notwithstanding all that has been said by the traitors to induce you to believe that our advent among you will be signalized by interference with your slaves, understand one thing clearly—not only will we abstain from such interference, but we will, on the contrary, WITH AN IRON HAND, crush any attempt at insurrection on their part."
This was unrebuked by the President.
Gen. Patterson issued from Chambersburg, Pa., his proclamation, dated June 3d, 1861, addressed to his troops preparatory to entering Virginia, in which he said:—"
You must bear in mind that you are going for the good of the whole country, and that, while it is your duty to punish sedition, you must protect the loyal, and, should occasion offer, at once suppress servile insurrections."
This was unrebuked by the President.
Gen. T. W. Sherman, who accompanied Commodore Dupont's expedition to Hilton Head, addressed his proclamation " To the People of South Carolina," not one of whom he could find to even receive it; not one Union man could he find to pay any regard to it The whites were, and still are, all rebels, while the blacks are the only Union men in South Carolina. His proclamation reads thus:—
“The dictates of a duty which, under the Constitution, I owe to a great sovereign State, and to a proud and hospitable people among whom I have passed some of the pleasantest days of my life, prompt me to proclaim that we have come among you with no feelings of personal animosity; no desire to harm your citizens, destroy your property, or interfere with any of your lawful laws, rights, or your social and local institutions, beyond what the causes herein briefly alluded to may render unavoidable."
This proclamation was fully acquiesced in by the President! Now, it strikes me that if South Carolina was a "great sovereign State," Gen. Sherman had no 
constitutional right to be there in a warlike attitude. 
When Commodore Dupont and Gen. Sherman took possession of Port Royal, the rebel whites fled like sheep pursued by wolves, leaving a great part of their slaves behind. The panic was so general and extensive that it reached to Charleston and Savannah. The inhabitants of those cities expected that the Union troops would surely invade and take possession of them within a short time, as there were not many troops there to protect them, and not any strong fortifications. But, lo! Gen. Sherman did nothing of the kind. He sat right down for four months, and made no attempt at invading those cities. The President and heads of the Department looked on, apparently satisfied with the criminal inaction of Gen. a Sherman. He received no rebuke for his want of military energy. If Gen. Sherman had issued a proclamation of liberty to the slaves, the only loyal men in the State, who would have flocked to his standard, the rebellion might have been suppressed within two months, as far as South Carolina was concerned, including North Carolina, as there were many loyal white men in the latter State.
So our army waited those four months, till the rebels had fortified the city of Charleston, and added many troops to defend it, when an attempt was made towards advancing to the city, and the Union troops were defeated; and no attempt has since been made to take it What imbecility! Were not Gen. Sherman and the President afraid that slavery would be hurt, had the army advanced when the rebels fled Has not the President, and most of our Generals, been more careful not to harm slavery than anything else? I think so, and that there is abundant evidence to: prove it, .satisfactory to my mind, which I cannot shake off. Have not our Government spent hundreds of millions of dollars, and lost tens of thousands of precious lives of our voluntary soldiers, to crush the rebellion and save slavery, for full eighteen months? Yes; but they have not yet conquered the rebels, who are more rampant than ever; and crushing the rebellion looks more hopeless now than it did one year ago. Even our highly puffed up General McClellan, who was expected to do wonderful things in putting down the rebels, figured about for a whole year in pursuit of them, finally got into a big swamp, and was glad to get out again with a loss, from the attack of the rebel army from Richmond, of sixteen thousand men killed, wounded and missing; as many as half what Massachusetts had furnished for the war previous to that time.
Now, as the President has rested so easy and acquiesced so 'complaisantly under the pro-slavery action of our Generals, even when they were returning fugitive slaves to their rebel masters, contrary to law, justice and right, let us see how he has treated those few Generals who have acted on some anti-slavery principles and the feelings of humanity to our brethren in bondage.
General Fremont, finding it necessary, in order to suppress the rebellion in Missouri, issued his proclamation, applying only to that State, that all slaves of rebels should be thereafter free. Did the President acquiesce in that? No, as soon as possible, he stamped his seal of disapprobation upon it—he vetoed the act! What induced him to do that? A letter, it is said, from Hon. Joseph Holt, of Kentucky, who wrote immediately to the President, condemning the act of Gen. Fremont was subsequently removed from his command.
General Hunter was appointed General over our army in South Carolina, &c. On arriving to take the command, he found the rebels employing the slaves to do all the hard work upon their fortifications, and compelling them to work on their plantations, raising provisions for the support of their army, and also to fight us. Seeing that there were no Union men there, except the slaves, he immediately issued a proclamation freeing the slaves in three rebel States.
Did the President acquiesce in that measure? No; as soon as possible, he put a veto upon it—not even waiting to be informed what reasons Gen. Hunter could give for issuing such a proclamation! He was in hot baste to reduce again to bondage one million of slaves whom Gen. Hunter had set free!
MANSFIELD, Sept. 29, 1862.
Since the preceding was penned, I have read the President's late Proclamation, emancipating the slaves of rebels on the first day of January next This is first step taken by the President in the direction of freeing the slaves of this Republic, since the war commenced. I do not wish to be too captious, finding fault without reason; but I cannot see so much glory arising from it as some pretend to. It gives the rebels over three months to use their slaves in conquering us, if they can, before the first of Jan., 186S. They will, no doubt, improve this lenient opportunity. I can no j better express my ideas upon the subject than in the following, which I quote from the Principia, Extra.—
<c03>
“The main feature is, that the slaves of States, or parts of States, in rebellion on the 1st of January, 1863, are declared free. But (mark this!) ‘No State, or part of a State, shall be considered to have been in rebellion that will, in the mean time, elect members to the congress of the United States, by a majority of qualified voters’! Nothing is said of laying down arms, or disbanding armies, as a test of loyalty! Jeff. Davis, and any or all of his officers may be elected to our Congress, and take their seats, and this is to be proof of their loyalty, though their armies may remain in the field, ready, if need be, to assist Gen. McClellan and his adherents in enforcing upon the nation a Union on the basis of slavery! The rebellion against the Administration is to be thus terminated, without “letting the oppressed go free,’ and the nation thus united, is to go on in rebellion against God! In the mean time, the rebels are allowed more than three months in which, with the aid of their salves and European sympathizers, to conquer us if they can. If they find themselves hard pushed, they can take the wind out of our sails, by liberating the slaves on the soil, to fight against us.”
I cannot but feel that the course of the President, in discountenancing any anti-slavery action of our Generals during the eighteen months of war against the rebels, has had a bad tendency. It has encouraged a strong development of pro-slavery feeling and action throughout the Free States. Hence, the pro-slavery presses have become very arrogant, wishing all abolitionism suppressed and abolitionists hung! Those pro-slavery presses have imagined Mr. Lincoln to be as pro-slavery as themselves. Hence, they have endorsed all his pro-slavery conduct. Hence, the friends of slavery have organized a new party in Massachusetts, under the false pretense of no party, in order to prevent the reelection of our worthy Governor, and our honored Senator. In order to aid the above party in their nefarious scheme, that arrogant, bombastic, inflated specimen of humanity, George F. Train, has come all the way from old England to enlighten the dark minds of the citizens of Massachusetts, against supporting by their votes John A. Andrew and Charles Summer.
All these pro-slavery movement would not have occurred, had our general government been true to liberty, and had taken, eight months ago, effectual steps to crush the rebellion by crushing slavery, the cause of the rebellion. But, no-the experiment has been tried full eighteen months to put down the rebellion, and save slavery for those three hundred thousand slaveholders to domineer over during future generations, till they can get up another war. By the pro-slavery course of our Government, the war is no nearer to its successful termination than it was one year ago, to all appearances.
I hope I shall not have the temerity to address you another long letter very soon.
Most respectfully yours, 
ISAAC STEARNS. 

LETTERS FROM HENRY O. WRIGHT.
Grow’s District-Opposition of Secesh Rattlesnakes-The Negro the only Name, Abolition the only Dose, by which the Nation can be saved.
RASPBERRY AND RATTLESNAKE MOUNTAIN, Pa., October 9, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON,-I am in a queer place. Raspberries and rattlesnakes all around me. I have been in Pennsylvania seven days, and have lectured seven times. I am in Grow’s District. Great is the effort of the Rattlesnakes to defeat him at the polls on Tuesday, the 14th, and elect an out-and-out advocate of slavery and treason in his stead. This District has furnished a great many to the army-all Republicans. On the strength of their absence, the “serfs of slaveholders,” as the Richmond Whig calls these Northern sycophants of slavery, hope to turn out grow, and elect a traitor to freedom and free labor in his stead.
I have lectured four times, in different places, to the people on and around the mountain. Many declare that slavery is above the Republic. “DIE THE REPUBLIC-LIVE SLAVERY!” is their openly avowed and boasted party watchword. The advocates of slavery and treason are called rattlesnakes. In one of my meetings, one of the Rattlesnakes planted himself before the door of the house, outside. He would not come in, he could not go away. So there he stood, raving and roaring, swearing and swaggering, in true pro-slavery, Democratic fashion; but his hissing and wrathful demonstrations brought no sympathizing Rattlesnakes to his help. The Humans, inside, heeded not his hisses, nor his rattles, nor his deadly virus.
The PROCLAMATION! The PROCLAMATION! It is producing a sifting effect, and sending every man to his own place-for liberty, or for slavery. Neutrality and compromise are no longer possible about here. Are you for freedom or slavery-for free labor or slave labor-for free institutions or slave institutions-for a government based on freedom to the laborer, or on slavery to the laborer? These are the only questions. 
Two churches at the base of the mountain are freely tendered to me to lecture on the subject. Sunday evening last, I lectured in the Presbyterian church, to show that there is no other name given under heaven among men whereby the nation can be saved but THE NEGRO, and that the nation must take a great dose of abolition, before any hope could be entertained of a permanent cure. You, dear friend, with your coadjutors, have labored, in a war of ideas, by appeals to reason and conscience, to get the nation to swallow the needed dose. The nation has made up terrible faces at you and your medicine. Nevertheless, its mouth has opened, and it has begun to swallow the medicine. Now the President comes to your help, and by a Proclamation accelerates the swallowing of the dose, on political grounds. Soon the army and navy will send the needed dose of abolition clear down by bayonets, bombshells and rifled cannon. So, in time, slavery, the foul disease that has tainted the very life-blood of the nation in its every vein and artery, will be cast out, and the nation be restored to vigorous, beautiful, and glorious health and power.
How changed! A few years ago, on and around this mountain, Abolition was more dreaded than the virus of their oldest and deadliest rattlesnakes by almost all. Now, they are eager to swallow the largest dose of Abolitionism that the most radical Garrisonian Abolitionist can administer to them!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Drafting-The Trial Hour-Each one tried by his own Convictions-Slaveholders and their Abettors, themselves being witnesses, ought to be shot-Gerrit Smith-New York Election.
HAMILTON, (N.Y.) Oct. 20, 1862. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND-To-day, for the first time since leaving Boston, I have been allowed the privilege of reading the Liberator. Four numbers came into my hands, all which I have just read with the voracity of a starved and famished spirit. The numbers bear date Sept. 19th and 26th, and Oct. 3d and 10th.
With heartfelt satisfaction I have read your comments on “Drafting-The Hour of Trial”-Drafting-What is the Duty of Abolitionists?” Surely, your argument can never be refuted. Quakers and peace men, and professed followers of Jesus, whose convictions allow them to vote under the Constitution, must see that they vote for the Constitution. The man whose conscience allows him to vote to invest Congress with war-power, and the President with power of commander-in-chief of the army and navy, can have no just cause to hold back from joining the army, to resist with bullets and bayonets those who seek to destroy the Constitution. No voter for the war-power can be true to himself, who refuses to become a solder. Every voter, under and for the Constitution, is a soldier to execute the Constitution for which he votes. Every voter for a commander-in-chief is a traitor to his own vote, unless he is ready to be a soldier, (other things being equal,) to sustain that commander in the execution of his military as well as civil office. He whose convictions are opposed to voting for the war-power, cannot be a soldier to did in carrying out that power. 
It is right and just to hold each man amenable to his own convictions and principles. Slaveholders 
<c03>
proclaimed a war of extermination against freedom and free labor, free society, free speech, and free institutions. This object has been avowed by all the leaders of the rebellion. It is not to maintain slavery where it is, that they have begun this war of bullets, but to blot out freedom and free institutions, and to spread slavery and slave institutions over the nation 
and continent. This, they being witnesses, is the sole and single object of the slave-breeders' rebellion. 
Resistance to slaveholders is obedience to God. No man can be true to his own convictions of right, and not resist the slaveholders; for every man is conscious that slavery is wrong. He cannot be a man, and not know that “slavery is the sum of all villany" His consciousness tells him this,—that every man is a robber, a villain, a pirate, who would enslave him, or apologize for his enslavement. He, whose consciousness assures him that another is a villain and ought to be shot who would enslave him, knows by the same unerring conviction, that he himself is a villain, a pirate, and deserves to be shot, if he enslaves others, or apologizes for their enslavement. He who would kill another for enslaving him, his wife and children, says to the world, "Kill me, if I attempt to enslave in another." Every slaveholder, or apologist for slavery, North or South, he himself being witness, ought to do be shot. 
Why, then, do not all who accept armed resistance seize their arms and rush to meet the enslavers, who avow their intention to enslave the nation and continent, or die in the attempt? It seems to me that man is the Benedict Arnold of the day who refuses to use all the means which, in his own view, God and Nature have put in his hands to resist and crush forever those slave-breeding and slave-trading foes of God and man, the Confederacy of American Corsairs. The great future of this nation, the continent and race, call on every man and woman of the North to resist the slave- holding rebels, by all the means which he or she deems to be right—to lay all on the altar of Liberty and Justice, and go forth to the final conflict between Liberty and Slavery with this watchword on their banner—" GIVE ME LIBERTY, OR GIVE ME DEATH!”
Deeply do I sympathize with our self-sacrificing friend, A. T. Foss, in his bereavement. For fifteen years he has given all of life, of energy and power to resist the aggressions of slaveholders. His labors have been everywhere efficient and earnest, and acceptable; and now he has laid his only son on the altar of Freedom. Slavery has Blain him, as it has devoured 200,000 others of the sons of the North. May God breathe consolation into the hearts of the bereaved fathers and mothers! May their hatred of slavery, the monster that has slain their only son, and the sons of tens of thousands of others, be intensified a thousand fold! 
THE PROCLAMATION! "Are you for or against it? All in favor of it will arise, or say Aye! All against it will say Nay, or arise." Such is the test to which those who get up my meetings bring the audience after my lectures. Without exception, nine out of ten have voted Aye. Yet a desperate effort is being made by Wood, Seymour & Co. to carry the Empire State against the Proclamation. Many, in their blind, insane and most guilty devotion to the Democratic party, as it was, will vote against it; but the State will sustain it. 
GERRIT SMITH, our great and magnanimous friend, has done many heroic and daring deeds. He never did a more thoughtful and truly humane deed than when, not long ago, he gave five hundred dollars to a regiment raised in this county to purchase pens, ink and paper for the use of the soldiers, to give each one the means to correspond with his mother, wife, sisters and daughters, and loved ones at home! He also subscribed twelve thousand dollars to pay bounties to those who would enlist.
Between this and the election on the first Tuesday or 4th day of November, I shall lecture once, and often twice a day, in Madison, Chenango, Otsego, and perhaps Herkimer counties. Without a question, I am Invited to speak in Presbyterian, Baptist and Methodist houses, on Slavery, the only Cause, and Abolition, the only Cure, of the Rebellion—civil war. I do what in me lies to prepare the people to see to it that the Proclamation and the Law, long and criminally delayed, are enforced. Justice to the slaves shall ensue. 
Have you seen the speech of Wadsworth in New Jersey? He nobly vindicates Abolition by allusion to Massachusetts, the most thoroughly Abolition State in the Union. He is willing to be called an Abolitionist. He will soon glory in it. Yours, truly, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P.S. Oct.21. The Proclamation is a fiery ordeal. It is compelling all to show their signals, and setting the entire community into two parties—one for, the other against it. One is based on the doctrine that God made Africans chattels—the other, on the doctrine that he made them men. One says the slaves have a right to resist their enslavers, and fight for freedom—the other denies to slaves this right. Free labor is the basis of the Wadsworth party; Slave labor the basis of the Seymour party. Ministers, in many places, are holding meetings in schoolhouses to urge the people, one and all, to sustain Wadsworth and the Proclamation. The following are the words of Wadsworth at the meeting in Elizabeth City, (N. J.) on the 15th:—
"This war is a war between Liberty and Slavery. We are told that Abolition meant a disregard for order, for courts, for law, and churches. But where was to there a greater regard for these than in old Abolition Massachusetts? At this hour, the bonds of the city, of Boston are worth more, the world over, than those of any other city on this continent. If, then, it be a choice between Abolition and Pro-Slavery, I am content to be the Abolitionist instead of the Pro-Slavery Democrat. We must conquer or be conquered." 
True—the laborers of the South must be freed, or the laborers of the North enslaved. Which shall it be? 
Col. WILLIAM WHITING! my dear, trusting, and trusted friend! the long-tried, earnest, and true friend of the slave and of progress! thy true, loving, admiring friend to the last, ever ready to pay the homage of a warm and kindly heart to thy unwavering fidelity to liberty and humanity! He, too, has entered upon life within the life—has gone into the holy of holies of life's great temple! We shall see his earnest face no more in our meetings. I can but drop a tear over the sad thought. But be lived to hear the Proclamation, and to feel a load lifted from his heart, as it has lifted a load from the hearts of millions. But few of those who bore the Abolition Crow, at first, remain. They will soon be fewer—at least of those who remain in the body. My Abolition will live while a slave lives In God's universe. So will thine. So will William Whiting's. I would stay this side Jordan till January 1st, 1868—then to hear the shout go up from 4,000,000 slaves redeemed, if God in mercy will keep the Rebellion going.
H. C. W.

ADDRBSS OF GERRIT SMITH.
Hon. Gerrit Smith has just addressed his townsmen upon the election which is soon to take place in the Empire State, and the relation of parties and measures to the present state of national affairs. We regret that the crowded state of our columns will not allow of our publishing more than the following extracts:—
"There is at last hope, good hope, for our deeply endangered country. The President, who is both an able and an honest man, is doing his duty. He will do his whole duty. I regret that in his precious Proclamation, for which my whole heart blesses him, he should again give the rebels time in which to re turn to their allegiance. I regret that be makes Emancipation prospective instead of immediate, and that he does not extend it over the Border States also, as it is his dearly Constitutional right to do. There are many who admit that the right in such a case is extra-Constitutional. This they should not do. The President, in his capacity of supreme military commander, has the Constitutional right to abolish slavery or apprenticeship, or anything else, in any State, where, in his judgment, the exigencies of the war call for Such abolition. On the other hand, the
<c05>
President has no right, in virtue of his military command, to do what many, and especially the most eager Abolitionists, say he should do. For instance, they complain that he did not make justice to the negroes the great motive and ground of his Heaven-inspired and immortal Proclamation. But as military Commander, he is to act with exclusive reference to the conquering of the rebels. Does he, in the march of his army, take possession of a certain building? He is to do so not that he may submit it to a lustration on account of its having been gambled in since the year 1620. This might gratify his hatred of vice. But it is not to enable him to seek such gratification that he is put at the head of the army. He can rightly claim the building only because there is military need of it. So, too, whilst, as a man, he weeps over the wrongs of the Africans in this land since the year 1620, he is nevertheless in his military capacity to liberate them only because by liberating them he can promote the suppression of the rebellion. Many Abolitionists found great fault with the tenor of the President’s Reply to Horace Greeley. I am among those who thought the reply to be, as a whole, sound in doctrine and argument, and admirable in style.
“I expressed my regret that the Proclamation does not emancipate the slave in the Border States also.
“I regretted, too, that the emancipation is not immediate. Our cause would be greatly embarrassed by the South’s Preceding us in actual emancipation. Moreover, our policy cannot most effective, until our emancipation has become actual. Nevertheless, the president has done well. I repeat that he will do his whole duty. The people must encourage him to multiply his bold and righteous steps by sustaining him so effectively as by making the majority of James S. Wadsworth for the office of governor of the empire state exceed one hundred thousand.
Your friend and townsman, 
GERRIT SMITH
Peterboro’,(N.Y.,) Oct.6, 1862.”

THEODORE PARKER. 
THEDORE PARER’S PRAYERS. London: Whitfield
Last September, an edition of these Prayers was given to the American public by R. L. and M. G., They were taken down as uttered when God touched the preacher’s hallowed lips with fire. They were taken down as uttered when god touched the preacher’s hallowed a portrait. The English edition is a reprint of the American one, with the exception of the portrait. This omission is to be regretted, for a picture of Parker, as be was in the later years of his life, is what his English admirers, and their name is legion, would highly prize. The portrait which is most commonly known is that published by Chapman. But that represents him as be was at least a dozen years ago. It gives him a thin and care-worn countenance. Vast depths of tenderness may be read in the eyes, and marks of a strong and unconquerable will are traceable about the brow, and mouth, and chin. But the portrait last published is more to our liking. It may be very fanciful to say 1 so, but it seems more characteristic. It depicts him bearded like a Hebrew prophet fire, force, impressiveness, and majesty are there. One may see the history of a pregnant decade in the altered looks.: in They are significant of struggles with the slaveholding power, North and South, of hard ministerial life, of the championship of political principles too pure to win many friends, and of the maintenance of a free and spiritual Christianity against orthodox as sail ants and retrogressive American Unitarians. Be sides, we see him here as he looked when be went to Italy to die. Our thanks are due to the gentleman who has afforded all classes of Englishmen an easy opportunity of communing with the spirit of Parker in those prayerful moods, when the philosopher became a saint, when natural sympathies were amplified to human, and when be who fearlessly grappled with all theological problems, speak to God with un studied eloquence, trusting in Him like a child, and finding a guide through intellectual labyrinths in the light of a loving heart. Many, very many, will echo these thanks. May we add to our thanks a request? Should these prayers reach a second edition, will the editor give to English readers the portrait which has been given to American readers? We confess to a weakness in this direction. But we are sure that it is by no means exceptional to us. It is human nature to delight in gazing on God's chosen sons. And when they pass into immortality, their likenesses are a precious possession to those left behind. Give us then the boon in Theodore Parker's case. We speak for those poorer brethren whose means are limited. No man has died within this et- century who in a religious point of view more merits the multiplication of himself in other men's souls. He lifted Unitarianism out of the pettiness of a sect, he showed bow it was possible for a minister to be a more manly man, and in theory and in life he truly prophesied of Christianity as it is to be. And now we will say a word or two on the prayers themselves.
The volume contains in all forty prayers, and the editors have given the dates when they were offered, and when, we may add, Mr. Parker's congregations, in the Boston Melodeon and Music Hall, were lifted to heaven by them. The first is for March 17, 1850, and the last, being also the last offered in public, for January 2d, 1859. The dates have a specially biographical interest. For while certain great wants of the human heart exist always, and are therefore always, and aspects of natural national and individual life which come and go which a man notices once in prayer, and notices no more. Theodore Parker was peculiarly impressed by times and seasons, and the changeful aspects of be earth and sky. We can almost tell what every day was like when be preached in Boston. In December be thanks God "for the austere loveliness of the wintry heavens, "and knows that "a benediction or for ail mankind is written in each flake of snow, "while" the very ice of northern realms is made the servant of man's pleasure and the handmaid of his health." On the 15th march, when probably unexpected sunshine transfigured his own face in the pulpit, and prophesied the death of a bleak New England winter, he rejoices over u the lovely day which God pours down on the expecting world, giving the hills and the valleys a foretaste of the spring that is to come." In April, when the foretaste has been followed by the presence of spring, be remembers this " angel of growth, who weeks ago put the green oracle of the prophetic grass by every water course, rippling its psalm of life before the sight of men, and who has now cast his handsome garment on our plains, and whose breath swells the buds in many a vale, and on many a hill, and draws the birds with their sweet music once more to our northern land.” In June he sees” the green fruit hanging pendent on many a bough which waves in the summer wind its thank-offering unto heaven; “ and in September be renders praise u for the months of autumn, whose sober beauty now is cast on every, if bill and every tree." But nature has human meanings for him, her face is lit up with an expression like his own, and her material beauty feeds how spirit's growth. In spring be calls to mind how God makes perennial spring-time with his presence in the human soul.” Piety cannot be absent from his heart when “the trees lift up their hands in a psalm of gratitude to God, and every little hands in a psalm of its and every wandering bird are filled with his spirit, and grateful to him."
The fitness which the prayers have to natural not times and seasons they have also to epochs of American history. On the 5th July it was not possible for a man with Theodore Parker's transparent eon-science to preach, and in sermon or in prayer to W keep silence on the sin of slavery. In a noble, but an startling passage, and to men of weak minds a passage, and men of weak minds a passage perhaps too sternly just, he says, “we will not ask thee to save us in our sins, to free us from the consequence of wrong while we fold the evil in our mistaken arms, but we pray thee that we may be afflicted in our basket and store, that our great men may be vanity and our governors a lie, till we repent of our basket and store, that our great men may be vanity and our governors a lie, till we repent of our Wickedness and put away the evil from the midst of us.” On Thanks giving Day, November 27th, this sin of the nation weights heavy upon him, and till it is purged away there is no room for true “joy and blessedness.” The Fugitive Slave Law, and the brave men who break it, are often present to him. And on Mr. Sumner’s journey to Europe, the preacher is thankful for the kindred nobleness of the statesman, and calls on all to hold “exceeding precious the valiant soul which remembered its bravery when others thought but of discre-
<c06>
tion“ There are, indeed, many passages in these prayers which tell us, not only what dress the earth was wearing, but the mood of the faithful Apostle himself, the political evils that the week had brought to light, and the longings which the whole better heart of America felt, though few had the courage and none had the power to express them like him. As he walked to worship on the Sunday mornings, nature fed him with her inspiration, and he gathered the materials of prayer into a shape of omnipotence before a multitude hungering and thirsting for him help. God strengthened him for each day’s work, and made him an exemplar of the higher law in a city whose people were mostly given over to the love of money, and whose priests were the slaves of compromises and tongue-tied by expediency.
But Parker’s sympathy with nature was the sympathy of a Theist. This is shown by the passages we have quoted. He saw the life of God welling therein, everywhere and constantly. In his philosophy, as may be gathered from both his sermons and prayers, God lives in mind and in matter. The heavens are magnificent, because God is there. The flowers symbolize celestial loveliness, because each drop of dew sleeping within their cups is radiant with His brightness. The music of the birds is more than earthly, because He teaches them, and they sing to Him. Streams gurgle onward as though an unlost Eden, of pebble, rock, and o’er-hanging bush making melody all their own, that visits us again in dreams, and in our waking hours of worship follows us to the church, and makes the louder din of organ and orchestra pass away unheard, because God pours them from the hollow of His hand. In Parker’s words, “God rains down his inspiration from the clouds of heaven on every little grass, and every mighty tree.” Thankfulness for the mind, the con science, the affections, and the religious sense, runs through all the prayers. Through their instrumentality he sees God outside, and communes with Him. God in nature, God especially in the higher attributes of humanity, and union with God for ever, realized in truth, beauty, justice, and goodness these are the elements of his prayers. They mingle in many ways, and sound forth many notes; yet tend to one end, and blend in one harmony; they seek to present the perfect man an offering to the perfect God. And so devout are the thanksgivings and the petitions, that did they drop unresponded to from a heaven deaf to human cries they carry a sufficient reward with them. But in the very echo of these deep-hearted prayers of “Come, O Lord!” there lurks the divine answer, “Here am I.” 
We have dwelt on this piety towards nature because in most of the published prayer and liturgies that we have seen, the compilers seem to think nature so poor a gift that it is not worth thanking God for. Modern Christians need a new infusion of the Old Hebrew spirit to enable them to see divine in the world. At present this vision of God is mainly enjoyed by the more spiritual of the reformed Jews, by poets who, probably, are not often corrupted by bearing sermons, by Theists on whom orthodox and heterodox churches look with nearly equal coldness, and by Unitarians whose nominal fellow-believers pityingly shake the head, and murmur that where there is so much nature there can be little grace. The Church of England Prayer book has no expressions of thankfulness for nature, no words that acknowledge it as the borne and hand work of God ministering to the religions growth of his children, which are not borrowed from the Old Testament. And these appear in anthems and psalms, but not in prayers. The same is true of the in many respects, useful American collection called the u Altar at Home," though not quite to the same extent. Even the new London Liturgy is far from satisfactory. Indeed, of all the devotional compilations that circulate amongst us, it may be said that if they were more Hebrew they would more Christian, and if they had more of nature they would have more of God.
Lowell, in his "Fable for the Critics," speaking of Parker, says,
His hearers can't tell you on Sunday beforehand,
If, in that day’s discourse, they’ll be Bibled or Koraned.
But a familiarity with these prayers would almost justify us in turning prophets. The better spirit of the better men of the Bible animates them all. They are rich in Bible phrases from prophet, psalmist, and apostle. Their language is the Bible’s, simple but mighty Anglo-Saxon. The preacher bar had the reputation of being a great classic himself, and his published works abound with evidences of wide and profound learning, but when he prays, his speech is altogether that of the common people, as was his Master's. Greece and Rome, England and America revolve round Palestine; and the thinkers, the men of science, the poets, the victorious fighters for freedom, and, to use his own fine phrase, “Those gifted women whose presentiment soul saw before the mighty prophet’s thoughtful eyes forefeeling light when yet the very East was dark with night,” all wait reverently on Christ, and acknowledge him their greater. We quote one more illustrative passage:-
“Chiefliest of all, do we bless Thee for that noble Son of thine, born of a peasant mother and a peasant sire, who in days of great darkness went before men, his life a pillar of fire leading them unto marvelous light, and peace, and beauty. We thank Thee for his words, so lustrous with truth, for his life, fragrant all through with piety and benevolence; yea, Lord, we bless Thee for the death which sinful hands nailed into his lacerated flesh, where through the wounds the spirit escaped triumphant unto Thee, and could not be holden of mortal death. We thank Thee for the triumph which attend that name of Jesus, for the dear blessedness which his life has bestowed upon us, smoothing the pathway of toil, softening the pillow of distress, and brightening the way whereon truth comes down from Thee, and life to Thee goes ever ascending up. Father, we thank Thee for the blessing which this great noble soul has widely scattered throughout, the world, and most of all for this, that his spark of fire has revealed to us thine own divinity, enlivening this mortal human clod, and prophesying such noble future of achievement here on earth and in Thine own kingdom of heaven with Thee."
Theodore Parker's speculative theology had points from which many persons will dissent. His notions about the Bible, about miracles, and about inspiration, though they seem to be implied in the current talk of those who are undoubtedly sound in the faith, are often branded as heretical. But such a brand is always in store for a brave logician who has learned, or is too honest to learn, the mastery of that refined etiquette of speech in which words conceal thoughts, and the unexplained repetition of the stock phrases of the church “tickles the ears of the groundlings,” and arms cant with the passport of piety. But whether he were a heretic or no, we know and we care not. We only know that he was a pure-minded politician, who never sacrificed principle to expediency; a philosophical theologian whose mighty in select “went sounding on its dim and perilous way” in quest of that absolute truth in which all believe but none find; a Christian who shared his Master’s spirit, and found room in heaven for creedists who could not find room for him; and a Unitarian who carried that sect's doctrine of free inquiry and allegiance to God only to their last result—venturing to stand bareheaded before the infinite, praying to Him, working for Him, and being blessed Him. Being dead, he yet speaketh. His works and his life are with us in their ennobling influence still. “He shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels.”
WILLIAM BINNS.
—London Unitarian Herald.
From Hayti. Arrival out of the American commissioner-Haytian files to the 4th instant bring the latest intelligence from the island.
The schooner Talisman, from New York, had arrived at Port au Prince with the American commissioner and Consul-General, Mr. Benjamin Whedden, who was received with due honors by the Foreign Secretary. The Republic says of this arrival. 
"Mr. Whedden comes to inaugurate the series of official relations between us and the great republic of the North. We hope earnestly that relations may be carried on to the highest development. Full of confidence in the issue of the crisis through which the Americans are at this moment passing, we record our prayers for the speedy realization of a peace attended by all the consequences of liberty. 
In that new era, our commercial relations, already so important, will receive a new impetus, to the great advantage of both nations. We shall be happy to see a distinguished man like Mr. Whedden aiding in that great result.
Mr. Elie Dubois has been named the Minister of Hayti to the United States. Mr. D. Some thirty or forty year, ago was a carpenter in Baltimore. His parents emigrated to Hayti in the time of Boyer, and he subsequently became distinguished as a lawyer, and afterwards was Secretary of State, of Justice and Worship.
The Haytian cultivators are turning their attention to the cultivation of cotton.
President Geffrard has been taking a tour through the provinces, and was received everywhere with hearty enthusiasm.
