<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dellars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financia Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, One Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO.43.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1875.
WHOLE NO. 1812.
Selections.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
(Translated from the ”O Fayalense," of Fayal.)
[The following eloquent speech, on the death of President Lincoln, was delivered in the Chamber of Peers at Lisbon, and translated for the Boston Christian Register by a correspondent, ”C. F. B." ]
The death of Abraham Lincoln was felt throughout Europe. Crowned heads and parliaments hastened to express their horror at the crime committed by Wilkes Booth. It was necessary that the grave should close over the great citizen for all to appreciate his lofty qualities, and proclaim him as worthy of posterity as the disinterested founder of the American Confederacy-the immortal Washington.
Lincoln has been called the ”Martyr to Duty;" and great glory it is to merit such a title, for it indicates the temper of the soul which acquired it. A profound conviction ever directed his steps, and his evangelical piety looked to God for aid to enable him to fulfil the mission confided to him by his fellow-citizens. History will not fail to record with praise and pleasure the benevolent motives which influenced him during the momentous period when he saw approach the complete overthrow of the enemies of the Union.
The Portuguese parliament has not been behind the foreign parliaments; and in the chamber of peers, the eloquent voice of Sr. Rebello da Silva was raised, giving utterance to his noble sentiments respecting the sad catastrophe, of which the excellent President was the victim.
The following is the speech, which we copy to-day from the Diario de Lisboa:
SR. REBELLO DA SILVA: Mr. President,-I desire to offer to the chamber some observations on a subject I deem most grave., for the purpose of introducing a motion which I intend to lay upon the table.
The chamber has been made aware by the official documents in the foreign journals, that a flagrant sutrage has recently covered with mourning a great nation beyond the Atlantic, the powerful Republic of the United States.
Sr. Cande d' Avila-I ask on the part of the government, for information respecting this occurrence.
Sr. da Silva-President Lincoln has been assassinated in the theatre, almost in the arms of his wife!
The perpetration of so foul a deed has caused the deepest grief in America, and throughout all the courts of Europe. Cabinets and parliaments have evinced the most universal sorrow at an event so grievous.
It belongs to civilized communities, it becomes almost a duty with all constituted political bodies, to accompany their manifestations with the sincere expression of horror at facts and crimes so infamous. (Applause.)
Through a fatality, or a sublime disposition or un-fathomable mystery of Providence,-which is the more Christian interpretation of history,-it often happens, not only in the life of nations but in that of individuals, when the loftiest heights have been reached, the boldest destinies fulfilled, even the last degrees of human greatness attained, when the way is suddenly made smooth, and the horizon casts off its clouds and shadows, and smiles flooded with light, that then an unseen hand is lifted in the darkness; that a power, secret and inexorable, is armed in silence, and waving the dagger of Brutus, pointing the cannon of Wellington, or offering the poisoned cap of Asiatic herbs, hurls the conqueror, crowned with laurels, from his height, at the feet of Pompey's statue, like Caesar; at the feet of fortune, weary with following him, like Napoleon; at the feet of the Colossus of irritated Rome, like Hannibal.
The mission of great men and heroes makes them seem to us almost like demigods; for they receive for a moment from on high the omnipotence which revolutionizes societies and transfigures nations; they pass, like tempests, in their car of fire, to see themselves dashed at last in an instant against the eternal barriers of the impossible, barriers which no one can remove, where they all find the pride of their ephemeral power reduced to nought, and humbled to the dust-for immutable and great alone is God. Death overtakes them, or ruin reaches them in their apogee, to show to princes, to conquerors, and to people, that their hour is one only and short, that their work is fragile as the work of man, so soon as the pillar of fire which guided them is extinguished, and night falls upon their way: the new paths they had opened for themselves, and through which they thought to pass boldly and secure, become gulfs which open and swallow them, when, as instruments of the designs of the Most High, the days of their empire and their enterprise shall have been counted and finished. (Applause.)
Thus is seen a terrible example, a memorable lesson in the catastrophe of the most noted characters of history. So come to us to-day, stained with the illustrious blood of one of its most honored citizens, the recent pages of the annals of the powerful Republic of the United States, Its President, when the first quadrennium was closed of a government, in which strife was his heritage falls suddenly, struck down before his own triumph; and from his cold and powerless hands escape loosely the reins of an administration, which the perseverance and energy of his will, the cooperation of his fellow-citizens, and the loftiness and prestige of the great idea be symbolized and defended, have made immortal with a name, proclaimed by millions of voices and votes on the fields of battle and in the assemblies of the people. Reconducted, elevated a second time on the shields of popular favor to the supreme direction of affairs, at the moment when the heat of civil strife was appeased, when the union of that vast dilacerated body gave promise, in its restoration, dilacerated body gave promise, in its restoration, to bind up the wounds through which, for so many months, flowed in torrents the generous blood of the free; almost in the arms of victory, surrounded by those who most loved him, in the bosom of his popular court, he suddenly encounters death, and the ball of an obscure fanatic closes and seals the golden book of his destinies, at the moment, too, when every prosperity seemed to welcome him to length of days and festive favor.
It is not a king who disappears in the obscurity of the tomb, burying with him, like Henry IV., the future of vast plans; it is the chief of a glorious people, who leaves behind him as many successors as there are abettors of his idea, cooperators in his noble and well-aimed aspirations. The purple of a throne is not covered with mourning, the heart of a great empire is shrouded in grief. The cause, of which he was the strenuous champion, did not die with him; but all wept for his loss, through their horror of the deed and the occasion, and through the hopes founded on his pure and benevolent motives.
<c02>
Lincoln, martyr to the broad principle which he represented in power and struggle, belongs now to history and to posterity. Like Washington, whose idea he continued, his name will be inseparable from the memorable epochs to which he is bound, and which he expresses. If the Defender of Independence freed America, Lincoln unsheathed without hesitation the sword of the Republic, and with its point erased and tore out, from the statutes of a free people, the anti-social stigma, the anti-humanitarian blasphemy, the sad, shameful, infamous codicil of old societies, the dark, repugnant abuse of slavery, which Jesus Christ first condemned from the top of the cross, proclaiming the equality of man before God, which nineteen centuries of civilization, reared in the Gospel, have proscribed and rejected as the opprobrium of our times. (Great applause.)
At the moment when he was breaking the chains of a luckless race, when he was seeing in millions of rehabilitated slaves millions of future citizens, when the bronze voice of Grant's victorious cannon was proclaiming the emancipation of the soul, of the conscience, and of toil, when the scourage was about to fall from the hands of the scourgers, when the ancient slave pen was about to be transformed, for the captive, into a domestic altar; at the moment when the stars of the Union, sparkling and resplendent with the golden fires of Liberty, were waving over the subdued walls of Petersburg and Richmond. the sepulcher opens, and the strong, the powerful, enters it. In the midst of triumphs and acclamations, there appeared to him a spectre, like that; of Caesar in the ides of March, saying to him,” You have lived."
Far be it from me to approve or condemn the civil strife which divides and covers with blood two brother sections of the American people. I am neither their judge nor their censor. I honor the principle of liberty, wherever cherished and maintained; but I can also honor and admire another principle, not less sacred and glorious, that of independence. May the progressive virtue of our age, reunite those whom discord has divided, and reconcile ideas which are in the hearts and aspirations of all generous souls!
In this struggle, which in magnitude exceeds all we have seen or heard of in Europe, the vanquished of to-day are worthy of the great race from which they sprang. Lee and Grant are two giants, whom history will keep inseparable. But the hour of peace is perchance about to strike. Lincoln desired it as the crown of his labors, the glorious result of so many sacrifices. After force, let there be for bearance; after the brave fury of battles, the fraternal embrace of citizens.
These were the motives which governed him, these the last virtuous desires he entertained; and it is at this moment (perchance a rare one) when a great soul is so potent for good, when a single mind is worth whole legions, as a pacificator, that the hand of an assassin is raised in treachery, and cuts the thread of plans and purposes so lofty and so noble. (Applause.)
If the American nation were not a people tried in the experiences and strifes of government, could any one perchance calculate the fatal consequences of this sudden blow? Who knows if the conflagration of civil war would not have spread to the remotest confines of these Federal States, in all the, pomp of its horrors? Happily, it will not be so. While public opinion and the journals condemn the deed severely and justly, and their horror is excited against the fatal crime-sentiments which are those of all civilized Europe-they give honorable heed to ideas of peace and forbearance, as though the great man, who advocated these ideas, had not disappeared from the arena of the world. And I use the term advisedly, ”great man," for he is truly great who rises to the loftiest heights from profound obscurity, relying solely on his own merits-as did Napoleon, 
Washington, Lincoln. For these arose to power and greatness, not through any favor or grace of a chance-cradle, or genealogy, but through the prestige of their own deeds, through the nobility which begins and ends with themselves-the sole offspring of their own works. (Applause.) He is more to be envied who makes himself great and famous through his genius and deeds, than he who is born with hereditary titles.
Lincoln was of this privileged class; he belonged to this aristocracy. In infancy, his energetic soul was nourished by poverty. In youth, he learned through toil the love of liberty, and respect for the rights of man. Even to the age of twenty-two, educated in adversity, his hands made callous by honorable labor, he rested from the fatigues of the field, spelling out, in the pages of the Bible, in the lessons of the Gospel, in the fugitives leaves of the daily journal, which the Aurora opens and the night disperses-the first rudiments of instruction which his solitary meditations ripened. Little by little, light was infused into that spirit, the wings put forth and grew strong with which he flew. The chrysalis felt one day the ray of the sun, which called it to life, broke its involucrum, and launched forth fearlessly from the darkness of its humble, cloister into the luminous spaces of its destiny. The farmer, day-laborer, shepherd, like Cincinnatus, left the plough-share in the half-broken furrow, and, legislator of his own State and afterwards of the Great Republic, saw himself proclaimed in the tribunal the popular chief of many millions of people, the maintainer of the holy principle inaugurated by Wilberforce. What strife, what scenes of agitation, what a series of herculean labors and incalculable sacrifices, were not involved and represented, in the glory of their results, during these four years of war and government! Armies in the field, such as, since the remotest periods, there has been no example! huge battles, which saw the sun rise and set, twice or thrice, without victory inclining to the one or the other side! marches, in which thousands of victims, whole legions, piled with the dead, each fragment of the conquered earth! assaults which, in audacity and slaughter, reduced to insignificance the exploits of Attila and the Huns.
What stupendous obsequies for the scourge of slavery! What a lesson, terrible and salutary, from a great people, still rich and vigorous with youth, to the timid vacillations of old Europe, before a destiny contested by principles so sacred!
These were the monuments, the million marks of his career. If the sword was in his hands the instrument, and liberty the inspiration and strength of his efforts, he was not unfaithful to them. Above the thorns in his path, through the tears and blood of so many holocausts, he was able at last to see the promised land. It was not vouchsafed to him to plant therein, in expiation, the auspicious olive tree of concord. When he was about to reunite the broken bond of the Union; when he was about to infuse anew the life-giving spirit of free institutions into the body of the country, its scattered and bloody members rejoined and re-cemented; when the standard of the Republic-the funereal clamors silenced, and the agonies of pride and defeat consoled,-was about to be again raised, covering with its glorious folds all the children of the same common soil, purified from the indelible stain of slavery. the athlete reels, and falls in the arena, show-
<c03>
ing that he, too, was but a mortal. (Great applause.)
I deem this sketch sufficient. The Chamber, through inclination, through a sense of duty, through its institution, not only conservative, but as the faithful guardian of traditions and principles, will not be, surely will not desire to be, backward in joining in the manifestations which the elective House has just voted, cooperating with the enlightened Cabinets and Parliaments of Europe. Silence, in the presence of such outrages, belongs only to Senates, dumb and disinherited of all high sentiments and aspirations. (Applause.)
Voting this motion, the Chamber of Peers associates itself in the grief of all civilized nations. The crime, which shortened the days of President Lincoln, martyr to the great principles in which our age most glories, is almost, is in essence, a regicide; and a monarchical country cannot refrain from detesting and condemning it.
The descendants of those who first revealed to the Europe of the 16th century the new way, which, through the barriers of stormy and unknown seas, opened the gates of the kingdom of the Aurora, will not be the last to bend over the gravestone of a great magistrate, who was likewise the guide of his people through fearful tempests, and who succeeded in conducting them triumphantly to the overthrow of the last vestige of the citadel of slavery. To each epoch and each people, its task and its need of glory; to each illustrious hero his crown of laurel, or his civic crown. (Great applause.)

LETTER OF HON. WM. W, COLEMAN 
TO THE NORTH CAROLINA COLORED CONVENTION.
CONCORD, N. C., Sept. 27, 1865.
To the Secretary of the Freedmen's Convention:
The delegate, from Cabarras (the bearer) has presented me with a circular advocating the claims of the freedmen to equal rights before the law. I concluded that the best way of acknowledging the receipt of the same, and of' expressing my sympathy with the objects of your Convention, would be to address you a short letter, setting out in brief my views upon the question, with my reasons therefore.
In the first place, you should be allowed to vote as a matter of right.
There was only one State refused you this right in its, organic law at the adoption of the Federal Constitution. Congress has recognized it over and over again, and many of you recollect when free persons of color voted in North Carolina. The great and good men who founded the Government felt it no degradation that the ballot-box was open to free persons of color, nor did Gen. Jackson so regard it when he called them ”fellow-citizens” in his Louisiana campaign. But, further, it can easily be shown by the severest logic, that if you are not to be allowed equality before the law, then the principles laid down in the Declaration of Independence, upon which our Government is based, are words” full of sound and fury, "signifying nothing."
You are four millions of people, the bone and sinew of the Southern States. If they are ever to recuperate and regain the important position they once held in the commercial world, it will be due to your energy and industry. But you may well ask how this is to be expected, if you are denied the rights of freemen, if you are still to remain a proscribed and degraded race? If you are to have no other motive to incite you than a bare struggle for physical existence, if you are to feel no weight of responsibility, to be moved by no feelings of honor and patriotism, are to entertain no hopes for the elevation and advancement of your children to a higher standpoint than you now occupy, then indeed I do not see with what heart you can go to work at rebuilding the future of these shattered States.
But then, you will pay a tax to the support of the Government. Your brethren in Louisiana have been paying one for a number of years on property at the assessed value of fifteen millions of dollars. Is the colored man to have no voice in the appropriation of his money? And this, too, in a Government claiming to be Republican, and founded, after a seven years' war, upon the principle of taxation and representation!
Nothing could be more preposterous, unless it be to refuse men the right of suffrage who have undergone all manner of hardships and dangers for the sake of the Government; who have volunteered in the ranks of its armies, and risked their lives upon the battle-field to maintain its integrity. There is something more than a jingle of words in the copulation of ”ballot and bullet." 
But there is even a more terrible calamity that you may be doomed to bear than the denial of suffrage. I mean the denial of justice in our courts of law. If you are not to be admitted to the witness-stand, how are you to prove your contracts? You will be at the mercy of every scoundrel who has a white skin, and is disposed to swindle you. Of course, you can have no protection for your property. How about your persons? You may be set upon, beaten into a jelly, and murdered outright, and although fifty respectable colored persons might have seen it, you will be without redress. What is to protect your wives and daughters from the brutal lust of those who would select a time when no white witnesses were present to effect their devilish designs?. Formerly, your masters  protected you as property; now, you must protect yourselves as persons; and, unfortunately, the prejudice is too strong against you (I fear) to expect justice from the State. And there are other feelings, by no means so excusable as prejudice, and a policy by no means national, which will operate to keep you down. Your only hope is an appeal to Congress. 
Hold your meetings throughout the State; you of have a right to do so. But let everything be done decently and in order. Put down at once the slightest intimation in favor of violence. Let not the evil-disposed among you bring discredit upon a good cause. There will be others, also, designing men, who will try to provoke you to this, for your injury. You have been a much-enduring people; continue to be so now. Bearing these things in mind, go on with your meetings. Set the facts before Congress. You have friends there, and your petitions will not be unheard. You may tell them that national tranquillity and national justice demand your equality before the law; that if the agitation of this question is ever to cease; if you are to be a contented and happy people; if the root of future internal trouble and confusion in the South is to be removed; if they will introduce a new element of strength into the Government, an accession of voters heartily loyal, who will support a national policy, and who may be relied on in any emergency, in peace or in war; if they will give you the means of defending your freedom, which otherwise will be a mockery; if they will guarantee to each State a Republican form of government; if they will make America the field for the development and progress of humanity; if they will carry out the principles of the 
<c04>
immortal Declaration; if they will do these things, or any of them, then implore, them not to admit a State until these important guarantees are well secured. At present, you rights are protected by a military force; but woe to you will be the day when a former Slave State shall be admitted to full equality in the Union, and your equality before the law not recognized.
You may make what use you please of this letter. Yours, respectfully,
WM. W. COLEMAN.

THE MISSISSIPPI PROTEST.
The colored citizens of Vicksburg, Miss., held a meeting, Sept. 18, to protest against the sort of reconstruction inaugurated by the white Convention of that State, and to warn the North of the dangers imminent over the Union and the colored race if that scheme be allowed to mature. They call attention to the provision in the ordinance of the Convention, permitting the Legislature to pass laws” to guard the State against any evils that may arise from sudden emancipation”-under which every legislative oppression of the freedmen becomes possible. They denounce the system of ”warrantee-ism” advocated by the official paper of the Convention, as but another name for slavery. They refer to the scheme for handing over the freedmen, by a law of the next Legislature, to the unchecked control of the Board of County Police, composed of men notoriously hostile to the colored race; and they finally resolve-
"That we view with alarm the efforts now being made by the men in power in Mississippi to nullify the’ Proclamation of Emancipation.' And "That it is our firm conviction, and we hereby put it on record, that should Mississippi be restored to her status in the Union under her amended Constitution as it now stands, her Legislature, under pretext of guarding the interests of the State from the evils of sudden emancipation, will pass such prescriptive class taws against the freedmen as will result in their expatriation from the State, or their practical re-enslavement."
These men are entitled to be heard. They demand nothing; they ask nothing: they simply present to us a statement of the dangers they see threatening them. They believe, and show cause for their belief, that the Rebels, lately their masters, mean to be still their masters, and that the Convention, in establishing an organic law for Mississippi, intentionally facilitated that purpose.
It is right we should understand that the men who make this statement are a majority of the people of Mississippi. In 1860, that State had 353,901 whites and 437,404 blacks. The war has diminished the number of the whites and increased the number of the blacks-Mississippi being one of the States into which many thousands of slaves were sent for security by their masters.-N. Y. Tribune.

TESTIMONY IN THE COURTS.
The Methodist, in an article entitled” A Right of Humanity," commends the liberal spirit of Gov. Marvin of Florida, and thus insists upon the justice of ”M freedmen" being allowed to testify in all courts of law:-
The right to testify belongs to man as man. Whatever may be the force of depravity, or the tendency to falsehood, they affect men as human, and not as African, or Caucasian. So far as the world knows, there is an equal chance of getting the truth out of Christians of all the different complexions, and an equal probability of being deceived by sinners of all colors. The obvious truth, never disputed except by ignorant prejudice, is that God has conferred on humanity the sense of veracity, and the power to remember and tell what we have seen and heard, irrespective of nationality. Before we can take from the black man his right to testify, we must prove, not that he has been a slave, not that he is ignorant, but that he is not a man-that he does not belong to the brotherhood of those made in God's image and redeemed by Jesus Christ. Moreover, it is the dictate of common prudence that every man's knowledge of events should constitute one of the safeguards of the community. In cases of litigation, the truth is sought that justice may be administered. Shall the party in the right be defrauded because the material facts are known only to colored people? Where crime has been committed, the witness box should pour upon it all the light in possession of the whole community. Shall a human brute go unpunished, and the law be trampled in the dust, by the disfranchisement of half the-people? the people? This would be to maintain law and order and right with only half the force at command. It would be not only denying the humanity of the rejected witnesses, but withholding justice from all. And precisely here may be found the source of moral deterioration in the slave States; society was deprived by the slave laws on the subject of testimony of half its guardians."

COPPERHEAD HYPOCRISY.
The Democratic or Copperhead party of the country is doing its utmost to secure the soldiers’ vote at the Fall elections. They have suddenly fallen in love with the soldiers. They advise them now to desert their old and tried friends, and hitch teams with their ancient enemies-the Copperheads, who have opposed the war from its beginning. Now, soldiers, have you forgotten that when you left homes and friends to enter the military service of your country, the Copperheads contemptuously denominated you” Lincoln hirelings," “cut-throat murderers of their dear Southern brethren," engaged in an ”unholy war”? And when your wives  and little ones were crying for bread, and when the sick and wounded soldiers in the hospital and on the battle-field were calling for supplies to brace them up in their time of need, these traitors said, ”not a dollar." When the waves of the rebellion were surging against the capital of the nation, these men were giving and to the enemies of their country, and denying you the right to drive back the invader by force of arms. When you asked for more men to fill up your depleted and bleeding ranks, these men said, ”no, not a man." When you asked that traitors in your, rear, who were giving aid and comfort to the enemy in your front, should be arrested and court-martialed, these men said ”unconstitutional.” When the writ of habeas corpus was suspended by your martyred President, these men bawled” usurper,” tyrant. "When you were defeated in the field, these men were upon the corners of our streets, telling how awfully you had been cut up by the rebels. When you were victorious in the field, these men went about the streets mourning. When you drove the rebels from Shiloh, Vicksburg, Stone River and Mission Ridge to Atlanta, and from the Rappahannock to Petersburg, these men were crying” failure." When Southern rebels were clamoring for your President's blood, calling upon the assassin, these men echoed back the Democratic howl,” tyrant, tyrant, let us
<c05>
have his blood." When his murderers were executed these men mourned; and now that you have been victorious, putting down the rebellion in spite of the united opposition of the Copperheads and rebels, they have the brazen impudence, not withstanding their infamous record, to insult the soldier by asking him for his vote.-Ottawa Republican.
General Slocum returned home to Syracuse, and received an ovation from the men whom he had formerly despised, and made a speech declaring that the Democratic policy was surest to restore the South to civil government and prosperity.
The Democrats are sanguine of electing their ticket. It is really amusing to witness their new fledged patriotism and regard for soldiers. Every prominent Democrat that took part heartily in the effort to put down the rebellion was regularly read out of the party, till there was hardly a patriot left in it. The most atrocious plots and conspiracies that ever disgraced Italy and Spain were surpassed by those of American Democrats. Massachusetts soldiers were poisoned in this city in 1861; a riot was carried on in our streets in 1863 by men and women hurrahing for Jeff. Davis, Gen. McClellan and the Democratic party; our city and the West were ramified by secret societies, having their object to aid the rebellion, release rebel prisoners, and overthrow the Federal authorities. Even Governor Seymour declared the Montgomery Constitution preferable to the Federal, and advised the North to accept it, and carry on government under it.
Now these men meet the soldiers with open arms, nominate generals and radical Republicans for office on patriotic platforms, and begin life after a hasty washing as a rejuvenated and reconstructed party. But their repentance has been without probation. They still hint at repudiating the national debt; they are in favor of giving power to the men in the South who still hate the Union; and they out-Herod Herod in expressing their hatred for the enfranchised population. In short, the Democratic party has still but one idea, and that is, to fight the negroes. Take away that, and there is no central point left. There is no national policy, no earnest conviction of principle. We have now only an exhibition of political harlotry-a willingness to submit to anything to get into place. 
The audacity of the Democrats, I admit, is often a mask for consummate cowardice. The men that instigated the riots in this city were most pitiful cowards. The bullies on the floor of the Assembly of 1863 were as destitute of courage as the veriest cravens. The late Governor Seymour was remarkable for being brave when out of danger. The brothers Wood of this city are equally fearful.-N. Y. corr. Boston Daily Adv 

LETTER FROM GEN. SHERMAN.
In March, 1863, Gen. Sherman wrote a letter to Gov. Tod of Ohio, some extracts of which are now for the first time published, which must be refreshing reading to those Democrats who are now so loud in their praises of ”the hero who marched down to the sea." We believe that the loyal people of the North will agree with the General, that” the poltroons” who faltered and cried quit in the darkest hours of the nation's trial” should never claim a place in its councils." Here is what he says:-
"Since the first hostile shot, the people of the North have had no option. They must conquer or be conquered. There can be no middle course  I have never been concerned about these copperhead gabblings. The South spurns and despises this class worse than we do, and would only accept their overtures to substitute them or their lives in the cotton and corn field for the slaves who have escaped. I do not pretend, nor have I ever pretended to foresee the end of all this, but I do know that we are far from the end of the war. But I repeat, that it is no longer an open question: we must fight it out. The moment we relax, down go all our conquests thus far. I know my views on this point have ever been regarded as extreme, even verging on to insanity; but for years I had associated with Bragg, Beauregard and extreme Southern men, and long before others could realize the fact that Americans would raise their hands against our consecrated Government, I was forced to know it and witness it. Two years will not have been spent in vain, if the North will now, by another magnificent up heaving of the real people, again fill the ranks of your proved and tried regiments, and assure them that, through good report and evil report, you will stand by them. If Ohio will do this, and" if the great North will do this, then will our army feel that it has a country and a Government worth dying for.
As to the poltroons who falter and cry quits, let them dig and raise the food the army needs, but they should never claim a voice in the councils of the nation.
With sentiments of great respect, 
I am yours truly,
W. T. SHERMAN, Maj.-Gen."

OUTRAGES ON THE UNION MEN IN THE SOUTH.
The rebellion is by no means dead at the South-not even in Tennessee; and one thing is certain to our mind, either the returned rebels will have to be held in subjection by United States troops, or they  will persecute and drive out or exterminate the Union men. One or the other of these is inevitable.
Look, for instance, at Tennessee. In this State the circumstances are the most favorable for peace and quiet of any State of the ”Confederacy” because there are more Union men there, and the State Government and offices are in the hands of Union men, at the head of whom is Governor Brownlow. Yet there are the most fearful disturbances in various parts of the State, occasioned by rebels and returned rebel soldiers, hunting by down and shooting Union men, serving them with notices to” leave the State," &c. Governor Brown.-low is being appealed to on all sides for protection, but he is utterly powerless to protect all or even a small portion of those who need it. Wherever the military arm of the Government does not protect them, the loyal or Union people are subject to all kinds of indignities and outrages, and often to the loss of their lives. The Governor himself has received letters notifying him that he and other leading Union men have been singled out for assassination. Gov. Brown low, being unable to do more, has, it is said, advised Union citizens and returned soldiers to arm themselves, and to exterminate every man who utters such threats, together with those who apologize for them. And to make things worse-as will surely be the case-the United States troops are being rapidly withdrawn from the State, leaving the returned rebel soldiers to pursue their system of persecution and outrage upon men with impunity. 
And now if such a condition of affairs can exist in a State like Tennessee, how will it likely be in 
<c06>
other rebel States, where the rebels are in power, and fill all the offices, and the Government troops are all withdrawn? Does any one think there will be any chance for Union men, or for men returned from the Union army to their homes in the South? -To our mind, the present plan of” reconstruction” is as certain to put the rebels in power and the Union men under their feet in the South, as that there was a rebellion there, and there are now States to be reconstructed.-Louisville Press.

EXTRACTS FROM GEN. BANKS'S LECTURE 
At Music Hall, Boston, Oct. 18.
WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE INSURGENT
STATES?
What disposition shall be made of the insurgent States? It is perhaps” better to pray than advise," but I cannot forbear to express my convictions upon this question. The peace of the country requires the earliest possible restoration of these States. Ten or fifteen insurgent or discontented States outside the Union, with eight to twelve million people, cannot fail to disturb the country. Our system of government makes no provision for numerous populous and affluent military provinces, and they cannot exist for any length of time without peril to the government and the people. There are, in my judgment, no greater perils than those involved in the permanent or prolonged exclusion of these States. 
In what manner, then, shall they be admitted? Will you refuse admission to the insurgent States, except it be upon condition of granting the right of suffrage to colored men? That is a question which I do not propose to answer in this connection. It has its place, and shail be justly considered. But it is not a vital question. It may be answered in the affirmative, and us conditions fulfilled, without securing the great object it has in view, the elevation of the negro and the security of the government. It is a subject upon which loyal men differ. In some thoroughly loyal States, it is ignored in the popular elections; in another it has been rejected, and in others approved. We are compelled to maintain a negative position, in which, to be successful, we must win in every contest, and where one failure gives the enemy permanent victory.  It deprives us of the right to object to the admission of these States upon grounds which are irresistible, and compels us to stake our cause upon the extension of suffrage to four million people, uneducated, and not yet fully emancipated, in a country where thousands of loyal men in every State, Republicans and Democrats, have doubted the wisdom of extending the franchise to some classes who now enjoy it.
The truly decisive and vital questions in this great controversy are-
1st. How will the immediate admission of these States affect the Government?
2d. What guaranties do the insurgent States propose for its security?
Let us consider the first proposition. What effect will the admission of these States have upon the Government? The restoration of the outstanding Slave States will give to the South in the House of Representatives eighty-four votes. This is upon the basis of three-fifths representation of persons not free. When they shall change the apportionment of representation, which may be done by statute at any session of Congress, either with or without giving the right of suffrage to colored men, they will have a hundred Representatives and thirty Senators.  Fifty votes then or sixty-five votes now from the North will give them a majority in the House, and corresponding success in the States will give them the control of the Senate. The opposition strength of the House-less than it has ever been-now exceeds forty votes. It is scarcely possible that with the admission of these States, acting as a unit, their partisans in the North should fail to carry, in any election, a sufficient number of Representative Districts and States to give them the, control of the House and Senate.
This statement embraces Delaware, Maryland and Missouri, now loyal States; but their traditional, commercial, political and financial relations with the South are of such magnitude and character, and they are now held by such slight majorities, as to make it certain they will join the column of insurgent States whenever they are restored to political power. Admitted to the Union, these States will act as a unit. We are accustomed to justify our constant dissensions by saying that slavery held the South together. But we shall find, when the States are restored, that there are affinities more indissoluble than were ever found in slavery. The South was never strong in its affection for the North.  Our legislation and our civilization served unhappily to make that estrangement permanent. Wisely or unwisely, right or wrong, they made war upon their own Government because a single department had fallen into our hands. Their country has been overran by our armies, their fields swept as by fire, their property destroyed, and their soil reddened by the blood of their children, their flag dishonored, their Government overthrown, and the whole surface of their country has been sown with irredeemable currency and worthless bonds.
The burden imposed upon them by the national debt, their own debt incurred in the prosecution of the war, their claim for slaves emancipated, now publicly urged, and their reclamations for losses of property during the war, make an aggregate of taxes to be avoided and of claims to be pressed of from six to ten thousand million dollars, and cannot fail to bind together all the States having a common interest therein
Prosperity estranges men. Suffering is a bond of union. If the South is united, the North, as heretofore, will divide, and power thus be placed of indefinitely in the hands of men who have failed to destroy us in battle. If not enemies, we certainly cannot claim them as friends.
It is not probable that a renewal of hostilities will occur. In the pride of power they attacked us when we were strong in the thickly serried ranks of young men. Now they will assail us where we are without strength. Credit is sensitive-debt makes men timid and nations weak. Our national debt was not incurred in their favor. They will not confess any advantages derived from it, and they are unable to pay it. I have already expressed my conviction that the establishment of any successful form of industry is beyond their power.
If we authorize them to say yes or no, what will they do?
It is scarcely to be it doubted that they will plead no value received and inability to pay, and our tax collectors will find the South a difficult path of duty. Or, if they accept their share of our burdens, it will be accompanied by such propositions for the recognition of their own, for compensation for emancipation of slavery, and for property destroyed, as to make their contributions little better than repudiation. This is scarcely a subject for public discussion, but it cannot be improper to say that an exemption of these States from the payment of these States from the payment of the debt incurred in suppressing the rebellion, or a recognition of their

PRES LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen, Wids worth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
"You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private inclinations as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't see-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service.
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended." 
J. B, YERRINGTON & SON, Printers.
WHOLE NO. 1812
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
own incurred in efforts to destroy, will be followed by public discontents fatal to the integrity of the government, and render insecure the basis of private and public credit. The repudiation of the national debt will entail evils upon this country that no intellect can measure and no forecast avoid.
The emancipated people demand our protection. We have given freedom to four million slaves. We cannot leave them to the charity of men who have held to them the relation of owners and masters, and who do not voluntarily accept theories of emancipation, nor abandon them to the protection of local governments founded upon principles totally inconsistent with their freedom or the recognition of their rights.
The necessities of the government during the war has led to the adoption of measures fostering American industry. Under its beneficent influences new sources of wealth have been opened and the grandest success achieved in the development of the exhaustless material wealth of the continent. The marvelous exhibition of mechanical improvements at the recent fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association was limited to inventions produced within the last five years only. To this as well as to the war, we owe the marvelous prosperity that everywhere gladdens the loyal States. Whatever may have been our judgment of the wisdom of such measures, under other circumstances we cannot see The expediency of maintaining it until the new manufactures are established and the credit of the government completely secured. But can we safely trust this great industrial interest, which places our nation in the front rank of industrial States, sustains private and public credit and opens new sources of exhaustless wealth, in the hands of men who are neither interested in its-“results, nor the credit it Indicates, nor the cause it supports, and whose traditions and opinions, from the foundation of the government, have been opposed to the policy, and are now hostile to all who are the recipients of its blessings?
Nothing in the history of war has been more humiliating than the fact that American vessels have been compelled to sail under the flag of foreign nations. No soldier or sailor is entitled to higher honors than the patriotic merchants who preferred that their vessels should be swept from the sea, rather than float a foreign flag for their protection. The least that such men can claim is that our government shall demand reparation for the spoliations upon our commerce by pirates equipped by nations professedly at peace with us. But can we commit our claims, or entrust their prosecution or look for support to men in whose behalf the pirate ships were protected in their buccaneering expeditions, and who gloried and still glory in the indignities cast upon the American flag?
The Mexican complication will be used in the same manner-not to maintain the traditional and just principles of continental occupation, but to strengthen a sectional interest, and to embarrass the government. Shall we surrender power –legitimately belonging to us, and maintained after such a struggle, at such cost, to men who accept power not to strengthen but to destroy the authority to which they wear allegiance? Shall we give power to men who never confess they have been wrong, but insist that they have been beaten, and who will avail themselves of every question of public polity, domestic or foreign, financial or territorial, material or moral, to regain the power and reinstate the cause they lost?
It is necessary to distinguish an administration from as government. It is legitimate partisan war fare to destroy an administration for the purpose of saving or improving a government;: but where, in the history of human affairs, do we find the record of a people who surrender to an unrepentant public enemy the control of an administration to be used only to destroy the government.
I am not the enemy of Southern men. I recognize them as brothers, as Americans. I know that we most live together. I should rejoice to see them again in full prosperity. I do not clamor for their punishment. I would not give a flagon of Long worth's Catawba for all the blood that ever coursed the veins of their emaciated and dried up Confederate President. I accept to the fullest extent the counsel of Henry V. to his soldiers, as recorded by Shakespeare:
“When lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, 
The gentler gamester is the soonest winner." 
But I deny and resist, in all proper and possible forms of denial and resistance, their claim or any claim in their behalf to resume unrestricted political power, or to control the destinies of (this government, as against decency, dignity and justice, against the safety of the country and the liberties of the people. It is my conviction, a conviction I cannot stifle, that the restoration of such men to power will end, not in the destruction of the country, for that cannot be destroyed, but in a violent change of the form of our government, and the overthrow or denial of the rights of the 
people.

APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE.
I appeal to the solid men of the country-to the merchants that control our commerce; to the manufacturers and mechanics that represent the restless, limitless and resistless intellect of the age; to the people, who inherit privileges that God never before gave to the family of man-the legacy of two centuries of trial and peril. I appeal to the women of our country, who sacrificed the comforts of home, who shut out from their hearts the voices of affection, who fled the fascinations of elegant leisure, and with angelic patience and courage followed the bloody path of the army, to minister to the sick, to pour oil into the wounds of the fallen, to breathe Christian consolation and courage into the hearts of the dying, or to impress by their presence upon the faces of the dead, the placid smile that was never inspired in man but by the recollection of wife, sister and mother; I appeal to the thirteen hundred thousand soldiers of the army, whose martial tramp has awakened echoes from every mountain and valley from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, whose blood has moistened its soil; I appeal to all who are interested in the integrity of the government, in the perpetuation of the principles of liberty; I appeal to the heroic dead, whose unconfined bones are bleaching or buried within the limits of every rebel State; to the 30,000 starving and starved prisoners of Andersonville, hunted by hounds and coveting death from famine rather than endure the tortures of existence; I appeal to all who honor our flag, who de-fend its principles, who cherish its name, who have hope in its future, who love the women and men, dead and living, that have suffered in its defence, and who glory in its victories, if they are ready to surrender the destinies of their country to men whose weapons are yet hot with, the flaming breath of battle? 
For what, then, did we summon our young men from the field, the workshop, the counting-house and college? 
For what have we sacrificed a half a million of lives? For what have we poured out our treasures as water? For what have we burdened the coming generations with crushing taxes and gigantic debts? For what were the victories of the Mississippi, the mountain fights of Rescans and Hooker in (he West, the splendid marches of Sherman? For what did the gallant Farragutlash himself to the topmast of his flagship that he might direct above the smoke of battle his wooden vessels in their attack upon ironclads and the land fortresses of the enemy? For what was the crowning victory of Grant and the surrender of the rebel armies, if we allow them at the polls the victory which failed them in battle? 
Let us listen to Cromwell: ”If we had been fought out of our liberties and rights, necessity would have taught us patience; but to deliver them sluggishly up would render us the basest persons in the world, and worthy, to be accounted haters of God and His people."
SECRETARY SEWARD'S VIEWS. 
We make the following extracts from the speech of Secretary Seward, delivered to his neighbors at Auburn, N. Y., last Friday: 
ANDREW JOHNSON.
The insurrection of 1861 soon became flagitious, insolent, defiant, and announced, to the astonishment of mankind, that the pretended free empire which it was building by usurpation within forbidden borders was founded upon the corner-stone of slavery. The newly-inaugurated resident, Lincoln, with decision, not unaccompanied by characteristic prudence, announced that henceforth slavery should be deemed and treated as a public enemy. (Applause.) Andrew Johnson accepted the new conditions of his popular leadership which this announcement created, and thenceforward be openly, freely and honestly declared, not only that the erection of the new edifice should be prevented, but the corner stone of sla
<c02>
very itself, the rock of all our past as well as of all our then future dangers, should be uplifted and removed, and cast out from the republic (Renewed applause.) Whatever may have been thought by you, or by me, or by others, at that time, it is now apparent that the attempted revolution culminated when the national banner was for the first time successfully replanted by our gallant army on the banks of the Cumberland, and when Tennessee, first among the Border States which had been reluctantly carried into the rebellion, offered once more a foothold and a resting-place to the authorities of the Union. From that time, while it was yet necessary to prosecute the war with such energies as human” nature had never before exerted, it was at the same time equally needful, with wisdom which has never been surpassed, to prosecute the beneficent work of restoring the Union and harmonizing the great political family which, although it had been temporarily distracted, was destined, nevertheless, to live and grow for ever under that majestic protection. (Loud applause.) The abolition of slavery was thenceforth equally an element of persistent war and of returning peace. (Continued applause.) He neither reads history with care nor studies the, ways of Providence with reverences, who does not see that, for the prosecution of these double, diverse, and yet equally important purposes of war and peace, Andrew Johnson was fitly appointed to be a Provisional Governor in. Tennessee the first of a series of Provisional Governors afterward to be assigned to the insurrectionary States and was subsequently elected Vice President, and in the end constitutionally inaugurated President of the United States. (Renewed applause.) 

THE GOVERNMENT PLAN OF RECONSTRUCTION.
It is the plan which abruptly yet distinctly offered itself to the last administration, at the moment I have before recalled, when the work of restoration was to begin; at the moment when, although by the world unperceived, it did begin, and it is the only plan which thus seasonably presented itself; and therefore is the only possible plan which then or ever afterward could be adopted. (Great applause.) This plan, although occasionally requiring variation of details, nevertheless admits of no substantial change or modification. It could neither be enlarged nor contracted. State conventions in Loyal States, however hostile, could not lawfully or effectually disallow it; and even the people themselves, when amending the Constitution of the United States, are only giving to that plan its just and needful sovereign sanction. In the meantime, the executive and legislative authorities of Congress can do no more than discharge their proper functions of protecting the recently insurgent States from anarchy during the intervening period while this plan is being carried into execution. (Applause.) It is essential to this plan that the insurrectionary States shall, by themselves and for themselves, accept and adopt this plan, and thereby submit themselves to and recognize the national authority. This is what I meant when I said to Mr. Adams, in a passage which you may possibly recall, that in the sense in which the word subjugation was then used by the enemies of the United States, at home and abroad, it was not the expectation or purpose of this government that the Southern States should be subjugated; but that I thought that those States would be brought, by the judiciously mingled exercise of pressure and persuasion, to a condition in which they would voluntarily return to their allegiance. This was the explanation which Mr. Adams gave to Lord Palmerton, the Prime Minister of England, when that great, and, as I trust, not unfriendly statesman, said that he did not believe that the Federal Union could be restored, because he knew that while any man can lead a horse to the water, no man could make him learn drink. The plan, therefore, recognizes not the destruction, nor even the subversion of States, but their active existence; and it reasons from facts as they are, not from assumed or possible changes to be effected by continual war, much less does it reason from mere chimeras. (Applause.) 

THE RECONCILIATION OF THE SOUTH.
You will ask whether a reconciliation which follows to closely upon military coercion can be relied upon. an it be sincere? Can it be permanent? I answer, Do you admit separation to be in any case possible? Does anybody now believe that it ever will hereafter become possible? Will you yourselves now or ever consent to it? You answer all these questions in the negative. Is not reconciliation, then, not only desirable, but imperative? Is any other reconciliation, under the circumstances, possible? Certainly you must accept this proposed reconciliation, or you must purpose to delay and wait until you can procure a better one. Good surgery requires that even simple fractures, much more compound ones, shall be healed, if possible, at the first intention. Would not delay necessarily prolong anarchy? Are you sure that you can procure a better reconciliation after prolonged anarchy, without employing force? Who will advocate the employment of force merely to hinder and delay, through prolonged anarchy, a reconciliation which is feasible and perfectly consistent with the Constitution? In what part of the Constitution is written the power to continue civil war against succumbing States for ultimate political triumph? would this be but, in fact, to institute a new civil war, after one had ended with the complete attainment of the lawful objects for which it was waged?

GUARANTEES OF PROGRESS.
What then? Must we give up the hope of further elevation of classes in the several States without any new guarantees for individual liberty and progress? By no means. Marching in this path of progress and elevation of masses is what we have been doing always in the season of peace, and what we have been doing still more effectually in the prosecution of the war. It is a national march as onward and irresistible as the late conflict between free and slave labor was vigorous and irrepressible. (Enthusiastic applause.) The people who have so steadily adhered to the true path of Democratic progress and civilization through all the seductions of peace, and through so many difficulties and at such fearful cost in war, will now have new inducements and encouragements to persevere in that path until they shall have successfully reduced to a verity the sublime assertion of the political equality of all men, which the founders, in their immortal Declaration, laid down as the true basis of American Union. (Prolonged applause.)

FEARS OF THE PRESIDENT.
Some of you fear that the. President may be too lenient to those Southern leaders who plunged the country into the calamities of civil war. Except those of you who have been maimed or bereaved, has any of you suffered more of wrong, insult and insolence at the hands of those leaders than he has? Can we not forget where he can forgive? Are you aware that his terms of amnesty to offenders are far more rigorous than those which were offered by Abraham Lincoln? have you ever seen the majesty of law more firmly maintained than it has been by him in the exercise of discriminating clemency?(Applause.) 
Some of you seem to have been slightly disturbed by professions or demonstrations of favor toward the President, made by parties who have heretofore opposed his administration, as well as the administration of his predecessor. (Laughter.) Those who hitherto opposed the President, but now profess to support him, either are sincere or insincere. Time must prove which, is the fact. If they are sincere, who that has a loyal heart must not rejoice in their late though not too long delayed conversion? If they are insincere, are we either less sagacious, or have we less ability now than heretofore to counter act treachery to the national cause? 
Perhaps you fear the integrity of the man. I confess, with a full sense of my accountability, that among all the public men whom I have met or with whom I have been associated or concerned, in this or any other country, no one has seemed to me to be more wholly free from personal caprice and selfish ambition than Andrew Johnson; none to be more purely and exclusively moved in public action by love of country and good-will to mankind. 
THE PULPIT AT THE SOUTH did much, during the early part of the rebellion, to inflame the people against the North. Men born and educated in New England, who knew the falsity of the popular outcry against the Free States, were, we regret to say, the foremost among these libellers of their own friends and kindred. A resident of Charleston, S. C., a gentleman of much culture and moral worth, informs as that the two most unchristian and severe denunciations of the North he beard in that city, were by natives of the old Bay State-Rev. William C. Dana, son of the late Daniel Dana, D. D., of Newburyport. and Rev. William Hooper Adams, son of Rev. Nehemiah Adams, D. D., of Boston.-Transcript. 
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1865.
THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
There was so much to be said in regard to the speech of President Johnson before the First Colored Regiment of the District of Columbia, that I was obliged to omit many points worthy of comment from my notice of it in last week's Liberator. I wish now to make a brief mention of those omitted matters, stating some further points in which the President's address was grossly impertinent, or grossly unjust, or both, to the colored soldiers.
If there is one thing more than another by which this class of men has been distinguished, it is their impetuous valor. The watchful interest of the country and the world had been excited in regard to this point by the calumnious and contemptuous assumptions of their enemies in advance, discouraging the enlistment of colored troops on the ground that negroes would not fight-could not he to fight. The whole history of the war has stamped this assertion as a libel. Though these raw troops were often treated with notorious injustice by having the hardest and most dangerous and hopeless work required of then work which it demanded the nerve and the experience of veterans to face-they marched up to it like veterans; their charges were as full of reckless bravery as that of the six hundred at Balaclava; an officer who had had command of them in South Carolina and in Florida volunteered to me the statement that” they fought splendidly." And yet, after all this had passed into the record of history, the President neglects to recognize it. His only notice of the characteristics of their military service, his only reference to a war extending through years of labor and suffering in which they had made profuse expenditure of their lives in a cause which was his as much as their own, is this heartless sentence;-“You have gone forth as events have shown, and served with patience and endurance in the cause of your country."
In the same sentence in which President Johnson makes the preposterous statement that this country” is founded upon the principle of equality” (as if this very speech, and his general course of Presidential action towards the freedmen were not a refutation of it) he tells the colored soldiers-“You have observed, no doubt, that for him who does his duty faithfully and honestly there is always a just public judgment that will appreciate and measure out to him his proper reward." If they have observed this, they have observed something which reverses the lessons of human experience generally, out of their own experience in particular. Not only does a faithful performance of one's duty very often fail of human appreciation and reward, but it not unfrequently brings failure, adversity and public condemnation upon the performer. How could the slavery men help thinking, while hearing this disgraceful speech, that they had done their duty faithfully and honestly? They have merited citizenship, the franchise, an equal standing with others before the law, admission to the witness box and the jury-box, public respect and honor, and the public admission of these merits by any official servant of the people who has the honor of addressing them; and yet the public servant in question has the impudence to tell these men that the liberty now accorded to them is simply a liberty to work! and that it yet remains to be decided whether their working and living could be allowed to be carried on in this country!
The newspaper reports of this speech have (" Cheers”) marked in it from time to time. Another authority tells us that the cheers came only from white spectators of the ceremony, and this is altogether probable. There was nothing in this address for colored soldiers to cheer. That they could refrain from hissing it goes far to prove them adepts in the art of self government. Why should not men of such intelligence and such self-control have the fanchise?
Even if it shall prove true, as President Johnson declares, that the institution of slavery must go down, his next assertion, namely,” that true liberty has been established upon a more permanent and enduring basis than heretofore," is utterly untrue. Liberty, in the sense in which the people of Massachusetts claim and enjoy it, has not been obtained, far less” stablished," for the colored people of the United States. They are still subject to most painful uncertainty for want of knowing which of the rights of man, and the rights of American citizens, will be conceded to them. Organized efforts on an immense scale, and which seem likely to be successful through the favor that President Johnson extends to them, are made to exclude colored men from the ballot, from the witness-box, from equal opportunities for education, and from a fair chance at competition with white men in the more remunerative and” expectable” in of labor. Even this is not the worst. We hear of combinations among the ex-slaveholders in Virginia and other States to take advantage of the distress and uncertainty in which the freedmen are left by the culpable neglect of the Administration, and to refuse to hire them, even for the coarse and hard labor to which they were formerly accustomed, without a favorable certificate from their former where." In many places, the men who have been released from slavery have not now the opportunity to work for their living, except by placing themselves and their families in conditions nearly skin to slavery! conditions which leave them but the merest fragment of the rights of freedom.
But President Johnson seems not to recognize anything as belonging by right to this unfortunate people. In the preposterous definition of liberty which he has manufactured in this speech for their use he says-
“Liberty consists in the glorious privilege of work," and ”all those who have been industrious and economical are permitted to appropriate and enjoy the products of their own labor." Do we in Massachusetts receive from the President the privilege of earning our own living? Having been industrious, is it required of us also to be economical before we can be permitted to use the products of our labor? These things are our RIGHTS, and they are no less the rights of the black men to whom the President was speaking. But it is very clear, alike from this false and absurd definition and from all the ideas and forms of expression of this speech, that the “mean white's” idea of caste still rules in the mind of President Johnson, and that he views negroes as a subordinate class in the community, and means to treat them as such, and to allow the ex-slaveholders to treat them as such.
A natural result of this quiet assumption that there are no rights belonging to the colored people is the implication, running through the whole of this speech, that they are not to recognize any treatment applied to them by the dominant class as a wrong, still less to resent and resist it. Coupled with the doctrine that the great duty of black people is to work, the whole strain of advice to them is Be patient, be forbearing, be prepared for what is before you! It is a great problem whether this race can be incorporated and mixed with the people of the United States. [As if they were not already a portion, and as much a portion as any other four other four millions, of” the people of the United States"! ”Prepare yourselves for what is before you." Providence may require that you should be separated from us and taken to some other land." “Every man should become calm and tranquil, and be prepared for what is before him”! Is not this just the counsel that, would be given by one who was in. tending to favor a legal establishment of caste, as a compensation to the ex-slaveholders for their loss of slavery. of slavery
To gain a pretence for addressing these counsels of patience and for bearance alike to white and black, President Johnson makes this statement:” I know there is much well calculated in this Government and  since the late rebellion commenced to excite the white against the black, and the black against the white 

<c04>
man." The latter part of this statement, to our shame, is true; the former is false. We of the North, and also the Administration, have treated the blacks with such injustice that they might reasonably be excited against us. They have done nothing whatever to give us fair ground for excitement or hard feeling against them. Our feeling against them is an unjustifiable prejudice, an illustration of the truth that men hate those whom they have injured. The patience and forbearance of this race have already been wonderful. To enjoin upon them still further patience and forbearance expressly as a preparation for the infliction of more injustice upon them is an addition of insult to injury.
The matter and manner of this speech, viewed in connection with the character and history of those to whom it was addressed, seem to show both meanness and baseness in President Johnson. The colored people can hardly forget it. White people who value justice will neither forget nor forgive it. W.

THE AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION-ITS ORIGIN.
Very early in the war, public attention was directed to the condition of slaves escaping into our military lines beyond the control of their former masters. The attitude of these masters toward the Government of the United States, when contrasted with the uniformly opposite attitude of the incoming bondmen, suggested to not a few minds some practical measures looking toward the welcome of those who, although owing the Government for individual benefits undoubtedly less than any other class in the Republic, manifested from the instant the standard of rebellion was raised the most perfect loyalty the world has ever seen.
The most, however, were too far distraught with the surprises and perplexities of the hour, or too full of long-cherished prejudices, to give these refugees much thought; and have so continued to the present time.
There were not lacking those, however, in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Chicago and elsewhere, who, inheriting the Good Samaritan's temper, went after the needy with kindly care. Organizations grew up at all these centres, and found generous constituencies in adjacent territory. The movement gradually capitalized itself in a natural manner, and on the 24th of August, 1865, the American Freedmen's Aid Commission was organized in the city of New York by the formal or informal representatives of seven local societies, to wit:
The New England Freedmen's Aid Society.
The New York National Freedman's Relief Association.
The Pennsylvania Freedmen's Relief Association.
The Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People.
The Freedmen's Aid Association of Western Pennsylvania and adjacent parts of Ohio and Western Virginia.
The Western Freedmen's Aid Commission.
The Northwestern Freedmen's Aid Commission.
At an adjourned meeting, held on the 19th of September, the formal adhesion of the societies not formally represented at the first meeting was certified, and the organization thereby completed.
On the 28th of September, the first meeting of the Board of Managers was held in New York, at which the necessary steps were taken for the initiation of efficient executive action, and a clause inserted in the Constitution providing that the first meeting of the Commission should be held in the city of Philadelphia on the 11th of October, and subsequent meetings as the Commission itself should then determine. 

FIRST SESSION OF THE COMMISSION. 
The Commission convened, accordingly, at the rooms of the Pennsylvania Freedmen's Relief Association, 424 Walnut street, at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, the President in the chair.
A committee, consisting of Mr. Garrison, Dr. Walden, and the President, was appointed to prepare and publish an address to the public, which will shortly appear.
Several select committees were raised, to whom sundry topics were referred for consideration and report. 
The subsequent action of the Commission is embodied in the several series of resolutions that follow:—
PURPOSE AND POLICY.
Whereas, through the rightful exercise of the war power for our national safety, the entire abolition of slavery in the so-called Southern Confederacy was decreed by the American Government; and, 
Whereas, an extensive enlistment of the able-bodied freedmen of the South in the army of the United States was stimulated and secured by the Government for the speedy suppression of the rebellion, and without whose augmenting numbers and heroic services the terrible conflict might have been indefinitely prolonged; and,
Whereas, the American Government, by thus freeing, arming and employing this class, not primarily for their benefit, but for its own preservation, has placed them in a position of great peril, in consequence of the bitterness and anger naturally engendered toward them in the breasts of their late owners in special, and of the Southern white population in general, and therefore has occurred obligations and assumed duties in regard to their rights as a people which it cannot disregard or evade without heinous criminality; therefore,
Resolved, That, in the judgment of the Commission, in the work of reconstructing and admitting to the Union the late rebellions States, it is the solemn duty of the Government, rising above all party and sectional considerations, and honorably discharging its obligations to those by whose valor it has been upheld, to impose such conditions as shall make the institutions of the country homogeneous, and thus to give free course to the cause of education and religion, as well as to place the American Union upon an enduring basis.
Resolved, That this Commission deems the crisis too momentous to suppress the expression of its fears-fears based upon sufficient data-that unless such guarantees are secured, and such safeguards erected, no protection or countenance will be given, at the South, to the instruction of its freed population, and thus the beneficent movement now making in their behalf will be paralyzed by statutory enactments or popular violence, and they left to perish in their ignorance.
Resolved, That this Commission is organized to prosecute with unremitting zeal and vigor the education of the freedmen of the South, and that those who support it, and unite with its efforts, feel, since by the will of the American Government, a people has been emancipated, they are bound by every consideration of honor and justice to see that they are furnished the means with which to secure, maintain and enjoy the rights belonging to their new condition.
Resolved, That while we rely on the representatives of the loyal people of the United States to take such measures as will secure the rights of freedom to the freedmen of the South, nevertheless, come what will, the determination of the Commission is to prosecute its labor under all circumstances, and to press forward the good work, relying on the Providence which has brought us through this unprecedented contest, and upon the integrity and benevolence of the people who have prosecuted that contest to the end.
Resolved, That notwithstanding the spirit of some of our fellow-citizens of the Southern States, who, since the authority of the Government has been withdrawn, have forbidden our teachers to perform their duties among the freedmen of their localities, we hope that they in time will discover they are warring against their best interests, and that educated labor is better than ignorant toil, and that he best secures his own rights who most liberally consents to the exercise of those of his neighbor.

<c05>
THE FREEDMEN'S BUREAU.
Resolved, That we call upon Congress to maintain and support the Freedmen's Bureau, because we consider the freedmen of the South as the wards of the country until their civil rights as citizens are permanently established by the laws of the several States.
Resolved, That this Commission desires to express the pleasure it has in the appointment of Major General O. O. Howard as the Head of the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands; its implicit confidence in his fitness for the position, and its earnest hope that he will have such support from the Government and the people as may be necessary to give the fullest effect to his labors.

THOROUGH AND UNIFORM ORGANIZATION.
Whereas, the magnitude of the work contemplated by this Commission is of such colossal proportions as to demand the widest and most efficient co-operation; therefore, 
Resolved, That it is the conviction of this Commission, that the immediate formation of State Freedmen's Aid Commissions throughout the country, North and South, with local auxiliary associations, and in harmonious co-operation with this body, is a highly desirable and important measure; and it therefore urges the consideration thereof upon the attention of the friends of the freedmen in the several States of the Union.
Resolved, That in order to secure the great work of benevolence and justice now demanded in behalf of the freedmen, the strength of harmonious action, and all other advantages of a national organization, it is very desirable that all local Freedmen's Aid Societies become auxiliary to either the Eastern or Western Department of the American Freedmen's Aid Commission, according to their location.
Resolved, That to give unity to the work in behalf of the Freedmen, and to secure other objects for which this Commission was organized, we recommend to the societies which are constituents of the departments, to adopt the title of State or local Freedmen's Aid Commissions.

TO THE CHURCHES.
Resolved, That inasmuch as the successful operation of the Government Bureau of Freedmen at Washington and of the American Freedmen's Aid Commission in protecting this class of American citizens in their civil rights, and securing their education and Christian advancement must depend in a large measure upon the cordial and earnest co-operation of all denominations of American Christians therefore,
Resolved, That we respectfully invoke the effective aid and sympathy of all Christians in the holy work of lifting up the freedmen of the South from their present ignorance and degradation, and fitting them for the rights and duties that will hereafter devolve upon their race in the moral, social and political economy of this Republic.
Resolved, That our President and Secretary be requested to communicate the foregoing resolutions to the Presiding Head of the House of Bishops, and to the President of the House of Clerical and Lay Delegates of the Protestant Episcopal Church now in session in this city, and to other religious bodies that may convene.
TO FOREIGN FRIENDS.
Resolved, That it is the grateful duty and privilege of this Commission to acknowledge with sincere thanks the brotherly sympathy in our work manifested by the several foreign aid societies in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe, as well as the efficient and timely aid rendered by them to the cause of the freedmen and humanity, by their liberal contributions in money and material. 
We thank them for the assistance heretofore extended to the various local and State Societies, now forming integral parts of this Commission, and assure them that our present comprehensive organization will enable us to render any future contribution from them still more effective for the education and elevation of the freed people throughout the whole of our country.

SELF-HELP.
Resolved, That the freedmen of the South should be encouraged to support the schools established for their benefit among them, to the extent of their ability.
The Commission adjourned at noon on the 12th, to meet on Thursday, November 9th. The sessions were characterized by earnestness and freedom of debate, with perfect unanimity in conclusions. 
A public meeting was held on the evening of the 11th in the Academy of Music, at which not less than four thousand persons were supposed to be present. The audience seemed surcharged with generous enthusiasm, responding to the earnest utterances of the eloquent speakers with even more earnest applause. 
The venerable Bishop Mcllvaine, President of the Western Department, presided at the opening of the exercises, introducing the Rev. Dr. Yarnall, who offered prayer.
The Bishop then addressed the audience briefly, but with great fervor, and introduced Bishop Simpson, the President of the Commission, who made a succinct and comprehensive statement of the origin and purposes of the Commission, and of its confidence in the abundant support of all loyal citizens. 
Mr. J. M. McKim, Secretary of the Eastern Department, read the following letter from Gen. Howard:—

WAR DEPARTMENT, BUREAU OF REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS, WASHINGTON, Oct. 9, 1865 
MY DEAR SIR: I have just received your kind letter, and hasten to reply. By judicious effort, very much may be done in the way of education in the South. The want of money, the peculiar habits of a lifetime, and the prejudices necessarily existing, render the Southern communities for the most part unprepared to educate their poor, both white and black. Education underlies every hope of success for the freedman. This education must, of course, extend rather to the practical arts than to theoretical knowledge.
Every thing depends on the youth and the children being thoroughly instructed in every industrial pursuit. Through education, embracing moral and religious training, the fearful prejudice and hostility against the blacks can be overcome. They themselves will be able to demand and secure both privileges and rights that we have now difficulty to guarantee; therefore I earnestly entreat benevolent associations to leave no stone unturned to give them the opportunities for gaining knowledge. 
I would enjoy being with you at your meeting in Philadelphia, but my orders carry me in the other direction. Do everything you possibly can for the elevation of the freedmen. My impression is, that hundreds, and perhaps thousands of Southern people would be able to aid you if they were approached in the right way. They acknowledge their necessities, and, as in Louisiana, a large number of native teachers will work for wages.
I am often asked what I can do in the way of aid. My answer is, “Not much." I must turn to the societies now, and ask them what they can do to aid me.
What are the people willing to do to secure the blessings almost within our grasp-the blessings of substantial freedom and enduring peace? Whether in a moral or political point of view, I believe that every thinking man is ready to admit that we will stand or fall as a nation, according as we are true to principle-according to our fidelity to the trusts evidently committed to us.
Very truly yours,
O. O. HOWARD, Major General. 
JAMES E. RHOADES, Secretary. 
A letter was also read from George H. Stuart, Esq., highly approving of the objects of the association. He said:
"The object of your meeting is one which cannot fail to commend itself to the heart of every true Christian, patriot, and philanthropist. The providence of God, in overruling the late terrible contest for some of the most wise and beneficent purposes, has brought before the American people no problem of greater importance than that which relates to the freedmen of the South. It is to the great work of improving their condition, physically, socially, morally and intellectually, that the energies of the country should now be, in a great measure, directed. This is a duty which we owe to them, a debt which it is obligatory for us to pay. 
Through long years of unrequited and involuntary toil, suffering all the horrors of servitude, they added

<c06>
by their forced yet productive labor to the material wealth of the country, and thereby identified themselves with the advancement of its material prosperity. Add to this the fact, that in the recent struggle with slavery, their blood was freely shed with that of their compatriots in other portions of our land, and their claim to the considerate care of the Christian and the patriot must be conceded. They stand before us to-day with the chains of slavery broken. They demand as a right, in the name of justice and humanity, that we do something to destroy the effects of their long and bitter years of oppression and bondage, fastened upon them by unholy legislation.
We shall be recreant in our duty to God and our country if this appeal is despised. We are to educate the freedman; we are to prepare him for taking the advance step from the status of the freedman to that of the freeman, and to exercise the privileges of such. By our conduct as well as our professions, we are to evidence our belief in that fundamental truth of the great charter of our freedom, “all men are created free and equal."
In our efforts, and in our successes in this direction we will at the same time be doing much to hasten the period when an unholy and unchristian prejudice now so sadly predominant, against our colored population, shall be crushed out, and the divine principle acknowledged, as relating even to them who are the poorest and most lowly of earth: “All things whatsoever that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.”
[For the speeches of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher and Rev. Dr. Bellows, made on the occasion, see our last page.]

FREDERICK DOUGLASS'S LECTURE.
The second of the course of Fraternity Lectures in the Music Hall was given, last Tuesday evening, by Frederick Douglass. A very large audience assembled to hear him, filling the spacious hall at an early hour. His subject was—the Assassination, and its lessons.
Mr. Douglass gave an elaborate eulogy of the administration of President Lincoln, and of his character. One noticeable feature of his personal demeanor was that he was able to talk easily and freely to a negro without reminding him that he was a negro; a feature, the speaker said, which does not seem to have remained at the White House.
The lecturer stated some of the lessons of instruction, and also of warning, which the assassination of President Lincoln is suited to give. We yet need faith in the certain results of great principles. The cause of the late war must be looked for in our wrong beginning as a nation; our attempt to combine slavery with freedom. When our fathers planted slavery, they left us the inheritance of this rebellion. The lesson of this hour is that we should provide that no such inheritance be left to our children. (Applause.) As long as injustice is tolerated in this country, there will be trouble. Every man is authorized by Almighty God to set himself in opposition to injustice.
This assassination completes the record of the case against slavery. Henceforth, the latter will remind us of the former. This murder perfectly accords with the character, the morals, the professions and the practices of the South; and the same ideas and feelings remain there still.
American policy is accustomed to forgive and forget, and a preacher in Brooklyn, more liberal than Christianity itself, is now teaching that we should forgive and forget even before the repentance of the transgressor. The true conditions of forgiveness are first repentance, and then a bringing forth of fruits meet for repentance. We cannot rightfully forgive the villany which is still cherished in the heart of the offender. Gov. Perry is not sorry for his crime, but only for its ill success. But it is men like him in the South to whom the reins of government are now to be given. We are on the verge of being surrendered to the conquered rebels, and this through either imbecility or treachery in the head of the Government. 
What shall be said of the man at Washington who professed his determination to punish the traitors and to do justice to the negro, if, after all, he shall betray the cause he espoused, restore the traitors to power, and desert the brave black men who helped the nation to gain its victory? What shall be said of him if he leaves the negro question to be settled by our children, instead of using the power now in his hands to set it at rest forever? Better for him, in that case, had he never been born. 
Mr. Douglass closed with a most eloquent description of the services of the negroes, both slaves and soldiers, to the United States in this war. To turn these men over now to the tender mercies of the ex-slaveholders would fasten on the nation, he said, a load of enduring infamy.
Warm applause followed many parts of this lecture, which was nearly an hour and a half in length. 
The next lecture is to be given next Tuesday evening, by Rev. David A. Wasson, Pastor of the 28th Congregational Society of Boston.-C. K. W.
Henry Ward Beecher preached, last Sunday evening, a sermon on reconstruction, in which he took occasion to give an unqualified endorsement of President Johnson, and his method of dealing with Southern affairs. Like much of his speaking and writing, this discourse was fervent, brilliant, rambling and self-contradictory. In one breath he says that the Southern States should be readmitted as Johnson is now admitting them; in another he says that “communities should not be permitted to take part in the Government until so conditioned that they cannot destroy it." In one breath he says that the rebels “must swear never again to attempt to destroy us”; in another he says “oaths and obligations won't help the matter"; and in a third he says “Nor is it right to distrust their professions. Somewhere men must be believed and trusted." He seems actually unable to see why traitorous and perjured persons should not be believed and trusted. Worse still, he seems willing to trust the rights of the blacks to the mercy of the old slaveholders.-C.K.W.

“RELIEF FOR THE FREEDMEN.
While it is too true that the aristocracy of Great Britain and their parasites have sympathized with the rebels, and have done much to sustain the ascendency of the slaveholders in our Republic, it should not be forgotten that the moral elite of England have, from the beginning, (or since the anti-slavery purpose of our Government was declared.) favored the cause of our loyal States. Many of the philanthropists of that country have manifested an intelligent and heavy interest in our enterprise to give the blessings of education, as well as material comforts, to the newly-freed men of our Southern States. 
I am happy to inform your readers that our Syracuse Auxiliary Association, for the relief and instruction of the Freedmen, have lately received generous donations from three excellent ladies. Mrs. E.P. Nichol, of Edinburgh, widow of the late distinguished Astronomer, Professor Nichol, of Glass how, has sent us £10; and Miss Mary A. Estlin, of Bristol, £1-worth in our currency nearly $77; and Miss Mary Carpenter, of Bristol, well known as the leader of the good endeavors that have been made in England for the reformation of juvenile delinquents, has sent us a number of books, pictures, and fancy articles, worth in all $.25 or $30, for the fair, which will probably beheld in the city on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday the-27th, 28th, and 29th of December next, in aid of our Freedmen's Relief Association.
Not doubting that our benevolent ladies will be gratified by this expression of the sympathy of their British sisters, and be invited by it to increased effort in this cause of patriotism, as well as humanity, I remain respectfully,
Yours, S.J. MAY.
-Syracuse Journal.

RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL. We received, some time since, No. 1 Vol. 1, of a new paper, with the above title, published at Chicago, III. It is a large and elegant sheet, devoted to Spiritualism and kindred topics.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XLV.
NEW YORK, Oct. 19, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
There are many points of resemblance between Mr. Lincoln and his successor, in their origin, careers, and characters. Each, for example, was born in a slave State, and each attained the Presidency. But, after that, the parallel ceases to be striking. Mr. Johnson, indeed, exhibits the same accessibility to the sovereign people, listens with the same patience to talk pertinent or impertinent, and arrogates nothing on account of his station. Perhaps he subjects himself to the same complaint that was made of Mr. Lincoln-that he is too easy of approach, and allows his time, which belongs to the nation, to be wasted on bores and leeches. The author of the Emancipation Proclamation, however, was as good a speaker as he was listener, and always redeemed the occasion of his speaking by what he said. He was brief, pithy, original. Mr. Johnson is quite the reverse. That want of clearness and that "damnable iteration" which so painfully distinguished his inaugural, appear to be attributable to a natural defect, instead, as was charitably supposed, to the misfortune of the hour. His address last week to the colored regiment of the District, and his conversation with the South Carolinian intercessors for Jeff. Davis, forbid any other conclusion. More unsystematic, repetitious harangues it would be difficult to conceive, and that, too, concerning matters on which the commonest citizen has made up his mind, and could deliver himself without obscurity or indecision. We may think it something for the President to call those his countrymen whom he will not endow with the suffrage-to express the hope and belief that the negro can be wrought into the American fabric without disturbance-and to announce the heresy (which Mr. Lincoln, following <illegible>, discarded,) that a black man can be made white, by self-discipline and education. Unhappily, for words butter no parsnips, as Mr. Johnson has proved in more than one instance. The soi-disant Moses of the colored race and the implacable prospector of treason shows very diminished proportions in three these days when his power is commensurate with his promises and his threats. Compare his more than <illegible> told tale in April-that the American people must learn to regard treason as the blackest of crimes, and to punish it accordingly-with his severe remark to the importunate South Carolinians, that pardoning must be gradual, and not done all at once! Give him time, he implied, and every exception to his clemency would at last be included in it. The indecency of their petition consisted not in the nature but in the time of it. So rank is Davis's offence, he must not expect to be forgiven in a hurry!
Whoever discerns any cloud in the prospect of universal amnesty, may predict rain out of a clear sky. I do not know the sincerity of the repentance which Alexander H. Stephens professes, but if his blood guiltiness is in question, I hold him as much the President as the Vice-President of the Confederacy, for which he carried his own State of Georgia, and proclaimed the corner-stone which condemned the edifice to an eternity of infamy. He had already stripped himself of all defence by demonstrating, while there was yet time, the utter inexcusableness of the rebellion. If such a traitor may be loosed from Fort Warren, Jeff. Davis may take heart at Fort Monroe.
In the light of the past four years, the administration of Franklin Pierce reveals with startling distinctness the cool forecast of the Southern chiefs. The real President in those days was not the puppet in use the White House, but the head of the War Department-the present prisoner of State-the target of Gen. Jordan's shaft in the October Harper. Let any <illegible> now judge whether the refusal of the Executive in 1856 to adopt the declaration of the treaty of Paris March 30) had any reference to the contingency of civil war between North and South. By that declaration, as concerns the high contracting powers, privateering is and remains abolished." The ostensible objections of this Government to such a consummation were, first, that the United States, inasmuch as it kept no formidable navy in time of peace, would be taken at a disadvantage if it had not the resource of privateers against an antagonist with a powerful standing armament; and, second, that small States generally would be crushed without resistance by the larger, whose fleets commanded the sea at all times. Thus was a loop-hole provided for Raphael Semmes by the cunning foresight of the Cabinet <illegible> Ponder also these extracts from Pierce's Message of Dec. 31, 1855-the year previous:-
“While the people of the Southern States confine their attention to their own affairs, not presuming <illegible> to intermeddle with the social institutions of <illegible> the Northern States, too many of the inhabitants of the latter are permanently organized in associations to inflict injury on the former, by wrongful acts which would be the cause of war as between foreign powers, and only fail to be such in our system because perpetrated under over of the Union."
Was this passage indited by the Concord attorney or by the Mississippi planter? Recall Jeff. Davis's speech in the Senate, when secession was ripe and interesting, in which he expressed his confidence that the Union was superior to the apprehended commotion-prophesying truly with lying lips. But read still further:-
“If a new State, formed from the territory of the United States, be absolutely excluded from admission therein, that fact of itself constitutes the disruption of union between it and the other States. But the process of dissolution could not stop there. Would not a sectional division, producing such result by a majority of votes, either Northern or Southern, of necessity drive at the oppressed and aggrieved minority, and place in presence of each other two irreconcilably hostile CONSEDERATIONS?”
Such was the question propounded with reference to Kansas and Nebraska, containing the monstrous doctrine that the non-recognition of a territory seeking to become a State, because of its pro-slavery Constitution, would be a just cause for secession and civil strife. Mark the inevitable consequence. The electoral triumph of a national party based on this principle of non-recognition would also “of necessity drive out the oppressed and aggrieved minority” and established “two irreconcilably hostile confederations" vote the ingenious assertion of the State Sovereignty theory). And thus was revolt against the lawful expression of the will of the majority sanctified in <illegible> by the man who was afterwards to be its open champion and leader.
The following extract I append without a copyright, as I foresee its usefulness if allowed to be reproduced as the head of every Democratic journal in the land. It is 1855 furnishing a text for 1865; but what is that to men who have no delicate perception of time, and who sleep a decade as other men sleep an hour?
“If the friends of the Constitution are to have another struggle, its enemies could not present a more acceptable issue than that of a State, whose Constitution clearly embraces 'a republican form of government,' being excluded from the Union because its domestic institutions may not in all respects comport with the ideas of what is wise and expedient entertained in some other State."
The prosecution in the case of the U. S. vs. Davis will be singularly slack if it fails to explore the State papers of Pierce's term of service. The flames of intestine warfare have brought out the invisible ink with which the then War Secretary scrawled treason on every official page. Or, if you like the figure better, the war shall answer for pumice, and the documents referred to for a palimpsest: we have rubbed off Pierce's Essays on the Constitution and the Union, and behold an Apology for Treason, by the author of Repudiation no Dishonor. "Will that humor pass?" M. DU PAYS.
SMALL COINS. The Scientific American mentions a new design for small coins, which consists in making king them in the form of the numeral of the denomination nation they represent, as 1,2,3,4,5. By this device, all confusion in the use of the coins, even in the darkest night, will be avoided; but it is a question whether they would not soon punch holes in the pocket.
<c02>
IMPORTANT INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT JOHNSON. 
MEDFORD, Mass., Sunday, Oct. 8,1865.
MY DEAR SIR,-I was so much impressed with our conversation of last Tuesday, that I returned immediately to my room and wrote down such of the points made as I could remember, and having pondered them all the way home, am to-day more than ever convinced that, if corrected by you and returned to me for either public or private use, it will go far to promote a good understanding between you and our leading men.
It will also unite the public mind in favor of your plan, so far at least as you would carry it out without modification.
You are aware that I do not associate much with men in political life, but rather with those who, representing the advanced moral sense of the country, earnestly labor for the good of our people, without hope of, or even desire for, office or other immediate reward. The latter class desire earnestly to understand your plans, and, if possible, support your administration.
I think the publication of your process of reconstruction, with the reasons of your faith in it, will commend itself to their candid judgment, and, as I told you, inspire our whole Northern people with confidence in your administration. 
The report is meagre and unsatisfactory, but I think it conveys, for the most part, the spirit of our conversation. Therefore, although the whole tenor of your words led me to believe it was not intended to be kept private, I have refrained from answering the specific inquiries of anxious friends whom I men on my way home, lest I might, in some way, leave a wrong impression on their minds. 
Truly, your friend,
GEORGE L. STEARNS.
The President of the United States.
WASHINGTON D. C, Oct. 3, 1865, 11 A. M.
I have just returned from an interview with President Johnson, in which he talked for an hour on the process of reconstruction of rebel States. His manner was as cordial, and his conversation as free, as in 1863, when I met him daily in Nashville.
His countenance is healthy, and even more so than when I first knew him.
I remarked that the people of the North were anxious that the process of reconstruction should be thorough, and they wished to support him in the arduous work, but their ideas were confused by the conflicting reports constantly circulated, and especially by the present position of the Democratic party. It is industriously circulated in the Democratic clubs that he was going over to them. He laughingly replied, “Major, have you never known a man who for many years had differed from your views because you were in advance of him, claim them as his own when he came up to your standpoint?"
I replied, I have often. He said, So have I, and went on: The Democratic party finds its own position untenable, and is coming to ours; if it has come up to our position, I am glad of it. You and I need no preparation for this conversation; we can talk freely on this subject, for the thoughts are familiar to us; we can be perfectly frank with each other. He then commenced with saying that the States are in the Union, which is whole and indivisible.
Individuals tried to carry them out, but did not succeed, as a man may try to cut his throat and be prevented by the bystanders; and you cannot say he cut his throat because he tried to do it.
Individuals may commit treason, and be punished; and a large number of individuals may constitute a rebellion, and be punished as traitors. Some States tried to get out of the Union, and we opposed it, honestly, because we believed it to be wrong; and we have succeeded in putting down the rebellion. The power of those persons who made the attempt has been crushed, and now we want to reconstruct the State governments, and have the power to do it. The State institutions are prostrated, laid out on the ground, and they must be taken up and adapted to the progress of events; this cannot be done in a moment. We are making very rapid progress, so rapid I some times cannot realize it; it appears like a dream.
We must not be in too much of a hurry; it is better to let them reconstruct themselves than to force them to it; for if they go wrong, the power is in our hands, and we can check them at any stage, to the end, and oblige them to correct their errors. We must be patient with them. I did not expect to keep ' out all who were excluded from the amnesty, or even a large number of them, but I intended they should sue for pardon, and so realize the enormity of the crime they had committed.
You could not have broached the subject of equal suffrage at the North, seven years ago, and we must remember that the changes at the South have been more rapid, and they have been obliged to accept more unpalatable truth than the North has; we must give them time to digest a part, for we cannot expect such large affairs will be comprehended and digested at once. We must give them time to understand their new position.
I have nothing to conceal in these matters, and have no desire or willingness to take indirect courses to obtain what we want.
Our government is a grand and lofty structure; in searching for its foundation, we find it rests on the broad basis of popular rights. The elective franchise. is not a natural right, but a political right. I am opposed to giving the States too much power, and also to a great consolidation of power in the central Government.
If I interfered with the vote in the rebel States, to dictate that the negro shall vote, I might do the same thing for my own purposes in Pennsylvania. Our only safety lies in allowing each State to control the right of voting by its own laws, and we have the power to control the rebel States if they go wrong. If they rebel, we have the army, and can control them by it, and, if necessary, by legislation also. If the General Government controls the right to vote in the States, it may establish such rules as will restrict the vote to a small number of persons, and thus create a central despotism. 
My position here is different from what it would be if I were in Tennessee.
There I should try to introduce negro suffrage gradually; first, those who had served in the army; those who could read and write, and perhaps a property qualification for others, say $200 or $250.
It will not do to let the negro have universal suffrage now; it would breed a war of races.
There was a time in the Southern States when the slaves of large owners looked down upon non-slave- owners because they did not own slaves; the larger the number of slaves their masters owned, the prouder they were; and this has produced hostility between the mass of the whites and the negroes. The outrages are mostly from non-slaveholding whites against the negro, and from the negro upon the non-slave-holding whites.
The negro will vote with the late master whom he does not hate, rather than with the non-slaveholding white whom he does hate. Universal suffrage would create another war-not against us, but a war of races.
Another thing: This Government is the freest and best on the earth, and I feel sure is destined to last, but, to secure this, we must elevate and purify the ballot. I for many years contended at the South that slavery was a political weakness, but others said it was political strength. They thought we gained three-fifths representation by it; I contended that we lost two-fifths. 
If we had no slaves, we should have had twelve representatives more, according to the then ratio of representation. Congress apportions representation by States, not districts, and the State apportions by districts.
Many years ago I moved in the Legislature that the apportionment of Representatives to Congress in Tennessee should be by qualified voters. 
<c03>
The apportionment is now fixed until 1872; before that time we might change the basis of representation from population to qualified voters, North as well as South, and in due course of time the States, without regard to color, might extend the elective franchise to all who possessed certain mental, moral, or such other qualifications as might be determined by an enlightened public judgment.
BOSTON, Oct. 18, 1865. 
The above report was returned to me by President Johnson with the following indorsement. 
GEORGE L. STEARNS.
“I HAVE READ THE WITHIN COMMUNICATION, AND FIND IT SUBSTANTIALLY CORRECT.
I HAVE MADE SOME VERBAL ALTERATIONS. 
(Signed) A.J."
LETTER FROM HENEY C. WRIGHT. 
Temperance in Old Essex-Ministers making a Clean Sweep-God help them in it! 
SOUTH HANOVER, (N. H.) Oct. 6, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-Chattel slavery is dead! Thank God for that! While the slave was held and used as a chattel, no victims of human villany were so deserving sympathy as he. Now, before the law, he is no longer a chattel, but a man, and is bravely doing battle for his own rights. I have given my life to the work of lifting the slave from the state of a chattel to that of a man. That work is done. I have no sympathy with those who insist that this is nothing without the ballot. It is just the difference between a man and a chattel, before the law. That is a gain, a mighty gain. A man, held and used as a chattel, is as low as human villany can put him. From the position of a son of God, crowned with glory and honor, he is, by the unutterable meanness and malignity of his fellow-beings, herded with beasts, and compelled to feel after God and immortality among creeping things. Every man, thus outraged and turned into merchandise, is now, by the nation, formally recognized by law as a man.
Next to man, as a chattel, is man as a drunkard. In moral degradation, the sot is beneath the chattel. The chattel is the victim of the villany of others; the sot, of his own unnatural appetite. The sot is self-degraded; the chattel slave is degraded, so far as he is degraded by slavery, by the base and brutal passions of slave-breeders and their allies. I have, while laboring to save man from chattel slavery, done what I could, by precept and example, to save him from the deep and self-inflicted hell of drunkenness.
I have just come from a Temperance Convention in Essex county. It was good to be there, and to see the interest manifested by old and young. Especially was it gratifying to see the presence and zeal manifested by the ministers of the district. Some dozen of them were present. They took strong and high ground. They seemed to feel that, if they would save their theology from irretrievable ruin and infamy, they must separate it from all connection with the making, vending and drinking of intoxicating liquors; from all complicity with drunkenness and its appalling results to individuals, to families, to society, and to states and nations. They said and repeatedly urged, that no man ought to be regarded as, (1,) receiving the Bible as an infallible rule of faith and practice; (2,) as having repentance towards God; (3,) and faith in Christ; (4,) as keeping the Sabbath-day holy; (5,) as being born again; and, (6,) as being a Christian-who does not abstain from making, selling and drinking intoxicating liquors. They laid it down as a settled truth, that no man should be recognized as a Christian minister, and no church as a Christian church, that was not in theory, in spirit and practice, a teetotaller. They made clean work of it.
Virtually, and nearly in so many words, they said, no man can keep the Sabbath-day holy, and not be a teetotaller; no man can accept the Bible as the infallible Word of God, and not be a teetotaller; no man can have repentance toward God and faith in Christ, and not be a teetotaller; no man can be born again and not be a teetotaller; and no combination of men and women can be a Christian church, and admit to membership one who makes, sells or drinks intoxicating liquors. It is God's truth! No man can keep the Sabbath, nor any other day, nor himself pure and holy, and make, sell or drink the drunkard's drink. No man can accept and practice the Bible in all its teachings, and not be a teetotaller. No man can repent of all his sins, or have faith in the teachings and life of Jesus, and help to propagate and strengthen, in himself or others, the drunkard's appetite; no man can be born of God and possess the God-nature; no man can be a Christian, i. e., have the spirit of Christ, and knowingly, directly or indirectly, countenance the making, selling or drinking the drunkard's drink. This was the teaching of the ministers at that Convention. I was happy to agree with them. Let them carry out these teachings in their churches, and allow none to enter them who are, in any way, connected with the colossal sin and crime of drunkenness; let them deal with rum-makers, rum-sellers, and rum-drinkers, as they do with thieves, robbers, murderers and assassins, and then would they and their churches be, in this thing, the light of the world to guide mankind to the God and heaven of Total Abstinence. 
If, as these ministers urged, “no man can be a reliable temperance man and not keep the Sabbath holy,” it follows that no man can keep the Sabbath holy, and not be a true and reliable temperance man. If, as they said, no man can be a true and reliable teetotaller unless he has “repentance towards God and, faith in Jesus Christ, and unless born again, and a „ true, whole-hearted Christian,” it follows that no man is or can ever be a true Christian, and be born of God, and experience faith in Christ and repentance towards God, unless he conscientiously and from principle abstains from making, selling and drinking intoxicating liquors. If, as they urged in the Convention, “no man can be saved from drunkenness. but by the preaching of the Gospel of Christ,” it follows that the Gospel of Christ is not preached where men quote the Gospel to justify themselves in the use of wines and alcoholic drinks. If the Gospel of Christ is to do away all drunkenness, how is it that the law prohibiting drunkard-makers from plying their murderous trade is so much opposed in this State? Is it because the Gospel of Christ is not preached here? Can the Gospel of Rum-selling and Rum-drinking be the Gospel of Christ? “No! “say the ministers of Essex county. “No! “say I. Of course, those who preach a gospel that pleases rum-makers, rum-sellers and rum-drinkers, do not preach the Gospel of Christ; are not ministers of Christ; but they are ministers of Satan-mere PANDERERS TO THE DRUNKARD'S APPETITE. Let all so regard them!
HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
COLORED CONVENTION AT RALEIGH. A convention of the colored men of North Carolina met at Raleigh, Sept. 29. About one hundred and twenty delegates were present The Journal of Freedom says the proceedings were dignified, and its executive officers gave evidence of a knowledge of parliamentary law as praiseworthy as unexpected, while the debates were harmonious and conservative. 
Gen. Hooker doesn't like to be called “Fighting Joe Hooker.” A writer in Harper's Magazine says that, in alluding to it one day, the General said:
“It always sounds to me as if it meant 'Fighting Fool.' It has really done me much injury in making the public believe that I am a furious, headstrong fool, bent on making furious dashes at the enemy. I have never fought without good purpose, and with fair chances of success. When I have decided to fight, I have done so with all the vigor and strength I could command.” 
Baltimore has expended $9,000,000 on her Druid Hill Park. Property in the vicinity of the park has increased in value one hundred per cent, in nine years. 
<c04>
NATIONAL FREEDMEN'S AID SOCIETY AND ITS TRUE POLICY. 
This new association-new not in work, but in its nationalization-had an immense meeting in the Academy of Music at Philadelphia, on Wednesday evening, Oct. 11, attended by the most substantial citizens of that community. Bishop McIlvaine presided. Bishop Simpson, of the Methodist Church, spoke as its President. Dr. Bellows, gave the benefit of his experience in the Sanitary Commission, as it respected the importance and the method of organizing the country. H. W. Beecher made a glorious and luminous speech of three-quarters of an hour, which could never be reported, because its effect depended so much on the emotion and the manner with which it was delivered. It was charged with pathos, humor, logic, eloquence, and given with tremendous passion in parts, and with comic interludes and facial acting, such as the stage seldom exceeds. W. L. Garrison made the concluding speech, and it was affecting to see this war-horse of abolitionism led out in peaceful blanket and surcingle before a crowd of curious well-wishers, most of whom had probably regarded him with mingled horror and contempt for thirty years past. He was evidently much touched by the change in his own position. He spoke gently and wisely, and was received with cordial kindness, and although he addressed a weary audience, was listened to with great respect.
Leaving the meeting itself, from which we expect great good, we desire to say a few words about the enterprise.
The first thing is to get rid of the vague idea of an infinite evil, of immeasurable magnitude and extent, to be dealt with. We have three or four millions of freedmen to lead over the moral borders of slavery into an elementary civilization.
To help us we have: 
1. Freedom herself-our best and almost invincible helper.
2. The wants, necessities, and selfishness of the negroes themselves, who must have bread and clothes, and are accustomed to labor for them. 
3. The intelligent element of negroes long freemen already there. 
4. Mainly, the thing is to help itself; just as emancipation, and negro soldiers, and negro suffrage are helping themselves; and just as things in this war have been all along helping themselves. We don't make paths for the avalanche-it makes its own. The negro, left to himself, will work it out, give him time, without any help from us. He will take up his own self-defence, his own schooling.
The National Freedmen's Aid Society does not come in to start a dead weight. It is a moving mass we are called on to direct, and it will move without us. It is going so swiftly that if we wish to impress our direction upon it, we must be very quick indeed. Already a great deal has been done.
In the eight States of Virginia, North and South Carolina, Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, there are, say, two millions of freedmen, of whom one quarter may be children between the ages of four and sixteen. Of these five hundred thousand, one-tenth, or fifty thousand, are at school regularly, in freedmen's schools, and it has cost five hundred thousand dollars this last year to do it; or ten dollars to a child. Quadruple this effort. Raise a couple of million of dollars, and put four-tenths of these children at school for a couple of years, and you will make it necessary for the freedmen to send the rest to school at their own cost, and forever after. We want only to inaugurate this work, to set a pattern, to begin a sampler-they will take it up quickly enough. 
If the associations raised five hundred thousand dollars this last year, with the other great charities still milking the generous public, how easy, with proper organization, to quadruple that sum! Nothing but the bold and systematic use of the proper machinery is required. We would limit this movement to a certain date, say three years; for the sooner you can let the whole question alone, the better. We would concentrate the interest of the nation upon it during that time. We would have each State organized with a central treasury; each county a sub-centre, and each town an aid society, contributing a certain amount of money monthly or quarterly, by regular membership. In return for this contribution we would furnish these societies with the best reading-reports, newspapers, everything pertaining to the movement; and their meetings should be spent in reading them. You would thus educate the public mind, while what they gave would interest them more deeply in the project. 
To effect this, the association must have wise, eloquent, and earnest canvassers, whom they will send upon a uniform system into the States to organize, organize, organize. This plan must be endorsed by the leading citizens. It must have the good-will of the churches, and of our men of weight and wisdom. It must have national features. A national dignity and good-will must exist towards it, and the people must feel that they are cooperating in a common cause, and that each is helping all the rest. It will be a small thing for each, and a great thing for all. We need such a movement as much for ourselves as for the freedman.
To act together nationally in benevolent schemes is a new and mighty bond of union. Then, a great part of all the weight can be thrown on the Government, with whom this association should have the most intimate and cordial cooperation. The Freedman's Bureau we need to influence continually from without by wise, gentle, humane, and generous counsel. The public opinion we are now making will tell on Congressional action, and their action will animate or exanimate the Freedman's Bureau.
The only other important consideration is centralization of direction, plan, and administration, with diffusion of support and the stirring of general interest. This centralization must depend on a working force at the centre, trusted by everybody, wholly devoted, and selected with the utmost regard to ability, who will give unity, coherence, promptness, and efficiency to the plan. System, vigorous responsibility, subordination, red-tape enough for order and plan-these are indispensable to a successful movement, however spontaneous, voluntary, and popular in its spirit and objects.-N. Y. Christian Inquirer 
Last week, a new movement was inaugurated in a meeting held in Philadelphia. It was resolved to form an association like the sanitary and Christian commissions, and to raise one hundred thousand dollars to carry on its work. Earnest and eloquent speeches were made by Rev. H. W. Beecher, Dr Bellows, Mr. Garrison, and other distinguished friends of the colored race. This is a move in the right direction. One of the first things for the negro to do, is to learn his letters. He must be put to school. This, even now, is repugnant to a large class of the whites in the South. Not only are they indifferent, but positively opposed to any attempts to teach the blacks to read. As soon as the States return to the Union, the Bureau will be withdrawn and the work of education will be more and more under the control of the local authorities. They will for awhile set their faces as flint against the teachers. We already read of cases where they have been driven out, and nothing but a powerful association, such as is the one contemplated, will be able to carry forward the grand task of education 
For this reason, we give the proposed movement our cordial and hearty sympathy and cooperation. We are confident it will find friends and supporters. Every; sentiment of humanity, the dictates of enlightened patriotism, and the promptings of Christian feeling unite to urge us to go forward. The first great step towards the elevation and enfranchisement of four millions of Africans will be taken when we open to them the school-house. We shall therefore watch the progress of this new Association with vigilant solicitude, as well as the reports which reach us from Gen Howard.-Christian Register.

THE JIM CROW DEMOCRACY.
The Democratic party of the North has taken the following positions during these last few years, to wit: 
1. That the Union must and shall be preserved, if the people will allow it to be preserved by the Democratic party; otherwise, otherwise.
2. That the war for the Union-hurrah for the war for the Union under McClellan, and no other man.
3.That the war for the Union was a failure.
4.That the Union soldiers were a success, and their votes are as good as anybody's.
5.That the Union soldiers having failed, should not. be reinforced, or voted supplies, or allowed to vote in the army.
6.That without a draft there is no hope for the Union; therefore, 
7. That there shan't be any draft. 
8. That the Union soldiers are hirelings, and beneath contempt.
9. That Abraham Lincoln is a failure. 
10. That Abraham Lincoln is a prodigy of statesmanship and wisdom. 
11. That Andrew Johnson is a tailor and a boor. 
12. That Andrew Johnson is an able man and a Democrat. 
13. That Andrew Johnson acts exclusively upon time honored Democratic principles.
14. That Andrew Johnson tried Mrs. Surratt by court martial, and hung her with a rope; and therefore,
l5.That Andrew Johnson is a radical abolitionist.
16. That no man who had a hand in the cruel war should have a hand in our civil Government.
17. That it would be prudent in the Democratic party to put none but those who figured successfully in the late "failure" of a war, upon their gubernatorial tickets.
18. That the secessionists were right, and the Unionists were right, and we are all right (hic)! By the blessed St. Patrick, hurrah for the great Dimmecratic party!
<c05>
HOW THE NEW YORKERS VIEW IT. 
Alluding to the silent amazement with which the Democratic organs receive Mr. Johnson's speech to the negro soldiers, the New York Evening Post says.
“It is known that a sixty-eight pounder or other heavy cannon, fired over the waters of a shallow bay, will kill by its concussion the lobsters and other hard shell fish. They fall into convulsions, and perish in great numbers. The President's thousand pounder, on Tuesday, seems to have similarly affected the people who call themselves Democrats; they are struck with a universal lock-jaw; they are amazed- dumbfounded,' to use a vulgar phrase; they make altogether a very ludicrous and pitiable spectacle.” 
The Albany Journal says-” The speech of President Johnson to the colored regiment is a poser to the Democracy. They have been interpreting his acts as indicating a pro-Southern policy. They have rolled as a sweet morsel under their tongues his reported declaration-which he never made-that ' this is a Government by white men, of white men, for white men ' They have sent greeting to their Southern brethren, who are “murdering, outraging and robbing the helpless negroes. They have hardly undertaken to conceal their expectation and desire that a condition of affairs is about to be established in the lately rebllious States, which will maintain the spirit of slavery, though the political fact has ceased to best. But the President has no sympathy with them in the position.
"We submit that this address covers everything at issue, and shows Mr. Johnson a supporter of the broadest and most liberal views of policy. He would give the blacks social position, education, status in court, reward for labor, protection in. the enjoyment of property and all other rights-and, according these, would leave the problem of suffrage to be worked out by circumstances as they arise. Grant the premises laid down in the President's speech, and the ultimate extension of the elective- franchise becomes a certainty."
WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct. 14, 1865.
Pardon-seeking is the order of the day in Washington-little else is done, and nothing else is talked about. The city is crowded with rebels begging the pardon of Andrew Johnson, whom they affected to despise as a "poor tailor" only a year ago. Now they come on bended knees, and with frantic appeals beg this "poor tailor's"  pardon, and ask to be taken back again into the Union, with promises to do better in the future-same as well-whipped children do when thoroughly "“subdued"  or “cocreed.” Indulgent parents receive their children's promises after bad behavior, same as President' Johnson does the promises of these rebels-as an "experiment." This experiment worked well in the case of the prodigal son, and may work well in the case in question. From fifty to four hundred rebels receive the sanctifying blessing at the White House daily. These are mostly twenty-thousand-dollar-rebels who kept away from the bullets in the field, and, instead of fighting for their principles in a manly manner, furnished the sinews of war from their pockets. Their rag-tag and bob-tail appearance would never lead a stranger to suppose they were twenty thousand dollar rebels. Most of them have been as bitter enemies of soap and water as they have of the Union. Their seedy wardrobes are in the last stages of defunct ability, while their uncut hair and beard suggest inhabitiveness As there is no railing in the White House to keep them from coming in contact with the President, he shut down the gates last week, and don't admit them now, except by special permission. A list of the "saved" is posted daily in the hall, and the chivalry then go to the Attorney General to get their "absolution papers." 
Some tall swearing (for the Union) was done by soldiers when the President pardoned Mayor Slaughter, of Fredericksburg, who ran our wounded, in ambulances, into the rebel lines, after the battle of Spottsylvania, and treacherously surrendered them to the rebels, to lie and rot and die of their wounds, with no surgeons to dress them.
Rhett, of the Charleston Mercury, was pardoned last week, and after getting his papers went into the Freedmen's Bureau here, and demanded that they catch all his slaves that escaped and return them to him! His insolent plantation manners so irritated Maj. Gen. Howard that he sent for a guard to have the scoundrel put out of the office. Another pardoned rebel was talking loudly and in a threatening manner at Willard's the other day, when Maj. Gen. Geary (of Kansas memory) stepped up to him and told him to shut up his mouth instantly, for he would not hear such talk. The fire-eater obeyed at once, and slunk away, as dogs do when whipped, with their caudal extremities at an angle of forty-five degrees with their posterior.- Corr. Independent Democrat.

BOUNTY TO COLORED SOLDIERS.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 18, 1865.
J. M. Broadhead, Second Controller of the Treasury, has addressed to the Paymaster-General a communication embracing a very important decision of the Attorney-General, disposing of the matter of bounties to colored soldiers, which involves the disposition of an immense amount of money. The following is the communication:
“SIR: This office on the 20th ultimo submitted to the Secretary of the Treasury the views entertained here upon certain questions relating to the bounties to which colored soldiers heretofore employed in the service of the United States were entitled by law, and requested that the opinion of the Attorney-General might be obtained thereon. The Attorney-General, in a very able and elaborate opinion, concurs with this office, substantially affirming that colored soldiers entering the military service were in all cases to be treated as freemen at the date of their acceptance into the service, and that there was upon the statute-books no law either forbidding their employment in the army, or, with the exception of the brief period of 19 days, intervening between the passage of the act of June 15 and that of July 4, 1864, creating, on account of color, any distinction in the pay, allowances or bounty to which soldiers were entitled. From the most trustworthy information, it is believed that few if any colored volunteers enlisted during the interval of 19 days above alluded to, and the anomalous legislation of section 2, act of June 15, 1864, will, therefore, deprive few if any soldiers of bounty. The Attorney-General sums up his argument in the following conclusions:
1. That persons of color who may have acquired their freedom by the provisions of the act of July 17, 1862, and who were mustered into the service prior to the 15th of June, 1864, are entitled to receive the bounty allowed by law for volunteers.
2. That persons of color who may have escaped from slavery after the passage of the act of July 17, 1862, and who may have been mustered into the military service before the 15th of June, 1864, and who were unclaimed by loyal owners at the time of their enlistment, are entitled to receive the bounty payable by law to volunteers.
3 That all persons of color emancipated by the President's Proclamation of January 1, 1863, who, after the date of that Proclamation, and before the 15th of June, 1864, enlisted and were mustered into the service as volunteers, are entitled to like bounty. 
4. That all persons of color mustered into the service, after June, 1864, are entitled to receive, respectively, such sums in bounty as the President may have ordered in the different States, not exceeding $100. 
5. That all volunteers received into the service after July 4, 1864, are entitled to receive the same bounty for term of enlistment without regard to color. 
It will be perceived that in these five points, which were in reply to specific questions from this office, the rights of colored soldiers who may not have been free on the 19th of April, 1861, and yet volunteered between that date and the passage of the act of July 17,1862, are not embraced. The Attorney-General, however, says elsewhere in his opinion, in treating of the second section, act of June 15, 1864, which had been thought by some to have deprived colored soldiers of bounty, that "the letter of that provision does not affect the rights vested under the laws in force at the time of their enlistment, which, as has been seen, gave the same bounty to colored troops rightfully received into the service as was accorded to white troops;” and furthermore, his opinion states unhesitatingly that enlistment in the Union army makes the slave quo-instanti a freeman forever, entitling him to be placed on a footing with white volunteers. You are therefore respectfully requested to direct payments of bounties hereafter in conformity with the foregoing decision, allowing to colored soldiers, wherever, and, except from 15th June to July, 1864, whenever enlisted during the rebellion, the bounty provided for volunteers by laws existing at the time of such enlistment.
J. M. BROADHEAD, Controller Paymaster General. 

The Freedmen's Bureau has received information that two of its agents, despatched to Berryville, Va., to investigate freedmen's affairs in that vicinity, were driven out of town by a mob composed of the citizens of the place. Many of the freedmen in that section who contracted with their former masters for a share of the crop, now that the harvests are garnered, have been driven away by their employers, who refuse to compensate them for their labor.-Boston Journal.

Columbia, S. C., is in the heart of Destruction. Being outside of it, you can only get in through one of the roads built by Ruin. Being in it, you can only as get out over one of the roads walled by Desolation. You go north 32 miles, and find the end of one railroad; southeast 30 miles, and find the end of another; 16 south 45 miles, and find the end of a third; southwest 50 miles, and meet a fourth; and northwest 29 miles, and find the end of still another. Sherman came in here, the papers used to say, to break up the railroad system of the seaboard States of the Confederacy. He did his work so thoroughly that half a dozen years will nothing more than begin to repair the damage, even in this regard.-Corr. Boston Advertiser.
<c06>
GEORGE ADAMS.
We recorded, a few days ago, the death of Mr. George Adams, the publisher of the Boston and other New England Directories. He was a marked character and a striking instance of sturdy New England energy, intelligence and public spirit. To these qualities, not uncommon we may fairly boast among our citizens, he added what is more rarely found, a wise, intelligent and most unselfish interest in and the most self-sacrificing devotion to the great vital questions of the day. Like a true son of the soil, he never forgot the State in his own interests. The graduate only of our common schools, he made his own way into business, carving out, like most Yankees, his own career. When, in middle life, a change of circumstances and growing dislike for the special manufacture in which he was engaged made him turn to other channels of employment, he may be said to have created the system of directories, which he extended over this whole section of the Union; with rare enterprise and consummate skill systematizing the whole business, till it ministered in a most unexpected degree to the convenience of the whole North as well as to his own profit. Like Harnden, the creator of the American system of expresses, Mr. Adams may be considered, in this light, a creator.
But his interest in great moral and political questions, especially those called reform questions, a liberal theology, anti-slavery, and temperance and the rest-gave him, it may be truly said, a liberal education. In these movements,
his tireless devotion, clear insight, and fearless spirit, both of thought and action, placed him in the van. In times when the assertion of unpopular opinions cost everything, he was the outspoken supporter and close personal friend of Theodore Parker, and one of the earliest and most unflinching of Mr. Garrison's adherents. The quiet energy of his business character became, in these moments, a calm, unostentatious fidelity to principle and to the immediate duty of the hour.
With the nicest sense of honesty and justice, beloved by a worthy circle, devoted to the noblest ideas, doing his full share in all that ministers to the highest welfare of society, broadly tolerant, yet not yielding his real convictions to any weak or false idea of toleration; hopeful yet vigilant on public questions, with that rare union of the. gentlest tenderness in private life and the sternest assertion of his own principles, we may point to him as one of those characters that do honor to our civilization and institutions-a self-made, high-toned, unselfish, useful and thoroughly honest man, earnestly striving to improve his age and to live for his fellow-men. P.
-Boston Daily Advertiser.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth annual course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be continued in MUSIC HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Oct. 31-DAVID A. WASSON, of Boston.
Nov. 7-JACOB M. MANNING, of Boston.
14-ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12- GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting "One Person" to course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street; Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and by the Lecture Committee.
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the course, for sale only at DITSON & CO'S, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (those to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both balconies to the other ticket-holders.

FREDERICK DOUGLASS will deliver an address at Tremont Temple, on Sunday evening nest, Oct. 29. Subject: "The Negro, and his Relation to the Country.' Services to commence at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 25 cents.

Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors-purify the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costiveness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken, in largo doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in bilary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinsy or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in ever city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
NEW ENGLAND
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen creeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Medics, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, $65-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8.  3w

WEST NEWTON
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL
THE next term begins Wednesday, Sept 6, 1865. For particulars, address NATH'L T. ALLEN.
Sept 1
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
THE AMERICAN FREEDMEN.
BY HENRY O'REILLY.
(Music by John M. Loretz, Jr.)
Slavery's rebel warfare done,
The bloody conflict past,
The battle fought, the triumph won,
And Freedom reigns at last!
Bondmen brave, their shackles breaking,
Clad now in Freedom's blue,
For our Nation boldly battling,
Fought gallantly and true!
Chorus-Freedom's blood flowed free in battle,
Beside the White Men true,
Battling for Justice and Freedom
For Men of <illegible> hue:
Then, cheers for the faithful Freedmen,
Long <illegible> by servile chains,
Who fought for our Flag and Union,
Till Peace triumphant reigns!
From Mississippi's cotton land,
Virginia's “sacred soil,”
And from other Rebel regions,
Rush'd sable sons of toil-
Rushing with sturdy, willing arms,
Two hundred thousand strong,
For the RIGHTS OF MAN contending,
'Mid battles fierce and long.
Chorus.
At old Carolina's harbors,
Port Hudson's <illegible> plain-
In <illegible> fatal forest,
At Pillow foully slain-
At Richmond's towering ramparts,
Where treason fierce held sway,
The valiant Freedman's flowing blood
<illegible> the victor's way.
Chorus.
The loyal suffering white men,
Fleeing from Rebel sway,
Receiv’d from the swarthy millions
Kind succor on their way.
Though tortur'd in Rebel dungeons,
The loyal white men brave
Found always good faith and comfort
In cabins of the slave.
Chorus.
In the battle-fields of Freedom,
In midnight march profound,
Sturdy loyalty and guidance
In color'd men were found:
And now, when Peace and Liberty
Shed blessings through the land,
Let the RIGHTS of HUMAN NATURE
BE SHARED WITH GEN'ROUS HAND.
Chorus.
The Nation's power and freedom,
Its glory or its shame,
By Sable or by White Men watch'd-
All anxious for its fame-
May ever be safely guarded,
In peace-time and in wars,
By GIVING THE RIGHTS OF FREE MEN
To ALL MEN UNDER THE ”STARS.”
Chorus-Freemen's blood flowed free in battle,
Beside the White Men true,
Battling for Justice and Freedom
For Men of ev'ry hue:
Then, cheers for the faithful Freedmen,
Long curs'd by servile chains,
Who fought for our Flag and Union,
Till Peace triumphant reigns!

WHEN THIS OLD WORLD IS RIGHTED.
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
I searched the volume of my heart,
I spread its purple lids apart,
Its leaves with inspiration's art
And prophecy indited;
Entranced with trope and mystic rhyme,
I caught the symphony sublime,
The prelude of the coming time;
I saw this old Earth righted.
Thou shalt lay cross and burden down,
Humanity! and take thy crown,
A bride of Heaven in lily grown,
With every wrong requited;
Enthroned for thy achievement vast,
With each ideal of the past,
One grand reality at last,
When this old Earth is righted.
And nations shall not then as now,
The cause of righteousness avow,
With “ego” written on the brow;
But each to each united,
Shall wear the badge of sacrifice,
And drop the hypocrite's disguise,
And face high heaven with honest eyes,
When this old Earth is righted.
No more before Redemption's gate,
Stumbling at prejudice and fate,
America shall hesitate,
To Liberty half-plighted;
For truths that loosely lie apart,
Shall be inwrought into the heart
By wisdom's skill and reason’s art,
When this old Earth is righted.
And Freedom's march no more shall pause
At God Almighty's broken laws;
The full requirements of her cause
Shall never more be slighted;
Nor civic strategy elude
Equality and brotherhood,
And justice shall pronounce it good,
When this old Earth is righted.
And Woman's life no more shall be
The play-ground of hypocrisy,
But earnest, natural, and free;
And Love shall stay unfrighted,
And reign in sacred, sweet content,
And offer service reverent;
For marriage shall be sacrament
When this old Earth is righted.
And rolling forward to the day,
The world shall bravely make essay
To draw Heaven's glory round its way,
That seemed so long benighted.
And every whispering wind that blows,
The rock, the fountain, and the rose,
And trembling leaf, shall God disclose,
When this old Earth is righted.
Then urge thy tardy courser, Time!
We watch to hail the blessed prime!
We listen for the morning chime
That heralds the long plighted!
Humanity and the Divine
Shall wed at Nature's sacred shrine,
Completing Infinite design,
When this old Earth is righted.
Croydon, N. H.
Christian Inquirer.

AFRICA TO AMERICA.
In the day of thy need I have battled for thee;
At the hour of thy triumph thou knowest not me;
My blood fed thy rivers, it <illegible> thy sea;
Yet an <illegible> am I in the “Land of the FREE”!
The hand that the sword sped the pen may not hold;
Benumbed is the tongue which the war-march controlled;
And the foot that stood firm where the cannon-ball rolled
Must flee from the spot where the ballot is polled.
Thy friend was my friend, and thy foe was my foe;
Yet to-day not a friend in thy councils I know;
To the grave <illegible> my slain, with a tread not as slow
As the course of the justice thy servants bestow.
The life which ‘twixt thy life and treason's dart flew
Is felled ‘<illegible> thy flag by the traitorous crew;
To the <illegible> that no love but its country's love knew,
Nor statute, nor <illegible>, nor conscience is true.
-N. Y. Tribune.
<c02>
The Liberator
AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION.
The American Academy of Music, Philadelphia, on Thursday evening, 5th inst., was completely filled with an intelligent and respectable audience, for the purpose of inaugurating an organization on the basis and plan of the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, which should have for its object the care and supervision of the educational and moral needs of the <illegible> of the South.
Bishop McIlvaine, of Ohio, was called to the chair, and the meeting was the opened with prayer by the Rev. Mr. Yarnall.
REMARKS OF BISHOP MCILVAINE.
Bishop McIlvaine made the opening address, welcoming the audience, and referring to the interesting cause which had brought them together God had wonderfully blest our land; his judgment and mercy have descended upon us. In the midst of the Red Sea of suffering and blood from which we have escaped, and the re-establishment of the Union and the authority of the Government over all the States, has been shown his providence. But more than all is, that he has broken the bonds from the slave.
There was no way to have thrown off the curse of slavery, unless by the method that was followed. The war that was intended to fasten the chains of the slave forever broke his fetters, and made him eternally a freeman. For so great a mercy, brought by such wonderful ways, we must render services to God by going among these liberated men, and raise them up to be worthy servants of God and good citizens of the Republic. That would be the most appropriate thanks-giving. They have been made free, and it is our task to bring them up from their intellectual infancy; to educate them, provide for them, protect them, and render them fit to enjoy what God has intended for them. As God visited us for tolerating this evil by the terrible war of the last four years, so will He abundantly bless the land if we now take care of these freedmen.
REMARKS OF BISHOP SIMPSON.
Bishop Simpson, of the M. E. Church, next addressed the meeting:-It was proper when a new society is brought before the public, to define its objects. The present meeting was called to institute an organized plan of relief for the American freedmen. Philadelphia has done nobly before, and so she will do again. There were many societies engaged in sending relief to the freedmen, but as they did not work together, they were not always certain that a proper and equitable distribution of relief was made. To meet this objection, and to render the aid of these societies as efficient as possible, it was thought that it was best that a general society, embracing all these others, should be organized, and the present, which it was proposed to organize this evening, was the result.
All the aid that can be given will be needed. The crops in the South will be short, and the colored people in many cases will suffer. The white people, too, may suffer, and efforts will be made in their behalf. It is probable, too, that the colored population which rose against the masters to help us break the power of the rebellion, will be ill-treated and persecuted by the people of the South The prevention of this was to be embraced within the scope of the society. Already, where the United States forces had been removed, there had been outbreaks, and in some cases even the teachers had been mobbed, and ordered to leave the localities where they were teaching. But it might come to pass, as the war broke the shackles of the slave it was intended to rivet, so this persecution will bring about its own redemption in the proper time. The society was not an organization in opposition to the South, but to assist them. Even of the people of the South he would say, with the Scriptures, “If thine enemy hunger, feed him.” Thus might the people of the South be brought to a proper understanding and true interpretation of the subject.
Regarding the scope of the present work, Bishop Simpson said that six hundred and fifty teachers were working in different parts of the South, not only teaching them to read and write, but to learn the practical arts of life. The expense of each teacher is five hundred dollars a year, but to do the work truly and properly there should be at least two thousand teachers, and for these we must raise funds.
The Secretary then read letters from Major General O. O. Howard, of the Freedmen's Bureau at Washington, and George H. Stuart, Esq., President of the Christian Commission, of Philadelphia, highly approving of the objects of the association.
REMARKS OF REV. DR. BELLOWS.
Dr. Bellows, formerly President of the Sanitary Commission, was the next speaker. He said that he merely desired to be considered as an outsider, a looker on in Vienna, yet deeply interested in the great work of ameliorating the condition of the freedmen. The greatest thing in the American Freedmen's Association was the heroism of the work they had undertaken. It is not only for the education of the freemen, but it has to accomplish a much more difficult work at home, the education of the Northern people to a due appreciation of their duties to the negro and the freedmen. If that were accomplished, their work would be one of ease and joy. Had we waited for the consent, the approbation and the support of the American people, acting under their instincts and interests, the slave would be to-day a slave, doubly locked in his chains.
Now that we have freed him, through Providence, we should be prepared to educate him, and secure to him the immunities and rights that belong to his position. The labors of the association will not prove easy. The great difficulty is to send agents and agitators into every town and county throughout the North to stir up the people, and make them sensible of and alive to the vital importance of the work, to plead the cause of the freedmen, to take their offerings, and to swell them into one great river of support. They will then find a wide-spread and general sympathy with the task they have undertaken.
The universal and unjust prejudice against the freedmen must also be removed, and this association will have to take that matter in hand. There are not only four millions of slaves to educate, but twenty millions of white men; you cannot do your work for the black man without working for the white man also.
The speaker was frequently interrupted by the plaudits of the audience.
The speaker then alluded to the importance of a complete organization of the Aid Societies throughout the country, that each might know of one place where it might send its contributions, and also be aware that all the others were giving of their substance. Each would thus be a help to the other, and all would do better.
The work, even now, is going on well. Nearly fifty thousand children, between four and sixteen years of age, are at present receiving instruction in the schools. But this is only one-twentieth part. If we can educate one half of these, it is enough for the present, for the rest will learn from these. The five million dollars necessary for this ought to be but as a drop in the bucket for the American people. Organize-organize-organize; and henceforth, under the leadership of men like those who were connected with the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, the work will go bravely on, and before six months the treasury will be full and overflowing. Do the work thoroughly for the next three years, and then the Society may shut up shop; there will be no more need for its work, for then the freedmen will be able to think and act for themselves.
The next speaker was the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, who advanced to the front of the stage, amid a perfect storm of applause. He said:
REMARKS OF REV. HENRY WARD BEECHER.
It used to be asked us, not many years ago, by sundry gentlemen who said that we were disturbing the public peace, “What do you preach abolition here
<c03>
for, where there are no slaves? why do you not go where it exists?” There were cogent reasons why we did not go South at that time; but we are now going. (Laughter and applause.) There are six hundred and fifty of us already there, and that is but the shadow, the faint perception of what is to come. We still mean to satisfy these querulous questioners of the subject of our sincerity. It was said that the agitators and radicals of the North profess to be very fond of the black man. It was said, “What are you doing for him but to make his chains heavier and his bondage darker? Show your love for him, and we will believe in your pretensions.” We are now attempting to show that we were true, and that if there is one thing susceptible of demonstration, it is that the moral sense of the North was at first indirectly and finally the direct cause of emancipation. It was the growing temper of Christian feeling in the North that provoked rebellion; and it was the same moral toughness in the North-a consciousness that had a cutting edge to it, an edge that would not break or turn-that carried the nation through the struggle, to emancipation and victory. (Applause.) I hold we are indebted, under God, for the condition into which we hare been brought, to the educated moral feeling of the North. At that time men did not know what they were learning. The men who at that time frustrated your Abolition lecturers and were apostles of the mob, are now found sitting at the feet of their masters, the most rabid apostles of liberty. We have any number of Pauls among us. (Laughter.) Now we do not wish to take advantage of old services and sayings, but to say that the hand of God has led us in a better way than we thought. The most sanguine or sagacious never expected to see things as they are to-day. But now, when we say to the people of the United States that we propose to take the four millions of late slaves, just introduced into liberty, to educate them, and fit them for good Christians and citizens, men are a little startled. hey say it is impossible; you can never do this; the difficulties are greater than you can imagine. But the more we look at a difficulty, the greater it becomes, and so we should shut our eyes to the difficulty, and, as it were, jump over the whole of them. There never was a fight between right and wrong in which it could not be figured out that the chances were as ten to one against the victory on the moral side. Worldly chances are always so. To be certain of victory, we must ignore the existence of difficulties. It is indomitable faith that gives victory where calculation would give defeat. It was never believed that the miserable fishermen of Galilee would become the legislators of the world, the inspires of a new literature, the leaders of a new religion, when all the power and glory, both of wealth and the civil power, all that was at the command of the adversary of Christ, were against them. It was never thought that these humble instruments would so revolutionize the globe that to-day the once despised things are the highest, and the things that were formerly the highest are now the most despised; but so it has come to pass.
When the work is to undertake to raise up four millions of degraded creatures just out of their bondage, and make them good citizens, men say you cannot do it. No, not if everybody felt as such men, we could not do it, nor if they stop to look the difficulties in the face. You say that the freedmen are a stupid race. I suppose they are the only race that is stupid. (Laughter.) You will say that they are full of evil habits which will require generations to eradicate. I am sorry that there are so many bad habits among the slaves, when we are so perfect. (Laughter.) But then their masters are rabid, and raging like lions robbed of their prey. I suppose they are, and of both whelps and prey, in some instances. (Much laughter.) Without a doubt there is difficulty here; you may say it is an unpopular theme in politics. But it is not impossible to do anything. There is no task that we cannot perform, as the advances we have made in the last twenty years conclusively show. I have seen the time when a man would have whirled away like a fire-ball, who would have dared to hint that it was possible for a black man to be superior; to a white man. But the logic of events and the providence of God have brought about this change, so that we are all of us changed. How blind are men who predict the bounds in which God Almighty will make his paths!
But, although the work before us is great, it is not greater than our strength. Although it is difficult, it is not more difficult than other things that we have had before us. I believe it is according to the genius of Christianity and the nature of our institutions, and according to our social tendencies, and the coordinate and cooperative influences that are organized into society as well as in our Christian churches.
I feel that God has at last called to his people. The poor creature that had been robbed lay by the roadside; priest and Levite passed on, but the Samaritan at last relieved him. We have had ministers and churches that passed by the poor and despised, some on one plea and some on another; but now the good Samaritan, which I hold to be the great mass of the common people, is going where the sufferer is, to extend to him a helping hand-to rescue him from darkness, and take him to the school-house and the church. I hold that no minister is of the church of God who does not take part in it. I deride the idea of a true religion that has no humanity in it. I despise the profession of the Christian ministry that has no disposition to suffer for the sake of the poor and the unpopular.
The great work we are called to do at this time is to educate the colored people. It has been justly said, they are our best helpers. They are thirsting for knowledge. By education, I mean the teaching of the entire man; the eclaircissement of the understanding; the bringing out of the industrial powers and capacities. The way to protect him from being oppressed is to inspire him with growth, to make him intelligent, moral, pure and industrious. I do not doubt that he will have to go through a period of suffering; but where is the man who does not? We will give him all his rights, because we believe that his education will involve the necessity of it. While we are doing this, it seems to me we must do as we do with children; we must have a system for him; but that will necessitate his having some civil privileges. In the first place, he was a slave; he is now emancipated. What is he? Can you tell me? Is he a citizen? You know he is not. He is not a slave. He is a freedman, as though there were a middle term which designated a difference between something and nothing; an anomalous condition that cannot long exist without great mischief. We have no place on this nation for any such condition as that. There is no class in the category for a man that is not a citizen and not a slave. When he was a slave, he was nothing; he was not counted as a man; the law did not regard him as a man, scarcely the Gospel. He has been received into something. It will be difficult to tell what it is. I here demand for the slave that, ceasing to be a slave, his manhood be substantially recognized. I demand that he become a citizen on this ground. (Loud applause.) We cannot have men with us who are not substantially citizens. The first thing for the slave is, that he have the right to liberty and property, and that he shall not depend on the good nature of his neighbors, but on his own address; that the authority of the Union that gave him his liberty shall give him the right to labor and the remuneration of labor. I demand that he be treated in law and in the courts as the equal of any other citizen. (Applause.) There must not he one court for white men and another court for black men. If you are to classify, it cannot stop here. Now it is color, but by-and-by there will be a classification on account of condition, and there will be laws for the rich man and laws for the poor man. I appeal to every man if he can dodge this principle, or get rid of it.
I hold that the freedmen of the South ought to have full possession of their natural rights; and if there is a right that any man should have, it is that his life, liberty and property shall be in no manner controlled.
<c04>
unless he has a voice in it himself. (Applause.) I do not undertake to say that it should be suffrage; but you have no right to meddle with a man's person, his labor, his family, life or property, without his having something to do with the making of the laws. I claim for the freedman his natural rights. He ought to vote. (Enthusiastic applause.) You will say he does not know how. How will he learn, unless you let him? You say he will vote wrong. That is to say, a man must not fire a rifle until he can hit the mark! They will not vote much worse than many Democrats do in the North. (Laughter.) But they say that in some districts their votes will out number the white population, and this would be ruinous. Will a people which remained firm to the Constitution and the Union when their masters were crazy with fanaticism and rebellion, vote against the country? Rather let the white men be kept from the polls. (Applause.) After calling the slave from the plantation to assist in bearing up the banner which was well-nigh trailing in the dust of defeat-after having taken his blood to cement the loosening stones of the edifice of liberty, will you turn him off with out a privilege? Do this, and not only will the scorn of man fall upon you, but the vengeance of Almighty God himself.
If this is too much, then let it be that only those shall vote who can read and write, but let this extend to black and white alike; or let those who have borne arms for the preservation of the Union vote. Who denies that, will be mean enough to deny anything. Even if but ten colored men in a parish vote, ten men who have borne arms, it will be such a wedge that it will soon make an entrance for others. Their votes will be sought as eagerly as Northern men here seek the votes of Irishmen. But it is the imperative duty of the country to see to it that the arm and hand that bore a weapon in defence of the country, whatever its color may be, should have the right to bear the ballot to the ballot-box.
I do not undertake to dictate what you shall put into their platform, but party, precedent, and society must know that they must do the whole thing or nothing. Make him a man, a neighbor, a Christian-raise him up into manhood, and there will be a more sublime awakening than when God spoke, and the earth rose into existence.
William Lloyd Garrison was then introduced, and in a few words signified his hearty approval of the objects of the Association. He took occasion to deny the truth of the story now going the rounds of the newspapers, that he had written a letter to Gov. Andrew in reference to the Mississippi Constitution. He referred to the changes in public sentiment during the past fifteen years, and urged that the Society should go forward with the work it proposed to undertake.

LETTER FROM PROF. WILSON.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Sept. 6, 1865.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS, ESQ:
DEAR SIR-In reply to your letter, I must say, I am quite surprised at its tone. So will everybody else be, especially when they read in connexion with it an extract from a published letter of yours, in answer to an invitation to be present at the 4th of July celebration of the Lincoln Monument Association. The said extract reads thus: “Gentlemen, had your note come a few days earlier, I might have been able to mingle my voice, &c., &c. As the matter now stands, I can only send you the assurance that I shall be with you in spirit and purpose.” So, my dear sir, you were with the Association in spirit and purpose on the 4th day of July, 1865, and you find yourself opposed to the spirit and purpose of the Association on the 8th day of August, 1865. One of those very sudden summersets not unusual, but as yet, I believe, unaccountable to even your best friends.
But, then, you have attempted to give some reasons for your present position, which, perhaps, may afford some temporary relief. Let us give them a brief examination
And, first, you are not opposed to monuments or colleges “Things good in standing alone, are not always good when mixed.”
If there ever was expressed upon paper a sentiment more copperish than this, I have yet to see it. It seems as though it was clipped directly from the genuine negro-hater's, prejudice-monger's creed.
I do not say that you clipped this sentiment from their creed. Do not understand me; but to hear my friend F. D. who has all his life long been engaged in mixing, now expressing his detestation of the thing when wholly practicable, is a little too much.
Only think of it! Frederick Douglass will not support or favor the erection of a monument with the money of the American people-a free gift-if the conception, the plan emanate from colored men, and its erection be under the auspices of colored men! He is, indeed, opposed to mixing; mixing our white friend's money with our own; for he distinctly says-“Now, a monument by the colored people, erected at the expense of the colored people, I can appreciate; and whenever a movement shall be made for such a monument, I am with it, heart and soul.” Strange language this for F. D., the head and front of whose offending has been “trying to mix.” A company of colored men propose to erect in Washington, in memory of our lamented President, a monument, and will accept contributions from their friends, and the friends of that good man everywhere, to that end. Now, are these men to be told by Mr. Douglass at this day, that they must look into the faces of the contributors to spy out the complexion of each, and reject all proffers from those they find to be white?
Mr. Douglass says, “when he goes for anything, he likes to go it strong.” Truly, in his own language, “this is going it strong” against mixing; and yet it does sound a little odd coming from him, and the general public will so regard it.
But Mr. Douglass says, “It cannot be a colored people's monument, if white friends contribute.”
We did think, and still hold, and defy Mr. Douglass to show to the contrary, that if we conceive a monument ought to be erected, conceive a plan, collect and are the sole custodians of the means, and projectors of the work, it is a Colored People's Monument, if we see fit to so denominate it; as much so as the beautiful Methodist Church opposite our office window is a Methodist Church, notwithstanding many well-wishers, either of progress or religion, contributed to its erection.
And we desire to say, we would erect no monument to the memory of the lamented dead, whose purpose and spirit are in any sense more distinctive than this. To do so would be, in our opinion, an act of injustice to ourselves, and to the memory of our lamented President. We would make no war upon Mr. Douglass, nor any one else who would erect what he considers a purely Colored Monument; but, for our selves, we would mix and mingle all the contributions of the kindly disposed towards carrying out the great work of elevating the American People; and remembering the great dead, though the projectors are colored men. But Mr. Douglass not only denies the propriety of the American People placing into the custody of colored men money to erect a monument to Mr. Lincoln, but he decidedly objects to the propriety of the monument taking the form of a college. ”It may be permanent,” he says. This is his great fear; of course, he would have white men build colleges whenever and wherever endowed, and have no fear on account of their permanency; and we fail to see why any other person, seeing its need, may not do the same thing, irrespective of color, without raising Mr. Douglass's dread of permanency.
Mr. Douglass says, “I am in favor of all needful educational institutions for the present education of colored people, though they be separate institutions. Present circumstances are the only apology for such institutions. When a colored girl or boy can go to school or college with the white people of the country, it is best for all they should do so.” Agreed; but I go beyond Mr. Douglass, and say, when a white girl or boy can go to school or college with the chil.
<c05>
dren of the country, without regard to complexion, it is better, far better. The college we propose has this extent, no more; perfect equality, and full freedom for all who are worthy.
“But,” says Mr. Douglass, ”I am not for <illegible> permanent separate institutions for colored people;” and yet, in this same letter, he tells us that he goes it strong against mixing, and that therefore the only monument he will support, heart and soul, must be purely and distinctly a Colored Monument, done up only, and in every sense, by colored people; said monument to be, of course, as permanent as the hills upon which it shall stand. We have read somewhere of a boy who jumped into a brier bush, and scratched out both his eyes; and jumped into the brier bush, and scratched them in again. But he was a boy. I could, for the credit of manhood, have wished my friend might have kept the possession of his, at least to the end of the chapter.
He would not have us build this College here, for fear it will be a permanent separate concern. I would remind him, if he does not know, that colored people in those regions are numerous, and as active as they are numerous. I am not sure that any more, if as much can be said of the aggregate of the whites about here; and hence are demanded for these colored persons greater educational facilities. Shall we have them, or shall we sit down, and wait for our white neighbors till they provide them expressly for themselves, and then edge our way in, if we can? I would plainly remind Mr. Douglass, that if we would do our part in learning the American people those lessons of equal manhood he speaks of, we shall have to originate as well as imitate; lead as well as follow; conceive, plan and erect monuments and build colleges, as well as with hats in hand go continually knocking at the doors of others;-we shall have to do these things, even though we may not know the exact complexion of the friends who may see fit to make us the custodians of the means with which to build them. When we shall boldly do these things, then shall we be able to enjoy with our white neighbors that equal freedom he seems to so devoutly long for. Then shall we vote with them at the same ballot-box; sit with them in the same jury-box; use the same cartridge-box; travel with them in the same rail-car; and be alike proud of the same country, and to fight alike, the same foe; advantages certainly of which none seem to have a clearer perception than Mr. Douglass, but from which I can logically see why he has yet realized so little.
He has been over-spending his strength in knocking at his white neighbor's door for permission to come in to (his) the white neighbor's feast, rather than garnishing his own castle, and spreading his own table, and inviting his white neighbor to (his) Frederick Douglass's repast. Men acknowledge the equality of those only who show ability to do the same things they do; and, though late, I think Mr. Douglass has yet to learn this lesson.
He says he “would not, at this late day, relinquish these long cherished sentiments, now that light is beginning to break.” I would not have him do so. I would only, now that it is well nigh day, change his dreams or visions to realities.
If Mr. Douglass will take the pains to look over the list of the managers of the, Lincoln Monument Association, he will find that they are a little mixed: being partly colored gentlemen and partly white gentlemen; only, by one of those changes, I suppose, that these new times have thrown up to the surface of human affairs, the colored gentlemen are in the lead. And from these latter first came the proposition to build a college whose doors shall be open to all. This may be an objection, but we do not so regard it; nor till now did we suppose so firm a believer in true progress as Mr. Douglass professed to be did.
But, not satisfied with running a tilt against our monument, and making a dash into our college, our Quixotic friend breaks a lance against the combination of monument and college; and, as he thinks, razes them to the ground. So thought he, of whom he (Douglass) is a prototype, when he dashed into the wind mill and the flock of sheep, against all remonstrances of his man Sancho Panza.
Hear Mr. Douglass. He says-“A monument is a monument, and has its own peculiar claims; but the two things are incongruous and offensive when connected.” It does seem a little strange that one, with Mr. Douglass's sagacity, should be betrayed into this error-that he should fail to see that a monument is simply and only a thing by which the memory of a person or an event is preserved. It may be a building; it may be a stone; it may be a combination of both; but it is a thing that reminds-that is all. This is the plain definition; and to it I may add, that which most continually and most forcibly reminds is the highest and noblest form of monument. What peculiar claims, I would ask Mr. Douglass, has a monument but to keep foremost and sacredly in memory the leading traits, features, or idea of the individual or event it serves to commemorate? And if a monument to Abraham Lincoln has any peculiar claim, it is to exhibit and keep alive what was prominent in his great life; namely, the elevation of the long oppressed in this land. And what better than a Memorial College, carrying out what he, in his life-time, had begun, will accomplish this end Which then is preferable? Which shall we have? The mere cold stone, which the ignorant youth beholding will scarcely be able to decipher the meaning thereof, and the future coming throng, passing, will be too busy or too indifferent to appreciate; or a memorial of learning, whose light shall illumine coming generations, and point the mind in its cultivated state back to him of whom it is a perpetual tribute? I leave an intelligent public to answer.
But we weary, as the reader also must, of following Mr. Douglass through his various errors and fallacies. All his talk about the “scheme being derogatory to our character,” and about “attempts to wash the black man's face in the nation's tears,” and about “turning veneration into advantage,” &c., &c., is not deducible from anything expressed, or implied, or contemplated by the Association; and, (we hope we are mistaken,) it does seem to contain an amount of virus that is strangely unaccountable. Till further light, therefore, I leave this portion of his theme, adding only that there are for the death of Mr. Lincoln a nation's tears-and let them flow as they ought; but there is something more for his memory, and that is the faithful carrying out of the great desire of his great heart-the dissemination among all classes of the American people, the great principles of right and truth which underlie all equality and all true manhood.
The Lincoln Monument Association propose a Memorial College for the perpetual diffusion of these high and holy principles, in the most cultivated and broadest form attainable, because they are right, and because in their light ABRAHAM LINCOLN can best be seen, longest remembered, and highest appreciated.
Truly, your old friend and co-laborer,
WILLIAM W. WILSON.

A PERSONAL INCIDENT.
Al Haussein relates the following personal incident, which must have given to the representative of a semi-civilized nation strange ideas of the barbarism of our own country:-
“During the carnival of 1856, I went to the Grand Opera in Paris with a young negro. I had been in the saloon but a short time, when an American gentleman sprang upon my companion, and, trying to seize him by the collar, cried out with rage, ’Why is this negro in this room where we are? When has a slave ever been permitted to take rank with his master? ‘The poor negro, not understanding what the American was saying, was astonished, stupefied at the scene. I immediately approached, and said to the American ‘Be calm, my friend; we are in Paris, not in Richmond.'
Meanwhile, attracted by the noise, one of the guardians of the theatre hastened to the scene, and informed the American that French laws give no preference to gentlemen on the ground of the color of their skin, but much on the ground of character. In fine, the poor negro was delivered from the clutches of the American-not by the clearness of his white cravat and yellow gloves, but by the splendor of truth and the justice of freedom.”
<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age?
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Banking these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. <illegible> and large joints of meat are ”done to a turn.”
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his <illegible> language
“CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler,” which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no rough ness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its trouble,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes’ time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill’s Patent “<illegible> Stove” in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaint <illegible> have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Mass, May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTON, May 24 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the AErovaporCooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be <illegible> desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remai yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 23, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your “single burners,” and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the “double burner,” but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio. T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & CO.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my “Petroleum Stove.” I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill’s Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation
yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent. per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent.(and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expanses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & <illegible>, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.

THE RADICAL:
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
