<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT,
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, 
in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating 
to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, 
Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: -FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM., LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 46. BOSTON. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1612.

Selections.
A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW OF SECESSION,
BY A NORTHERN ANTI-SLAVERY MAN!
We take the following extracts from an extraordinary "
Discourse on the Wickedness and Folly of the Present War- delivered in the Court House-at Ot. tawa, Illinois, on Sabbath, August 11, 1861, by GEO. W.BASSETT, author of ‘A Northern Plea for the Right of Secession’ ":-
I cannot see how any honorable man in the Southern States can now be anything but a practical, as well as theoretical Secessionist. No matter what his regrets or misgivings may be no matter how strenuously he may have resisted the act of secession as impolitic and even hazardous; the very necessities of his contested rights, and he rights of mankind, require that he resist the arrogant and man-degrading doctrine of the divine right of kings, not less when that doctrine is maintained at the cannon's mouth by a once free Republic, than when enforced by the minions of George the Third.
It seems evident to my mind, therefore, that the South, and not the North, are to-day defending, this great natural right of popular self-government; and it is more evident still that their antagonists, the U. S. Government, are not contending for the maintenance of this right.
I ask, therefore, further, are we fighting to secure our pecuniary rights? Let us consider this. Not to dwell upon the wicked folly of incurring a most burdensome public debt, by squandering five hundred millions, to enforce an ambiguous claim of fifty millions, nor the immorality of shedding rivers of blood for any pecuniary consideration, I maintain that our antagonists in this war have manifested a disposition, and proposed and instituted measures for an equitable and honorable adjustment of all pecuniary claims that we might have against them. Both South Carolina and the government of the Confederate 
States have appointed Commissioners who have knocked in vain at our door with proposals of peace and amicable settlement, and these official advances 
have been met with a most irritating affectation of ignorance of their official existence. 
Again I ask is it to protect our soil from invasion and our homes from violence, that our country is converted from an abode of peace and prosperity to one great military camp, and one wide waste of commercial adversity? Why then is Maryland subjected, and her chief city prostrate beneath the mouths of a frowning battery? and why is Missouri overrun by our armies, and her soil literally drenched in blood? and Virginia invaded, except when we are repelled "Viet armis"? But official and responsible documents leave no room for doubt as to the intention of our antagonists on this point. President Davis says in his official message, "We seek no conquest, we ask no concession. All we ask is to be let alone -that those who have never held political power over us, should not now subject us to their arms," and adds that, "as soon as this pretention shall be withdrawn, the sword shall fall from our grasp, and we shall be prepared to enter into treaties of amity and commerce mutually beneficial." The whole construction of Southern society and all combinations of motives would induce the Southern States to limit and avoid as far as possible the horrors of war. Peace they have constantly asked for, and, peace is the demand of their political friends at the North.
The same principle that has always made me an uncompromising Abolitionist, now makes me an equally uncompromising Secessionist. It is the great natural and sacred right of self-government. 
Lying newspapers and story-telling demagogues have ruined the country. The great fault of the times is that public affairs are not managed on the great principles of true political philosphy and wise statesmanship, but to suit the popular prejudice. A civil war, the calamitous results of which God only can estimate, has been precipitated upon the country by what has been called "the uprising of the North." Manufacturers alarmed at the opened ports of the Southern Confederacy, have demanded the suppression of the rebellion, and contributed largely to the war. Rich capitalists, fearing the loss of monopoly, 
have demanded a strong government. Men of large wealth, with their dependent churches and clergy, have seen their incomes reduced, and their salaries abridged, prospectively, and uttered a unanimous cry against treason and rebellion. Thus proslavery divinity, aristocratic wealth, and popular prejudice with abolition credulity, speaking through the popular press, have united their strangely contradictory influence to plunge the nation blindfold into the vortex of civil war and national ruin. 
What, then, I ask in God's name, is the real object the war? Why these fields of carnage and woe? Why these mangled bodies, and scattered limbs, and ghastly forms on the battle-ground? and why those heart rending scenes of domestic grief? "Rachel weeping for her children, and refusing to be comforted, because they are not." Why this derangement of commerce, this paralysis of business, and this tornado of bankruptcy which sweeps the land? and why these portentous clouds of national calamity and woe which still impend over us? In short, why is war, yea, and fratricidal war, upon us with all its unutterable horrors? Why is it? 
Great God! shall I answer the truth? 
For no earthly reason but the unholy and barbarous motive of conquest. It is literally and boldly maintained in the United States Senate, that the subjugation of the seceded States is the special object of the war the imposition of a hated and rejected authority upon an unwilling and resisting people.
We are fighting, then, in this very Christian age, for the identical object and motive which animated heathen Rome, in all her stupendous and bloody march to universal empire.
What, then, is the moral character of this war, as tested by its object and motive?’
I come now to the text, "Thou shall not kill" This is a mandate in every respect worthy of the Author of human life. The argument is brief. 
War involves the intentional taking of human life. It is of course justifiable homicide, or murder in the first degree.
A war of self-defence is justifiable homicide. But a war of selfish and needless conquest is national murder in the first degree. And such, from the above considerations, I am painfully obliged to pronounce the present war of the United States against the Confederate States of America.
Not self-defence, therefore, nor liberty to the slave, but murder-wholesale murder-yea, even fratricide, is inscribed upon all your banners of conquest, by 
the finger of immutable truth and justice!
It is an unfounded and childish whim, officially Contradicted by their President, that the Confederate States wish to invade the North, or even retain their former claims in behalf of slavery upon the North.National Independence-the identical boon that we asked of England-is all they contend for.
<c02>
What, then, is to be thought of a war of the United States, in contest of such a demand? Is it a justifiable "casus belli"?
Again, have we exhausted all other means of settlement before putting the fatal match to the terrible magazine of civil war? Have we not rejected every proposal of settlement by negotiation? Have we not steadily refused the reception of the accredited commissioners of South Carolina and the Confederate States, both of whom knocked at our doors, holding out the olive branch of peace? Nay, have we not, with indecent conceit, provokingly ignored the existence of a well-organized confederate government of eight millions of free citizens?
And what have we done in the place of it? We have raised an immense army and invaded their territory, laying waste their fields, burning their houses, and slaughtering their people by thousands, demanding unconditional submission to our political authority. We have branded their most distinguished citizens 
as traitors, and insultingly threatened them with the halter. Thus we are riding down roughshod the very principles of our national liberty, as maintained by the precious blood of our fathers in the Revolutionary war.
As I have abundantly shown, we are fighting, not in defence but in violation of the great right of independence and self-government. We are contending for the identical object of Lord North in his war on the American colonies.
Their first President is a slaveholder-so was ours, even up to the day of his death.
Slavery is not the question legitimately involved in the war, whatever effect it may have had in alienating the feelings of the two antagonist sections, as appears from the fact that slavery was fully tolerated under the Union, and far safer in than out of it. 
I am aware that the South in leaving did not get the consent of the North either did we that of Great Britain. The people of the Southern Confederacy 
think they are entitled to a place among the nations of the earth, "by the laws of nature and of nature's God," and so literally thought our fathers, as expressed in the first passage of the Declaration of Independence.
I say, then, we ought immediately to acknowledge the independence of the Confederate States, make peace, and withdraw our armies from their territory. 
First, because they are right and we are wrong, on the great and only real issue, their national independence. To show this, has been one great object of the above discourse.
Second, we should do this as a matter of wise expediency. It is all a mistake that the separation of the Southern from the Northern States is either the destruction of our government, or even the destruction. of our national prosperity.
As to the fate of the down-trodden, afflicted and persecuted negro, whose destiny shall never be separated from my own, it can be none the worse for secession. While he shall still remain under the yoke, his increase of relative strength, though it may enhance the rigor of legislation, must render an increase of personal kindness a matter of prudence and necessity. Hence it is not the dictate of reason and philosophy that his situation should be for a moment worse after secession than before; and it is most manifest, on a moment's reflection, that the governmental pressure of eight millions of oppressors is less hopeless than that of twenty-six millions.
Another consideration is the stern and inevitable necessity of the case.
Gentlemen, you can never succeed in this unnatural and inconsistent war of conquest. It is in vain to deny or ignore the well-known fact of a powerful Southern Confederacy with a large and well equipped army, commanded by generals not inferior to the trained veterans of Europe. This Confederacy is to be conquered by men, whose naturaltastes and habitual associations all qualify them for, and point them to the pursuits of peace and beneficent industry. You will also have to repudiate the first principles of your own government, belie your own history, and vilify the glorious memory of your fathers. Nay, further, you must fly in the face of the popular sentiment of Europe, repudiate the free principles of Mazzini and Victor Hugo, and rebuke the heroic struggles of Hungary under Kossuth, and the immortal achievements of Garibaldi in Italy. Finally, you will have to combat the Almighty decree of Heaven. All your desperate struggles to raise and equip armies, and to win battles, will be a vain and useless war with destiny.
With all your hypocritical prayers, and selfish, eager and ambitious chaplains, fighting deacons and exhorting priests, you have no God of heaven in this war! He is against you! He has said expressly, "Thou shalt do no murder." Yet you murder nations, and ask Him to bless you.
Ah! the Almighty is against the government in this war. They will meet Him on every battle-field, they will hear him in the cannon's roar, and feel Him in the unseen pestilence. 
He will constantly disturb the halls of Congress, and terribly haunt the chamber of the Executive, planting thorns in his midnight pillow, and remorse in his imperishable memory. You impose an unreasonable burden upon the native valor of Northern soldiers, when you require them thus to fight against the principles of our own glorious Revolution. They lack the essential inspiration of liberty and conscious right.
You expect too much when you look for heroes where the heroic element is wanting.
A brave man cannot be a hero for dollars and Cents-a coward will be one for liberty.
The noble matrons of Carthage cut off the hair of their heads to form bow-strings for their husbands and brothers who fought against the conquest of their city. And you will have to murder the very women of the South before you can ever subdue them to your dominion.
A SWEDENBORGIAN VIEW OF SLAVERY.
Extract from a Discourse, delivered in the New Jerusalem Church, Boston, Sept 26, 1861, by Thomas Worcester-published by William Carter & Brother, 7 Water Street:-
Let us now proceed to the subject of slavery. In the 25th chapter of Leviticus we read as follows:—"Both thy bondmen and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have, shall be of the heathen that are round about you: of them shall ye buy" bondmen and bondmaids. Moreover, of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of them shall, ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat in your land; and they shall be your possession. And yes shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit for a possession: they shall be your bondmen forever but over your brethren, the children of Israel, ye shall not rule over one another with rigor."
This has the outward appearance of a command; and yet who regards It as a command? Who thinks, or who ever thought it his duty to make bondmen and bondmaids of the heathen round about them? Who ever thought that God would 
<c03>
be angry with him, and punish him, if he did not do it? The common sense of men teaches them, that this is to be understood only as a permission,-that it comes from the evil hearts of men, and not from God,-not from Divine Love, Divine Wisdom, and Divine Justice.
But it is said that slavery is not forbidden in the New Testament. It is true that slavery is not expressly forbidden, for it is not expressly spoken of. From this circumstance we can only infer, that it was not then time to speak of that subject; for the Lord says, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." What He says upon other subject, however, throws light upon other subjects. What He says of one permission gives us an idea of what He would have said of other permissions, if the time had come to speak of them. And if He had seen that it was best to speak about what is said in Leviticus concerning slavery, can we have a doubt that He would have said, "For the hardness of your hearts, Moses gave you this precept; but from the beginning it was not so. For in the beginning God said, Let us make men in our image, after our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth." Here dominion is given to man over all the earth, and over everything upon it, except man. No dominion is given to one part of mankind over another part. And dominion is given to men over all other things, because they are made in the image of God and after His likeness,-because they are made capable of receiving Love and Wisdom from Him,-because they are made with capacities for becoming free and rational beings. And if He has made us in such a manner that we may become free and rational, shall we not be carrying out His intentions, and be acting from Him, by endeavoring to come into as high a degree of freedom and rationality as possible? Shall we not also be acting from Him, that is, under the influence of His Spirit, if we endeavor to bring other men into as high a degree of freedom and rationality as possible? And shall we not be acting in opposition to Him, if we deprive any of our brethren of freedom, and so prevent their faculties from opening, and expanding, and coming to maturity?
The Lord did not, in a formal manner, forbid slavery; but in giving the new commandment, that men should love one another, He did more than to forbid it for the prohibition of slavery would only have forbidden our doing that kind of evil to one another; but the command to love one another forbids our doing not only that kind of evil, but all other kinds of evil; and besides, it requires us to do all kinds of good to one another. 
Slavery was introduced into our country a long while ago, when there was less knowledge of it than there now is; and the opinions of men were different from what they are now. Perhaps nothing more need to be said on this part of the subject, than that it was introduced by the predecessors, if not by the ancestors, of us at the North, as well as of our brethren at the South; and that we all ought to be willing to bear our part of the labor, the pain, and the expense of removing it.
But there is another subject, that requires more consideration:-What obligations did we come under with respect to slavery, when we adopted our present Constitution?
1. We agreed, that in the apportionment of representatives and of direct taxes, three-fifths of the number of slaves should be added.
2. We agreed that fugitives from slavery, when found in the free States, should be delivered up to the owners.
3. We agreed that it should be the duty of our Government to suppress insurrections, &c.
In these three articles we made concessions to slaveholders. We gave them additional power in our Government, on account of their being slaveholders; 
and we agreed to aid them in holding their slaves. Had we any right to make such agreements? Are they not unlawful and invalid, inasmuch as they are opposed to the Divine Will? Ought we not to repent of those acts? Did we not forget what was due to the negroes? Did we not forget that they had any rights which we were bound to respect? And ought we not to take the regular means for being released from those obligations?
The case looks dark for us; but there are excuses for our conduct. When we consider the circumstances of the case, the obligations have a different aspect. For at the time when the Constitution was formed, slavery was regarded in the South, as well as in the North, as a great social, moral, and political 
evil. There were doubtless many who from habit or self-interest were in favor of it; but the men of good sense and good principles were opposed to it. But neither the North nor the South knew how to get rid of it; for they supposed that emancipation would be a great loss to the masters, and ruin to the slaves. They were, however, willing to limit slavery. This is manifest, not only from their words, but from their acts; for, before the Constitution was adopted, they absolutely forbade the introduction of slavery into any of the vacant territory which was in their possession; and, soon after the Constitution was adopted, they abolished the slave trade, and thus refused to admit any more negroes into the country. When, therefore,; we adopted the Constitution, we adopted it with this understanding,—,- that our brethren at the South were also opposed to slavery as we were, but could not fairly get rid of it. And in voting for the compromises of the Constitution, we were not voting for slavery, but for the protection and support of our brethren while they were bearing a heavy burden. 
Still, there may have been something wrong in our making such an agreement.
At all events, we ought to take measures to be released from it now; for, unhappily, our Southern brethren did not remain in the views which prevailed 
at that time. They have become more and more attached to slavery; and partly because by means of the three-fifths rule it increases their power in the Government. For sixty years they have been endeavoring to gain more territory, for the sake of having more slave States. Sometimes it has been done by purchase-sometimes by colonizing in territory that belonged to another country-then causing the territory to declare its independence-then acknowledging it as an independent nation-then accepting propositions for annexation by treaty; and when they found that they could not annex it in that manner, because they could not command two-thirds of the Senate, they accomplished their purpose by a joint resolution, which could be passed by a majority. And sometimes territory 
has been assigned to them in treaties as a condition of peace. This aggressive, grasping policy has been pursued up to the present time: nor are our covetous neighbors by any means satisfied, but have been fixing their eyes upon other vast conquests; all of which were to be made by the cunning, power, and wealth of our country.
But at our last presidential election, the people decided that this policy should be pursued no far-
<c04>
ther; and upon this, the South immediately undertook to separate itself from the Union, and to make of itself an independent nation, with the purpose of carrying on their schemes by their own power. And because our country did not immediately assent to their propositions, and grant their demands, they made war upon us.
It has been sometimes inconsiderately thought,- and perhaps the thought has occurred to many of us, -that it would be well to let them go. Many plausible 
reasons gather around the thought: we love peace and ease; we desire all to be in freedom to do as they please; we do not need their aid; they have caused us much trouble; we could get along much more comfortably without them. But on the other hand, there are many grave reasons against letting them go; one of which is sufficient; and that one only will be now mentioned. We have no right to let them go. We have no right to let them loose to prey upon mankind. They are a part of our people. They are under our common Government. The Government is responsible for their good behavior. The whole country is responsible. When, therefore, we see that they wish to separate from us for an evil and mischievous purpose, we have no right to let them go; and we should by no means clear ourselves from responsibility. They are under the Government of our country, and our Government they must be restrained by our Government. There is no way in which we can escape from that duty, but by the utter inability to perform it.
True repentance also involves restitution, reparation, or indemnification. In our present case, indemnification must begin with emancipation; including, 
of course, the preparation for it. From this, however, we seem to be. precluded by the present situation of the country. Our immediate and urgent duty is to defend our country, and preserve our national existence; for, as a country, we are fighting for life. We cannot, therefore, now make any arrangements with the Southern people for liberating the slaves; and as to encouraging insurrection, 
it is not to be thought of. In the meantime, the war is going on; and what that may do, and what its exigencies may require, we cannot foresee. But when it brings us into a state of peace and friendly relations with our brethren of the South, if emancipation shall not already have been effected, it will be our duty to approach them on the subject,-to confess that we have been involved with them in the evil, and to offer to join with them in making reparation. If they listen to our proposals, it would seem to be proper to give Great Britain an opportunity to join with us in this act of kindness and of justice, inasmuch as they have done quite as much towards introducing slavery as we have.
But there are many who have no confidence in emancipation,-who do not believe that it would be a benefit, to the negroes to be made free. This is some of the Egyptian darkness, which has gathered over us in consequence of our supporting slavery, and listening to the voice of slaveholders so long. But since they have renounced our Constitution, we are beginning to feel more free to think upon the subject than we did before; and, besides, the evil effects of slavery upon the masters is more manifest than heretofore. We are beginning to be willing to consider. And, happily, we do not have to go far, or to try hazardous experiments, to get information: for a magnificent experiment has already been tried; and about thirty years have elapsed for a development of consequences: and now we have abundant evidence that the experiment is a success, -that the eight hundred thousand negroes, who were then made free, are spiritually, morally, and physically in a far better condition than before.
The work before us is a great one. Four millions of our fellow-men are to be liberated from slavery; and four hundred thousand of our fellow-men are to be liberated from the task of keeping them in slavery. But the United States of America and Great Britain-sixty millions of men-are bound to do that work; and the whole Christian world is bound to see that it is done. And as to the time and manner of doing it, we are bound to be careful, kind and just.

WHAT OF THE WAR?
Never was a country, loved as this country has been, by all those who have shared the benefits wherein it has exceeded all others. Whence then the domestic war, sudden, unexpected, which has convulsed it like an earthquake? Why, when the forces of the loyal are so immensely superior to those of the disloyal, does the war continue, and threaten to continue for many years? Is there no way of bringing it to a speedy and desirable end? These are questions that crowd out almost all others in the breasts of all. Are we any more to have the country of which we have been so proud, or has the vision faded and gone with yester night’s dreams?
Though a few prominent leaders guide the great rebellion is guided by a few prominent leaders, it by no means grew out of the ambition of those men. That ambition takes advantage of a popular hatred which has grown out of a certain state of facts. It is proverbial that whom one injures he hates. Whether or not the proverb tells the exact truth of human nature, this certainly is true. If any one injures another, he hates all those who sympathize with his victim. It is probably true that a strong man may use a weak one with great injustice, and not be conscious of hating him. On the contrary, he may fondle him as a pet, and think he loves him. But let somebody else call attention to the injustice and take the part of the injured, and then the hatred will blaze out. The strong man will be bitter as death towards the sympathizer with his pet victim, and bitter, just in proportion as he is convinced of his own injustice. This hatred will swallow up all saintship that does not rise to the point of repenting of the injustice. Of all the odium’s that ever inflamed and poisoned poor human nature, this is the most virulent.
In the infancy of the world-out of which it has hardly emerged-strong men used weak ones very much as they would other animals. The wealthier made slaves of the poorer, even of the same race. This fault of internal polity, in spite of great advance in arts, carried nations to their tombs. Of more modern civilization, founded on law that does not permit the strong to enslave the weak of the same race, the pest has been that men have still been allowed to use, as domestic animals, men of uncivilized races. Supposing these uncivilized men not to differ materially from animals, either in character or capacity, it would not be easy to show the injustice of treating them as such. But from first to last, however much they may differ from more civilized men, they differ infinitely more from the beasts of the field. Hence slavery is unjust at first, and grows more so as it grows older.
The great quarrel between Great Britain and her American colonies found all of the latter more or less involved with African slavery. Their first act, as the basis of their independence, was a solemn resolution.
<c05>
resolution to have done with it, as unjust and inconsistent with the free government, which they desired. This popular resolution was as strong in one part of the country as another, or if anything, strongest where the proportion of the slaves was greatest. But where the slaves were fewest, private interest most easily gave way to the public good, and hence the Northern part of the Union grew up free from slavery, while the Southern retained it, in spite of all resolutions, declarations, bills of right, &c., which ought to have made an end of it. Nobody hates the Southern slaveholders, for the mere fact of holding slaves. Few fail to make all due allowances for the circumstances which have led them into such injustice. Many have admired them for that easy generosity of disposition, which naturally proceeds from wealth acquired without personal 
labor. Never in the whole history of the world was anything criminal treated with such forbearance and leniency, as Southern slavery and its adjuncts have been treated by the people of the North,-those most opposed to it having always, with almost no exception, restricted themselves to the mildest of moral suasion, and the very few who have resorted to opprobrious epithets have met with popular rebukes from their neighbors, such as slaveholders have seldom or never suffered. The North has loved the South has been loved by the North as well as if slavery had not existed there. The North has always conceded to the slaveholders more than their fair share of political power. Yet, ever since the Revolution, every white man at the South, whether slaveholder or non-slaveholder, has been conscious of injustice to the enslaved Africa-American-the black man, with usually more or less while blood in his veins. And for seventy-five years, at least, the white Southerner has been growing to hate, more and more, all the rest of mankind who express or imply any sympathy with his slave, or any sense of the injustice he suffers. Here is the broad basis of popular hatred on which the slaveholders' rebellion stands. For fiendish malignity, the annals of even religious wars cannot equal it. The ambitious leaders are borne up by it as neither superstition nor patriotism ever bore up any leaders. Of course, mere independence, or being let alone, was not the object for which the war was commenced. It was revenge, conquest, the reconstruction of the Government in such a way that sympathy with the slave could be punished, and the peculiar hatred gratified. Only those who have, made it their special study can have anything approaching a true conception of the depth and extent of the hatred towards the North, which has caused this war. It is not founded on misconception or ignorance, but is most intense in those who best know the North. It could not be diminished, but only be increased, by letting everybody 
at the South know exactly the truth about the feeling towards them at the North. They hate us the more, the less we hate them. Our crime in their eyes is, that we are sorry for their injustice to the black man. They can never forgive us for showing by our wealth that such injustice is not, on the whole, profitable. They would exterminate from the face of the earth every man who will not either participate in their crime, or cordially approve of it. Such is the hatred which naturally and necessarily grows out of slavery, surrounded by communities where all are free, and the freedom of all is a cherished principle. It is like the electric wrath within a Leyden jar, intensified by the accumulation 
of the opposite electricity without.
It would be easy to bring almost innumerable proofs of the existence and overwhelming prevalence of the sentiment above described at the South, yet thus far the war has been managed by the Government as if no such sentiment existed as the governing animus of the war. Everything seems to have been done on the supposition that the South has been misled by conspirators, has acted on a misconception, 
and will come back and apologise as soon as it is disabused. The obvious theory at the bottom of the Federal campaign of 1861 is, that if the Government maintains itself, defends its capital, shows Christian magnanimity and forbearance in all its armies, and, above all, takes care that the "institution "of slavery shall receive as little damage 
as possible from its military operations, the Southern people will discard their rebel leaders, and return to their loyalty, as doubtless they would but for the hatred which fills their hearts. 
Misconceiving entirely the cause of the war, and the animus of the enemy, we have every reason to be thankful that nothing worse has happened to our cause; but what have we to hope for the future? As long as we do not strike at the cause of the war, nothing. Every dollar we expend on the plan of restoring the statum quo ante bellum, is so much given to the rebel cause. As long as slave property is not stricken away from under them, it really makes little difference to the Southerners whether they take Washington or not. If they take it, they thereby perhaps stir up the impassive North to more aggressive hostility. If they do not, they tire us out by our enormous expenses, and we shall the sooner return to our allegiance to King Cotton, and our humiliating subserviency to their unjust treatment of the negro. The sooner shall we consent to those shameful demands against freedom which caused our late strictly constitutional, political, Northern rebellion. They will have driven us into obedience at our own expense. If any love of freedom should still remain at the North, any willingness that black or blackish people should participate in it, the old hatred of the North and everything Northern would still grow at the South, and again produce sudden, unexpected, calamitous war. For be it remembered that a slaveholding community in which the master-class is in excess, has always the main preparation for war, abundance of men spoiling to fight.
Either what has been said about the spirit and temper of the Southern people is untrue, either their scolding, raving, lynching and rushing en masse to arms, before they were wronged in the least, means nothing, or else the war has been managed thus far, on our part, unwisely. Nearly every blow our Government has struck has been where the enemy was strongest. Not one has been struck, with its approbation, where he is weakest. This could be done without supreme folly only on the supposition that the people of the South are not acting from animosity, but from misapprehension- from which they will soon recover, if we accept coolly a few hard knocks, and give none, to do any serious damage.
It is really a case of national life or death, and the people most judge according to their own light and observation whether the terrible fact is as above stated. It is, then, let every man, as he loves home, wife, children, liberty, country, cry aloud and demand 
of the Government that it lose not one moment in dealing its deadliest blow at slavery, that it strike at the enemy's weakest point, that it sink at once the soil from which grew and grows the hatred that produced this rebellion. The single head and arm of the heroic Tighlman recaptured a ship from the Jeff. Davis pirates. We may have a hundred thousand such heroes with a word. Are we ashamed of that word, liberty?,
<c06>
Do we pretend it would violate the Constitution to utter it now? If we were at war with Brazil, and had one hundred thousand troops drawn up around Rio Janeiro, would the Constitution forbid us to utter the word liberty to the blacks of that empire, if that word would secure victory? Have the rebel States, in their present attitude, any more right to hamper us with "Constitution" than Brazil has? The Constitution was made for a state of peace. We are now at war. The Confederates have declared themselves foreign States; what rights have they under the Constitution? We do not admit their right to make themselves foreign States, and intend to bring them back under the Constitution. But are we going to insist, at the risk of our national life, that they shall come back slave States, and not free States?
Is it objected that uttering the word "Liberty" to the slaves of the rebel States would violate our constitutional obligation to the border slave States still nominally loyal? The slaves, as slaves, are nothing but property-and the Constitution only insists on compensation when the Government takes private property for the public use. Had the Government paid market price for all the slaves in Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri, and set them free," before it fought the battle of Bull Run, the war would probably have been at an end before this, and the public debt could not have been much greater.
No man, not lost in misanthropy, can believe that the great majority of the people of the free States are not in love with free institutions and the honest application of the doctrine of the Declaration of Independence to all men, everywhere. But they never felt any special affection for black people, and were never willing to meddle with the affairs of other States. Therefore, so long as we were at peace with the slaveholding States, they would do and suffer anything to maintain peace. Now, the case is altered. They would sustain the Government 
in any action towards the slave-cursed States that would make them free. It is too true that there are scattered all over the North many men who, for various reasons, do not prize freedom anywhere below their own level, but sympathize heartily with slaveholders in their contempt for the rights of black people, and their hatred of white ones who sympathize at all with the black. The slaveholders overrated the number and influence of these people very much, but not their motive. Should the war continue on its plan of taking the greatest pains not to injure slavery, as if it were essential to the salvation of the Government, this class will become more and more arrogant, and will give more and more comfort- and aid to the enemy. And it is not at all unlikely to happen that the war may thus be transferred to the soil of the free States. Then the Revolution of '' 76 will have to be fought over again, with even more fearful odds against inalienable rights.
As the slaveholders are actually at war with the whole human race, in favor of injustice to the weak, shall we not take up the gauge, and fight for downright 
justice? The war must end one way or another. Justice must gain or lose by it. If slavery is to survive, justice must lose. If it is not, better have it killed by the shortest cut. Ho! unsophisticated young America, to the rescue! Oceans of twaddle have been ladled over this nation about the danger of letting black people loose! Would, to God there were some danger in it! They are entirely too safe for their own interests and ours. It is time to hoot out of this continent the nonsense that it is more dangerous to hire than to drive, to cash than to lash anybody. There is not one fact in the world's history, so far as the writer knows, (and he once offered a handsome reward for one,) to show that any harm ever came from liberating slaves. They can be kept from stealing as easily when free, as when slaves. If they will not work for wages they starve to death, which, in the circumstances, is of course a blessing. This war, as has been truly said more than ten thousand times already, is not a war for the emancipation of black people, and never can be. It is a question of the life and liberty of a nation, chiefly white. But we all deserve to be black, and chattel slaves to boot, if we do not have the sense to use the emancipation of the black people as the means of saving the nation, -it being a sell-evidently infallible means of ending the rebellion in the shortest possible time.
Does anybody ask,-After the slaves are set free and the rebellion crushed, what then? Will slaveholders consent to work a free system? Doubtless not, if left to themselves. The difficulty of emancipation is always the unfitness of the master. But the expenses of the war must be paid, and the lands of the rebels must do it. Our armies will settle them. They are well drilled in the arts of peace, if not of war. They know how to work themselves, and how to make others work justly and happily. Capital will now where they yoke to the plough and kindle the forge fire. They must and will plant, water and cherish the right sort of civilization on the soil their courage has delivered from the curse. Human nature is everywhere the same. The cause of hatred being removed, the hatred will cease, and the very men who struck at the beloved flag in behalf 
of a pitiful tyranny, will bless and venerate the conquerors who struck under it in the name of eternal justice.

SLAVERY AND THE WAR.
In an article on slavery as affected by the present contest, the New York Post has the following, which is right to the point. It says:-
"We can see no reason why we take a man's ships and goods from him because of his treason, and yet return him his slaves; we see no reason why a negro standing in the way of our advance should not be blown to pieces with a cannon ball as readily as a white man; we see no reason, in short, why the slave 'institutions' of certain States are more to be respected than the free institutions of other States. If one succumbs to, the exigencies of the war, so must the other. If the men of the North are expected to sacrifice their houses and lands, yea, their best blood and the best blood of their sons, to maintain their country, the men of the South must be expected to sacrifice at least their slaves. Loyal men everywhere are submitting to fearful losses on account of the war, and the loyal men of the South must take their share, in whatever shape it comes.
We can see no reason why slave property should be exempt from the usual liabilities of war; but we can see a reason why, if any discriminations are to be made, that property should be the chief to suffer. Disguise it as we may, it is still evident that the rebellion has grown altogether out of the existence of that property. Our society would be perfectly homogeneous throughout, but for slavery. No other cause of war has existed, or can exist, on this continent. Nothing else separates the North and South. It was that which, broke up the Democratic Party. To extend its area has been the main purpose of Southern politicians. Because they could 

The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind.... It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation—a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."–JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
182 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 15.
not extend it, they declared war. Wherever slavery exists, there secession is rampant. Where slavery has died out, as in the border States, secession has but a puny vitality. Where there is no slavery, the people to a man are enthusiastically devoted to the Union. Such facts cannot be overlooked."

MEMENTO MORL
Of all the rumors of incredible atrocities, of foolish outrage, of those worst acts of cowardice that are born of cruelty, and of barbarism that just stops short of cannibalism, to which the expedition of John Brown into Virginia two years ago gave rise, the story that the skin of his son was taken from his body and tanned seemed the most unnatural, and the most improbable, and was, therefore, received with the least attention, notwithstanding its positive assertion. "Are not these the United Stales, a land of common schools and churches, and is not this the nineteenth century of the Christian era?" was the instinctive response which we all made to a statement so revolting to the spirit and culture of our time, our country, and our race. But read this letter from a General in the United States army, now serving in Virginia, to a friend in this cityï¿½a witness on this point as impartial as he is distinguished:ï¿½
ï¿½CAMP AT-, VIRGINIA, Oct. 5, 1861.
To show the refinement of Virginia gentlemen, in close to my friend, the Rev. B. N. Martin, Professor, New York University, a piece of the skin of the thigh (tanned by those gentlemen) of the son of John Brown, who was killed at Harper's Ferry.
This is a fragment of the skin which, thus prepared, was distributed in pieces over the Southern country, and was presented to my present Aid in Richmond last April by a Captain Sommers of the Confederate States army, and a friend of the doctor who has the skeleton, and who flayed and tanned the skin.
My Aid informs me that every preparation was made to treat the remains of John Brown in the same way, by having them thrown from the car before reaching Baltimore, and substituting a false coffin; but that the plan was frustrated by the sickness or flinching of the railroad conductor.
Brigadier General."
Professor Martin has shown us this bit of the human remains prepared by some skillful taxidermist in Virginia. It is a minute portion only, for though there are many superficial inches of cuticle on the body of a man of ordinary size, the number of persons in Virginia who coveted a bit of so precious a relic was very many. A ruder barbarism carries the scalp of a slain enemy at the girdle, makes a drinking-cup of his whitened skull, or strings the teeth and finger bones into an engaging necklace; but Jason Brown was not the prize of the bow and the spear of any single warrior; a whole Commonwealth claimed him as its own. Mere savages, if they use the human tissue of the slaughtered foe at all, can only eat itï¿½a wasteful use of such precious material. Science enables them in Virginia to refine upon this barbaric extravagance. Learned professors, skillful in the arts, lend their knowledge to the public service, and feed the patriotism of the State with bits of epidermis, imperishably prepared, of the dead, to be worn as amulets and mementoes to keep ever green the memory of a sweet revenge, and the duty of a citizen to a Christian State They may laugh in Virginia at the untutored ignorance of the savage who can only rattle the dried scalps and bones of those he hasï¿½ slaughtered, while they point to the curiously tanned skin of their dead enemy as the evidence of the march of civilization and refinement in that ancient and proud Commonwealthï¿½Tribune.

SECESSION BARBARITIES.
The following is an extract from a letter from a gentleman of the highest respectability in Illinois, to his friend in this city, dated Oct. 26:ï¿½
"Yes, my dear Sir. we live too near the borders of Missouri not to feel intensely excited by the scenes that are being enacted in that State. Secession and rebellion are rampant on the very borders of Illinois. The newspapers have informed you of the undermining of a railroad bridge by the rebels, by which scores of men, women, and children were suddenly sent into eternity, and great numbers, who were not killed outright, were maimed for life. Scenes equally brutal, though not so destructive, by wholesale, of human life, are every day perpetrated by the 'Secesh' of Missouri. A more cowardly set of savages does not exist.
"You can hardly realize the ferocity with which slavery inspires the owner of a negro or two. Even woman, when she owns a slave, or one is owned in the family, seems, in many instances, to have cast aside her feminine nature, and to have become savage. A woman of wealth, the owner of quite a number of slaves, when a band of Cherokee Indians, a few mouths ago, came to the south of Missouri, where she lives, to join the secession army, under McCulloch of Texas, that woman, or rather fiend, publicly offered the Indians a large reward if they would bring her 'Yankee free-soil' scalps enough to make a counterpane for her bed. There is no mistake about it.
ï¿½The same ferocity exists wherever slavery is found. Last June, a beautiful and accomplished girl, a native of Western New York, employed as a teacher in New Orleans, was dragged, on Sunday morning, to Jackson Square, and placed in ad nuditate nature in the presence of many hundreds of spectators, including scores of well-dressed women. To the latter, the poor girl made a heart-rending appeal, that they would save her sex from such an outrage. But they replied only by jeers and insults, telling her it was no more than every Yankee woman deserved. The unfortunate girl was tarred and feathered, and then banished from the State, without receiving the salary due her. You may rely upon the truth of this statement. It comes on the authority of a spectator, upon whose word as implicit reliance can be placed as upon that of any man in the community.
"I hope and trust that God designs to make this wicked rebellion the instrument for ridding our land from the curse of slavery."ï¿½Albany Eve. Journal.

GERRIT SMITH ON THE WAR.
A very powerful address was delivered to an overflowing audience in Rev. Dr. Cheever's church, New York, Wednesday evening, 30th ult. by Gerrit Smith, on "The State and Needs of the Country." Its strongest passages were the most warmly applauded. In the course of it, Mr. Smith having made a complimentary allusion to General Fremont, three rousing cheers were spontaneously given for "Freedom's Pathfinder" The address concluded as follows:ï¿½
I love my country, but I strongly fear that she is lost. Perhaps it was impossible to save a country whose people had been trained to worship a Constitution, and to scoff at the setting up of God's law above it. Moreover, for nothing (and this was the most guilty feature of the idolatry) was that Constitution worshipped so much as for its power, justly or unjustly, accorded to it, to prevent the breaking of the chains of the slave. Perhaps I was foolish in thinking that such a country either would or could be saved. I confess that, when the war began, I thought it would be a short one: for I was so simple as to assume that the Government was already, or quickly would be, aroused, not merely to fight the rebels, but to conquer them. I took it for granted that the Government would behave rationally; and would no more suffer the Constitution than any other paper to stand in its wayï¿½slave property no more than any other property. Very soon, however, I began to learn my great mistakeï¿½for very soon the Government, instead of moving its irresistible might against the foe, and doing so with or without Constitutionï¿½carrying it by its side or trampling it under foot, as might seem most expedientï¿½was found worshipping and inculcating the worship of the Constitution, and tying up with its provisions the hands of both Government and people. Very soon, too. the Government was infatuated enough to decline the help of men because they were Indians or negroes. Very soon, too, our army was employed in the suicidal and satanic work of seizing innocent men, calling them slaves, and sending them into slavery. This violation of the Constitution was, of course, with the consent, if not with the express direction, of the President ï¿½ of him whose concern for the Constitution is not at all in respect to the pro-slavery, but only the anti-slavery violations of it. Very soon, too, our army began to "aid and comfort" the rebels by promising to protect them from servile insurrections. These errors and these crimes were heavy blows at my heart. But as yet I was able to cheer it up with the hope that though so enormous, they, nevertheless, pro-
<c02>
ceeded from the bad habits rather than from the bad intents of the countryï¿½from inconsideration of their flagrant character, rather than from pleasure in itï¿½and would therefore soon be corrected. Then, too, my conscience began to revolt at my identifying myself, voice, pen and purse, with such a war. But as yet I was able to pacify it with arguments that the Government would soon cease to repeat its crimes and follies. Nevertheless, as time went on, their crimes and follies multiplied. Moreover, Congress did but little better than the Cabinet. Its Act of Confiscation, as we have already seen, ridiculously and madly saves to the rebels the great amount of their property and means for carrying on the war. I do not say that our Congress was, at its extra session, in the pay of the rebels. It was notï¿½for it was, with the exception of the traitors, a body of honorable men. But I do say that by means of its talk about the Constitution, and its much stress upon it, and by means also of its great tenderness for the rights and interests of the rebels, it was in the service of the rebels.
The course of things went on unchanged. To talk for the Constitution, and to protect slavery; to insult and outrage the black man; this was still the policy. My courage would sink, though not utterly. I was "faint, yet pursuing" But at last, when the President took the side of the rebels, against Fremont, and commanded him not to go beyond very narrow limits in taking away their slavesï¿½when, I say, that "commandment cameï¿½I died." I sank down in despair of the countryï¿½perhaps never more to come up out of the despair, until the Government shall come out of its folly and madness. We may, as I have said, win more than half the battles. Complete success may seem just within our grasp. Nevertheless, we shall be defeated in the end, unless the Government shall very speedily resolve to wield every power within its command. This tying up of one of our bands, while our antagonist uses both, is a sort of pugilism in which we shall certainly fail
I said that we may win more than half the battles, and appear to ourselves to be on the eve of success. But this would only be likely to make our case worseï¿½and especially should it take place soon. For while this would make us more haughty than ever, more contemptuous of the blacks than ever, and more disposed to push them away from us than ever; it would be likely on the other hand, by alarming the South, to drive her to court the blacks, and bring them, by freeing them, into a close and irresistible union with herself. Yes, just now, defeats might be better for us than victories; for they might make us willing to accept the help of black men before it is too late.
I would do no injustice to the President. Although in policy and practice he is in effect with the enemy, he is, I doubt not, in heart and purpose with his country. The errors in which he has involved himself, and by which he is but too probably ruining both himself and his country, have sprung in no small degree from his foolish anxiety to show himself clear of all partiality for the North; but mainly, however, from his excessive desire to conciliate the Border Statesï¿½especially Kentucky and Missouriï¿½ and more especially his native Kentucky. I called this desire excessive. It seems well nigh exclusive, also. His concern to secure the friendship of Kentucky appears greater than to secure that of the whole North. "He holds at the spigot while it runs at the bung." "He is penny wise and pound foolish." The President's bargain with the loyal slaveholders of the Border States (save me, by the way, from the loyalty of a thorough slaveholder, and especially if he be one who makes the saving of slavery the condition of his loyalty!) is, that they shall stand up for the Union, and he for slavery. Unhappy bargain! No less so for being but understood, instead of expressed. If persisted in, it cannot fail to bring ruin to the parties to it, and to the country also. Three months may not pass away before these loyal slaveholders will see that they have lost all, through their, eagerness to save slaveryï¿½that their ill-judged stipulation for the safety of slave property has resulted in the loss of all safety, even the safety of their lives. By that time, they may see that the only way to kill the rebellion in their States was not only to acknowledge that the war power has the same absolute right over slave property that it has over every other kind of property, but also to get the right exercised as speedily as possible and as sweepingly as possible. By that time they may learn, in the most appalling lessons, that, in respect to the slaves of the rebels, Fremont was wise, and the President and these loyal slaveholders were foolish. These loyal slaveholders will have but themselves to thank for their too probable ruin. Slavery is the rallying point and the strength of their enemies; and for dear life's sake, then, they should have struck at slavery, and been glad to save themselves, even though at the expense of losing their slaves. Nay, if they could not bring themselves to carry their States clean over to the side of freedom, they would, by carrying them clean over to the side of slavery, have made their condition far more comfortable than it can possibly be in their miserable fluctuations between the two.
I need not extend my argument, and I must not further tax your patience. The one thing which the people of the North need to do (and I would that the people in this crowded house might set the influential example of doing it), is to call on the Government (as it would do by passing the resolution I have read), to give up forthwith its merely fighting policy, and substitute for it the purpose of conquestï¿½a purpose, moreover, so earnest as shall command the employment of whatever muscles or means may be needed to achieve the conquest. If the Government shall come to be animated by such a purpose, it will not more decline the help of a man for his being red or black, than for his being white; and it will then stop at no expense either to slavery or Constitution. No Democrat, however pro-slavery, and whether living or dead, has written or spoken as much for the Constitution, and for the Constitution just as it is, as I have. Nevertheless, I have, since the war began, cared nothing for the Constitution, and I shall never more care for it until it shall be settled that I have a country for a Constitution. I care not for my sick child's dress until I shall know that the child lives to wear it. So, too, the slaveholder, provided he is truly loyal, will have no concern for slavery until his country shall have conquered her enemies. Innumerable things that we cling to in peace, we must sit loose to in war. I am an absolute free-trader. Nevertheless, when, a few months ago, Government proposed a higher tariff, I was in favor of piling up the taxes to any height that would serve the most effectual prosecution of the war. Europe esteems our present tariff to be a commercial blunder. But, whether it is wise or unwise as a war measure is the only legitimate question.
In conclusion, let me entreat that if any impression has been made by any of my remarks on this occasion, no one shall undertake to weaken it by calling me an Abolitionistï¿½for I have not spoken as an Abolitionist. I have spoken only as might an Anti-Abolitionist, who sets his country above the Constitution and slavery, and who would have her live, though these perish.
It is true that I am an Abolitionist; and as I seem to have been born as well as bred one, it would be quite idle to deny that I am one. But for months the state of the public mind has not been such as would encourage me to speak or write as an Abolitionist. Until my countrymen shall be willing to save themselves, I shall have no hope that they can be moved to save the slaves. Very rare is the man who is willing to put forth efforts to save another, while he is yet so infatuated as to refuse to save himself. Let me see my countrymen cured of this infatuation, and resolved to save their country by whatever means, and I shall not be slow to recommence speaking and writing as an Abolitionist. Then shall I again declare, in the words of the best of all books, that "Salvation is of the Lord;" and that He bestows it upon unrighteous nations no more than upon unrighteous individuals. Then, too, shall I be as ready as other Abolitionists to show that the North and the South, which for forty years have not in spirit been one nation, will, when slavery is abolished, become rapidly a homogeneous, happy, mutually-loving and prosperous peopleï¿½united to each other by freedom, as emphatically as they are now sundered from each other by slavery. Again, I could not, in the present guilty state of the public mind, speak or write as an Abolitionist, except in bursts of indignation at the hypocrisy of the past lamentations of the North over her alleged inability to abolish slavery. Surpassing hypocrisy! Seeing that now, when slavery is threatening the very existence of the nation, and when the monster lies at the mercy of martial law, the North not only does not call out in thunder-tones for the abolition of slavery, but basely acquiesces in the Government policy of protecting it.
Were I, my hearers, to speak to you as an Abolitionist, I would say that penitence alone can save a nation whose people have corrupted and debased
<c03>
themselves by upholding and extending slavery. I would say that her destruction is the unavoidable penalty of her people's crimes against the Great Father and His oppressed children, unless those crimes are repented of. Finally, were I to speak to you as an Abolitionist, I would say: As GOD LIVES AND REIGNS, EITHER THIS NATION WILL ABOLISH SLAVERY, OR SLAVERY WILL ABOLISH IT!
I have done, I can now say that in this city also I have faithfully protested against this needless impoverishing of the nation, and against this needless bringing of heart-breaking sorrows into tens of thousands of its families. In a word, I can now say that, I have, here as well as elsewhere, lifted up my voice earnestly against this wicked sacrificing of the country by the Government. Her blood be not upon me, but upon those who are guilty of it! For more than twenty years I have been warning my countrymenï¿½ may I not say, as said Paul, "night and day, and with tears"?ï¿½of the rapid approach of this time of violence and distress. But hitherto they would not hear me; and they probably will not hear me now. Nevertheless, I cannot restrain myself from saying that our beloved country will surely perish, if the present policy of her rulers shall be persisted in.
At the conclusion of his address, (which may be found entire in the Tribune of Nov. 9th,) Mr. Smith offered the following resolution, which was adopted by the great assembly, only two or three dissenting:-
Resolved, That, in the judgment of this meeting, our beloved country will surely perish if her rulers shall persist in recognizing the right of the rebels to any of their possessions; or shall persist in scorning and repulsing the help of men on account of their complexion, or political, social, or domestic condition; or shall not be intent to strengthen the country and cripple the enemy in all possible ways, and at whatever expense to usages and systems, statutes and constitutions, and at however frequent substitution of the sure, swift, summary, sweeping processes of martial law, for the tardy, uncertain, and inadequate steps of civil law.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1861.
MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF"
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of, State of
,respectfully submitï¿½
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country ï¿½ liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Printed copies of the Petition, for gratuitous circulation, may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Offices in Boston, New York and Philadelphia.

THE WAR POWER.
An earnest Anti-Slavery friend, at the West, thinks the Petition to Congress, asking that body to abolish slavery under the war power, " leaves the Adversary a hole to creep out at, in the fact that Congress has not the war power." "Coming from such a quarter, the objection is as singular as it is gratuitous. It has not been raised before, even in the most pro-slavery circles. John Quincy Adams (whose authority in such a matter is of immense weight) emphatically declares:ï¿½
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that the military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
But he does not stop here. He as unequivocally declares:ï¿½
"From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant THE WAR POWERS OF CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of the State burdened with slavery to a foreign power."
"In every way in which it can be interfered with "! Ample power enough! Though we would not have President Lincoln or Gen. McClellan lose an hour before decreeing the abolition of slavery throughout the South as a military necessity, yet, "other things being equal," we think such a decree, put forth by Congress, as directly representing THE PEOPLE, would carry with it greater force, and be more vigorously sustained. To doubt the competency of that body to make it, is needlessly to embarrass action, and prevent a decisive expression of public sentiment on the subject. Congress, by the Constitution, has power to declare war; and that power carries with it all the means and measures necessary to give success to the war: the greater includes the less. As well object to the validity of the act of Congress in August last, in confiscating certain kinds of rebel property, as to moot such a question concerning slave property. Some persons may prefer a different form of petition: if so, let them not fail to write and sign it, the object to be effected being the sameï¿½namely, the total abolition of slavery. The act will not only be legal, and one of self-preservation on the part of the government, but in the highest degree beneficent and glorious. With a free South and a free North, the Union will be perfect and indestructible.
FIFTH FRATERNITY LECTURE. Ralph Waldo Emerson addressed a large audience at the Tremont Temple, last Tuesday evening, on "American Nationality." His discourse was excellent, and received hearty applause. It recognized the fact of an actual separation of this nation into two nations, and pointed out the real and positive advantages that would accrue to each side from the separation. Henceforth, he said, the advocacy of slavery and the advocacy of freedom would not be absurdly united in the same people The foolish compromise which our fathers made had been dissolved by the spontaneous action of the other party; and the North would never again put her head into that yoke.
Next week's lecture, by Rev. William R. Alger, is to be on "Judas Iscariot and his Family."
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for November, 1861, contains the following interesting and able papers:ï¿½I. The Relation of War to Human Nature. II. Daniel De Foe. III. Tholuck on Prophecy. IV. Buckle's History of Civilization. V. Western Monasticism. VI. Joseph Wolff. VII. Review of Current Literature. The reviewer of Buckle's History, while highly appreciating Mr. B's vigorous and independent thinking, faithful study of details, and strong believing purpose, says:ï¿½"The doctrines of which he is the ardent advocate seem to us, the more thoroughly we consider them, to be essentially theoretical, superficial and narrow. They are destitute of any broad basis of reality. In their application by Mr. Buckle, they utterly fail to solve the historic problems upon which he tries their power. With a show of science, they are very unscientific, being a mere collection of unverified hypotheses."
<c04>
THE TRAITORS MOST TO BE ABHORRED.
The traitors most to be abhorred do not reside south of Mason and Dixon's line; for all in that section of the country have long since torn off the mask, discarded the Constitution, dissolved the Union, put themselves in open and deadly array for the overthrow of the Government, and organized themselves into an independent slaveholding Confederacy. They avow their hostility, not merely to the Abolitionists as a class, but to the people of the North generally: they cherish and avow the most intense sectional feelings: they can find no language to express their contempt of all "Yankeedom," and declare that under no circumstances will they ever again recognize the same flag, or consent to be in the same republic. They deal in no cant; they disdain to play the part of dissemblers; they mean all that they say, and they say all that those who are habitually inspired by a demoniacal spirit are capable of expressing with unbounded copiousness of devilish speech. They tar and feather, stab, shoot, or hang those caught on their soil, avowing loyalty to the ï¿½stars and stripes," and unwavering devotion to the Union, as readily as they do the most " ultra Abolition fanatics." They have drawn the sword, and thrown away the scabbard; they have crossed the bridge, and burnt it; and they are prepared to meet, without whining or protest, all the penalties that may follow such desperate deeds. The most decent epithet they can apply to President Lincoln is, to call him "a Kangaroo," "the Illinois Ape"; and they describe the intelligent, brave and patriotic men who have responded to the call of the Government to rally on the battlefield for its support, as " a cowardly, motley crew of starving foreigners and operatives, who never did fight, except for pay, for pillage and plunder; and once satisfied that no money is to be made, no plunder to be gotten by invading the South, no power on earth can lash and kick them south of Mason and Dixon's line." We quote from the Richmond Examiner. The New Orleans Bulletin styles them "the greasy operatives of Lowell and the smutty shoemakers of Lynn." The Norfolk Day Book describes them as "mercenary hirelings," "Arnolds," "Judases," "thieves, cut-throats and assassins, who sell themselves to the Typhon at Babylonish Washington for gold, for booty, and for beauty."
The worst traitors are those who are still found every where at the North, secretly sympathizing with the Southern conspirators, and aiding them by word and deed as far as they dare; canting about the horrors of war, and hinting at the desirableness of peace on any terms; fiercely denouncing all who abhor slavery, and artfully trying to subject to brutal personal assaults the most conspicuous among this number, and once more to rouse up the wildest elements of a pro-slavery monocracy, but carefully abstaining from all severity of language towards the rebels, and allowing their hideous and numberless atrocities to pass without comment; hypocritically pretending to be the special friends of the Government, in order that they may paralyze its arm, by their menaces and outcries, from striking an effective blow at the cause of the rebellion, and also gain a political ascendancy in Congress and the several State Legislatures, with a view to the reconstruction of the Government on a basis satisfactory to Jefferson Davis and his man-stealing compeers. Their democracy is ancient tourism run to seed; their humanity, a stony petrifaction; their religion, that of the sons of Belial. They froth at the mouth, grow red in the face, and exhaust the language of Billingsgate, whenever any proposition is made for the abolition of slavery, even though it be solely to save their boasted Union, and not with reference to the intrinsic iniquity of the slave system. They are incomparably more concerned for the security of slave property than the Southern rebels themselvesï¿½and are a thousand times more deserving of execration. No music is so delightful to their ears as the clank of the slave-chain, the crack of the slave-whip, the bay of the pursuing bloodhound, or the screams of the lacerated, panting victim. "Niggers," in their opinion, were made to be worked without wages, subjected to irresponsible despotism, scourged with impunity, branded with red hot irons, denied all intellectual and moral growth, given over to unrestrained lust, and ranked with the beasts of the field; and, in their opinion, those who solemnly protest against such robbery and violence, such profligacy and heathenism, and endeavor to put an end to such enormities, deserve nothing but ridicule, contempt, and brutal resistance, as a fanatical and dangerous class. The humane, just, patriotic, and generous speech of Charles Sumner, and the noble and soul-inspiring proclamation of General Fremont, alike throw them into furious paroxysms, and intensify the flames of the hell that is raging within them.
The organs of these traitors are such papers as the Boston Post, the Boston Courier, the New York Journal of Commerce, Bennett's Herald, New York Express, et id omne genus. Up to the hour of the capture of Fort Sumter, ï¿½ even after the "Star of the West" had been ignominiously driven away from the harbor of Charleston, and the American flag fired at by rebel cannon,ï¿½they were in open, hearty, rampant sympathy with the spirit of secession, and did every thing in their power to stimulate it, if not to the utter subversion, at least to the cowardly subjugation of the Government, so that its infernal purpose might be gratified. But the capture of Fort Sumter presented to the country a treasonable issue in a tangible form, and in a manner admitting no longer of forbearance; popular indignation swept through all the Free States like a prairie conflagration; domestic traitors became suddenly transformed into boisterous patriots, lest they should find the atmosphere too hot for comfortable endurance; and the traitorous sheets we have named were forcibly compelled to hoist the "star and stripes," though they secretly went, as they still do in spirit, for the rebel flag. Selfish, cowardly, unprincipled, they are again revealing their old animus in proportion as the wholesome fear of a popular visitation lessens in their minds. That visitation they need to have repeated to keep them within the bounds of decency and toleration. Wherein the Government indicates weakness, timidity, inefficiency, as against rebeldom, they chuckle and applaud; and pronounce it eminently prudent and sagacious! But any proposition that looks to making "short work in righteousness " with the rebels, by terminating the hateful slave system out of which their rebellion has sprung, and for which alone they have withdrawn from the Union, is by these journals hooted at and anathematized as fraught with inconceivable horrors; and the Government is menaced, in case of proclaiming emancipation,ï¿½no matter how closely driven to the wall, or that necessity and self-preservation demand it,ï¿½with bloody home dissensions, and an immediate disbanding of the army! What villany is comparable to this on the side of the open Secessionists of the South? And it manifestly exerts a paralyzing influence at Washington,ï¿½thus needlessly prolonging a bloody, fratricidal war, sacrificing fathers, husbands and sons to no purpose, and increasing to frightful dimensions a public debt which will rest like an incubus upon Northern labor and capital for many a generation! No more effective aid can possibly be rendered the plotting Confederates.
These journals impudently pretend that slavery has nothing to do with the war, and the war should have nothing to do with slavery! They give the lie to all the facts of history, and to the declarations of the Southern traitors themselves. What! the Union dashed asunder precisely where the line runs between free territory and slavedom, and slavery nothing to do with it! Is it freedom, then, that is to be held responsible for the deed? Are they not Southern slaveholders, but Northern freemen, who have perjuriously violated their oath to maintain the Constitution, substituted for the national banner a rebel flag, confiscated hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of property, stolen all the arsenals, fortifications, mints and customhouses within their grasp, and set up independently for themselves? Are not Jefferson Davis, and Alexander H. Stephens, and General Beauregard, and General Johnston, all the members of the Confederate Cabinet, and all in the Confederate army acting as
<c05>
leaders, SLAVEHOLDERS? Do they not pronounce free institutions a failure, and have they not made negro slavery the corner-stone of their despotic confederacy? If the Southern States had long since imitated the good example of the Northern States, in abolishing slavery within their borders, would there now be witnessed the spectacle that shocks the civilized world? SLAVERY and REBELLION are convertible terms ï¿½mean, in the mouths of the rebels, the same thingï¿½ and must be slain by the same blow. It is a SLAVEHOLDERSï¿½ REBELLION. Whoever, now, is for protecting slavery, gives encouragement to treason, and his proper place is under the Confederate flag, on Southern soil. The Northern traitor is he, who, now that the Slave States have put the Constitution beneath their feet, claims for their slave property the old constitutional guaranties. No such claim have they the audacity to pretend as any longer in existence. They are under a Constitution of their own fashioning, and in boastful and defiant rebellion to uphold it. Is he not, then, doubly to be detested, who, while professing to be loyal, here at the North, insists upon giving them all those advantages which they enjoyed while " keeping step to the music of the Union "?
We repeatï¿½the traitors most to be feared and most abhorred reside, not in the Confederate States, but here at the North; and we have endeavored to indicate who they are, and the journals which utter their sentiments.

MUSIC HALL JUBILANT.
Garrison has spoken at Music Hall. It was on the Sabbath, the New England Sabbath which has been so much honored by our New England ancestors, and is now so much dishonored by their descendants. The Abolitionists were congratulated upon the present fruition of their labors, the South was denounced for her barbarism, Fremont was exalted for his proclamation, and the people were told that what he had done, the President could not undo, and that the speaker would not believe any of the charges against him until they were proven before a competent tribunal. Mr. Sumner was also congratulated upon the patriotism, the moral character and political virtue of his position; and Edward Everett was alluded to with tearful regret, because he could speak one hour from the same desk, and not once allude to the crime of American slavery. The Administration was condemned for its imbecility in not striking at the root of this evil, and declaring that the war was for the abolition of slavery; and those men were called traitors who said this war was for the maintenance of the Constitution and the Union, and not for emancipation. He said that Abolitionists were the true Democrats, who went for the equality of all men, and that the Democracy of the Boston Post was a sham Democracy; and that he who said he believed in the Bill of Rights, and the Declaration of Independence, but was not an Abolitionist, was either a fool or a hypocrite. He said he was told that if he and the Abolitionists had not talked and agitated so much, this war would not have been ; as for him, he should denounce tyranny, he should denounce slavery, he should talk as he pleased upon this matter.
This was the style and the spirit of the speaker. Age has not mitigated the asperity, of his feelings, experience has not yet taught him the ruinous consequences of his principles. He can denounce without reasoning, make statements under laid with sophistry, declare principles with the appearance of right which would be the most disastrous in application, exalt liberty while he is undermining its foundation, quote scripture and poetry to the satisfaction of the sentimentalist and to the contempt of the statesman, indulge in satire to the extreme gratification of a malignant philanthropy, and do all these things in a manner entirely worthy of a leader of such a party. His house was full, Music Hall was jubilant. The most treasonable passages were clapped the loudest, and the well known beauty of those who gather there was radiant with delight. It was a scene worthy of the place. Secession, as organized in Boston thirty years ago, treason, as spoken in Boston now, and that with impunity, poured out their vials of wrath upon that covenant with Death and compact with Hell, the Constitution of the United States. Et tu Brute! exclaimed Caesar, and thou, too, Massachusetts! may we exclaim, when she turns her dagger upon that government which has fostered and sustained her, and helped her to a glorious position in the Commonwealth of States. We have no malignity for these men at Music Hall, though we know, had they the power, sooner from them than from any other class among us, the Star Chamber, the High Commission, the Guillotine and a Jeffries would spring into being and activity against those who saw no wider than they. We only pity where we cannot enlighten, and hold in check that which is bereft of the natural instinct of self-preservation.ï¿½Boston Post, 12th inst.
REMARKS. It is in vain that the Editor of the Post attempts to stultify himself or his readers in this manner. What we uttered at Music Hall were irrefutable, self-evident truths, and the response given to them indicated an enlightened and freedom-loving audience. But "it was on the Sabbath"! Here we have a blending of political demagoguism with the ancient Jewish phariseeism!ï¿½"And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath-day; that they might find accusation against him. Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing: Is it lawful on the sabbath-days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it? And they were filled with madness, and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus." The Editor of the Post shows himself to be their lineal descendant.
"He said that Abolitionists were the true Democrats, who went for the equality of all men." Certainly we did, and that is the truth. We also said that "the Democracy of the Boston Post was a sham Democracy"ï¿½and that is the truth. It is a negro-driving, cradle-plundering, and slave-trading Democracy, to be spurned by every manly bosom. It misleads the ignorant, dupes the credulous, gratifies the malignant, suits the tyrannical, and plunders the poor. Its impudence and shamelessness are unbounded.
It is not true that we condemned the administration "for not declaring that the war was for the abolition of slavery." We said exactly the reverse of this.: we admitted that the abolition of slavery was not the object of the war, but the defence of the government; but we argued that, as the entire slave population, passive in the hands of the conspirators, constituted a thunderbolt to be actively hurled at the government for its destruction, it became both a necessity and a duty to lose no time in transforming four millions of enemies into four millions of friends. Was not that true patriotism? And for our authority, we quoted the Montgomery (Alabama) Advertiser, as follows:ï¿½
"The institution of slavery in the South alone enables her to place, in the field a force much larger in proportion to her white population than the North, or indeed any country which is dependent entirely on free labor. The institution is a tower of strength to the South, particularly at the present crisis, and our enemies will be likely to find that the ï¿½moral cancer,ï¿½ about which their orators are so fond of prating, is really one of the most effective weapons employed AGAINST THE UNION by the South."
Also, the following, from the Memphis Avalanche:ï¿½
"A procession of several hundred stout negro men, members of the ï¿½domestic institution,ï¿½ marched through our streets yesterday, in military order, under the command of Confederate officers. They were well armed and equipped with shovels, axes, blankets, &c... It may be that the shovels are to be used in digging ditches, throwing up breastworks, or the construction of masked batteries, those abominations to every abolition Paul Pry who is so unlucky as to stumble upon them."
The Editor of the Post is opposed to disabling the rebels, by striking down this arm of their strength, and thus indicates where his sympathies tend in this struggle. His "patriotic," like his "democratic" garb, is a sham, a snare, and a cheat.
He speaks of the "ruinous consequences" of our principles. Our principles are those enunciated in the Sermon on the Mount and in the Declaration of Independence; and they are "ruinous" only to the hopes of political tricksters, "patriotic" mercenaries, and profligate demagogues, and of all other corrupt classes. They strike at the root of all usurpation of man over his fellow-man, destroy tyranny, and render liberty sweet and sacred for the whole human race.
"The most treasonable passages were clapped the loudest." For treasonable, read reasonable, and truly patriotic and Christian.'
"It was a scene worthy of the place." Standing as we did at the desk and in the hall consecrated by the spirit and services of THEODORE PARKER, we desire no higher eulogy.
The Editor of the Post may brand uncompromising
<c06>
opposition to slavery as "secession thirty years ago, and treason now," but he only thereby shows his recreaney to the cause of impartial liberty.
ï¿½We have no malignity," he says "for those men at Music Hall." The disclaimer looks little suspicious! But, innocent and lamb-like as he affects to be, he not only believes, but "knows," that had they the power, they would resort to the Guillotine, the Star Chamber, the High Commission, &c &c.!! Here is an abundance of charity, without a particle of "malignity"! As to "the men at Music Hall," they have yet harmed nobody, so that "the past, at least is secure." What they will do when they "have the power," we cannot say; but we are quite sure they will not imitate the villanous example of the Post in stirring up moboeratic violence against those who abhor slavery, and desire the freedom of all men.

TREASON IN HIGH PLACES.
It is said that many clerks in the departments of public service in Washington are still allied in feeling and interest with the secessionists. It is known to our cost, that information of the intended movements of the United States army and navy is regularly sent to the chiefs of the rebel army, enabling them to meet and counter act those movements. And, though several of the severest defeats of the North have been clearly tracable to this source, no effort commensurate with the greatness of the evil seems to be put forth against it, and no remedy has been applied, in the known cases of this sort, more stringent than a requisition to take the oath of allegiance! about as effectual as swearing a rattlesnake not to bite! about as judicious as leaving a notorious liar and thief to be the watchman of a bank, after extorting from him a promise that he would not steal! By what great public functionary have these things been allowed? By the neglect of preventive measures on the part of what great public functionary are these things permitted still to continue?
How was it that President Buchanan went out of office with the reputation of a traitor? Was it not that, during the latter part of his term of office, he openly so adjusted his policy as to favor the rebels in their movement to overthrow that Constitution and Government which he had sworn faithfully to guard? Was it not that evidence appeared, clearly showing him to have acted in the interest of that conspiracy from the very beginning of his administration of the Presidency? While trusted as the guardian of the Republic, and obeyed as one necessarily earnest for its prosperity, this traitorous wretch was constantly playing into the hands of its worst enemies; doing the things that would favor their hostile purposes; not doing the things that were indispensable to counteract those purposes; and whenï¿½near the end of a four yearsï¿½ stealthy  pursuance of this infamous treachery-it became necessary for him to assist openly either his country or her enemies, helping the latter by the policy of inaction. Yes, when the rebellion which he had helped to conceal at last broke out, this betrayer of his country symmetrically closed his career of shame by calling upon all loyal citizens to "fast and pray,ï¿½ when his oath as President and Commander-in-Chief required him to lead them in the most active operations of resistance to the traitors.
In the matters wherein James Buchanan was treacherous, has his successor been faithful?
It must be remembered that fidelity requires something more than not to be actively treacherousï¿½some thing more than not to pursue that other fatal policy of inaction. Fidelity requires the prompt, active and zealous use of the appropriate means for success. Abraham Lincoln has been chosen to defend and save the country; means suited to and adequate for that purpose have been promptly and lavishly supplied to him; it depends upon his individual decision whether they shall be used in such time and manner as to accomplish the object. If he determines and persists not so to use them, is not he also a traitor? This is the question which lovers of their country have now to consider and act upon!
Slavery is the source of the rebellion under which we now suffer. This is not only clear as the sun to the honest inquirer, but everybody now admits it.
The custom of our Government has been to favor slavery, first, by not interfering with it, and next, by resisting all opposition to it. And it has been maintained that in time of peace, and while the Government and the people were pursuing their ordinary methods of operation, this policy was imperatively required of the Government by the Constitution.
Whether this last hypothesis be true or not, it is certain that this attitude of our Government, during the peace which the nation has now enjoyed for forty years, has enabled the slaveholders to keep their slaves, when without this aid they would have lost them.
Times are changed. War is upon us. Amidst arms laws are silent, says the proverb. And, as if to exemplify the truth of the proverb, President Lincoln has repeatedly done, in this crisis, that which the Constitution, in ordinary times, forbids; moreover, both Congress and the people have plainly testified their approval of this overriding of the Constitution when the nation's welfare is to be served by it.
Not only is war upon us, but war by the act, and for the purposes, of slaveholders. The great body of slaveholders have set themselves in violent opposition to the great body of the nation, and that not only in open violation of the Constitution and defiance of the Government, but with extensive robberies, both of the Government and the people, and with many other acts of unspeakable insolence and outrage.
Among these acts of insolence and outrage, they have assembled an immense army, and maintained it for months in the vicinity of the National Capital, with the declared intention of seizing that Capital, and overthrowing the United States Government. And they openly boast that it is their system of slavery which enables them to do this, and to use, in the war, a greater proportion of their able-bodied men than the North can use, because the productive industry of the North is diminished in proportion as its army is increased, while their productive industry goes on, irrespective of the presence or absence of the fighting men.
Whether this statement be true, or only one of those impudent and preposterous lies which slaveholders are accustomed to use in advocacy of their cause-it is certain that an active interference with slavery by the Government, (whether a Proclamation of freedom to the slaves of rebels only, or an Act of universal emancipation under the war-power,) would immediately scatter one-half or more of the army now lying around Washington, and send them, in doubleï¿½quick time, to repel a possible attack upon that very institution, in their several border homes, for the sake of which they made the war. It is certain that the people who are fighting for slavery will bend their utmost efforts towards the defence of slavery, especially when this defence is inextricably bound up with the defence of their stolen forts, arsenals and custom-houses, and of their cotton and sugar fields, and of their houses and homes. To defend these, they must go to the point where these are attacked. And if President Lincoln, by his Official Proclamation, attacks slavery simultaneously at every point of their Northern, Eastern, Southern and Western border, nothing is more certain than that they must divide themselves to provide for the defence of that border. This would be the first, and the inevitable, result of such a Proclamation. And this alone would be worth making it for.
Though this state of things has existed ever since Abraham Lincoln has been President and Commander-in-Chief, he has issued no such proclamation.
Though it is obvious that the recent sending out of the great naval expedition would have had ten times its present effect upon the rebels had it been preceded, or even accompanied, by a formal Proclamation of freedom to all their slavesï¿½though it is certain that their present system of operations must have been entirely disconcerted, and that an intense alarm, most favorable to the movements of the Government, and most damaging to the rebel cause, must have been
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
excited by such a step in all the seceded States-the Proclamation has not been issued.
Worse yet. Even inaction upon this momentous subject, criminal as that is, has not been the only fault of the President. He sets himself in active opposition to movements against slavery made by his subordinate officers. General Butler took a step in this direction which acted most beneficially for the Government and against the enemy, and then, expressing his earnest wish to go further on the same road, he demanded "instructions” from the Government. The Government threw cold water upon him. General Fremont acted with yet more vigor in the same direction. The Government removed him! In what possible way, except by disbanding the whole army, could the Government have given so much "aid and comfort” to the enemy?
Again. A popular Administration would naturally be well inclined to movements actively favored by the people. Now, nothing is more certain than that a shout of enthusiasm, all over the North, followed first the movement of General Butler, and next that of General Fremont. Such a spirit, both in the army and in the people, is one of the most indispensable requisites to success in war. An echoing of these voices of freedom, a turning of other divisions of the army into the same line of action, and an open declaration that that was henceforth to be the policy of the Administration, would not only have confused, disconcerted and dismayed the enemy more than any other act whatever, but it would have brought this immense enthusiasm of the loyal North in support of the Government, and would unspeakably have quickened and strengthened the men and women of the free States for the further labors and sacrifices required of them. What can have influenced the President to refuse doing something which would bear with immense force, at once against the enemy, in favor of the loyal army and people, and in favor of an ultimate settlement of our difficulties upon the right basis? What private and personal considerations have sufficed to make the new President of the Republican party take, in the very most important function of his office, a position so nearly akin to that taken by the late traitorous President of the sham democracy?
Whatever these malign influences may be-and several unworthy and discreditable ones have been openly mentioned as those actually controlling President Lincoln-it is certain that he has committed himself to a policy which, favoring slavery by letting it alone, is most injurious to our present struggle, and most disastrous to the ultimate settlement of our difficulties. What is to be done?
The next thing in order, to be done, is to try the influence of the people's expressed voice upon this unfaithful public servant. Let all who can speak urge in the primary meetings of the people the vast importance of selecting candidates, and adopting measures, in favor of universal freedom, and in active and direct opposition to slavery. Let all who can write express these ideas in those organs of the periodical press to which they have access. And let the whole people, men and women, interest themselves in signing, circulating, advocating and forwarding the petitions to Congress now passing through the community upon this subject. Never was activity in faithful labor more- needed than at this moment.-C. K. W.
SOLD! SOLD!! SOLD!!!
FOREST LAKE,(Penn.,) Nov. 6, 1861.
DEAR GARRISON,- My heart sickens and my spirit faints, as I view what seems to me a deep-laid scheme, on the part of some in power, to sell out the North to the South-the cause of freedom and free institutions to slavery and slave institutions. The policy of the Federal Government, the past six months, indicates a fixed purpose to yield to all the demands of the slaveholders, and reconstruct the Union, if the people allow it, on a more inhuman and God-defying foundation than ever before.
Why have the Administration and the Federal Generals uniformly shown so much more regard to the lives and property of the rebels than of the loyal people of the North? Why have so many rebels been retained in Federal offices in Washington? Why have so many slaveholders and sons of slaveholders been placed in command over Federal troops and ships? Over one-half of the vessels and gunboats, designed to act against the rebels, are controlled by men whose sympathies are with the rebels! Why was Fremont's Proclamation so readily annulled? Why was Gen. Thomas's loose, mere hearsay, and evidently malignant report, allowed to be published at this time? Why has Fremont's removal so quickly, and without a hearing on his part, followed the annulling of his Proclamation? Why has the Administration interfered to protect the property of rebels in the North, and looked on with indifference, while hundreds of millions of property of loyal citizens are confiscated in the South? Why has the blockade of Southern ports been so inefficient? Why has the effort to capture and punish the Southern privateers and pirates been so utterly ineffectual? Why was nothing done to follow up the victory at Hatteras, by an onset upon North Carolina? Why the mission of Thurlow Weed and Bishop Hughes to Europe, in company with Gen. Scott-all at the same time with Mason and Slidell from the slave confederacy? Why such leniency to Gen. Patterson and Gen. Stone, and such severity to Fremont? Can it be, that all these things are but the antecedents of another and a more infernal and degrading submission to the Slave Power? We shall know by the 1st of January, 1862. If I mistake not, Congress and the Cabinet, within six weeks, will have an explosion; for, surely, Congress, direct from the people, will not dare to attempt another compromise with slaveholders.
The worst is to be feared. I would the Government could be saved to freedom; but it must and ought to sink into a grave of contempt and infamy, if it shall attempt again to bring the people of the North into a degrading and loathsome complicity with slave-breeding and slave-hunting, from which slaveholding rebellion had released them. Will the people submit to the OLD "COVENANT WITH DEATH AND AGREEMENT WITH HELL," from which they have been fully released by the rebellion?
But, I see the abolition of slavery in it all. I would the Government might stand as the bulwarks of liberty to all; but whether it does or not, SLAVERY MUST DIE.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

DISSOLUTION OR ABOLITION,
THE ONLY ISSUE PRESENTED BY THE TRAITORS.
FOREST LAKE, (Penn.) Nov. 5, 1861.
DEAR GARRISON: I came here last evening, among the mountains of Pennsylvania. I came through several important inland towns of New York. Day before yesterday was the State election in New York State. In the valleys of the Chenango and the Susquehannah, the majority for Union and against the Slave Power was very large and emphatic. Daniel S. Dickinson, in the place of his residence, (Binghampton,) had over 1100 votes out of 1300, and that after all his strong and stirring utterances. His nomination was for State Attorney.
It is marvellous, the change that is going on among the people respecting Abolition. Scarcely one is found to entertain the idea of Dissolution, in preference to Abolition. The one idea of Abolitionists has been, for nearly thirty years, Dissolution before the propagation and perpetuity of slavery. But the South has presented to the North another and a far different issue.
Dissolution or Abolition! With one voice the South say, We dissolve the Union to sustain slavery. With equal unanimity the North says, or is fast coming to say-Abolish slavery to save the Union. This has been the one unanimous call of Abolitionists for thirty years-" Abolish slavery to preserve and perpetuate the Union." This conviction we, as Abolitionists, have aimed to instil into the minds of all-the government, the nation, the Union must perish, or slavery be abolished. The two cannot exist together. Sla-
<c02>
very or the Union must die. Let this conviction settle upon the mind of the North. This is the testimony of the States now in rebellion. They seek to destroy the nation, because they deem its existence is opposed to slavery. This is the opinion of Abraham Lincoln, Wm. H. Seward and Salmon P. Chase. It is coming to be the earnest and unalterable conviction of the masses everywhere. The government, the Union, the Republic must be blotted from the map of the world, or slavery must be wiped out. Oh for a thousand lecturers of iron nerves, and stern granite hearts, and untiring zeal, to go all over the North, to deepen, mature, and make available this one grand issue forced upon the North by the South: Dissolution or Abolition!
A few say, (Ex-Governor Seymour of New York being one,) Dissolve the Union rather than touch or abolish slavery; but nine out of ten say-Let slavery perish, but save the Union. The South hates the Union, because, as they think, its tendency is to destroy slavery. God grant the human flesh-mongers may never think otherwise, till the entire North is compelled to accept the issue! for the moment they do accept that issue, and act accordingly, that moment victory will perch upon their banner, and not before.
Governments are established to protect liberty, not slavery; and the moment they cease to protect liberty, and sustain slavery, "it is the right and the duty of the people to alter or abolish them." While the Union meant slavery, God and the Constitution required us to seek to alter or abolish it. Now that it means freedom, (as the slave-seceding tyrants assert,) it is our sacred right and duty to sustain it, so far as the question of liberty or slavery is concerned. No matter what the North says in the premises; the slaveholders declare that the Federal Government is the deadly enemy of slavery, and that slavery can be sustained only on its ruins. Hence, in their view, every man who sustains slavery is an Abolitionist. No disavowal of Republicans or Democrats can ever alter that conviction. The South has treated and will treat every man who says one word or fires a gun in support of the Union and the Constitution, as an Abolitionist, and hang him as such. God grant them grace to stick to this conviction, and to treat every Northern man and woman as a deadly enemy to slavery, until in deed and in truth they do all become Abolitionists! Every man who opposes the rebels, and seeks to crush rebellion and save the government, must fight against Slavery-must fight for Abolition-whether he will or no.
THE CONSTITUTION AND ABOLITION-ONE AND INSEPARABLE! This is the assured and settled conviction of the rebel States and individuals. This is the only construction of the Constitution now admissable at the South. God help them to persevere in that belief, and be true to it! The rebels seek its destruction because it means Abolition. Is the North seeking to crush the rebels because they say it means Abolition? The rebels, one and all, seek to dissolve the Union, because, as they say, it is opposed to slavery. Does the North seek to crush rebellion because the rebels say the government is opposed to slavery?
The South will fight and will prevail until the North accepts the issue presented by them, and supports the Union because it opposes slavery, and as a means of Abolition. The moment the North is prepared to lay her all on the altar of the Union and Constitution because they mean Abolition, that moment, and never before, will victory crown her efforts. So long as the North is so mean, so craven, so dastardly, and so cowed as to be afraid to accept the issue which the South presents, and fight for the government as meaning Abolition-liberty to blacks as well as whites-as meaning that God made all men equally free-her Bull Runs, Edwards Ferries and Lexingtons will be multiplied. She will not deserve victory, and cannot have it. Let the North accept heartily the only issue presented by the South-Dissolution or Abolition-and sustain the government and Union because they mean Abolition, as the rebels say they do, and in three months the war would end. Four millions of slaves would spring to the aid of the North and the sympathy of the civilized world would cheer them on to triumph.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.

EXTRACTS FROM A PRIVATE LETTER.
November 3d, 1861.
MY DEAR MR.-
"Chill November's surly blasts" are at last upon us, making "fields and forests bare," and Tuesday comes Election. S. sent me the newspaper with a notice of your nomination for Assembly man, which I most sincerely wish will result in your triumphant election the 5th. I wish this because, now, of all times, we should have men of conscience, men of honorable souls, men who love justice and right more than party compromise and expediency, in the seats of legislation; and I believe you will frankly and fearlessly use your influence and power to advance these great ends of human welfare, rather than become the mere tool of selfish, ambitious seekers after office and gain, such as it is the melancholy fact too many of our legislators have allowed themselves to be degraded into.
I should rejoice to have our Legislature filled with men of hands too clean to touch bribes, and hearts too high to listen to any claims but such as are really just, and with principles so inflexible that nothing could bend them from maintaining, at every hazard, and at all costs, the equal and unalienable right of every human being to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," as that noble old document reads. Then this next would be the last election in the Empire State when colored men should be prohibited from voting-a violation of natural and civil right so gross and shameful, that every honest man should hang his head at the thought of it. No election comes round that I do not feel indignant that such injustice should be suffered to continue to mar our constitutional law. How can $250 make a black man worthy of the franchise? Out upon such a paltry reason for any one to use this precious right of citizenship! Or make it equal-if a black man must have a property qualification, then a white man must; though this would be to turn back the civilization of the world. No, this odious distinction of color must come to an end; and the principles of equality for which your ever honored and "thrice sainted father" so nobly contended in 1820 will ere long prevail. I shall be grievously disappointed if this is not one of the beneficent changes that you will be called upon to uphold in our Assembly the coming winter.
Closely allied to this question is that, whether colored men shall not be enrolled among the militia for the common defence of the State. Why should Irishmen, Frenchmen, Scotchmen, Italians, Austrians, Germans and Spaniards all have welcome, and admission into the army, when these native-born, loyal colored Americans should alone be excluded? It seems outrageous in the Government, either State or National, to refuse the arms and aid of these forty thousand free colored men in the North who offer them, so eagerly entreating to be allowed to assist in this mighty struggle against rebellion and despotism now going on in the land, to say nothing of the faithful allies that might be secured in the more than half million slaves capable of bearing arms. It is pitiful to see such proffered means to carry on the war repulsed, while the flower of our young men are falling into soldiers' graves-such as the manly, enthusiastic Ellsworth, the brave and accomplished Winthrop, the young Lieut. Putnam, of such fine promise, the heroic Lyon, and so many others whom the country mourns.
It is disgraceful to Massachusetts to keep back colored troops, who have disciplined themselves, while her educated young men, fresh from the culture of Harvard College, are shot down or wounded so terribly, as in this late murderous battle at Edward's Ferry. Among these, as you see by the papers, was Lieut. Oliver Wendell Holmes (Jr.), son of O. W. Holmes, two wounds in his body. He was a friend and classmate of our young friend Wendell Phillips Garrison,
<c03>
with whom we used to see him at meetings and lectures in Boston.
Into what gigantic proportions the war has grown since we were with you last April and May! And how worse than useless will be all this costly sacrifice of blood and treasure, if Freedom does not come out of the conflict safe, and more secure than ever before!
I hope you have read Mr. Sumner's speech at the Republican State Convention at Worcester, the 1st of October. He says, so boldly, speaking from his highest impulses as a man, and without taking the timid counsel of politicians-" It is often said that the war will make an end of slavery. This is probable. But it is surer still, that the overthrow of slavery will at once make an end of the war." And a fortnight later he said in Boston, "Let every mother whose son has watered with his generous life-blood the battle-field, remember it was slavery that has taken at once his life and her peace."
These are the sentiments and convictions that must work in the public mind till State Legislatures and Cabinet and President shall unite in advising and decreeing the righteous end of Universal Emancipation, which is the only solution of our troubles that can bring us the favor of Heaven.
All this good work, I cannot doubt, it will be your joy and happiness to promote, whether you serve the State at Albany this winter, which I earnestly hope and trust you will, or labor as a citizen in word and deed any where else.
Pardon so long and imperfect a letter; but I could not think of this election coming on without expressing my interest that a faithful, frank and high-souled representative like yourself should be secured to the important legislation demanded by the great interests of Liberty and Justice in this hour of their peril, and also of their hope.
Very sincerely,

SPEECH OF MR. SUMNER.
HAVERHILL, (Mass.) Nov. 5, 1861.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
I feel very much obliged for the "first-rate notice" you give me in relation to the printing of my "Extra," containing the speech of Hon. Charles Sumner. I have already published two editions of a thousand, and scattered them broadcast, at home and abroad-to a considerable extent in the army, as I have had opportunity. I never engaged in a work more heartily, and the "material aid and comfort" I have received from two of the leading and generous-hearted Abolitionists of this State (of either sex) has induced me to issue a third edition, enlarged and improved. My intention is to give a correct abstract of the speech or address of Mr. Sumner, which he delivered in this town last Friday evening, to a brilliant and enthusiastic audience of ladies and gentlemen, who were perfectly entranced by his masterly eloquence; and in addition, I design to give apt and timely quotations from George Washington, Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, Wendell Phillips, W. L. Garrison, Dr. Channing, Dr. Cheever, the poet Whittier, and others; my object being to fortify Mr. Sumner in the godlike position he has taken, and to deepen the "sacred animosty" of all good men, women and youth against the "sum of all villanies," so that, as far as I can, I may create a feeling which shall aid in rendering it impossible ever to reinstate the Union, or make it of any " binding force," except in the utter extermination of the Satanic institution of slavery. The recent utterances of Mr. Sumner, as also yours and Mr. Phillips's, have aroused in me an unconquerable spirit and an indefatigable energy, which have never possessed me before with such intensity, and I shall obtain all the means I honestly can, and pursue the work in hand with all the vigor and ability the good Lord, good angels, good spirits, and good men and women will let me. If I had a fortune, however large, I would exhaust the last cent in the way I have chosen, and in getting up petitions from the free States, especially from Massachusetts, which should meet Congress at the very threshold of the session nearly upon us, and which should inspire Senator Sumner to submit his Plan of Emancipation to that body at once, and give foundation and impulse for an immediate and triumphant vote in his favor.
With a thorough circulation of the Emancipation Petitions, it seems to me we might obtain an overwhelming majority of the people of this State to endorse it; and with such endorsement, and the presentation it would get from the hands of Mr. Sumner, what Northern man would dare doom himself for ever to infamy by opposing it? And if passed, would the President dare refuse it his signature? I can hardly think it.
My dear Mr. Garrison, you have done nobly in this crisis. Some of your articles have stirred me up like a trumpet. May the God of heaven inspire your voice and pen to "eternal vigilance," and let us all pray and work unceasingly, until liberty is proclaimed to all men!
Respectfully, your friend,
GEORGE K. RADCLIFFE. 
N. B. Any person disposed to contribute to my third edition, to any extent whatever, may address me at Haverhill, Mass. We will supply orders for the new edition at the rate of three cents a-piece; ten copies for twenty-five cents, and the same, in proportion, for any larger number. Donations, however large or small, will be acceptable, and faithfully appropriated in circulating "the truth forcibly spoken."
COMPLETE SUCCESS OF THE NAVAL EXPEDITION-CAPTURE OF BEAUFORT!
Three Steamers lost in the Gale-The Rebels flee, leaving everything behind-Captured Cannon, Flags, &c.
FORTRESS MONROE, NOV. 12. The steamer Bienville has just arrived at Old Point from the great expedition. She left Port Royal on Sunday morning, and brings cheering intelligence.
The gale encountered by the fleet was very severe. The Union and Osceola went ashore and were lost, as previously reported. The Governor foundered at sea, but the Isaac T. Smith succeeded in saving all her crew, with the exception of a few marines.
The fleet arrived at Port Royal on Monday, the 4th instant.
New York, Nov. 13. The Tribune has a special dispatch from Fortress Monroe, which says, that on Thursday morning, the entire fleet formed in two grand lines for the fight. The Wabash led, the Bienville flanking the movement, which was in the form of a circle, first delivering broadsides into Fort Beauregard on the northwest, and, as the fleet came around, raking Fort Walker on the southwest.
Both forts responded vigorously. The Pawnee and Mohican for the time being, having got aground, were considerably damaged.
The bombardment lasted between four and five hours, when the rebel flag on Fort Walker came down.
The rebel loss is supposed to be 200. Gen. Dayton commanded at Fort Walker, and Col. Elliot at Fort Beauregard.
The rebels retired across Skull Creek to a village, 25 miles in the interior, where it is supposed they intend to make a stand. The negroes had already begun to pillage and destroy Beaufort. The white population had fled to Charleston by small steamers by an inside route. Gen. Sherman has hundreds, perhaps thousands, of negro laborers.
There was a panic at Savannah, and it is believed its capture would be easy. It is understood that Gen. Sherman will improve the defences of his position before making any forward movement.
In the forts there was a large supply of ammunition and stores of the best description.
Commander Dupont will immediately survey the harbor- and place buoys and erect lights, and the position will be made a permanent base of operation.
Every one entered into the fight with the determination that the forts should be silenced, though it cost our entire fleet. The fleet stood within between 800 and 1000 feet of the forts, used five-second fuses, and poured shells into them at the rate of 2000 per hour. Not a single shell sent by the rebels burst in a ship. The Wabash was struck several times, as was most of the fleet, but every ship was in fighting condition, when the rebels took to their heels.
The surgeon of Fort Walker was killed.
At Charleston, the next day, thirteen minute guns were fired, indicative of the burial of a Brigadier General.
BALTIMORE, Nov. 13. From an Officer arrived from Old Point, we gather the following particulars:-
None of our vessels were sunk. The Pawnee lost
<c04>
six killed, and two wounded. She suffered more injury than any of the fleet, but she is not disabled. A round shot went through the ward room, and damaged the second Lieutenant's room.
The Wabash had mainmast badly injured by a round shot.
The Pocahontas had one man injured. The chief Engineer of the Mochican was killed, and an assistant badly wounded. Names not learned.
When our troops took possession of the forts, they found a flag of truce flying on Hilton Head. The rebels had mined the works, and then fixed the halyards of the flag so that when it should be drawn down, the mine could be sprung. But in this they were disappointed. The halyards sprung a mine in the house used by the officers, but did very little damage, and hurt no one. The magazine did not explode. A large quantity of powder was found in the forts, with a large amount of English ammunition and projectiles.
The Susquehanna had three wounded. Only a small portion of our wounded are considered seriously or dangerously hurt. All the wounded are doing well, and the greater part will be sent home in a few days.
The day after the fight, the Seneca and two other gunboats under the command of Lieut. Ammen, proceeded up to Beaufort, and found but one white man in the town, and he was drunk.
The final retreat of the rebels was a perfect route. They left everthing-arms and equipments of all kinds, even to the officers' swords and commissions.
All the plantations up the river seemed to be deserted except by the negroes, who were seen in great numbers, and who, as the boats passed, came down to the shore with bundles in their hands, as if expecting to be taken off.
The following is an extract from a private letter from one of the officers engaged in the bombardment:
"I am sure our success will rejoice your hearts. It has been complete, and terror was over the whole country. The negroes are wild, and plundering their masters' houses. The whites have been driving the negroes away by force and shooting them down, but they still come to the gunboats.
The moment Gen. Drayton took to his horse, in the panic of the 7th, his 200 servants went directly to the Wabash. This is worthy of notice, as putting down the nonsense that the slaves were ready to fight for their masters. They surrounded Captain Ammen in crowds at Beaufort, one of them calling out in the joy of his heart, "I didn't think you could do it, massa."

FROM CAMP LYON.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune, writing from Camp Lyon, Springfield, (Mo.) Oct. 31, says:-
A slave named Peter-an active, intelligent man, though black as Erebus-arrived here yesterday from the rebel army, after a somewhat peculiar experience. Peter is the joint property of Capt. Vaughan, a rebel in Price's army, and Capt. Bigby, a stanch Union citizen of this town. When Vaughan was leaving for the South, two weeks ago, he insisted upon taking his half of the chattel Peter along with him for a body servant. Capt. Bigby, of course, objected; but Vaughan had the power on his side, and carried away the negro. Peter, however, being, like all the slaves, on the Union side, found means to send to Capt. Bigby that he would embrace the first opportunity to run away, and return to him; and surely enough, at noon yesterday he was back again, with a horse, which he had ridden, without saddle, bridle, blanket, or spur-guiding him by a rope halter-all the way from Price's camp at Neosho, more than eighty miles distant, since dusk on the previous evening! It would be difficult to find a match for this in all the instances of hard riding under adverse circumstances.
Peter reports that Price's army, about 20,000 strong, was very unexpectedly attacked in the rear on Monday evening, by a force supposed to be that of Lane, and that in the confusion which followed, he seized the first horse he could find, and without waiting to seek either saddle or bridle, made the best of his way out of camp, while the fight was progressing. The story is hardly credible, for in order to be at Neosho, Lane must have marched eighty miles in two days, though he is just the man, with his little force, to turn up where he is both unexpected and unwelcome, to fall upon the rear of a great army, and after harassing it a while, make good his escape. Still, the truth probably is that Lane was not near Price's army, but that the affair was merely a causeless panic.
If half the reports which we receive from Lane's command are true, it will require several more modifications of Gen. Fremont's proclamation to make the Kansas boys respect the inalienable right of Secessionists to hold the negro in bondage. A friend who has just returned from Lane's brigade informs me that there were 150 negroes with it, and was told there that 100 had been sent to Kansas a few days before. As for this command, it is remarkable that negro servants are a good deal more numerous than they were when we left St. Louis, and I have not heard, as yet, of General Fremont's engaging in the business of slave-catching. Yesterday morning a Secessionist came into our camp, and claimed a negro who is acting as body servant to Col. Owen Lovejoy of the staff-which was about as near the climax of absurdity as it is possible to arrive. Col. Lovejoy quietly advised him to leave the camp by the shortest possible road- and the gentleman left! "I would return a slave-certainly"-remarked the Colonel afterward-"if I found any man who owned him."
Our latest reports from the enemy seem to indicate that it is his intention to give us battle. If we do not meet him before the various divisions of our army unite (and they are all rapidly coming up), there is no reasonable ground of fear for the result. The slow movement of our rear divisions is owing altogether to their difficulty in obtaining transportation, and that difficulty is solely attributable to the policy which has been pursued toward Gen. Fremont. As long as he was merely neglected, he procured whatever was needed for the vigorous prosecution of the war wherever he could find it; but since for that inattention has been substituted the injustice of impugning his integrity, destroying his credit, and tying his hands, he is restricted in obtaining the most of his supplies to the long and devious ways of red tape. Still, in spite of all the difficulties and embarrassments thrown in his way, and the outrageous imputations which have been cast upon him, he goes straight forward in the work to which his country called him, turning neither to the right hand nor to the left.
Already he has driven the rebels down into one corner of the State, routed them where they have met his forces since he took the field; and his column is now further South than any other along our whole line between the loyal and rebel States. In view of the resources at his command, he is accomplishing wonders in collecting and bringing forward his army, and when-ever it all arrives here, it will be in a condition to march anywhere. He is likely soon to encounter the main body of the enemy. The rank and file of his army love and believe in Fremont with an enthusiasm which few at a distance can appreciate, and, in spite of all his difficulties, I believe he will drive the foe far down into the enemy's country, or scatter it hopelessly to the four winds. Let no one suppose because he does not now turn aside to notice the attacks which have been made upon him, that they will always remain unanswered. Now, while he is in the field, within two days' march of the enemy, the country demands his entire efforts and attention; but I have the most abiding faith that time will develop the utter injustice of the petty warfare waged upon him, disgraceful to those who are engaged in it, and treasonable to our common cause.

OVATION TO GEN. FREMONT AT ST. LOUIS.
The removal of General Fremont has excited wide-spread indignation. He arrived in St. Louis on Friday from Springfield. Immense crowds turned out to meet him, and his reception was a perfect ovation. An address of welcome was tendered to him, to which he made a brief but felicitous reply as follows:
"Gentlemen: I wish to say to you that your kind and affectionate-I may even say affectionate-reception of me moves my heart. It cheers me and strengthens my confidence-my confidence, already somewhat wavering-in our republican institutions. I felt all day, as we passed through the country-I feel emphatically to-night-that the faithful servant of the people, honestly laboring in the public cause, will not be allowed to suffer undeserved, and I feel stronger.
Since I left you a few weeks ago, many accusations have been rained upon my defenceless head-defenceless, because my head was turned to the public enemy. What I see and hear to-night, the address you have just read to me, and the approving multitude below, show me that I was not wrong in leaving my defence with you. In regard to the baser charges made against me, I will say nothing now. You do not require it; and to speak of them would jar upon the generous feelings with which you come here to-night.
Others have been already answered by my brave soldiers at Springfield; and others, of gross incompetency and a week and aimless administration,-to all of these I will adopt your address, and the shouts of the grand multitude assembled below, as my answer. And for all this, gentlemen, to you and to them, I renew my thanks with all my heart, which, to-night, is roused to full sensibility by the hearty and unqualified expression of your confidence and approbation, so valuable and grateful to me in my actual position.
I shall soon have occasion, for I shall make occasion, to answer all the charges against me more definitely. Until then, I will rely upon this evening for my defence."
The Potomac is blockaded, and all communication by water with the Capital of the Nation is cut off! This right under the eyes of the Grand Army! Meantime we are directed to look away to Missouri for "incompetence”!
<c05>
SENATOR BAKER. Daniel S. Dickinson, in speaking to 10,000 in Brooklyn, last week, thus alluded to brave Col. Baker:-
"Alas, poor Baker! He was swifter than an eagle! he was stronger than a lion! and the very soul of bravery and manly daring. He spoke by my side at the Union-square meeting in April, and his words of fiery and patriotic eloquence yet ring upon my ear. And has that noble heart ceased to throb-that pulse to play? Has that beaming eye been closed in death? Has that tongue of eloquence been silenced forever? Yes, but he has died in the cause of humanity: 
‘Whether on the scaffold high,
Or in the army's van,
The fittest place for man to die,
Is, where he dies for man.'
Of foreign birth, he laid down his life for the land of his adoption. Let native-born traitors contemplate the picture with what composure they can."
"DESTROYED BY FIRE."-" Great Falls, N. H., November 2d. The Blanket Mill, &c., of William Hill, at North Berwick, Maine, was destroyed by fire this morning. The loss is $30,000-insured. The mill was engaged in making blankets for the army."
So reads a telegram in the daily papers of yesterday. Every day or two announcements of a similar character are made, and in every instance it is stated that the mill was engaged in making work or goods for the Government. Craig's Mill, in Philadelphia, burned less than a week ago, was so engaged, and Solm's Mill, in Manayunk, partly destroyed two weeks ago, was similarly occupied. And so all over the country, wherever a Mill or Works of any kind are destroyed by fire, they are engaged in "work for the Government." Can this be accident-fatality-or is it a purpose to cripple the arm of the Government by those who are worse than the traitors who employ them? Let the parties interested look to their Mills, and know who they have about them.-Norristown Free Press.
The New York Evening Post chronicles the following clear case of fraud:-
"It is related by one of the dispatches from the battle-field at Edwards's Ferry, that when our brave boys were trying to make their way from the trap into which they had been foolishly led, back across the Potomac, a poor negro with a small skiff employed himself the whole night in ferrying over the fugitives. He succeeded, in this way, in saving the lives, or securing the escape at least, of no less than one hundred persons. His master was, all the while, probably, on the Virginia shore trying to send a Minnie ball into the hearts of our men.
Now, as the 'service' of this fellow did not belong to himself, but his master, what right had he to lend his labor to our suffering soldiers? Was he not defrauding his owner? Will not some of our Generals, insist upon '‘delivering him up,' to be properly punished for so audacious a use of his muscles? Of course, no one will be so insane as to propose that he should be emancipated for this timely rescue of so many loyal troops. That would be abolitionism; that would be confessing that negroes are men, and entitled to decent respect."
The Columbus (Ohio) Fact, a leading Breckinridge journal, thus boldly declares its opinion touching slavery and the war:-
"This Government cannot conquer the rebels with the same army with which it protects slavery, and none but boobies think it can-none but traitors think it ought. The best intention of our Generals toward the rebel States and their ‘cherished institution' will fail them, when they find themselves harassed in front and rear by the Slave Power, and then will come the ‘military necessity' for acting in the premises, as General Fremont would have acted in Missouri, if left to exercise his own sagacious judgment. For everything there is a time and a season, and the rebels have anticipated, by their treason, an event that might otherwise have been postponed a hundred years. They have raised an issue that will result in one of two ways: either slavery or the Union must go to the wall."
The Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative says: "Slaves began coming into camp as soon as Lane left Westport. Not a day passes without a practical exemplification of the lie ‘that the slaves are contented.' A black brigade, consisting of over 150 recent chattels, came out of Missouri on Friday last. They are well mounted, and have a good supply train. Their untimely departure has created no little excitement in the districts they are engaged in bleaching out. Lane continues to give ‘vouchers' to such owners as are proved to be Union men, stating that such a slave, valued at so much, was ‘lost by the march of my brigade.’ A few days ago, the General called claimant and claimed before him, and asked the latter, ‘George, do you want to go back with your master?' 'No, Gen'l, I never <illegible> back;’ and darkey was sent back to camp, while disgusted ‘secesh' went to his farm a madder and cheaper (by $1000) man."
THE DAMNING DEED IS DONE! Fremont is removed,-deprived of his command just upon the eve of a battle. His utmost efforts were exerted to prevent his officers from resigning, and the soldiers from laying down their arms and leaving the field. Thus the only energetic and efficient general we have had, (judging from their acts,) is sacrificed for his love of freedom, and opposition to human bondage. If the people endure this, they are only fit for slaves themselves. -Syracuse State League.
ESCAPE OF SLAVES TO PHILADELPHIA. Thirty-seven contraband negroes came to Philadelphia during Tuesday night last, having walked northward from Accomac county, on the peninsula, Virginia. They were supplied with money by the Wisconsin troops. Numbers of these people are constantly arriving, which has stimulated a public meeting, to be held in the city next week, to assist them.
After the battle of Fredericktown, Mo., in which Jeff. Thompson was so completely routed by the Illinois boys, a number of the slain secesh found on the field were recognized as men who had been released on parole not long before. Several dead and wounded rebels were also recognized by different persons as men who had heretofore pretended to be strong for the Union. They met the fate their treachery and treason richly merited.-Chicago Tribune.
The Secretary of the War Department has received an official telegram concerning the battle at Belmont, Mo., which generally confirms the newspaper statements. It says that Col. Biellskie, of Gen. McClernand's Staff, was killed, and among other particulars, that the Federal forces fought all the way into the camp of the enemy, immediately under the guns of Columbus, spiked two of the guns and brought away two, together with two hundred prisoners. The Federal loss is stated at three hundred, and that of the enemy much heavier.
PARIS, Ky., Nov. 12. The courier messenger with dispatches to Gen. Thomas, reports two days fighting, with a rebel loss of 400 killed, and 2000 prisoners. The Union loss is small. Generals Williams and Howe were captured in the battle by General Nelson. This is trustworthy.
The St. Louis Republican of the 6th inst. Says:
"Major Josephs, with one hundred and sixty mounted men of Gamble's militia, left St. Joseph on Thursday, the 31st ult., for Platte County, having learned that there was a body of 400 rebels encamped in that county. He had five skirmishes and one battle at Bear Creek, on the 2d, that lasted one hour and a half, in which he killed 50 or 60 rebels, and took 15 prisoners, many horses, camp equipage, &c. Major Josephs had only six men wounded, all slightly.
"It is stated that the rebels fought very bravely and desperately, and though vigorously pursued, continued to turn and fire. The command returned to St. Joseph's on Saturday in high spirits."
The editor of the Wheeling News, writing from Charlestown, Va., Oct. l5th, says:-
"The prisoners recently released by the Confederates at Roanoke, and now here, narrate most disgusting details of the manner in which they were brutally treated by those who arrested and guarded them. They averaged two meals of rice, coffee, half-cooked corn, and cold cabbage and water in six hours, and then fasting for the remaining eighteen hours out of the twenty-four. And in several cases old and inoffensive men were knocked down and jumped upon. Almost everywhere they were advertised as d-d blue bellied Abolitionists and Yankee sons of-,and the people invited out of their houses to look at them as beasts of show.”
DISASTROUS GALE. Hardly so violent a gale has been known, with one or two exceptions, for the last forty years, as took place on Saturday and Sunday, 2d and 3d inst. It swept the seaboard with great power from Cape Hatteras to Eastport, doing an immense amount of damage, and attended with many serious disasters. 
The most melancholy marine disaster was the wreck of the ship Maritana, of Providence, R. I., Captain G. W. Williams, which struck on Egg Rock, about one-eighth of a mile from Boston Light, (off Hull, not the one near Nahant.) At about six o'clock, a boat, with five seamen, endeavored to get a line to the shore to save the lives of those on board, but being unsuccessful, they were called back. The ship held together until seven o'clock, when she parted amid-ships, and the Captain fell into the open chasm, and was instantly killed by a falling beam. His body was got up on deck, when the vessel began to go to pieces fast, and in a very short time, her fragments were floating towards the shore. Thirteen persons, who were on the after part of the vessel, succeeded in getting ashore, some on the poop deck, and some by swimming, but those forward, numbering twenty-four persons, were all lost. Nearly all the bodies have been recovered.
<c06>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION
ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that "the old Abolitionists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfilment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, or even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country. If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them, they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smoulder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it was more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity.
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that "a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics.” Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do.
All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next. [Particulars hereafter.]
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Louisa Loring, Sarah P. Remond,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp,
Caroline Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G. King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay.

FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FOURTH SERIES.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FOURTH SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES continue weekly at TREMONT TEMPLE.
The lecture on Tuesday Evening, Nov. 19, will be by
WILLIAM R. ALGER.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:-
November 26-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 3-FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
" 10-DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
" 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
" 24-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
" 31-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
January 7-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A. T. FOSS will speak in
Portsmouth, N. H., Sunday, Nov. 17.
New Market, " Monday, " 18.
Buxton, Me., " Thursday, " 21.
Portland, " Sunday, " 24.

TERMS REDUCED,
AT the Round Hill Water-Cure in Northampton, Mass., to $7 and $10 per week. Open Summer and Winter. Dr. HALSTED'S success in the treatment of Woman's diseases is well known. The cure is speedy and reliable. Those brought on beds, even, are soon enabled to walk. Over four hundred cases of spinal diseases, paralysis and loss of the use of limbs have been restored; and numerous cures have been made of various stubborn difficulties which had lingered without help for years. For the success in treating more ordinary complaints, and the great favor given the Turkish Chemical and other Baths, see circular sent gratis.
Needing a little change, and desirous to confer as well as to receive benefit, Dr. H. will make a few professional visits, travelling expenses being paid, without charge.
Northampton, Oct. 30.

Woman's Rights under the Law.
THREE Lectures delivered in Boston, January, 1861, by Mrs. C. H. Dall.
I. The Oriental Estimate and the French Law.
II. The English Common Law.
III. The United States Law, and some Thoughts on Human Rights.
16mo., cloth, 63 cts.
Published by WALKER, WISE & CO.,
245 Washington street, Boston.
Uniform with
Woman's Right to Labor, 63 cts.
Practical Illustrations of the same, 63 cts.
Historical Pictures Retouched, $1.00.
All of which are sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
Oct. 25-3 tis.

Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P. M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1861. 3m
THE most able and brilliant book, called forth by the present struggle is

THE REJECTED STONE.
Or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America.
By a Native of Virginia. 12mo., flexible covers-50 cts.
Published, and sent free by mail, on receipt of the price,
by WALKER, WISE & CO.,
Oct. 25-3tis 245 Washington street, Boston,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator. 
Is THERE HOPE?
When I ponder in secret communion 
With my conscience that pleads for the right,
I ask not, is there hope for the "Union," 
That hath trampled on man in its might!
Ah, no! let the Union perish,
If it serves but to rivet the chain:
If the hopes that Humanity cherish 
Must bear disappointment again!
After all War's confusion and terror,
Oh God! must the slave suffer long?
Shall the Truth never triumph o'er Error?
Shall the Right never triumph o'er Wrong?
Is there hope for a brother now pleading
The wreck of his manhood to save? 
Is there hope for the scourged and the bleeding?
Is there hope for the down-trodden slave?
RICHARD BINCHCLIFFZ. 
Andover, Mass., Nov. 6.

LINES ON A PICTURE.
Yes, there he is-just where the glorious boy
Touches the top of manhood's earliest prime, 
Yet we see more than youth's exuberant joy;
Here's the awakening spirit of the time. 
Not seventy-six, but sixty-one-to be 
The birth-place of a higher chivalry 
Than those first days when Freedom's clarion bold 
Aroused the Western world, and shook the Old.
Look at the promise, in those youthful eyes,
Of thoughtful daring, and of high emprize!
How grand! As if it were some prophet's scroll,
That face unseals the volume of the soul.
But what is best-the future here we read
By the strong light of valor's maiden deed.
That eye hath seen the battle's fearful strife-
The fiery baptism of the warrior's life-
The crimson field of glory's agony,
Th' heroic strife, the maddening extacy;
The bloody moil, for loyal rights begun,
Beneath the sweetness of a Sabbath sun.
Ah! who the surging of the soul can tell,
When dead and wounded comrades round thee fell?
Thou who didst follow with a heart so brave,
Thy only thought was victory or a grave.
Oh, reverence the Hand that turned away
The messengers of death from thee that day;
Give Him th' imperilled heart that would have died,
Had He not borne thee o'er the battle's tide.
Our cause asks purest light from Christian men, 
To pierce the tenfold night round Slavery's den; 
The very flashing of whose sword should be 
The day-spring of a perfect liberty; 
And in its riving force the battle's thunder 
Live freedom from dead slavery should sunder: 
No carnal weapons these-serenely bold, 
Mighty through God to take the giant's hold.
Oh! when the flowering sod blooms over me, 
May the dear lad, whose semblance here I see, 
Ripened in form and soul to manly grace, 
Redeem the early promise of that face;”
Worthy in life's best conflict to engage, 
And lead th' advancing spirit of the age! 
Newport, R. I. 
S.L.L.

From Chamber's Journal.
COMING HOME.
O, brothers and sisters, growing old,
Do you all remember yet 
That hour, in the shade of the rustling trees,
Where once in our household met?
Do you know how we used to come from school, 
Through the summer's pleasant heat,
With the yellow fennel's golden dust 
On our tired little feet?
And how sometimes, in an idle mood,
We loitered by the way, 
And stopped in the woods to gather flowers,
And in the fields to play-
Till warned by the deep'ning shadows' fall,
That told of the coming night, 
We climbed to the top of the last, long hill,
And saw our home in sight?
And, brothers and sisters, older now
Than she who's life is o'er, 
Do you think of the mother's loving face,
That looked from the open door?
Alas, for the changing things of time,
That home in the dust is low;
And that loving smile was hid from us,
In the darkness, long ago!
And we have come to life's last hill,
From which our weary eyes 
Can almost look on that home that shines
Eternal in the skies.
So, brothers and sisters, as we go,
Still let us move as one, 
Always together keeping step,
Till the march of life is done!
For that mother, who waited for us here,
Wearing a smile so sweet, 
Now waits on the hills of paradise 
For her children's coming feet!
PHOEBE CARY.

THE HEART'S GUESTS.
When age has cast its shadows
O'er life's declining way, 
And the evening twilight gathers
Round our departing day- 
Then we shall sit and ponder
On the dim and shadowy past; 
Within the heart's still chamber
The guests will gather fast.
The friends in youth we cherished
Shall come to us once more, 
Again to hold communion
As in the days of yore. 
They may be stern and sombre,
They may be young and fair, 
But the heart will have its chamber,
The guests shall gather there.
How shall it be, my sisters?
Who, then, shall be our guests? 
How shall it be, my brothers,
When life's shadow on us rests? 
Shall we not, 'midst the silence,
In accents soft and low, 
Then hear familiar voices
And words of long ago?
Shall we not see dear faces
Sweet smiling as of old, 
Till the mists of that still chamber
Are sunset clouds of gold,- 
When age has cast its shadows
O'er life's declining way,
And the evening twilight gathers
Round our departing day?

THE FUGITIVE-SLAVE LAW.
BY WILLIAM B. FOWLE
Restore the Fugitive! Ay, when
The Son of God descends again, 
And bids me never more to do 
As I would fain be done unto
Restore the Fugitive! I will 
When God's own voice in man is still, 
And wrong is right by God's decree, 
And light and air no longer free.
Restore the Fugitive! No, ne'er 
While I've a home, a shelter, where 
The persecuted one may bide, 
Castle or grave, and side by. side.
Restore the Fugitive! The law 
Is like the cords that Samson wore, 
And nature, were each, thread a chain, 
Would snap a thousand such in twain
<c02>
The Liberator
WHO ARE THE INFIDELS? No. I
By the late Rev. J. P. Fessenden, of S. Bridgeton, Me.
It seems to me that no word, as applied to men in these latter days, is more grossly perverted than is the word "infidel." It is generally considered a term of reproach, and is therefore frequently used for the purpose of injuring or destroying the character and influence of the persons to whom it is applied. Let any one be openly accused of infidelity, and the public do not stop to inquire what is meant by the accusation; or whether it is well-founded or not; or by what motives, or with what designs, those who make it are actuated. Without hesitation they take it for granted that the accused is a scoffer at all religion, is a person of bad principles and bad morals, and should be shunned as an enemy of his race and a dangerous member of society. They consider it wicked to give him even a hearing in explanation of his sentiments, or of the reasons which have induced him to embrace them. He is prejudged and condemned upon a mere rumor, and often a calumnious one. If the public are rightly informed in respect to the reckless and improper manner in which the charge of infidelity is often brought against some of the most self-denying philanthropists and reformers, and most estimable men and women in the country, it would cease to be, in their estimation, a term of reproach; but they would rather consider it as greatly to their credit that they are infidel to some of the unscriptural opinions and sinful practices which have gained a fearful and wide-spread currency in the church and the nation.
Let us see, for a moment, how the word infidel "is extensively used and applied, and what alone, in truth, is meant by it, as thus used and applied. Mohammedans call Christians infidels, because they do not believe in the Mohammedan religion; in Mohammed as the prophet of God; in the Koran as an inspired book; or in the rites of Mohammedanism as in accordance with the divine will. Christians call Mohammedans infidels, because they do not believe in Jesus Christ as the only Savior, in our Bible as a revelation from Heaven, and the only infallible rule of faith and morals; and in the rites and practices of the Christian church. The term infidel is applied by Catholics to Protestants, because they do not believe in the Pope as God's vicegerent upon earth; in the Catholic church as the true and only church of Christ, without the pale of which, salvation for any one is impossible. And Protestants apply it to the Catholics, because they exalt the Pope into the place of the Savior, pervert the Scriptures, and are guilty of the most gross superstitions and idolatries. And various Protestant sects accuse each other of infidelity, because one differs from another in its views of the character of God and the Savior, and of the Bible and its teachings. Thus Orthodox Christians often call Universalists and Unitarians infidels, because the former believe that the Scriptures teach the doctrine of the final salvation of all men, and the latter deny that they teach the doctrines of total depravity, the trinity, the supreme divinity and vicarious atonement of our Savior, and the personality and divinity of the Holy Spirit. And there is doubtless among evangelical Christians a great discrepancy in their views concerning the inspiration of the Scriptures, the Christian Sabbath, and the church and ministry as at present constituted, and in respect to many other doctrines and duties of Christianity. Some believe in what is called the plenary inspiration of the Bible; that every sentence, word, syllable and letter, from the beginning of Genesis to the end of Revelation, is inspired by the Spirit of God. Others do not so believe. Some hold that the Christian takes the place of the Jewish Sabbath by Divine appointment. Others dissent from this opinion. Some maintain that the evangelical ministry, and church in its various branches, are institutions of God, and, as such, ought to be respected and reverenced. Others do not so regard them. And if these evangelical Christians were as liberal in applying the term infidel to each other on account of differences of opinion in respect to the subject of religion, as they are in applying it to those who dissent from their creed, infidels in great numbers would every where be found in their own ranks- Indeed, if the word, as now generally used, is properly applied, I see not how any mortal in all Christendom can plead not guilty to the charge of being an infidel; for I very much doubt whether, on examination, there can be found any two persons whose views exactly coincide in every particular in regard to God and the Savior, the inspiration of the Bible, the Sabbath, or, in fact, any of the doctrines and precepts of revelation. If two such persons are nowhere to be found, then each one must be, in respect to some points of religious faith, an unbeliever, in regard to which the other is a believer, and each one is, therefore, in reference to the other, an infidel. As the word infidel is now commonly used, all that can be meant by it, in truth, is, that the person to whom it is applied is an unbeliever in respect to some of the dogmas which are generally held by those who are denominated evangelical Christians. He does not believe as they profess to believe, it may be, in reference to the plenary inspiration of the Bible, the Christian Sabbath, some of the doctrines and duties of revelation, and the divine institution of the ministry and church as they now exist in the world. They will not pretend that the accused person is a "pagan" and a " miscreant," (two of the words used by Dr. Johnson in his definition of an infidel,) although, for the purpose of blasting his reputation and destroying his influence, they would be glad to have the public, who do not know him, believe him to be both. They will not say that he is" one who rejects all revealed religion," "one who rejects Christianity," for such an accusation could be easily shown to be untrue. All, therefore, that can, in truth, be meant by the accusation, is, that the accused person does not subscribe to all the articles of the creeds of Orthodox Christians. As a specimen of the loose way in which the term infidel is applied, I will adduce one or two examples of the manner in which the charge of infidelity is preferred against Mr. Garrison. How many soever woes may be denounced against this much-abused man, there is one, mentioned by our Savior to his disciples, which he certainly will escape-the woe of having all men speak well of him. For years, not only secular, but religious papers, under the direction of evangelical ministers, have persisted in iterating and reiterating the cry of Bennett's Herald, the Journal of Commerce, and the New York Observer, that Mr. Garrison is an infidel, without having the frankness and honesty of informing the public in what his infidelity consists, or attempting to prove, from what he has said, the truth of the accusation. Not long ago, in an editorial of the Independent, he was pronounced" an infidel of the most degraded class." Recently, in an editorial of the Maine Evangelists, the writer says," That Mr. Garrison has for years openly denied the Divine Authority of the Bible, is abundantly evident from his own writings." He does not quote a word from the writings of the man whom he thus accuses in proof of the accusation; but simply makes it in sweeping and positive language, and sets it in motion to do whatever mischief it may be able to accomplish. The reader will perceive that the charge is broad and unequivocal. If it be true, and "abundantly evident from his own writings," it would have been very easy for his accuser to have established it beyond controversy, by a few fair quotations from these writings. This, however, he has not done. There is no proof of the charge but his own positive assertion. I ask the privilege of mentioning a few things in reference to the prevailing opinions of Orthodox ministers and churches of this country, in respect to which Mr. Garrison is an infidel; and also a few other things, in respect to which he is not an infidel.
Having been an attentive reader of the Liberator for twenty years, perhaps I have had as good an opportunity of learning the Editor's religious sentiments as those who have relied on common rumor in forming their opinions concerning them.

<c03>
"COMPENSATION."
The idea of property in man is the end of the chain about our own necks. It drags us into the support of the cursed thing we loathe. It is the bit in our mouth. By it the slaveholder rides us over the great self-evident truth on which our nationality is professedly based. Why is the chain so tough that a million of men to-day in the field of red-hot civil war make no impression upon it? Not that we do not know that all men are created equal-not that we do not know that every man has an inalienable right to liberty-not that the slaveholder denies this, and claims the right of property in man,-but that we admit that claim. This fatal, pernicious admission is the kernel out of which all this national paralysis springs. For, why do we not strike at once at this great iniquity that now festers into all our national ills? Simply because we are appalled at the idea of destroying this" property." So we-Abolitionists-talk of" Compensation." Compensation for what? What do we propose to take away from anybody? Not real property: and sham property is no property. Compensation implies property. What is property? That which is rightfully appropriated, rightfully possessed. This implies both a possessor and the thing possessed. A law causes such a distinction that the two could never be convertible without completely destroying the grounds of existence for both. If, therefore, slavery exists, property has no legitimacy, and any man may be deprived of possessor ship. If slavery does not exist, then who is to be deprived of anything by practically asserting the great truth? 
But, A's grandfather kidnapped B's grandmother, and her children, with their descendants, have come down to B's family. How? By a perpetuation of the robbery, by a continuation of the force and violence, by kidnapping every new-born babe, and plundering every day's toil; and now, because this piratical system has been so kept up for three generations, and A's family fancy themselves to have rightfully inherited the plunder, and the right to continue plundering, we are going to admit their monstrous claim, are we? If not, what mean we by "remuneration"? B's family have been robbed and plundered in three generations, and now we propose to simply say to the perpetrator of this, "Hands off! B's family must henceforth, be as they have a right to be, equal to yours; but, since you conscientiously believe you have a right to continue plundering them, we will not only protect you in holding all you and your ancestors have taken from them, but we will settle upon you an annuity as compensation for being deprived of the privilege of continuing this robbery; and we will tax ourselves with B's family, whom we will turn out naked, to pay you these annual installments."
When Dick Smith steals a horse, and sells him to an honest man, the "owner" takes, his property where he finds it, no matter how many honest hands it has passed through, or who honestly thinks he has a right to it. Nor is" remuneration" thought of. But, here a man is stolen, and nobody is honest in purchasing him; for the truth is self-evident, that he has an inalienable right to himself, and can never be property, except by robbery-and now shall the nation, whose first Declaration asserted this inalienable right," remunerate" the thief who claims him, when it restores him to himself? The man stolen has been wronged, been plundered of all the proceeds of his labor for many years, perhaps for several generations-for each is an heir to the proceeds of his ancestors' labors. These proceeds make up the property of the present actual robber. Now is this injured man to be simply turned out naked, robbed, abused, degraded, with no thought of ever restoring to him that which has been plundered from him, while the plunderer is to be "compensated" for the loss of his victim? Shame! shame on the nation that does this!
Suppose our courts say to a gang of burglars," You have lived by this business, which you came into legitimately by inheritance, and you have accumulated a handsome property: but we think your victims have a right to protection, and we shall take them from you; but, seeing that you conscientiously follow this business-have no other means of living- we will not only allow you to carry off and hold this plunder which A, B & Co., your victims, identify as theirs, but we will remunerate you for being deprived of this great source of livelihood." Were my brother captured by a savage tribe, or by any band of kidnappers, I should be justified in buying his freedom on the sole ground that this would be my only means of recovering him, and I should in that case make no acknowledgment of the right of property in man, or of the right to hold him captive. It would be a case of duress where the act of the parties under restraint could not be considered as acknowledging anything. But in this case of American slavery, the party whose action we are now considering is the strong, the free, the all-potent party-and any act, while it is such, must be considered voluntary. If it" remunerates" the slaveholder, it acknowledges, necessarily acknowledges, the”" right of property in man," for it "remunerates" in consideration of taking away this property. This "right of property in man" was what the framers of the Constitution dared not admit into the instrument. It is an act which will forever tell against the integrity of the nation, and almost infinitely demoralize us. We must not allow it for the world; we can suffer the destruction of all property, and pour out our blood to any extent; but this more than sacrifice, this final and most blasphemous blow at the sacred rights of man, no policy can justify, no immediate, well-being can compensate for it. Rather let us all go into slavery, or die nobly in the cause of truth and liberty.
J. H. FOWLER.

A DISAPPOINTMENT.
Editor of the Liberator:
DEAR SIR -In the early stages of the Anti-Slavery cause, away up here in Vermont, we had many whitewashed clerical hypocrites, who refused to give an anti-slavery notice on the Sabbath, because "there are six days in which men ought to work"; and the grinding under the iron heel of slavery of a few millions of heathen, in our own country, was a matter of too little importance to disturb the worshippers, many of whom, like themselves, might be suspected of abolition taint at the mere mention of slavery; while, on the same day, they had no hesitation in begging a penny here and a penny there, of any laborers, male and female, to pay the expenses of agents to circumnavigate the globe in search of objects of charity less needy than those at their own doors, in their own country. But it is so long since we have heard of such a case, that we really supposed that all the Scribes, Pharisees and hypocrites were either dead or run away. But in this we find ourselves mistaken. The Rev. Mr. Chickering, of the Congregational church in this place, refused to read a notice of an address by Mr. Foss on slavery and the war; so that we failed to extend the notice beyond that given by the Methodist clergyman in the same village. A large audience, however, collected at the town hall, and no lecturer appearing, Mr. Ingham, one of our thorough Abolitionists, read the discourse of the Rev. Dr. Brisbane, found in the last Liberator. Although we were much mortified at the non-appearance of the lecturer, our disappointment is more than half made up by unveiling the hypocrisy of one who has palmed himself off as an antislavery man, as most of his church and congregation are called so.
Springfield, (Vt.) Oct. 30,1861. J. S.
P. S. It now appears, by a letter from Mr. Foss, that he had no notice of the meeting.
The complaint against Gen. Fremont that he was inaccessible, is now prefered by scores of place and curiosity-mongers against Gen. McClellan. Politicians, contractors, members of Congress and others find that they cannot approach Gen. McClellan whenever they please, for if they did he would not an hour left for the public business.
<c04>
HOW TO THINK, WRITE AND SPEAK WELL
As UNPUBLISHED LETTER FROM I HEODORE PARKER.-Editor of Banner of Light:-Enclosed is a copy of a letter from that brave man, Theodore Parker. I believe it has never before appeared in print. He addresses me as a minister, but the excellent hints are equally useful to an occasional lecturer, in which capacity I have acted for many years. 
Yours truly, 
HORACE A. KEACH.
Mapleville, R. I, Aug. 5, 1861.

BROOKLINE, NEAR BOSTON, 
Sept. 3rd, 1851. 
DEAR SIR,-You ask how you can acquire an impressive mode of delivery. That will depend on qualities that lie a good deal deeper than the surface. It seems to me to depend on vigorous thinking in the first place, then on clearness of statement in the next place, and finally on a vigorous and natural mode of speech. Vigorous feeling and thinking depend on the original talent a man is born with, and on the education he acquires, or his daily habits. No man can ever be permanently an impressive speaker without first being a man of superior sentiments or superior ideas. Sometimes mere emotion (feeling) impresses, but it soon wearies. Superiority of ideas always commands attention and respect. The habit of thought is easily formed; you doubtless know the way to attain that as well as I can tell you: one help to it is the habit of reading hard philosophical books, and giving an account of them to yourself. Bishop Butler is a good man to try upon, so are Lord Bacon, Hooker, Scott, Clark, Hobbes, and any of the great masters of thought. The philosophers are generally the best reading for ministers. So much for the habit of thought. I need not speak of the mode of cultivating the feelings-either such as relate to finite objects or the
"feelings infinite" which relate to God.
We refer to the clearness of statement. If you have something to say, a good deal of your success will depend on the amount of the matter. It is a good plan to put the least important first, and the most important last of all. Thus there is a continual ascension and progress of thought. The speaker runs up hill, and takes his hearer to higher ground at every step. In the expression of the thought, the shortest way is generally best, and it is better to state one thing once, and no more; the good marksman hits the mark at the first shot, and then puts up his piece, the bungler misses it, and blazes away the second and third time. Things well known require no illustration, except for beauty and the delight it gives; things new or abstruse, and hard to grasp, require illustrative figures, &c. It is better to use definite than indefinite terms, to say a man, and not an individual or a human being. I love specific terms, such as Thomas or Ellen, and a man or woman. 
It is a good plan before writing anything to think over the subject, and see what you know about it, then to make a plan of your work, putting down the points you intend to make in their order, and under them the propositions, the proofs, illustrations, facts, &c. Time spent in the plan is time saved in filling it up. Then in writing-a tired man cannot write so well as a man not tired; a sleepy man, an unwilling man cannot write well-he will have sleepy readers (or hearers), and unwilling ones. Good, plain words are commonly the best, not fustic and yet not mere literary and dictionary words; the language should be chaste, and not vulgar.
In the mode of delivery-there is little difficulty. If you have felt with vigor, and thought with vigor, you will write so too, and must speak with vigor. The, best way that I know is to speak distinctly and in the natural tones of voice-in the tones of conversation as far as possible. In most (country) churches, we need not speak above the natural tones of voice in order to be heard. It is a great help to be familiar with your manuscript. A man that never lifts his nose from his notes cannot interest an audience much. About gestures-I cannot give much advice-to some men they are natural and useful; to others, not at all. Nature is the guide. Commonly the gesture ought to precede the word it is to illustrate. "Look there!" says a. little boy, and points to the sun. But he begins to point before he begins to speak: such is the method of nature. 
You will see that I find the chief helps to an impressive mode of speech in the man, and not out of him. There are no tricks in real eloquence; they belong to the stage, not the pulpit-nay, only the low practice of the stage. The best books that I know are Campbell's Philosophy of Rhetoric. and Whately's Rhetoric. Maury, Part 1st, Eloquence is good. It is well to read the works of great Orators, (Webster, the greatest master of Orators in the world,) Burke, North, Taylor, &c. The arguments of lawyers will help you much: you will find them in celebrated trials, in" State trials," for example- those from the time of James 1st to James 2nd are full of such things as I refer to. The study of poets is a great help, both to the thought and the form of expression. Shakespeare is a valuable ally. If you read Greek easily-then Homer and AEschylus will help you much. But a personal acquaintance with the Bible will be of incalculable aid. No book will so help the development of the religious feelings, no poetry; then it is a great mine of illustration, because it is the only book that is known to everybody. You see how Jesus illustrates his great truths by reference to common things before the eyes of the public, and to the common events of the day. I have written you a very long letter.
THEODORE PARKER. REV. II.
Rev. H. A. KEACH.

OLD MAJOR, THE NOBLE HORSE.
BY JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
From my boyhood days, I have been an admirer of fine horses. I learned that speaking in a low, confidential tone, and uniformly treating this noble animal with kindness, he may be trained to be a trusty companion. Well do I remember the beautiful colt my father gave me, and how I grieved when it was found dead one frosty morning. When I became a man, and commenced the world in poverty, and had to sell my handsome filley, in order to make a payment on the first forty acres of wild land I ever owned, I felt no little regret. Whether it happened that I obtained a superior class of colts, or whether the training had something to do with it, I will not say; but, certain it is, that, during the half century of my life, I have reason to remember a goodly number of horses that were remarkable for their tractability and intelligence. Of the coal black Nancy, Charley, and Bob, I will say nothing at present, but confine this little essay to a sketch of the old Major who has been our carriage horse since the spring of 1850. He received his military title from our Johnny, with whom he was a great favorite. The first time he was harnessed was on the top of the Alleghanies. He was then three years old, and had followed the carriage for several days' journey from Ohio. He seemed playful as a kitten and gentle as a lamb. He moved off so gracefully, that, in a few hours, my wife took the reins, and drove for miles. He commenced his working career nobly, and never betrayed the trust we reposed in him. He had a remarkable breadth of brain, and a clear, full eye. His color was a deep red bay. He seemed to comprehend in a moment what was to be done, and evinced a readiness to do it. He soon learned, when harnessed in the stable, to follow without being led, and when the shafts were lifted, to walk under and back to the right place. Before he was five years old, he would pass through the gateway alone, taking the carriage from the carriage-house to the front door, making the proper curves as well as if guided by a skilful driver. I would pass to the house over the lawn, and find the Major at his post. I had trained him to stop suddenly, at a given word, without the slightest pressure of the rein. I found this a great convenience many times. Once, with a sleigh load of merry little girls and boys, we. made a sudden curve, capsized, and were sent sprawling into the snow. The word was given. I can't say that the Major laughed, but he looked as if he understood the case; and as soon as we could gather ourselves up again, he was off at full speed. At another time, while descending a hill, the hold-back strap broke, and the carriage was precipitated against him, cutting him so that he carried the mark ever after. He was on a fast trot at the time, but the accustomed signal was enough. While the shaft-bar pressed against his legs, he held back the carriage until I blocked the wheels, and extricated him. I will risk the fear of being laughed at, and own that I went to his head, put my arm around his neck, and caressed him. In nine years' driving, I never knew him to make a false step. We have trusted him to take us home, when the night was so dark that we could not see his ears. Other times we have hung a lantern to his hamestring. The shriek of a locomotive was no more to him than the laugh of a little girl. He had his eccentricities, however. He always evinced displeasure at the tightening of a girth. Years ago,
<c05>
when the boy who named him was attempting to perform this office, the Major took him deliberately by the pantaloons, and set him in the manger! I have satisfactory reasons for believing that he was not gently patted that time. It was interesting to see him plowing corn. It was not an uncommon thing for him to do it without lines. He seemed to understand that the corn was not to be trodden upon. As he grew older, his self-esteem increased. He became so very dignified, that he did not like to be led, but preferred a motion of the hand to indicate what he was expected to do. I once sent an Irishman to plow corn with him. There would be no dispute among competent judges, that the Major knew more for a horse than the son of Erin for a man. In a few minutes after their acquaintance began, the man came running to the house in a very excited mood, exclaiming," What kind of a horse is that you have got?" "What is the matter, Billy?" "Why, sir, I went to saze him by the head, and he came near taking my shoulder intirely." My wife once drove him to the cemetery, and left him standing in the road while she cut the twigs from the young trees. She thought of his remaining where she left him; but, as she passed from tree to tree, he deliberately passed on, stopping when she did, until in an hour the work was completed. Whenever he saw me eating an apple, he expected the core, and I thought it no hardship occasionally to get out of the carriage to gratify him. By the way, he sometimes got more than the core, but no matter.
It has been among the joys of my life, within the last seven years, holding conventions for children. Many of the little men and maidens who have been at "Uncle Joseph's" meetings will remember Old Major; for, although circumstances did not admit of his presence in the meeting-house, yet he was always outside, and ready to make, a graceful bow when requested to do so. A little emancipated slave taught him to do this. A strong attachment sprang up between him and the boy. When the little fellow was taking his departure, and going to another home, I said," Richard, I think thou ought to give the Old Major a kiss before thou leaves." "I did sar," he replied, as the tears stood in his eyes. For the last year, we had not been in the habit of hitching him at the meeting-house shed. He would see others going, but uniformly waited until I would give him the word, when he would back out, and turn as skilfully as if I had the reins. In the summer of 1860, he fell in the harness. From that time he was under par. The boy he lifted into the manger is now a man, and took the faithful animal to nurse. Uncle Joseph and Aunt Ruth were seen driving another horse. Children's voices would be heard, saying," Uncle Joseph, where is Major?" A good old colored man one day remarked, "Ah! I see you have got a new hos! Old Major is sold and gone." I replied" Oh, no! Sammy, Major is sick-he will never be sold!" That evening he was unusually playful, but in the morning was lying dead upon the green sward. When I went to our son, he was absent from home. I saw one of the colored men in his employ, and said, " Nelson, where is old Major?" He replied," Oh, Mr. Dugdale, Johnny and I would not have him dragged, but marked with a spade around his body, head and feet, and we digged him a grave just the shape of him, and buried him as if he had been a man." Some people may call it great weakness, but I am not ashamed to confess that, as we stood by the fresh earth under which he laid, our eyes were moistened with tears; and as I thought of all the little boys and girls in the land, I could not but think if they would acquit themselves in their spheres as human beings with a fidelity equal to this noble animal, we should have a purer and better world. Farewell, old Major, should I live until my locks are white as the paper on which I write, while memory retains its umpire in my mind, this, faithful old friend will not be forgotten.-Educator and the Museum.

THE DEVASTATION AT HATTERAS INLET BY THE GALE OF LAST WEEK.
Col. Hawkins, who has arrived at Washington, to consult with the government, gives a vivid account of the effect of the gale, which commenced at Hatter as Island, on Friday evening last, and continued to increase in fury until Saturday morning, reaching to the violence of a hurricane.
A letter from the encampment, to the New York Tribune, gives a detailed account of the scenes at the forts, from which we copy the following:-
"About 3 o'clock in the morning, the water from the ocean began to sweep over the island (half a mile wide) into the Sound, and before daylight these two bodies of water were united. Not a spot of land was to be seen. All the lower portion of the island, where Forts Hatteras and Clark are situated, was under water, and it was not until a <illegible> swept across the island, carrying men, <illegible> and every creeping thing with it, that the soldiers were aware of the presence of a great flood. 
Men were suddenly washed out of their beds, and found all their clothes (what few had undressed) borne by the water to the Sound. Live stock, such as pigs, chickens, horses, cattle, dogs, cats, and cooking utensils, lumber, driftwood, boxes, barrels, trunks, shanties, were carried forward, together with men on them and in them, some jumping out of windows, some cutting their way through the roof, others jumping off into the water, which, in many places, was over their heads in depth, and making for a box or barrel in order to reach the roof of a shanty still standing. Officers on horses were riding or swimming through this moving mass, giving orders to this floating army of men, who, with a gun in one hand, and with the other hanging on to some kind of an object, kept themselves above water.
The most mournful sight of all, however, was to witness the moving of the sick, some of whom were in a dying condition before the storm came. They were carried on cots from place to place on the shoulders of men who were wading through water nearly neck deep. It was also a sad sight to witness such a destruction of property. At the wharf where all the Government property is stored, a wholesale destruction took place. Provisions of every kind were soon afloat-barrels of crackers, bread, sugar, pork, beef, molasses, beans, potatoes, fish, boxes of candles, soap, clothing, and in fact everything required for an army, was seen to go with the flood, with the buildings containing them in a very dilapidated condition. The steamer Spaulding arrived the evening before with a large load of provisions, clothing, lumber, &c., and as good luck would have it, she was unable to land but a small portion of her cargo the night she came in.
Unfortunately there was., however, some clothing landed for the naked 20th Indiana Regiment. Nearly half of this much needed freight was placed on the pier, and went with the waves of the ocean within view of the soldiers, who, with tearful eyes and shivering forms, beheld this, to them, the most melancholy sight of all. About 6 o'clock this morning the flood was at its height, and for two hours Col. Brown of the 20th Indiana Regiment and officers were in great suspense. It was very evident that a new inlet below Fort Clark had been made during the night, which entirely cut off their escape; and as the waves were rushing into Fort Clark by six in the morning, it was apparent that all must meet with a watery grave, if the water continued to rise at the same rate for two hours to come.
Fortunately, the storm began to abate by 7 A. M. this morning, and by 9 o'clock a narrow ridge of sand-beach was discovered above Fort Clark, which was hailed with wild delight by the 20th Indiana Regiment, who, but a few minutes before, were making preparations to save themselves, if possible, from a fearful fate. By noon the. tide had gone down, and left quite a little spot for the half drowned and exhausted men to walk upon and build some campfires, which enabled them to cook a scanty meal from what few fragments of provisions had been rescued from the water. What a sight to behold! All was devastation and ruin; the entire camp was made desolate. Several feet of sand are taken from the surface of the island, leaving it in such a condition that it is sure to be under water as often as the tide comes up.
Between Fort Clark and Hatteras, a new inlet, some six feet deep, was formed during the night, and now it is a vast sheet of water between the two forts. Fort Hatteras now stands isolated from the land, and will be swept entirely away in the next storm. In fact it is thought that the next great storm (which is liable to visit this region any day) will level both forts, Clark and Hatteras. I understand that the Confederates only built them for summer use, expecting they would be swept away before Spring, which accounts for using the cheap material (sand and turf) with which these forts are constructed. This sweeping flood makes good the predictions of the Confederates when we took possession of this treacherous and mysterious peninsula. They said we would be glad to abandon Hatteras Island when the winter storms came.
Camp Wool (where the 9th New York Volunteers
<c06>
are quartered), some three miles above Fort Hatteras, was also much damaged by this storm. Their large hospital, some sixty by forty feet, was carried away; the sick, however, were saved. They lost nearly all their provisions, and many other stores Camp Bailey, seven miles up the island, where Captain Bailey, with a portion of the Indiana Regiment, is stationed, has, I learn, escaped with but little loss, they being on a higher point of land which is strongly fortified. Six companies of this regiment left three companies at Fort Clark to-day for Camp Bailey leaving only three companies at Fort Clark, who, I learn, will also abandon this dilapidated and and crumbling fortification on the morrow, and doubtless they will be followed soon by the regulars now stationed at Fort Hatteras. Camp Bailey, or Fort Bailey, is the best place on the island to make a stand and resist an attack from the enemy, which is now momentarily expected."

THE PRO-SLAVERY PRESS
It is not a little remarkable that the pro-slavery papers which, a few months ago, were most bitter against the President, are now loudest in his praise. The Express and Herald, transformed into loyalty by threats of popular violence; the Journal of Commerce, excluded from the mails as a propagator of treason; and the World, which boasted its antagonism to the Republican ticket, are now the main supporters of the administration and its measures. This is but a specimen of the change that is going on throughout the country. The President, having thrown himself into the arms of pro-slavery advisers, will henceforth find his warmest supporters in the ranks of those who voted against him. That a ruler who was so universally popular, at the time of his inauguration, with his own party, should in six months have alienated half his admirers, and supplied their places with new recruits drawn from among his opponents, would seem to argue either that he has been untrue to his avowed principles, or that: he has been misunderstood, both by his friends and his enemies. Whether he will, by his leniency in dealing with the enemies of his country, win over the South, as he has won over the pro-slavery Democracy of the North, remains to be seen. If the care he has shown and is now showing for their peculiar institution does not satisfy the malcontents, it is difficult to see what could satisfy them short of his formal abdication 
Meantime, his new eulogizers are becoming as bold in their advocacy of slavery as they were in their palmist days of power.” Their sympathies with rebellion can scarcely be concealed, and if our city were to be invaded by the Southern army tomorrow, they would as certainly be found on the side of the enemy, as the Secessionists of Baltimore. Witness the arguments of the Herald to show that slavery is not an evil, but a good:-
"It is totally untrue that 'slavery decreed the overthrow of the Union.' It was, on the contrary, anti-slavery which began, over thirty years ago, aided by British gold, to conspire against the peace of the United States.
'Slavery-nothing but slavery’-the cause of the present war! Slavery has been quiet, silent, and industrious, surely and effectually building up the wealth and greatness of the nation, filling the coffers of Northern men with wealth, raising cotton, sugar, and rice in such abundance as to make our markets the thoroughfares of all people, and extending our commerce to the remotest boundaries of the earth. Slavery has sung songs, rejoiced in its freedom from want and the pangs of poverty, and made four millions and a half of blacks contented and happy, blessed in emancipation from the savagery and barbarism of the accursed land in which they had their origin. Slavery has had neither part nor lot in bringing about the hostilities which rend the entrails of our beloved country.''
No viler or more treasonable sentiments can be found in any of the journals of the Southern Confederacy itself. None of them more effectually give aid and comfort to the enemy, or more richly deserve prosecution by government for the crime of treason. Yet such are the journals which are urging: on the President to remove Fremont. Their secret desire is to divide the North, so that the South may gain as easy victory. It is no honor to the President that he has secured the applause of such detestable prints; and no dishonor to Fremont that he. receives their equally energetic and unqualified, abuse.-American Baptist.

CONVERSATIONS WITH THE SLAVES OF VIRGINIA-THEIR FEELINGS AND HOPES.
Extract from a letter from the Massachusetts 18th, dated Hall's Hill, Virginia:-
"I thank you for the newspapers and pamphlets you have sent, and also for the new words to Yankee Doodle. I distributed copies among my comrades, and I tell you we sing in right good earnest.
'We call it mean and mud-sill work, this, sending: back a slave, sir.'
I thank you for your letter. Any such favors as those I shall never forget. Away from home and friends, with nothing but soldiers to be seen for miles round, the mind sometimes gets weary, and letters or papers from old Massachusetts are gladly received and highly prized., I assure you.
When I have been on picket guard, I have sometimes had opportunities to visit houses, and have talked with a number of slaves. They all talk in the same way., with slight variations. The following conversation with one that came into our camp a few days since, will serve as a specimen of the whole:-
'How were you treated Robert?' 
'Pretty well, sar.'
'Did your master give you enough to eat, and clothe you comfortably.''?'
'Pretty well, till dis year. Massa hab no money to spend dis year. Don't get many clothes dis year.'
'If you had a good master, I suppose you were contented? 
"No sar'.
'Why not, if you had enough to eat, and clothes to wear?
'Cause I want to be free". 
'You say you have a wife and children, owned by another man; that they are treated well, and you had a chance to see them once a fortnight. If you were all free, how would you manage to support your wife and children? 
His eyes sparkled, as he answered, I'd hire a little cabin with a little garden., and keep a pig and a cow. I'd work out by the day, and I could save money. I've got eight dollars now, that I laid up dis summer. But if I didn't save a cent, I should feel better to be free.
'Can you read and write”
'No, sar. Massa know we can't read a word; but dissummer he's skeered to hab us see a paper.'
'What do the slaves say about this war?'
'Dey tink Lincoln is gwine to free us.'
'Where did they hear that?
'Massa said so, last fall, afore he was President.'
'Did you ever hear of John Brown?'
'I did so, sar. Ebbery body hear 'bout him. Dar was great time when he come to Harper's Ferry. Folks was all skeered to death. Dey wheat up from all round here to see him hung.'
'Do you think he was a good man?'
'Yes, sar, a mighty fine man.' 
I might fill pages with their talk, all going to prove it a false idea that a slave is contented when he has enough to eat and to wear. Liberty is evidently just as sweet to them as it is to other men. Here, we do not see slavery in its worst form; still it is slavery. I was often told that I should think better of the system, if I visited the South; but I have not found it so. As yet., I have not been able to discover any beauties in slavery; when I do, I will inform you.
I say, from the bottom of my heart, never let us come to any terms with the rebels till we have wiped out from our country this foul bold, this hateful system, which has caused us so much trouble. I for one, would rather stay here for ten years, and encounter continual hardships, than to have the question settled on any other terms. Oh, if I could only say, America is free-free to all.! That would be a result worth suffering and fighting for 
F."-Traveller.

The Life and Letters of'
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN
Who was Executed at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery: with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D.WEBB.-This very valuable and interesting work, which has met with a most favorable reception and ready sale in England, has been carefully prepared by one of the most intelligent and experienced friends of America in the old world. For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston, 221 Washington street Room No. 6. Also in New York, at No. 5 Beckman street; and in Philadelphia at No.106 North Tenth street. Price, One Dollar.
