THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN Dollars, if payment be mad in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be director (POST PAID) the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan 
Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power: and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THIS PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 7.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1625.
<c01>
Selections.
GERRIT SMITH TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
ENGLAND NEEDS TO SOOTHE AMERICA.
PETERBORO: January 25th, 1862.
Hon George Thompson, Ex-Member British Parliament:
MY DEAR SIR,-I have read your recent Speeches on "American Slavery and the present Crisis." Not to speak of their other merits, they show great knowledge of American affairs, and treat of them very temperately and judiciously.
It was well that you employed your rich and commanding eloquence to prevent England from making war upon America. I hope you will now employ it to prevent America from making war upon England. You need not come here for this purpose. Stay where you are, and labor with others to bring your Government and people to such a sense and expression of their deep wrong against mine, as shall serve to take from the American heart the hatred of England which rankles in it. I refer in this wrong to nothing else than what has grown out of the Trent matter; for nothing else has made up any part of it. It is true that here and there was a sore displeasure with England for her sympathy with our rebels; but this sympathy might not have been so general as to make England responsible for it. Or it might have been more seeming than real. Or, if it was indeed real, nevertheless, it was not an offense of the grade or character to get angry with.
I have impliedly predicted that America will declare war against England unless England shall prevent it. I scarcely need say that this prediction comes not of my wishes. I love England more than I love any other nation, save my own. I cannot help the preference. A common lineage, language and literature are sufficient to account for it. Her heroes, scholars, philosophers, poets and philanthropists I feel to be my own. And whilst many say that her oppression of Ireland, and her forcing of opium on the Chinese, are just worthy of her, I view them to be unworthy of her. The emancipation of her slaves-that was an act worthy of her greatness and glory. I said that I love her. I add that my countrymen loved her. The tears they shed for her when she was struggling with her horrid East India Rebellion were sincere. The welcome they gave her young Prince, for his own sake, for his good Mother's sake, and for dear old England's sake also, was unaffected and cordial. Moreover, I am opposed to war: and by war I mean the bloody collision of nation with nation. Every such collision I hold to be unnecessary and wrong, both on one side and the other. In no case may a nation declare war: and she may safely conclude that the moral power of her calm but unyielding refusal to arm herself against a declaration of war will protect her from it. Again, should it turn out that there are nations so low in civilization, and so insensible to restraining and reclaiming influences, as to ignore or break through this power and fall upon her, nevertheless, there would be far more and far mightier nations to come to her rescue. These would not only honor her for hr peace principles, but they would be prompt to resist every mean and guilty attempt to take advantage of them. Our poor war-cursed world waits for a nation to take this attitude. The nation so trustful in truth as to take it, will find it not less safe than sublime, and will be followed in quick succession by her sister nations.
That I should be opposed to war, and yet be in sympathy with out large Northern armies, may possibly be an inconsistency. Believing, however, as I have ever done, in the duty of Government to control its subjects, I am conscious of no inconsistency between my opposition to war, and my sympathy with armies however large, if their sole object is the quelling of domestic insurrections. If Russia would be willing to save unarmed France from armed England, it by no means follows that she would, on the game or any principle, be willing to employ her forces in subduing a French Rebellion. France must take care of her own rebels. Every nation must, like every family, govern itself. The nation or family which cannot, had better be broken up.
The whilst my loyal countrymen have, with scarce an exception, a stinging sense of this wrong done by England to America, there is but a comparative handful of them unqualifiedly opposed to war, fully justifies my strong fear that America will make war upon England.
Is it strange that they should have this stinging sense? To be men, they must have it. The Trent had made herself, both in deed and spirit, part and parcel of the Great American Conspiracy. "The owner and agent and all her officers, including the Commander Williams, had knowledge of the assumed characters and purposes" of the traitors whom she could had taken on board. She was doing what she could to help on their mission of death to their country. And all this was in the face of the Queen's proclamation, and the face, too, of the punishment which the English Government had inflicted for the like offence, when we were at war with Mexico. The San Jacinto overtook the Trent, and, out of kindness to her passengers, to English subjects and English interests, let her pass on, after having taken the four traitors from her. England, on getting the news, did not punish the Trent, but declared war against America. Her first and immediate measure was actual war. Troops and arms were hurried off to our coast. Instantly men were put in motion to kill us. We were not to learn her spirit from the tone of her diplomatic correspondence on the occasion, but from her military movements. "Actions speak louder than words." If a man takes off his coat, and comes towards me with rolled-up sleeves and clinched fists, I shall not be comforted by his words, however far less threatening they may be. I shall still believe that he will whip me if he can. England proposed no umpirage-invited no explanation-would not even wait to learn whether our Government approved the conduct of the San Jacinto. But, with cannon loaded and matches lighted, she stood demanding instant compliance with her peremptory terms. She did, indeed, wait to hear from us; but it was only that she might then decide whether to stop war. She had already made war.
This was oppression indeed-and it was very hard to bear. Nevertheless, not so hard as the insult she combined with it. We knew, and we knew that she knew, that had such rebels gone out from her to compass her destruction, she would, without any delay or hazard by forms and ceremonies, have caught them wherever she could, and hung them. How keenly insulting to us was her arrogant position, that our national dignity is not entitled to such prompt vindication as hers, and that our national safety falls immeasurably below her own in value and sacredness! She had nothing forgotten nor regretted that she had taken thousands of entirely innocent men from our ships. What contempt, then; did she pour upon us, when she virtually told us that-
*Secretary Seward to Lord Lyons.
<c02>
She is so infinitely our superior, that we must not take from her ships so much as four men!-no, and not even if they are very guilty men! No doubt this is in her eye a fitting attitude for a nation of centuries of fame toward upstart America.
But I pass on to speak of our circumstances at the time, England declared war against us. Would that she had been moved by them to pity us, instead of being tempted by them oppress us! We were struggling under a Rebellion, the mightiest ever known, and the wickedest ever known. It was very wicked because entirely unprovoked. Nay, whilst we had never encroached upon the rights of the Rebels, we had but seldom resisted their multiplied encroachments upon ours. Much more wicked, however, was the rebellion because it was a Pro-Slavery one. Facts prove that it was a purely Pro-Slavery one. Not a single Free State was drawn into it. Eleven of the Slave States rushed into it, and the remaining four would have followed, had they not been restrained by the fear of Federal troops. The different sections in them all sympathize with the Rebellion just in proportion to their respective interest in Slavery. Relieve Kentucky, Missouri and Maryland of the presence of Federal troops, and they would instantly join the Rebellion. There are nominal Slaveholders who care little or nothing for Slavery; but in all the land, North or South, there is not one man of the slaveholding spirit, who does not prefer the Rebellion with slavery to the Union without slavery. But enough to prove the Pro-Slavery character of the Rebellion is the intensely Pro-Slavery character of the Government which the Rebels organized-though it may be well to add that nothing less satanic than the spirit of slavery could have been sufficient to prompt men to so satanic a Rebellion. How preposterous for the Rebels to say, as they do for the purpose of winning Europe to their side, that our high Tariff was unendurable! It was not high when the Rebellion broke out, and the Rebels had but to insist on its being lower, to make it lower. Our high Tariff is a war measure. It may be made much higher, and yet be no indication that a high Tariff would, as a mere commercial measure, be approved by us.
But it was not alone nor mainly from the magnitude and wickedness of the Rebellion that we were entitled to the world's pity. Much more were we entitled to it from the state of moral helplessness in which the Rebellion found us. That Slavery had now burst upon us in its vast power did indeed make our case very pitiable. But far more pitiable was it from the fact that Slavery had so long deluded and debauched us, as to leave us incapable of arousing ourselves to resist this vast power. Great strength had we still to resist any other enemy. But in the presence of Slavery, we were only poor paralytics. Far worse our condition than that of Laocoon. His soul was strong in his battle with the snake; but our snake had charmed our should into powerlessness before the battle had begun. Very monstrous would it have been to come to the help of the snake entwined around Laocoon; but still more monstrous is it to come to the help of the snake entwined around America. Nevertheless, England does come to its help. Does she say that we are too debased to be pitied? I admit the debasement, the even brutish insensibility to human rights, which the Circean cup of Slavery has reduced us to. Nevertheless, were we as unhappily transformed as the companions of Ulysses, pity should still reach down to us. Beside, since it is Slavery that has so degraded us, and since it is England that fastened it upon us, especially ill does it become her to taunt us with our degradation, and take advantage of it. Does she bid us follow her example and abolish Slavery? It was comparatively easy to abolish a Slavery no more essentially connected with herself; but by a Slavery mixed up with all her relations and interests, and with all herself, she would have been made as helpless as we are.
I need not go into arguments to prove our importance against Slavery. A few illustration of it will suffice.
1st. Slavery is killing us. One word from our Government would kill it. Nevertheless, this one word cannot be spoken. Our poor Slavery-ridden Government cannot muster moral courage enough to speak it. That, at such at time as this, it should be studying and worshipping the Constitution, shows its utter incompetence to save us. The Rebels flung away the Constitution at the very outset. They are too such in earnest to let papers trammel their efforts to destroy us. But we, alas! areas so drugged and drunken by Slavery as to feel no right to meet these efforts save in ways strictly harmonious with every line of the Constitution, or (to express but the same meaning in other words) strictly harmonious with the Pro-Slavery interpretations of the Constitution. Why is it that we do not worship our State Constitutions as well as the Federal Constitution? Every few years we cast them aside. The reason is, that Slavery does not call for the worship of them. Our President is bound hand and foot by that Pro-Slavery regard for the Constitution in which he was educated. So, too, are most of our Generals. General Sherman's Proclamation, on entering south Carolina, says: "Carolinians, we have come as loyal men fully impressed with our Constitutional obligations to the Rebels. Congress abounds in it. What better, however, could you expect of a Body that now, when the nation is on the very brink of ruin, and nothing should be thought of but conquering the foe by whatever means, Constitutional or Unconstitutional, and by whatever men, white red or black, is amusing itself with schemes of Colonization! The remaining weeks in which Congress can do what may possibly save the nation are probably but few. How sad that any of them should be this wasted!
2d. Although our nation should, on the breaking out of the Rebellion, have abolished 'Slavery to prevent Slavery from abolishing it-doing so under that high necessity which supersedes all inquiry into the Constitutionality of doing so-nevertheless, (if shrinking from this summary and sweeping measure,) it might have put down the Rebellion without resorting to any direct action, or indeed any intended action against Slavery. If instead of making Slavery its special, nay, its supreme care, it had used it obvious and unrestricted Constitutional liberty in composing its armies and in carrying on the war, the Rebellion would have been suppressed in less than six months from the bombarding of sumner. All must admit that the Constitution gives Congress the power to make up its armies as it will-of foreigners or citizens, of black men or white; and that it is under no more constitutional obligation to enquire whether the men who offer themselves for enlistment are slaves, than whether they are apprentices or hirelings. In the exercise of this power, Congress could both easily and speedily have saved the nation. It is true that incidental to this exercise might have been the destruction of Slavery; but Congress would been no more responsible for the destruction than the Constitution would have been violated by the exercise. Had only the black population of the land been assured, last Spring, that the North was
<c03>
its friend, the end, if not indeed the beginning, of Autumn would have witnessed the end of the Rebellion. And this it would have been assured of had there been so much as one black regiment among the seventy-five thousand soldiers whom our President called for last Spring. Not one gun would that regiment have needed to fire, and no occasion would there have been for another black regiment. the bare fact of its existence would have effectually and almost instantly advertised all the blacks of our good will, and to advertise them of that would have been sufficient to secure their deep and decisive sympathy. But, alas! the advertisement was forbidden! And, instead of it, we have advertised them of our ill will by sending back cruelly and wickedly, and also unconstitutionally, great numbers of fugitive slaves.
Such, my dear sir, was the miserable condition of my poor Slavery-crazed and Slavery-cowed country when yours declared war against her. I said that it was keenly insulting in your nation to deny to Americans in the case of Americans in the case of American rebels, the liberty which England claims in the case of English rebels. Keen indeed was this insult; and very cruel and mean was the oppression of falling upon us in our helpless condition. For this insult and oppression, England will soon have to answer, unless there shall be good feeling on her part to beget good feeling on ours. Very bad is our feeling toward her now, and even toward Canada. Already are we threatening (very foolishly I Own,) to terminate that new and mutually useful intercourse with Canada which should be enlarged and unending. Canada and the States should be brothers as well as neighbors.
Vain is the attempt to pacify us by saying that the Trent case has been settled on our own principles. It was not pleasant to have it settled even on our own principles, if we were compelled to have it so settled. Moreover, the compulsion is greatly aggravated by the fact that you would not have resorted to it, nor we yielded to it, had not our helpless condition emboldened you to the one, and reduced us to the necessity of the other. But it is not true that the case had been settled on our own principles. I admit that it is American to settle them in such circumstances with Foreign Powers. All vain is this attempt to hide, in an affectation of highsouled regard for national consistency, and in a sublime show of magnanimous adherence to precedents, our blazing disgrace in the Trent case. The truth is, that the having of maritime principles is an honor which does not belong to America. Her opposition in her infancy of taking seamen from her ships was on the ground of their being innocent men. But now she opposes the taking from them of even the preeminently guilty-of even slave-traders! Our maritime principles are but our maritime policy; and this has varied with our interests.
Mr. Sumner's admired Speech on the Trent case is characterized with his usual learning and eloquence, but not with his usual soundness. 1st. Most of the authorities he cites are far too old to express or be applicable to our present policy. 2d. They do not apply at the Trent case-for the subject matter in that is the proper disposition, not of innocent but of guilty persons. They are plainly but to the point of taking innocent seamen from our ships. And most of his remaining authorities were doubtless intended to be but to the same point. He thinks that they were also to the point of taking ambassadors from neutral ships. The strong probability, however, is that immunity but for seamen was intended by these authorities, although the literal import of their words provides immunity for ambassadors as well as for seamen. Moreover, if these authorities do really as well as literally cover ambassadors, they, nevertheless, do not meet the present case. We must not confound with the ordinary ambassador, whose honorable and sacred office it is to maintain a good understanding and friendly intercourse between nations, the execrable traitor who goes our from his country for help to destroy it. The ambassador represents a nation-Mason and Slidell but a horde of rebels. For as yet that horde is acknowledged by itself only to be a nation. It by no means follows, if there can be an argument of some force for allowing the ambassador to pass on, that guilty emissaries, like Mason and Slidell, should also be allowed to pass on. But even Vattel, who says that the person of the ambassador is "sacred and inviolable" does not claim for him this exemption. He holds: "Not only may we justly refuse a passage to the ministers whom our enemy sends to other sovereigns, but we may arrest them if they attempt to pass privately," &c. Although he had in his mind but a passage by land, the principle applies equally to a passage by sea. But if, upon Vattel's authority, the ambassador may be taken from the Neutral ship, how much more the Masons and Slidells! Sir William Scott, the highest British authority on maritime law, says: "The belligerent may stop the ambassador of the enemy on his passage. "How much more, then, may he stop the Masons and Slidells!
I confess that there can be an argument of some force against molesting the ordinary ambassador. Were England and America at war with each other, neither would be disposed to molest the ambassador of the other to Austria. The present case respects not the ordinary ambassador in whose protection and freedom the welfare of the world may be said to be interested. It respects emissaries who are more effectively as well as more guiltily identified with a superlatively wicked Rebellion than are the soldiers in its armies. Who does not see that a pair of such emissaries with their dispatches may be more important to the Rebellion than a dozen ship-loads of soldiers? The whole spirit and sense of the law or principle which authorizes the taking of soldiers out of the neutral ship, authorize with the utmost emphasis the taking out of such emissaries also. Perhaps only one of all Mr. Sumner's numerous authorities is applicable in both letter and spirit to the taking of Mason and Slidell. I say in spirit;-for who doubts that Gen. Cass, who would spare even the slave-trader, would feel himself bound in consistency to spare every other criminal? I cannot but wonder at Mr. Sumner's temerity in quoting the General. I should sooner have expected him to exclaim: "Non tali auxilio!" I admit if Gen. Cass, the preeminent patron of the slave-trade, is to be taken as representing American principles, that then the Trent case has been settled on American principles. Surely, the General, by proving too much for Mr. Sumner proves northing for him. MR. Sumner has but weakened his argument by quoting him.
So far as my reading and memory serve me, you can find nothing in the whole field of American authorities in favor of waiving the Right of Search in the case of any criminals save slave-traders. And is not Mr. Sumner very inconsistent with himself? In his speech, he maintains the Right of Search with respect to slave-traders. Why, then, should be not maintain it with respect to those "hosles humani generis, "who were caught in performing a very essential part of the work of building up the most abominable slave-trading empire which the world has ever known? African slave-traders are doing, upon a comparatively petty scale,
<c04>
what Mason and Slidell are laboring to have done on a scale as broad as the whole earth. To be consistent, Mr. Sumner cannot escape from letting African Slave-traders as well as Mason and Slidell pass on.
The current of American authorities is no more with Mr. Seward's point of taking the ship into port, than with Mr. Sumner's point of taking persons from it. For the question with the great mass of those authorities was not whether the ship should be taken, but whether seamen should be taken from it. Mr. Seward argues that it was American to let Mason and Slidell go. Had Old John Brown, after his demonstration in Virginia, been caught in a neutral ship, would Mr. Seward have argued that it was American to let him go? Oh no! He did argued that it was right to hang him; and he would have argued that it was right to hang him. Poor Old John Brown was the enemy of SLAVERY, and the enemies of but their country. And this, on American principles. makes a wide difference against the one, and for the others.
I said that the Trent case has not been settled on American principles. I add that it has not been settled at all. Even what the case was, was not agreed upon by the parties; nor a step taken, nor a proposition made, to agree upon it. We have no right to say that England's acceptance of Secretary Seward's conclusion will bring her not to take her rebels from our ships. For the case he presents is not the case described in Earl Russell's Letter to Lord Lyons. The Earl speaks not of guilty emissaries and traitors, but if "certain individuals" and "four gentleman" include many whom it would, with one consent, be clearly wrong to force from a ship. In our haste to reach a propitiating conclusion, and save ourselves from British guns, we made little account of premises.
That the European nations, as well those who have, as those who have not, many ships, should be, just now, so much concerned for the rights of neutrals, is not strange-for just now they are themselves neutrals, Were they belligerents, they would speak in a different tone. But that our statesmen now, whilst America is a belligerent, should be viewing with each other in extravagant concessions to neutrals, would be marvellous indeed, were it not, that, by this means, they can hope to make America satisfied with herself, instead of ashamed of herself at the way she has got out of the Trent trouble. Some of our statesman go so far as to propose, in respect to the sea, the entire abolition of contraband of war. In their absorbing zeal for neutrals, they forget that a belligerent has rights, and that, in the event of such abolition, another belligerent might, through neutrals, carry on an effective and fatal war against him. They forget, too, that by whatever principle war might be carried on through neutrals on the sea, it might be carried on through neutrals on the land also. Hence, when a couple of nations, France and England for instance, should get to war with each other, they would have recruiting stations in other nations as well as in their own, and thus draw the world into their war. Hence, too, the Lopezes, and Walkers, and other Filibusters would never lack for recruits to carry out their schemes.
England is now favoring the doctrine that the neutral ship shall be exempt from search, provided she is going neither to not from the port of a belligerent. But this is an absurd doctrine. Surely the question whether a neutral ship may serve a belligerent cannot be affected by the question whether the ship leaves our coast one north or one rod south of our boundary; nor by the question whether it reaches our coast a little one side or the other of that boundary. The ship may serve him quite as effectually in the one case as in the other.
Horace Greeley, whose writings are always well worth reading, would let the neutral ship go free, provided she has not gone out of her way to serve the belligerent. But reason forbids that she should knowingly serve him, either in or out of her way. Mr. Greeley holds the Trent to have been innocent, because she did not go out of her way to facilitate the guilty mission of Slidell and Mason. Was she innocent, provided they have her $10,000? And is it all improbable that they paid her a large indemnity for her risk in taking them? She did not need to go out of her way to help the Rebellion. In no other way so well as in what Mr. Greeley calls "her usual and lawful voyage" could she help it.
And why, I ask, should the sea police be less searching and strict than the land police? Because England has taken thousands of innocent persons from neutral ships, does it follow that the world is to relinquish the right to take guilty ones from them? I much question whether the relinquishment can be afforded. The right has been abused; and though new and efficient securities against its abuse might not always prove sufficient, nevertheless let not the right, no, nor its summary exercise, be abandoned. By suitable regulations, the amount of wrongs and losses attending this summary exercise could be made small, compared with that attending the turning off of suspected vessels from their voyages into ports for trial-some of them having no contraband of war, and others, though having it, yet not knowing it. I hardly need add, that these suitable regulations would ignore all claims to men on the ground of their being born here or there. Claims against the right of a man to expatriate himself, and choose his country, should not have been made after the dark ages.
I said that the Trent case has not been settled at all. I, of course, meant that it had not been in any such way as deserves the name of settlement. But allowing our surrender to be a settlement-our ex parte or quasi settlement to be a real one-nevertheless, we ought not to hide it from ourselves, nor make ourselves ridiculous by trying to hide it from the world, that the settlement, so far from taking place on American principles, was simply our compelled submission to England's principle of refusing to confess her own abounding sin; of construing her neighbor's innocence into sin; and of straightway following up the hypocritical construction with violence. She knew that the liberty we had taken with a few ineffably guilty men on board her ship, was no greater than that she had taken with thousands of innocent men on board of ours. she knew that we had not insulted her. She knew that our Captain was, so far as England and Englishmen were concerned, prompted by no other spirit than that of high respect and remarkable kindness. she knew, too, that she was insulting and outraging us by declaring war against us. Such, such was the principle to which we succumbed, and on which we were forced to make our peace with England. Oh, call it not an American principle! It was purely an English one.
What a pity, since the Trent case had to be settled on an English principle, that our Government did not propose to settle it on another English Principle-on that by virtue of which England prefers taking men out of the vessel to taking the vessel! Our Government had no right to assume that Eng-
<c05>
land, having reduced this principle to practice in thousands of instances and never given it up, would, on reflection, so dishonor it and dishonor herself as angrily to object to the trail of it by another nation. Nay, our Government had no right to insult England by such an assumption. But I shall be told that our Government would not consent to settle the case, save on American principles. Again I say that America has no maritime principles. Her conduct in regard to the slave-trade makes it exceedingly indecent in her to pretend that she has. Moreover, if the case has been settled on American principles, it is solely on her slave-trade principles, which forbid foreigners to search for criminals.
How much better it would be if our statesmen, instead of trying to make America believe that she had come out of this Trent matter with flying colors, should frankly confess the contrary! The simple truth is, that our nation had given herself up to the sway of slavery; that the handful of Abolitionists foretold her consequent destruction; that she laughed at them, and kept on in her madness, until she was so far destroyed as to be obliged to accept the humiliation which England disingenuously meanly and cruelly forced upon her. By the way, many of our pro-slavery men, instead of repenting, are charging the ruin of their country upon the Abolitionists. But as well might they hold Jesus responsible for the destruction of Jerusalem because he prophesied it. And just here let me say that nothing can be more untrue than to change that the Abolitionists are seeking to make the abolition of slavery the object of the war. They admit that its one object is the salvation of the country. From this to any other, they have never sought to turn the people. It is, however, entirely true, that whilst others would consent to sacrifice the nation in order to save slavery, the Abolitionists would consent to sacrifice slavery in order to save nation. No other class is so patriotic as the Abolitionists. In every other there are traitors, but none amongst them. Select the soldiers who have the most heart in the war, and you will find nearly all to be slanderers of the Abolitionists.
But I must draw my long letter to a close. Let not England argue from our insanity and impotence with respect to the rebellion, that she has nothing to fear from a war with America. It is true that we cannot face slavery and more than a slave can the whip of his master. Slavery is our master, and we are but trembling slaves in its presence. But it is also true that we are a strong and brave people, and can face anything but slavery; and it is further true that slavery will soon be out of our way, and that we shall then come to be filled with shame and sorrow over our low and long subjection to it. Moreover, we shall then be prepared to call our rulers to a very stern account for letting slavery prolong a rebellion which might have been ended in a few months, and for letting it fill tenfold as many graves and roll up tenfold as great a burden of taxes as was necessary. Alas! and will there not also be the destruction of our nation for us to call them to account for? Reduced, however, though we shall be to twenty millions of people by the success of the rebellion, nevertheless, the element of weakness being eliminated from it, our nation will be far more powerful than it was before.
I assume, as you see, that the rebellion is to be successful. Every portion of my country is very dear to me, and I have done what I could to save it from division. But the only measure by which it can be saved from it, its rulers obstinately refuse to adopt. This only measure is the identifying of the five millions of negroes with our cause. Victories we shall soon achieve. But they will be no substitute for this measure. They will only make its speedy adoption the more necessary. For their tendency will be to drive the South to identify by an Act of Emancipation those five millions with her own cause. When she shall be hard-driven by these victories, her fears will tell her, and Europe will tell her, to save herself by giving up slavery. Would that we might anticipate her in this measure, and thus save the nation, and bless its whole population, North and South, black and White! But from the day the President laid his hand on Fremont's Proclamation, I have seen but little prospect of this good. Nay, when of late I have seen how smitten with blindness are our rulers in both Church and State, and how few are the signs of repentance in either, I have strongly feared it is too late to save our poor perishing nation-that no amount of human power, pervaded though it might be with the greatest human goodness, and controlled withal by the highest human wisdom, could save it. From the first, I have had not the least doubt that the bombarding of sumner was the killing of slavery. But now I tremble with the apprehension that ETERNAL JUSTICE cannot be satisfied, unless there be added to the freedom of the innocent slave the destruction of the guilty nation.
I have virtually said that whichever party wins the blacks, wins the battle. Many think that we would proceed to conquer the South, even after she had emancipated the slaves. But they are mistaken. We then would not conquer her if we would, and would not if we could. We should have neither the physical nor the moral power adequate to it. They sympathy of the world would be with the South. The contempt of the world would fall upon us. And must we come to this? Almost certainly. To ask Congress and the Cabinet, after all we have seen of them, to save is from this, would be scarcely more promising than to ask dead men to walk. As an instance of the deadness of our rulers to all the claims of patriotism and self-respect, the Senate of the United States is, I fear, morally unable to expel that arrant and shameless traitor Jesse D. Bright.
Let me again express the hope that the philanthropists of England will labor to restore the exchange of good feeling between her and America. Let them, to this end, seek to better the bearing of the English Press toward America. And let them explain to the English people that the base object of our Pro-Slavery Northern Press in irritating England is to involve her in a war with us for the advantage of slavery and the South. But, above all, let them labor to convince England of her crime in declaring war against us. And that was a crime not against America only, but against the cause of Christian civilization also. If we did insult her, which we did not, she should not have tried to kill us for it. It is too late for a Christian nation to go to war for a mere insult. When it shall be right in one man to kill another for having insulted him, then, and not till then, will it be right in a nation to allow a mere insult to drive her to war. Love, and not pride, should be the animating principle of every nation as well as of every individual.
You will mark that I have not, in any part of my letter, fallen in with the incessant American abuse of England for her lack of sympathy with the Anti-Slavery North. The North is not Anti-Slavery,-emphatically not, as she is seen through the action of her Government; and through that it is proper for England to see her and judge of her. In re-
<c06>
spect to her relations to slavery, the North is entitled not to the sympathy, but only to the commiseration of England. However soundly Anti-Slavery England might be, consistency would not require her to have Anti-Slavery sympathy with the North. This much, however, I can say for the North-that a large and rapidly-increasing share of her people are sincerely opposed to slavery, and are filled with shame and sorrow because of her slavery-bound rulers. Thousands of men are still toiling, as for many years they have been, under every reproach and at every sacrifice, to break the yoke of their enslaved brother, and to save their beloved country. The breaking of that yoke is, indeed, an inexpressibly dear object to such men as Garrison and Phillips. But there are none more concerned than they are for the salvation of their country. The love of human rights dies not interfere with patriotism. Nay, it is because of this love, that whenever you find a patriot of the truest type, you find him an Abolitionist. The love of country, which he has in common with orders, is fed and expanded in him by the love of universal man.
I have further concessions to make in this connection. I do not believe that England sympathizes with slavery in our rebellions States, or anywhere else; and I do not believe that her need of their cotton can drive her to break the blockade of their ports. But I am pained by the apprehension that she will recognize the Government which has within the last year been set up over those states. That I am pained by it, is not because the recognition would tend to weaken the hands of the North in her present struggle. Whether she shall or shall not succeed in this struggle depends (provide, always, that the nation is not too guilty to be saved) not on any other nation, but on the simple question whether she shall or shall not allow slavery to keep hindrances in her way. Her way cleared of them, and she is saved; but with them remaining in it, she is lost.
It is because this new Government is a piracy, and the most guilty and horrid piracy earth ever knew, that I am distressed at the thought if England's recognition of it. The day which shall witness such recognition, will witness England's mighty influence for evil, and a sensible reduction of the moral power of the world. This new Government is sufficiently characterized when we have said that the great boast of its builders is, that slavery is its corner-stone. Would God that England and all Europe, instead of letting this slavery-demonized Confederacy into the sisterhood of nations, might be inspired to say, as said Daniel Webster of another habitation where slavery was plying its horrid work: "Let it be purified, or let it be set aside form the Christian world. Let it be put out of the circle of human sympathies and human regards, and let civilized man henceforth have no communion with it!"
With great regard, 
Your friend,
GERRIT SMITH
THE ORATOR OF FREEDOM
From the Jersey (Eng.) Independent, Oct 26,1861.
After the wretched exhibitions of prejudice and downright ignorance on the American question made by the great majority of English members of Parliament addressing their constituents-we except Mr. Forster, the member for Bradford, and two or three more-it is a relief, a pleasure and a delight, to turn to the magnificent oration of Senator Sumner, the distinguished son of Massachusetts, which we give in to-day's Independent. As a general rule even those who like to listen to good speeches do not care to read long speeches, good or bad. But even such persons need not our recommendation to give their attention to the graceful periods and electrifying appeals of, probably, the most accomplished of American speakers; perhaps the Anglo-Saxton tongue; for, rivalling Gladstone in genius, he more than rivals the glory of England's House of Commons by that holy earnestness which imparts to eloquence its chief effect, and which naturally is the product of circumstances rather than of individual will. Mr. Sumner is world-famed, and for himself personally the most sincere sympathy had been felt in England from the time that he was so treacherously and brutally assaulted by the ruffian Brooks, an atrocity premonitory of the treason and ferocity which commenced with the conspiracy of President Buchanan's Ministers, and the subsequent rebel bombardment of Fort Sumter. The principles of the Massachusetts Senator command our thorough adhesion, as his extraordinary talents challenge our admiration, and his courageous consistency carries with it our respect.
We feel confident that had we sat in the Worcester Convection, the orator would have commanded our vote as well as our applause. Yet his oration, exciting indescribable enthusiasm, did not carry with it the vote of the assembly. The majority shrunk from the tremendous consequences involved in the carrying out of Mr. Sumner's straight-forward programme! As we have not the speeches of the opposing orators before us, we will not do them the injustice of passing judgment on the vote they influenced. Had we space at command, which we have not, we would recite and admit the force of the anxious considerations swaying the minds of those who like the Government at Washington and the majority in the Worcester Convention, shrink from the course of ultimate safety through present peril pointed out by the Massachusetts Senator. But although we can make every allowance for President Lincoln and his Ministers, and those Massachusetts men who hesitate to invoke the sword of Spartacus, still, we repeat, all our sympathies are with Mr. Sumner, the cause of which he is the champion, and the policy of which he is the exponent. Although grammarians will not allow the comparative and superlative of "right," and know nothing of "righter" and "rightest," we must nevertheless affirm that General Butler was right, General Fremont more right, and that Senator Sumner is most right. We have not space at present to follow up this theme, but must conclude by urging all to read the brilliant speech preceding these few remarks, an oration truly worthy of 
"The holiest cause that tongue or sword 
Of mortal ever lost or gained."
FANATICS. In taking up a number of the Oswego Palladium, we counted thirteen instances where the word "fanatics" was applied to those who do not believe in fighting this war for the benefits of slavery. We could not help applying to the man who used this term so flippantly the words of Dr. ORESTES A. BROWNSON, an eminent Democrat, who in a recent lecture demonstrating the impossibility of re-uniting our nation without interfering with slavery, said: "All earnest men were fanatics to the lukewarm. All disinterested were fanatics to the selfish. All heroic men were fanatics to the cowardly. All living men were fanatics of the dead."-Oswego Commercial times.
26
THE LIBERATOR.
FEBRUARY 14.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
"THE WAR, AND HOW TO END IT."
Extracts from a California pamphlet, written by WILLIAM N. SLOCUM, late editor of the San Jose Mercury:-
Three objects are before the American people at this time for attainment- the preservation of the Union, an honorable peace, and the abolition of slavery; the first and second of which may be easily and quickly secured by proclaiming the third, and enforcing it as fast as our armies move southward. The abolition of slavery must soon be followed by the disbanding of the rebel army. Every southern soldier would desire to protect his own family against the possible vengeance of the slaves. Peace would soon follow, and slavery being destroyed, the peace would be permanent between the two sections, though quiet at the South cannot be restored for years. The estates of rebels should be divided and apportioned among the Northern soldiers, upon condition of immediate settlement. This course would infuse a new element into Southern society, which in less than ten years would revolutionize the character of the Southern people. It is a absolute fact, (all lies to the contrary notwithstanding,) that the white man can perform more and harder labor at the South than the negro. It has been proved over and over again in the ditching and railroad building of the Southern States. Labor too arduous for the negro is performed by the white man with ease. The "poor white trash" of the South, being acclimated, are better able to labor even than the whites of the North, and on finding that other white men, more intelligent than themselves, are not ashamed to work for a living, they too would earn enough to live decently; and the next generation, educated in the schools introduced by the Northern men, would be a superior race. In the meantime, laws would require to be passed for the regulation of labor, and the prevent the oppression of the negro by white tyrants.
* * * * Final emancipation is our only hope, and speedy emancipation our best policy. In urging this policy upon the people, I have not referred to the threatening aspect of our foreign relations, for I believe we should do the right thing because it is right, and not through fear of a war with a foreign power if we persist in the wrong. We have never been in the habit of looking to the monarchies of Europe for any approval of the acts of a republican government; nevertheless, at this crisis, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that hostilities with foreign powers are liable to commence at any moment. There is a great difference between the spirit of the British government towards this country, and that which animates a majority of the British people. The sympathies of the British people not being, as yet, strongly enlisted in favor of the Union, as would be the case if our policy were emancipation, the British government is left free to wage war against a republic of which it has always been jealous, and which, if again united, will be its greatest rival; while, in case of disunion, an immense trade will be opened between England and the Southern Confederacy, (now almost monopolized by the North,) an alliance will be formed between them, (because it will then be too late for the people to restrain the Government,) and the material prosperity of England will be much enhanced. Though France and Spain would be less directly benefited than England, the rulers of those countries see in the downfall of this republic the more permanent establishment of monarchical rule throughout the world; and, though professing friendship they stand ready to make use of any pretext that would enable them to insure the permanent disruption of this Government. While we maintain our present policy, they may safely aid the rebellion without giving offence to their own people; but let our Government proclaim emancipation, and the enthusiasm of the people of France would warn the Emperor of the danger of running counter to such an immense public opinion; while the British Ministry controlled by the British people, would foresee itself crushed by any attempt to interfere against a cause so holy as would then be the cause of our Government; and Spain, without England and France, would be powerless. We should have the sympathy of the people of the world, the approval of our own consciences, and the smiles of a benignant Providence.* * *
"But what would you do with the slaves?" Do with them? What would be the necessity of doing anything with them, except to pass laws for their protection? Is not their labor needed where they are? Has it not been demonstrated, by the results of emancipation in the Indies, that they are less dangerous as freemen than slaves, and that their willingness to labor will induce them to continue in the service of kind masters of wages, to the great moral, mental, physical, and pecuniary benefit of both? Has the freed slave been a curse in those States of the North where slavery has been abolished? Our history proves the contrary. They have always taken care of themselves when freed, and found it much easier than before freedom, when they had to earn their master's living as well as their own. Yet people still say that they are dependent upon a master for support, and that when freed they become public nuisances, to get rid of which some colonization plan must be invented for their removal. If there is anything I abominated more than slavery, it is the schemes that are sometimes hatched for colonizing men against their will.
A SPLENDID CHANGE FOR GEN. HALLECK'S "ORDER NO. 3."
ST. Louis, January 16, 1862.
A few days since, while Company C of the Iowa 3d, under command of Lieutenant Leffingwell, was in the occupancy of Florence, guarding the North Missouri Railroad at that point, a negro came dashing towards the camp about eleven o'clock at night, mounted upon a high-spirited horse. He was about to pass the guard, who sprang forward and caught the bridle-rein of his horse, and stopped him. The negro immediately threw himself from the animal, and in a cringing, obsequious manner observed: "Massa soger, please let me go in de camp, and see de Illinoy soger." The guard informed him that they were Iowa soldiers, and desired to know what he wanted. He hung down his head for a moment, seemingly musing over some disappointment, and then continued- "Massa soger! look at his collar; I'se a good nigger. Please let met go in." The guard now discovered that he was ironed, and immediately called the officer of the guard who took him to the guard-house. In the morning he was taken before Lieutenant Leffingwell, around whose quarters the entire command had already assembled; and never did men look upon a scene more degrading and humiliating than was presented to their view in the person of this slave. Around his neck was a band of iron half and inch thick, and nearly one and a half inches wide, not locked but securely riveted. Three iron prongs of lightning-red size were welded to this band, at equal distances apart, and arose above his head about nine inches, with an outward inclination. The iron had lacerated his neck, and the wound had partially healed under the protection he had given to them by holding up the band with his hands during the three preceding days that he was concealed in a corn-field, but while riding the horse he could not hold it up, and it had opened the wound, from which there was a bloody, matter ooze trickling down upon his naked shoulders. The men stood around, gazing upon the scene before them in mute astonishment, and it was not until the negro had presented his petition two or three times that they could realize the fact that the cruelty of the scene before them was the act of a slave master living but a short distance from St. Louis, the enlightened emporium of Missouri. The negro observed-" Please, Massa soger, take his collar off my neck. Ise a good nigger; I'll do any ting you wand me. De Illinoy sogers cut de collar offer Ben." The Lieutenant immediately ordered it to be stricken off, when an old file was procured, which could be made to work upon the band only in a slanting manner. After a labor of over three hours it was removed, the men taking turn about-two holding the band while one used the file. The band is now in possession of Lieutenant Leffingwell, who holds it as one of the trophies of the 3rd Iowa, a and the negro is now officiating in his quarters as a servant.
The master of this contraband resides about ten miles from Florence. It appears that the negro had carried this iron band upon his neck nearly three months, as a punishment for assisting his wife to make her escape into Illinois. Gen. Halleck, or some other prudent commander, may order this band to be re-riveted upon his neck, and the "property" surrendered to his master; but from what I have seen of the Iowa soldiers, I believe that blood would drip from the end of their bayonets before they would do it. The contraband always gives the Missouri troops a wide berth, and generally makes for the Illinois regiments, under whose broad shield of bayonets be feels secure.-Correspondence of the Chicago Tribune.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1862.
A NEW PHASE OF ANTI-SLAVERY.
Those who have been accustomed to read, in the Liberator or elsewhere, the writings of pro-slavery people, have for many years seen the phrase "malignant philanthropy" Abolitionists. This absurd phrase was invented as an effective catch-word with which to stigmatize the opposers of slavery; and it was readily adopted by the various classes of persons disposed so to stigmatize them; that is to say, by persons who were slaveholders themselves, or who, being connected religiously, politically, commercially or socially with slaveholders, wished their "peculiar institution" to remain undisturbed.
It was natural that men unscrupulous enough to uphold the worst form of despotic tyranny should be unscrupulous enough to uphold it by falsehood and calumny. And, the sectarians, politicians and merchants in question being what they were, it was by no means strange that they should resort to such means of operation. Still, it remained true that all those who ventured to disparage philanthropy did so in the interest of slavery; they all assumed, either that slavery was a good thing in itself, or that its overthrow would more evils than its continuance.
But a phenomenon still stranger has now made its appearance as one of the results of the rebellion and the civil war. A set of men have just arisen, active and hearty opposers of slavery, and seeking its immediate overthrow and its complete eradication-and showing, so far, the same purpose as the American Anti- Slavery Society-but yet choosing to declare, at the same time, their contemptuous disregard of those considerations of justice, humanity and recognition of the rights of man as man, which have been the prime motives of the old Abolitionists. Mr. Garrison and his associates-writing and speaking a great deal, incidentally, on the advantages of an abolition of slavery, on the increase of welfare that would come from it to the religion, morality, education, literature, commerce, agriculture, art, science and social life of all the States, and of all classes in each State-always emphasized right and duty as the paramount considerations in the case; always pressed first the claims of justice and humanity; always said that the slave had a right to freedom, quoting the Declaration of Independence in his behalf; and always said that the white man was bound in duty to give him this freedom, and was guilty of aggravated sin every day of his delay to give it, quoting, to this effect, the concurrent testimony of the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures. The new comers of whom I have been speaking, on the contrary, make conspicuous and emphatic disclaimer of all right, justice or humanity, in the conduct of their new enterprise. They parade their utter indifference to the welfare of the negro, free or slave. Any regard for, or mention of, his rights and interests in the solution of our great problem belongs, in their view, to "abolition jargon." They distinctly declare themselves to be looking out for Number One; to be seeking the advantage of their side, the white man's party; and their own deliberate exposition of their motive and desire fairly parallels the selfish man's prayer- "God bless me and my wife, my son John and his wife, us four and no more. Amen!"
Here are passages to this effect from the first two numbers of a new periodical, The Continental Monthly, which makes energetic appeal for an immediate turning of our war against slavery, and for a thorough extirpation of it from the loyal as well as the disloyal States:-
"About the time that Calhoun was spreading the heresy of his state-rights doctrine is South Carolina, and taking his 'logical ground' on the slavery question, a class, then almost universally branded as fanatics, but whose proportions have since very largely swelled, arose at the North, which were a match for the South Carolina Senator with his own weapons. Each laid hold of an extreme point, and maintained it. We refer to the Abolitionists of thirty years ago, under Garrison, Tappan and Co. These people seized on a single idea, exclusive of any other, and went nearly mad over it. Apparently blind to the evils around them, which were close at hand, within their own doors, dwelling perhaps in their own hearts, they were suddenly 'brought to see' the 'vile enormity' of slaveholding. Their argument was very simple. 'Slavery is an awful sin in the sight of God. Slaveholders are awful sinners. We of the North having made a covenant with such sinners are equally guilty of the sin of slavery with them. Slavery must be immediately abolished. Fiat justitia ruat coelum. Better that the Republic fall than continue in the unholy league one day.' These men were ready to 'dissolve the Union,' to disintegrate the nation, to blast the hopes of perhaps millions of persons over the world, who were watching with anxious hearts the experiment of our government trembling lest it should fail."* * * * *
"If 1861 had brought nothing else to pass, it would be supremely great in this, that amid toil and trial, foes within and without, it has seen the American people determine that slavery, the worm which gnawed the core of its tree of life, shall be plucked out. Out it shall go, that is settled. We have fought the foe too long with kid gloves, but now puss will lay aside her mittens and catch the Southern rats in earnest. It is the negro who sustains the South; the negro who maintains its army, feeds it, digs its trenches, squires its precious chivalry, and is thereby forced most unnaturally to rivet his own chains. There shall be an end to this, and our administration is yielding to the inevitable necessity. Here again the great year has worked a wonder, since in so short a space it has made such an advance in discovering a basis by which all Union men may conscientiously unite in freeing the black. There have been hitherto two steps made towards the solution. The first was that of the old Abolition movement, which saw only the suffering of the slave and cried aloud for his freedom, reckless of all results. It was humane; but even humanity is not always worldly wise, and it did unquestionably for twenty years defeat its own aim in the Border States. But it worked most unflinchingly. Then came HELPER, who saw that the poor white man of the South was being degraded below the negro, and that industry and capital were fearfully checked by slavery. In his well-known work he pointed out, by calm and dispassionate facts and figures, that the land south of 'Mason and Dixon's' was being sacrificed most wastefully, and the majority of its white inhabitants kept in incredible ignorance, meanness and poverty, simply that a few privileged families might remain 'first and foremost.' These opinions were most clearly sustained, and the country was amazed. People began to ask if it was quire right, after all, to suffer this slavery to grow and grow, when it was manifestly reacting on the poor white man, and literally sinking him below the level of the black. This was the second movement on the slave question, and its effect was startling.
But there was yet a third advance required, and it came with the past year and the war, in the form of the now so rapidly expanding 'Emancipation' movement. Helper had shown that slavery had degraded the poor whites, but the events leading to the present struggle indicated to all intelligent humanity that it was rapidly demoralizing and ruining in the most hideous manner the minds of the masters of the slaves-nay, that its foul influence was spreading like a poison mist over the entire continent. The universal shout of joyful approbation which the whole South had raised years ago when a Northern senator was stricken down and beat in the most infamously cowardly manner, had caused the very horror of amazement at such fearful meanness, among all true-hearted and manly men, the world over. But when there came from the 'first families' grinnings of delight over the vilest thievery and forgery ad perjury by Floyd and his fellows,-when the whole South, after agreeing in carrying on an election, refused to abide by its results,-when the whole Southern press abounded in the vilest denunciations of labor and poverty, and in Satanic contempt of everything 'Yankee,' meaning thereby all that had made the North and West prosperous and glorious,-and when, finally, it was found that this loathsome poison was working through the North itself, corrupting the young with pseudo-aristocratic pro-slavery sympathies,-then indeed it became apparent that for the sake of all, and for that of men in comparison to whose welfare that of the negro was a mere trifle, this fearful disease must be in some form abated. The result was the development of Emancipation on the broadest possible grounds,-of Emancipation for the sake of the Union and of the white man,-to be brought about, however, by the will of the people, subject to such rules as discussion and expediency might determine. This 
<c03>
was the present Emancipation movement, first urged by that name in the New York Knickerbocker magazine, though its main principles were practically manifesting themselves in many quarters-the most prominent being the well-known proclamations of Generals Butler and Fremont.
'Emancipation' does not, as has been urged, present in comparison to Abolition a distinction without a difference. Helper desired the freedom of the slave for the sake of the poor white man in the South, and for Southern development. Emancipation goes further, and claims that nowhere on the American continent is the white laborer free from the vile comparison and influences of slavery, and that it should be abolished for the sake of the Union, and for the sake of all white men."* * * * * *
"We must not be blind to a great opportunity which may be lost, of forever quelling a foul nuisance which would, if neglected now. live forever. Do we not see, feel, ad understand what sort of white men are developed by slavery, and do we intend to keep up such a race among us? Do we want all this work to do over again every ten or five years, or all the time? For a quarter of a century, slavery and nothing else has kept us in a growing fever, and now that it has reached a crisis, the question is whether we shall calm down the patient with cool rose-water. In the crisis comes a physician who knows the constitution of his patient, and proposes searching remedies and a thorough cure,-and, lo! the old nurse cries out that he is interfering and acting unwisely. though he is quite as willing to adopt her cooling present solace as she.
If we had walked over the war-course last spring without opposition,-if we had conquered the South, would we have put an end to this trouble? Does any one believe that we would? This is not now a question of the right to hold slaves, or the wrong of so doing. All of that old abolition jargon went out and died with the present aspect of the war. So far as nine-tenths of the North ever cared, or do now care. slaves might have hoed away down in Dixie, until supplanted, as they have been in the North, by the irrepressible advance of manufactures and small farms, or by free labor. 'Keep your slaves and hold your tongues,' was, and would be now. our utterance. But they would not hold their tongues. It was 'rule or ruin' with them. And if, as it seems, a man cannot hold slaves without being arrogant and unjust to others, we must take his slaves away."
"Now let every friend of the Union boldly assume that, so far as the settlement of this question is concerned, he does not care one straw for the Negro. Leave the Negro out altogether. Let him sink or swim, so far as this difficulty goes. Men have tried for thirty years to appeal to humanity, without success, for the Negro, and now let us try some other expedient. Let us regard him not as a man and a brother, but as 'a miserable nigger,' if you please, and a nuisance. But whatever he be, if the effect of owning such creatures is to make the owner an intolerable fellow, seditious and insolent, it becomes pretty clear that such ownership should be put an end to. If Mr. Smith cannot have a horse without riding over his neighbor, it is quire time that Smith were unhorsed, no matter how honestly he may have acquired the animal. And if the Smiths, father and sons, threaten to keep their horse in spite of law,-nay, and breed up a race of horses from him, whereon to rough-ride everybody who goes afoot,-then it becomes still more imperative that the Smith family cease cavaliering it altogether."
"Is there any reason, even the slightest, to suppose that by military and naval means alone the rebellion can be crushed by the 19th April next?
Yet every day's delay gives the Confederate States additional strength, and renders them in the estimation of mankind more and more worthy of recognition and independent government. Their recognition will be followed by treaties of friendship and alliance; and those treaties will give strength to the rebels and increase the embarrassments of our own Government. It is the necessity of our national life that the settlement of this question should not be much longer postponed.
By some means we must satisfy the world, and that speedily, that the rebellion is a failure. Nor can we much longer tender declarations of what we intend to do, or offer promises as to what we will do, in the face of the great fact that for eight months the capital of the Republic has been in a state of siege. If, in these circumstances of necessity and peril to us, the armies of the rebels be not speedily dispersed, and the leaders of the rebellion rendered desperate, will the Government allow the earth to again receive seed from the hand of the slave, under the dictation of the master, and for the support of the enemies of the Constitution and the Union? If there were any probability that the States would return to their allegiance, then indeed we might choose to add to our own burthens rather than interfere with their internal affairs. But there is no hope whatever that the seceded States will return voluntarily to the Union."
The limitation here disclosed is also shown in the "Literary Notices" of the Continental Monthly. Speaking of THE REJECTED STONE, the Editor represents its advocacy of emancipation to be-"not on the narrow ground of abolition, but on the necessity of promptly destroying an evil which threatens to vitiate the white race." And, speaking of the TRAGEDY OF ERRORS, he says-"We cannot agree with its very talented author in finding so much that is touching and beautiful in the negro, believing that the motto which prefaces this work is simply a sentimental mistake." Now this motto, "Aux plus desherites le plus d'amour," is only a different form of Christ's injunction to seek and save the lost; only a different form of that truth upon which Theodore Parker so strongly insisted, that the strong were made strong expressly that they might serve and help the weak.
In another article, entitled "what to do with the Darkies," the writer, after stating that the overwhelming difficulty of our position is the proper disposal of the Negro, "the black dregs" at the bottom of our cup, combines his contempt for the slave with the following ingenious plan of executing poetical justice against the rebel slaveholder:-
"President Lincoln is understood to favor emigration. This looks well. Carry the blacks away to Liberia. Unfortunately I am informed that eight and a half Great Easterns, each making one trip per month. could only export the annual increase of our Southern slaves. This speaks in thunder tones, even to the welkin, and provokes a scream from the eagle. It is impossible.
But what shall we do with our blacks, since it is really impossible, then, to export the dark, industrial, productive, proletarian, operative, laboring element from our midst?
I suggest as a remedy that they continue in our midst, with this amendment, that they be concentrated in that same 'midst,' and the 'midst' be removed a little to one side. In other words, let us centre them all in one State, that State to be South Carolina.
The justice of this arrangement must be apparent to every one. It is evident that if the present occupation by our troops continue much longer, there will be no white men left in South Carolina, neither is it likely that they will ever return. Terror and pride combined must ever keep the native whites from repopulating that region. And, as South Carolina was especially the State which brought about this war, for the express purpose of making the black man the basis of its society, there would be a wonderful and fearful propriety in carrying out that theory, or 'sociology,' even to perfection; making the negro not only the basis of society, but all society there whatever,-top, bottom, and sides."
The above extracts have purposely been made large enough to show, with the fault in question, something of the energy, directness and thoroughness of the assault made by this publication upon slavery. Help towards the extermination of this worst evil and sin of our country is to be welcomed, no doubt, from every quarter. But if the Divine declaration that "Righteousness exalteth a nation" be not "simply a sentimental mistake," it is unspeakably saddening to see such brave and strong men, men so intelligent and sagacious in worldly wisdom as the writers in the Continental Monthly, deliberately repudiating a higher motive and adopting a lower one.
No doubt they will gain more partisans, at preset, by this course of policy. For the depravation wrought by our long toleration and support of slavery has so thoroughly pervaded Church and State, that few men of either class will hesitate at injustice, when it promises success. Moreover, so thoroughly have the teachers of both classes betrayed and perverted their office, that the pious people will ride rough-shod over Christianity in a case like this, just as the political people will over true Democracy. Out nation has so long been feeding upon fiery stimulants that whole some food and drink have become nauseous to it. Notwithstanding this, however, truth is great, and will prevail. The universe will assuredly go on according to God's laws, and his laws never were and never will be broken. His invariable rule is that injustice shall not prosper; and those who try the experiment will find that oppressively expelling and ostracising the negro will have an inevitable result of loss and harm to themselves, just as much as oppressively keeping him in chains. Why not have done with 
<c04>
oppression? Why not choose justice, and adhere to its dictates? Why not place ourselves on God's side, in the act of laying a new corner-stone for our national prosperity?-C. K. W.
CONFIRMATION.
The suggestions above presented, as to the existence of a very extensive hostility of feeling against the negro among the people of the free States, receive and confirmation from the following article, from the Journal of Commerce of Tuesday last. True to its proslavery antecedents, that paper parades "with alacrity" the evidence of a disposition, on the part of some of the North-Western States, to expel, or otherwise oppress, the unhappy blacks who are nor seeking refuge among them. If the Journal of Commerce cared for the negroes, it would represent to these selfish North-Western people the undoubted fact, that a complete abolition of slavery by law, would draw that race at once, by strong attraction, to the South, and away from them; and it would urge them, for this as well as for better reasons, to throw their efforts in aid of such abolition. But, sharing fully with North and South in the <illegible> of those whom it has injured, it uses these sad acts of oppression to recommend its favorite scheme of compulsory Colonization for the negro.--C. K. W.
SICK OF THE NEGRO. Some of the North-Western States are 'making up faces" because a considerable number of miserable negroes have taken up their abode in that part of the country. The latter were so simple and credulous as to believe that all the zeal for Sambo so loudly professed was in good earnest, and that the colored people would be welcomed to the embrace of their white brethren. But, alas, for human expectations. Instead of finding a plenty of hoe-cake and corn-dodges, and nothing to do, these unfortunate refugees get nothing but cold shoulder. Some of the indices to public opinion, in the North-West, are worth observing.
The following petition is being circulated in Ohio for signatures. In Jefferson Township, Franklin country, the county in which Columbus is situated, the petition received the signatures of two hundred ad forty one out of two hundred and fifty-four voters:-
To the General Assembly of the State of Ohio:
We, the undersigned, voters of Franklin county, Ohio, in view of the intimation made by the President of the United States, in his message, that by an act of Congress, and by laws of some of the States, to be hereafter enacted, many of the negroes, held as slaves, may be set at liberty, and fearing that they may wander into Ohio, to the great damage of the white inhabitants of our State, and especially to those who have to depend upon their labor to support them selves and families;
We, therefore, respectfully ask your honorable body to enact a law so stringent in this provisions as totally to prohibit any negroes from emigrating into, settling, or holding property in Ohio.
And, if not in conflict with the Constitution, that you also cause those now in Ohio to be removed in as reasonable a time as your judgment may suggest, and that you make it the duty of the trustees of the several townships to see that said law be faithfully enforced.
Coming from Ohio, this movement is very ungracious, for, excepting Massachusetts, that State has manifested more solicitude for the negro than any other, and should at least take her full share of all the negroes that may be emancipated.
Illinois, too, is manifesting a dislike of the black element entering so largely into her population. In the Constitutional Convention of the State, now in session a proposition was introduced, but voted down by 21 ayes to 46 nays, to expel all the negroes now within the limits of the Commonwealth, and as another phase of the same movement, we notice that a resolution was introduced to this body, explicitly denouncing the Abolitionists, and placing them in the same category with Secessionists, as follows:-
Resolved, That the Committee on Federal Relations be instructed to inquire and report who, what class, faction or party is responsible for the present rebellion against the Federal Government; and whether the odious and treasonable doctrine of secession has not received its vitality and nourishment from the Abolition leaders of the North; and whether, in short, the Abolitionists of the North and the rebels of the South are not equally and alike traitors.
This was laid on the table by a comparatively small majority, the vote on the question standing 29 to 26. 
Then comes Iowa in the list of disaffected States. Early in the session of the present Legislature, a resolution was offered that at least one-half of the time be given to legislating for white men, and it was probably in pursuance of this idea that a bill was introduced a few days ago, of which the following is an abstract:-
That no negro or mulatto shall be allowed to settle in this State without bringing a satisfactory certificate of his freedom, and filing with the board of Supervisors a bond of 500 for good behavior; and that any negro or mulatto failing to comply with such regulation shall be hired out to the highest bidder for the benefit of the county; that any citizen harboring such person shall be subject to a heavy fine; and that slaveholders shall have the right of transit across the state for their slaves.
Quite a sharp debate sprang up, lasting throughout the day, but action on the bill was indefinitely postponed, by 74 to 15.
It may be premature at the present time to discuss the subject of providing homes for negroes, but should the war degenerate into an abolition crusade, and anything be left to legislate upon, to do something in regard to this matter will become imperative.
Meanwhile, it is better that Congress and inferior branches of government should direct attention to the more immediate wants of the country.
THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS.
Since this body has lost its Southern Corporate and Honorary Members, ant its Southern subscribers, by the Secession movement, it naturally seeks to obtain from other quarters those funds which its slaveholding friends no longer supply. Its appeals to this effect have been for a long time before the public, and one answer to them has come from Scotland.
The Commission of the Free Church of Scotland, in a document signed by the distinguished Dr. Candlish, urges that aid be given to American Missions, not only for the worthiness of their special object, but as a pacificatory measure; a method of showing that Scottish Christians have no bitterness of feeling towards this country. And a collection in the Free Churches was accordingly made on Sunday, January 26th, on behalf of the American Missions.
Just before this time, an intelligent correspondent of The (Edinburgh) Witness made an inquiry and a suggestion in that paper, of which the following is an extract:-
"The appeal suggests, that to aid the two great bodies that represent the missionary spirit in America, is a convenient opportunity for casting oil on the lately troubled waters. Now, the question I wish to ask is, For which of the missionary institutions of America is aid solicited? There are certainly two societies in America which promote foreign missions, but their character differs essentially. One of them is called the American Missionary Association, the missionaries of which have traversed the world to spread the Gospel message; but, while they have done so, they have not neglected the heathen on their own continent. They have sought to point poor negro inn the Southern States to the truth which maketh free, and to that Saviour by whom they have redemption, and salvation, and everlasting life. These missionaries have been persecuted, and imprisoned, and hunted from place to place, and in more than one instance their lives have been sacrificed; but they have never hesitated to go where they thought there was a call from souls perishing for lack of knowledge.
This association never received contributions from slaveholders, feeling a conscientious objection to putting into their treasury the price of bold, but yet the slaves were their especial care; and now they have established a mission at Fortress Munroe, among the thousands of "contrabands" that have fled to the Northern camp. There the missionaries supply temporal aid, education, and spiritual comfort and instruction; they also administer the rite of marriage to those to whom slavery had previously denied it.
Surely such an institution as this well deserves the support of Scottish friends of missions, if, in the generosity of their hearts, they can afford to give any thing beyond what is required to support their own peculiar work in this department.
The other missionary institution of America,-the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions,-is of much greater magnitude. Its ramifications extend to the heathen throughout the world; but, alas! it has totally neglected four millions of souls at its own doors.
No word of love and sympathy has it given to the poor oppressed slaves. no gospel message had it for them. It gladly received into its treasury thousands of pounds from their oppressors, who were from time to time appointed as managers and presidents, and for whose guilt it had of course no condemnation to offer. It sent missionaries among the Indian nations where slaves were held, and, in consistency, uttered no word against slavery there. Converts holding slaves were received into the Church; and it is within a year or two that a slave was burned alive by one of these converted Indians." 
<c05>
The correspondent of the Witness earnestly hopes that the latter of these bodies is not the one thus commended by Dr. Candlish to the support and sympathy of the Free Church; and very judiciously suggests that the congregations to whom this appeal comes make full inquiry, and satisfy themselves thoroughly upon this point, before making any contributions.
It is to be hoped that this friend (or some other) will report, both in Scotland and here, what was the result of the collections thus ordered; what sum was obtained, and to which Society it was sent. Or if to both, how much the leaders of the Free Church assigned to the anti-slavery, and how much to the proslavery body?-C. K .W.
"COLORED REFUGEES."
"We prefer this designation of the people who are fleeing to our camps and fleets, to that of 'Contrabands,' 'Freedmen,' or 'Vagrants,' because the first implies property in man, the second describes the ex-slaves as actually free, when their condition is otherwise, and the third indicates a degradation and status which the Refugees do not deserve."
So says the "American Missionary," the organ of that "American missionary Association," which, having always protested against slaveholding, and the unprincipled course of the "American Board" in regard to it, have now sent their missionaries to Fortress Monroe and Port Royal, to improve the first opportunity of helping the class above spoken of.
The word "Contrabands," (whatever temporary use it may have had when applied, as a lawyer's quibble, to prevent the cruelty of driving men back into slavery,) is not a proper term to be applied to human beings. In fact, no one word expresses their condition. They are not exactly slaves, and, to the disgrace of our Government, they are not exactly freedmen. Let them be called Colored Refugees, until we can obtain for them a recognized freedom and citizenship.-C. K .W.
SPEECH OF JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
At the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Thursday Evening, Jan. 23.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,- I am here not so much to make a speech as to add to little more color to this occasion. (Laughter.)
I do not know that it is right that I should speak, at this time, for it is said that we have talked too much already; and it is being continually thundered in our ears that the time for speech-making had ended, and the time for action had arrived. Perhaps this is so. This may be the theory of the people, but we all know that the active idea has found but little sympathy with either of our great military commanders, or the National Executive; for they have told us, again and again, that "patience is a cure for all sores," and that we must wait for the "good time" which, to us, had been long a-coming (Applause.)
It is not my desire, neither is it the time for me to criticise the Government, even if I had the disposition so to do. The situation of the black man in this country is far from being an enviable one. To-day, our heads are in the lion's mouth, and we must get them out the best way we can. To contend against the Government is as difficult as it is to sit in Rome and fight with the Pope. (Laughter.) It is probable, that, if we had the malice of the Anglo-Saxon, we would watch our chances and seize the first opportunity to take our revenge. If we attempted this, the odds would be against us, and the first thing we should know would be-nothing! (Laughter.) The most of us are capable of perceiving that the man who spits against the wind, spits in his own face! (Laughter.)
While Mr. Lincoln has been more conservative than I had hoped to find him, I recognize in him an honest man, striving to redeem the country from the degradation and shame into which Mr. Buchanan and his predecessors have plunged it. (Applause.)
This nation is mad. In its devoted attachment to the negro, it has run away after him, (laughter,) and now, having caught him, hangs on with a deadly grasp, and says to him, with more earnestness and pathos than Ruth expressed to Naomi, "Where thou goest, I will go; where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." (laughter and applause.)
Why this wonderful attachment? My brother (Mr. Remond) spoke ably and eloquently to you this afternoon, and told you of the cruel and inhuman prejudices of the white people of this country. He was right. But has he not failed to look on the other side of this question? Has he not observed the deep and abiding affection that they have for the negro, which "neither height, nor depth, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present nor to come, can separate from this love," which reaches to their very souls? (Renewed laughter and applause.)
I do not deny that there is a deep and cruel prejudice lurking in the bosoms of the white people of this country. It is much more abundant in the North than in the South. Here, it is to be found chiefly among the higher and lower classes; and there is no scarcity of it among the poor whites at the South. The cause of this prejudice may be seen at a glance. The educated and wealthy class despise the negro, because they have got rich off the fruits of his labor; and they believe if he gets his freedom, their fountain will be dried up, and they will be obliged to seek business in a new channel. Their "occupation will be gone." the lowest class hate him because he is poor, as they are, and is a competitor with them for the same labor. The poor ignorant white man, who does not understand that the interest of the laboring classes is mutual, argues in this wise: "Here is so much labor to be performed,-that darkey does it. If he was gone, I should have his place." The rich and the poor are both prejudiced from interest, and not because they entertain vague notions of justice and humanity. While uttering my solemn protest against this American vice, which has done more than any other thing to degrade the American people in the eyes of the civilized world, I am happy to state that there are many who have never known this sin, and many others who have been converted to the truth by the "foolishness of anti-slavery preaching," and are deeply interested in the welfare of the race, and never hesitate to use their means and their influence to help break off the yoke that has been so long crushing us. I thank them all, and hope the number may be multiplied, until we shall have a people who will know no man save by his virtues and his merits. (Loud applause.)
Now, it seems to me that a blind man can see that the present war is an effort to nationalize, perpetuate, and extend slavery in this country. In short, slavery is the cause of the war: I might say, is the war itself. Had it not been for slavery, we should have had no war! Through two hundred and forty years of indescribable tortures, slavery has wrung out of the blood, bones and muscles of the negro hundreds of millions of dollars, and helped much to make this nation rich. At the same time, it has developed a volcano which had burst forth, and, in a less number of days than years, has dissipated this wealth and rendered the Government bankrupt! And, strange as it may appear, you still cling to this monstrous iniquity, notwithstanding it is daily sinking the country lower and lower! (Hear, hear.) Some of our ablest and best men have been sacrificed to appease the wrath of this American god. (Hear, hear.) There was Fremont-God bless him (loud applause)-who, under pretense of frauds in his contracts, to the amount of several thousand dollars, was set aside for a Hunker Kidnapper. If Fremont made a mistake of a few thousand dollars,-Which no one claims was intentional, on his part-what do you think of the terrible delay which had cost, and is costing, us two millions a day? Who is responsible for this great sacrifice of treasure? (Hear, hear.) Then, there was Mr. Cameron, the hem of whose garment was not soiled with Anti-Slavery, except what he got from his official position, as it was forced upon his convictions. But, standing where he did, he saw the real enemy of the country; and because he favored striking at its 
<c06>
vitals, his head was cut off, and that of a Hunker's substituted! There is a storm in that cloud which, to-day, though no larger than a man's hand, is destined to sweep over this country and wake up this guilty nation. Then we shall know where the fault is, and if these dry bones can live! (Loud applause.) 
The Government wishes to bring back the country to what it was before. This is possible; but what is to be gained by it? If we are fools enough to retain the cancer that is eating out our vitals, when we can safely extirpate it, who will pity us if we see our mistake when we are past recovery? (Hear, hear.) The Abolitionists saw this day of tribulation and reign of terror long ago, and warned you of it; but you would not hear! You now say that it is their agitation, which has brought about this terrible civil war! That is to say, your friend sees a slow match set near a keg of gunpowder in your house, and timely warns you of the danger which he sees is inevitable; you despise his warning, and, after the explosion, say, if he had not told you of it, it would not have happened! (Loud applause.) 
Now, when some leading men who hold with the policy of the President, and yet pretend to be liberal, argue, that while they are willing to admit that the slave has an undoubted right to his liberty, the master had an equal right to his property; that to liberate the slave would be to injure the master, and a greater good would be accomplished to the country in these times, by the loyal master's retaining his property, than by giving to the slave his liberty,-I do not understand it so. Slavery is treason against god, man and the nation. The master had no right to be a partner in a conspiracy which has shaken the very foundation of the Government. Even to apologize for it, while in open rebellion, is to aid and abet in treason. The master's right to his property in human flesh cannot be equal to the slave's right to his liberty. The former right is acquired, either by kidnapping, or unlawful purchase from kidnappers, or inheritance from kidnappers. The very claim invalidates itself. On the other hand, liberty is the inalienable right of every human being; and liberty can make no compromise with slavery. The goodness of slavery to the master can bear no relative comparison to the goodness of liberty to the slave. Liberty and slavery are contraries, and separated from each other as good from evil, light from darkness, heaven from hell (Applause.) We trace effects to their cause. The evils brought upon the slave and the free colored man are traced to slavery. If slavery is better than freedom, its effects must also be better; for the better effect is from the better cause, and the better result from the better principle; and conversely, of better effects and results, the causes and principles are better. The greater good is that which we would most desire to be the cause to ourselves and our friends, and the greater evil is that which would give us the deeper affliction to have involved upon them or ourselves. Now, there is no sane man who would not rather have his liberty, and be stripped of every other earthly comfort, and see his friends in a like situation, than be doomed to slavery with its indescribable category of cruelty and wrongs-
"Sometimes loaded with heavy chains,
And flogged till the keen lash stains."
It may be an easy matter to apologize for slavery; but after applying the great test,-the Golden Rule,- of "doing unto others as we would have them do unto us," we must admit that no apology can be made for slavery. And of all the miserable miscreants who have attempted to apologize for, and extol, the happy condition of the slave, I have never seen one of them willing to take the place of one of these so-called "happy creatures." (Loud applause.)
To-day, when it is a military necessity, and when the safety of the country is dependent upon emancipation, our humane political philosophers are puzzled to know what would become of the slaves if they were emancipated! The idea seems to prevail that the poor things would suffer, if robbed of the glorious privileges that they now enjoy! If they could not be flogged, half starved, and work to support in case and luxury those who have never waived an opportunity to outrage and wrong them, they would pine away and die! Do you imagine that the negro can live outside of slavery? Of course, now, they can take care of themselves and their masters too; but if you give them their liberty, must they not suffer? (Laughter and applause.) Have you never been able to see through all this? Have you not observed that the location of this organ of sympathy is in the pocket of the slaveholder and the man who shares in the profits of slave labor? Of course you have; and pity those men who have lived upon their ill-gotten wealth. You know, if they do not have somebody to work for them, they must leave their gilded salons, and take of their coats and roll up their sleeves, and take their chances among the live men of the world. This, you are aware, these respectable gentlemen will not do, for they have been so long accustomed to live by robbing and cheating the negro, that they are sworn never to work while they can live by plunder. (Applause.)
Can the slaves take care of themselves? What do you suppose becomes of the thousands who fly ragged and pennyless from the South every year, and scatter themselves throughout the free States of the North Do they take care of themselves? I am neither ashamed nor afraid to meet this question. Assertions like this long uncontradicted, seem to be admitted as established facts. I ask your attention for one <illegible> to the fact that colored men at the North are shot out of almost every avenue to wealth, and yet, strange to say, the proportion of paupers is much less among us than among you! (Hear, hear.) Are the beggars in the streets of Boston colored men? (Cries of "No, no!") In Philadelphia, where there is a larger free colored population then is to be found in any other city in the free States, and where we are denied every social privilege, and are not even permitted to sent our children to the schools that we are taxed to support, or to ride in the city horse cars, yet even there we pay taxes enough to support our own poor, and have a balance of a few thousand in our own favor, which goes to support those "poor whites" who "Can't take care of themselves." (Laughter and loud applause.)
Many of those who advocate emancipation as a military necessity seem puzzled to know what, is best to be done with the slave, if he is set at liberty. Colonization in Africa, Hayti, Florida and South America are favorite theories with many well-informed persons. This is really interesting! No wonder Europe does not sympathize with you. You are the only people, claiming to be civilized, who take away the rights of those whose color differs from your own. If you find that you cannot rob the negro of his labor and of him self, you will banish him! What a sublime idea! You are certainly a great people! What is your plea! why, that the slaveholders will not permit us to live among them as freemen, and that the air of Northern latitudes is not good for us! Let me tell you, my friends, the slaveholders are not the men we dread! (Hear, hear.) They do not desire to have us removed. The Northern pro-slavery men have done the free people of color ten-fold more injury than the Southern slaveholders. (Hear, hear.) In the South, it is simply a question of dollars and cents. The slaveholders cares no more for you than he does for me. They enslave their own children, and sell them, and they would as soon enslave white men as black men. The secret of the slaveholder's attachment to slavery is to be found in the dollar, and that he is determined to get without working for it. There is no prejudice against color among the slaveholders. Their social system and one million of mulattoes are facts which no arguments can demolish. (Applause.) If the slaves were emancipated, they would remain where they are Black labor in the South is at a premium. The free man of color there has always had the preference over the white laborer. Many of you are aware that Southerners will do a favor for a free colored man, when they will not do it for a white man in the same condition in life. They believe in their institution because it supports them.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Those who say that the air of Northern latitudes is not food for us, that we cannot withstand the cold, and that white men cannot bear the heat, evince their ignorance of the physical capacity of both races. To say that black men cannot bear the cold, or white men the heat, is to assert that which is at variance with the truth. I do not deny that black men from hot countries suffer much from the cold when they come here. But a black map who comes from Cuba suffers no more from the cold than a white man form the country. A colored man born in Boston bears the cold quite as well as a white man who is born here. There has not been a greater proportion of deaths among the white men who have gone from the Northern States to the West Indies than with the colored men who have gone there from the same States. There has been a terrible mortality among the colored people from the North who have recently gone to Hayti. The people from all tropical countries suffer when they come here. Even those white men who come from higher European latitudes suffer from our unequal temperature. It is said that white men cannot bear the heat of the tropics. My answer to this is that they do bear it. I do not deny that God may have made the negro out of a little better material than he made the white man. (Laughter.) Perhaps he is physically his superior. I thing you must admit that he has more fortitude. One thing we do know, and that is, white men don't like to work and earn their own bread, and will not, if the blacks will earn it for them. (Laughter.) In the Gulf States the average life of a field salve is from seven to eight year. Do you imagine that white men, if obliged to work, would die off taster than that? (Hear, hear.) when black men write and edges. (Laughter.) My experience is, that white men can bear the heat of the South, and we know that in the North they are firemen in our steamers, and in our factories and founderies, where they undergo a heat to be found no where in the tropics-subject also to the sudden alternations form heat to cold-a variation at this season of the year of from seventy five to a hundred degree; and yet they bear it, and no one thinks for a moment that the life of a white firemen on a steamer or in a factory is less than that of a colored man in the same situation. (Applause.)
I have no word to say against Liberia or Hayti. The people of those countries will compare favorable with those of other countries in a similar situation. The tropics are not favorable to activity and enterprise. The labor of the tropics has been chiefly forced labor. Those who have not been forced to labor have remained idle. Indeed, idleness is the child of the tropics. Black men in the South are without doubt almost as lazy as the white men there, and you would probably witness their aversion to labor as you do that of the whites, was it not that their is forced form them at the end of the cat-o-nine-tails and the muzzle of the musket. All men are lazy. No class of men would labor was it not for the necessity, and the reward that sweetens labor. But few men can withstand a torrid sun-all shrink from it; and in a hot day a man, whether black or white, goes a instinctively to the shade as a rat to the best cheese. (Laughter and applause.)
Other countries are held out as homes for us. Why is this? Why is it that the people from all other countries are invited to come here, and we are asked to go away? (Hear, hear.) Is it to make room for the refuse population of Europe? (Hear, hear.) Or why is it that the white people of this country desire to get rid of us? Does any one pretend to deny that this is our country? or that much of the wealth and prosperity found here is the result of the labor of our hands? or that our blood and bones have not crimsoned and whitened every battle-field from Maine to Louisiana? Why this desire to get rid of us? Can it be possible that because the nation has robbed us for nearly two and a half centuries, and finding that she can do it no longer and preserve her character among nations, now, out of hatred, wishes to banish, because she cannot continue to rob us? Or why is it? Be patient, and I will tell you. The free people of color have succeeded, in spite of every effort to crush them, and I will tell you. The free  people of color have succeeded in spite of every effort to crush them, and we are to-day a living refutation of that shameless assertion that we " can't take care of ourselves," in a state of freedom. Abject as our condition has been, our whole lives prove us superior to the influences that have been said of your race when it was oppressed and enslaved! Another reason is, this nation has wronged us, and for this reason many hate us. (Hear, hear.) The Spanish proverb is "Desde que te erre nunca bien te quise"-Since I have wronged you, I have never liked you. This is true not only of Spaniards and Americans, but of every other class of people. When a man wrongs another, he not only hates him, but may appear, it is nevertheless painfully true. You may help a man during his lifetime, and your are a capital fellow; but your first refusal brings down his ire, and shows you his ingratitude. When he has got all e can from you, he has no further use for you. When the orange is squeezed, we throw it aside. (Laughter.) The black man is a good fellow while he is a slave, and toils for nothing, but the moment he claims his own flesh and blood and bones, he is a most obnoxious creature, and there is a proposition to get rid of him! He is happy while he remains a poor, degraded, ignorant slave, without even the right to his own offspring. While in this condition, the master can ride in the same carriage, sleep in the same bad, and nurse from the same bosom. But give this same slave the right to use his own legs, his hands, his body and his mind, and this happy and desirable creature is instantly transformed into a miserable and loathsome wretch, fit only to be colonized somewhere near the mountain of the moon, or eternally banished from the presence of all civilized beings. You must not lose sight of the fact that it is the emancipated slave and the free colored man whom it is proposed to remove-not the slave: this country and climate are perfectly adapted to negro slavery; it is the free black that the air is not good for! What an idea! A county good for slavery, and not good for freedom! This idea is monstrous, and unworthy of even the Fejee islanders. All the Emigration and Colonization Societies that have been formed, have been auxiliaries of the Slave Power, and established for this purpose, and the grand desire to make money out of our necessities. (Loud applause.)
It is true, great many simple-minded people have been induced to go to Liberia and to Hayti, but, be assured, the more intelligent portion of the colored people will remain here; not because we prefer being oppressed here to being freemen in other countries, but we will remain because we believe our future prospects are better here than elsewhere, and because our experience has proved that the greater proportion of those who have made their condition worse, and would have gladly assured that we shall remain here-here. Where we have withstood almost everything. Now, when our prospects begin to brighten, we are the more encouraged to stay, pay off the old score, and have a reconstruction of things. There are those of us who believe that we have seen the star of our redemption rising in the east, and moving southward. (Applause.)
The government is now trying to untie the knot which must be cut. Here you perceive it is mistaken. The North is in error. She has suffered the South, like a wayward child, to do as she would, and now, when she would restrain her, she finds trouble. If you wish to prevent a pending evil, destroy the source at once. If the first sparks were quenched, there would be no flame, for how can he kill who dares not be angry? or how can be perjured who fears an oath? All public outrages of a destroying tendency and oppression are but childish sports let alone till they are ungovernable. The choking of the fountain is the surest way to cut off the source of the river
<c02>
The Government has not had the courage to do this Having sown the <illegible> we are now reaping the whirlwind; but in the end I think it will be conceded by all, that we shall have gathered in a glorious harvest. (Loud applause.)
I do not regard this trying hour as a dark one. The war that has been waged on us for more than two centuries has opened our eyes and caused us to form alliances, so that instead of acting on the defensive, we are now prepared to attack the enemy. This is simply a change of tactics. I think is the hand-writing on the wall: I come not to bring peace, but the sword. Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free. I have heard the groans of my people, and am come down to deliver them! (Loud and long-continued applause.)
At present, it looks as though we were drifting into a foreign war; and if we do have one, slavery must go down with it. It is not the time now for me to discuss the relation of the black man to such a war. Perhaps no one care what we think, or how we feel on this subject. You think yourselves strong now. The wisest man and the strongest man is generally the most ignorant and the most feeble. Be not deceived. No man is so feeble that he cannot do you an injury! (Hear, hear.) If you should get into a difficulty of this kind, it would be to your interest that ficulty of this kind, it would be to your interest that we should be your friends. You remember the lion had need of the mouse. (Applause.) You have spurned our offers, and disregarded our feelings, and on this account we have manifested but little interest in, and have been apparently indifferent observers, of this contest; but appearances are deceitful-every man who snores is not asleep. (Applause.)
I believe the conduct of both the bond and the free has been exceedingly judicious. It is times like these that try men. It is storms and tempests that give reputation to pilots. If we have a foreign war, the black man's services will be needed. Seventy-five thonsand freemen capable of bearing arms, and three quarters of a million of slaves wild with the enthusiasm caused by the dawn of the glorious opportunity of being able to strike a genuine blow for freedom, will be a power that "white men will be bound to respect." (Applause.) Let the people of the United States do their duty, and treat us as the people of all other nations treat us-as men; if they will do this, out last drop of blood is ready to be sacrificed in defence of the liberty of this county. (Loud applause.) But if your continue to deny us our rights, and spurn our offers except as menials, colored men will be worse than fools to take up arms at all. (Hear, hear.) We will stand by you, however, and wish you that success which you will not deserve. (Applause.)
This rebellion for slavery means something! Out of it emancipation must spring. I do not agree with those men who see no hope in this war. (Hear, hear.) There is nothing in it but hope. (Applause.) Our cause is onward. As it is with the sun, the clouds often obstruct his vision, but in the en we find there has been no standing still. (Applause.) It is true the Government is but little more anti-slavery now than it was at the commencement of the war; but while fighting for its own existence, it has been obliged to take slavery by the throat, and sooner or later must choke her to death. (Loud applause.) Jeff. Davis is to the slaveholders what Pharaoh was to the Egyptians, and Abraham Lincoln and his successor, John C. Fremont, (applause,) will be to us what Moses was to the Israelites. (Continue applause.) I may be mistaken, but I think the sequel will prove that I am correct. I have faith in God and gunpowder and lead, (loud applause,) and believe we ought not to be discouraged. (Applause.) We have withstood the sixth trial, and in the seventh our courage must not falter. I thank God I have lived to see this great day, when the nation is to be weighed in the balances, and i hope not found wanting. (Applause.) This State and the National Government have treated us most shamefully, but at this is not the first time, I suppose we shall live through it. In the hour of danger, we hav not been found wanting. As the Government has not had the courage to receive the help that has been standing ready and waiting to assist her, we will not stand still, and see the salvation of our people. (Applause.)

RALPH W EMERSON AT WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, (D.C.,) Feb.1,1862.
EDITOR LIBERATOR,-It is not well to look continually on the dark side of things, as many of our friends are inclined to do. Among the more hopeful sings of the times may be mentioned the "Association Lectures" at the Smithsonian Institute this winter. When freedom of speech is guarantied to such men as Cheever, Pierpont, and Emerson, in a slave territory, we may assure ourselves that the days of the peculiar institution are numbered.
Last evening, the largest audience ever convened in the lecture-room of the Smithsonian Institute came together to hear Ralph Waldo Emerson. Considering the state of the weather, and the muddy condition of the streets, the large turnout was a most flattering compliment to the lecturer; but when the audience heartily applauded his most radical sayings, and hardest hits against slavery, it was equally a compliment to the speaker and the good sense of his hearers. It is cheering also to see Senators from Kentucky and Tennessee speaking in favor of expelling from the Senate, Bright of Indiana, for writing a friendly letter to Jeff.Davis, introducing to him the notorious Lincoln as a manufacturer of improved arms. It will be fair to mark as disloyal every Senator who does not vote for his expulsion.
In my travels among the various regiments on the Potomac, I find a large amount of disloyalty among the officers, and a necessity for re-organization in the army. It shows itself in protesting against the right of Government to interfere with a slavery system, and in threats of resignation in case of any such interference. These officers are of no use to the army: they rather weaken it, as their sympathies are stronger for slavery than for the Union; and the sooner Congress or the Cabinet adopt thorough mea sures and gerid of such men, the better.
Last Sunday I was at Budd's Ferry, opposite the rebel batteries which blockade the Potomac. They open their batteries upon every vessel or boat that floats down by them, but with very little damage. They occasionally throw a shot or shell into the camp of our men, which bury themselves in the ground five feet deep. The boys dig them up and sell them for curiosities, at ten dollars apiece.
It helps one to realize that there is war, to stand on the Maryland side of the river, and look at the rebel batteries when they are firing at us. First we see the lightning flash, then the cloud of smoke, and in a few seconds the thundering roar comes to our ears; then the sound of the bursting shells is nearly as loud as the cannon. Yours, hopefully, J.M.H.

APPENDIX TO SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY REPORT.
Since the Subscription List of the 28th Anniversary was put in the printers' hands, the following additional payments have been received:-
Oliver Johnson, Esq., New York, $100.00
Sydney H.Gay, Esq., New York, 50.00
Edgar Ketchum, Esq., New York, 10.00
These sums, added to those on the principal list, make to total receipt of the occasion to be considerably upwards of FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS, a most gratifying result, and highly encouraging in view of the circumstances of the times. The home subscriptions exceed those (we believe) of any previous year.

JOHNSTON'S CRAYON PORTRAIT OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. This life-size and admirably executed portrait which was for some time on exhibition at the Athenaeum, and has been pleasurably examined by thousands, has been kindly presented, by subscription, to the Editor of the Liberator as a token of friendship and regard. The list of donors is a choice one, and the keepsake very gratefully appreciated.
<c03>
SPEECH OF GENERAL JAMES H. LANE AT LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS.
We give the following extracts from a speech recently delivered by General Lane, at Leavenworth, on "The Duty We Owe to our Government in this Her Hour of Direst Extremity":-
For a quarter of a century, I have been and actor in public affairs, and during all that time I have seen twenty millions at the North governed and controlled by six millions at the South. And no matter how extravagant the demand made by any one the these lords of the lash, he had only rise in his seat and say: "Mr. Speaker, unless this request is granted, we shall secede," and the Hotspur gained a submissive acquiescence.
I saw, day before yesterday, a speech, said to have been delivered in the State of my birth, by a man called Abraham Hendricks, in which he said this war was caused by the radicals in the Northern States. Great God! I wonder the earth did not open and just let him through! Such a speech, at such an hour, by a man professing to be a loyal citizen!* * * *
We have lost men enough for the preservation of slavery, have made widows enough, orphans enough.
Go yonder to that fierce fought battle-ground at Springfield! There, out of twelve hundred, five hundred and seventy killed and wounded! Kansas has offered up enough blood to this Moloch, and so has every other State. And I thank God our Government is satisfied that the war has gone along far enough in that direction. Who feeds this rebellion? Four million slaves. Who clothes this rebellion? Four million slaves. Take them from that side, and put them on this side. (Applause.) If they were mules, you would do it in a minute. And yet I think a man is worth more to the enemy than a mule.
One of the Cabinet Ministers asked me the other day, how many slaves I could profitably use in a column of 34,000 men. I replied, 34,000-besides the teamsters. I told him I wanted to see every soldier a knight-errant, and behind him his squire to do all his work.
The new Secretary of War has turned over a new leaf. A healthy public sentiment, created by God himself, compelled that statesman to publish to the army, "Henceforth, your business is to attack, pursue and destroy the enemy." No more taking of the oath; no more swearing in the rattlesnake. Why, to my certain knowledge, the rebels over here in Missouri have been sworn over five times, and they are rattle snakes yet! The true way to close this rebellion is to detach the four million slaves. A man says, "Lane, if you do that, won't you make them free?" Great God! what a terrible calamity! Every slave within this Government is destined to be free; God has so determined. (Applause.)
[General Lane then fully answered the question that the liberation of the slaves would work injustice to the Northern laborer. Instead of diminishing wages, it would increase them.]
The chains are to be stricken from every limb. FREEDOM is to be the battle-cry from North to South, from East to West.
The negroes are much more intelligent than I had ever supposed. I have seen them come into camp (occasionally) looking down as though slaves. By-and-by they begin to straighten themselves, throw back their shou8lders, stand erect, and soon look God straight in the face. They are the most affectionate, impulsive, domestic beings in the world. No one loves mother, wife, children, more than the negro, and they are an altogether smarter people than we give them credit for-I mean, we Democrats!
After a long day's march, after getting supper for the men, after feeding and cleaning the horses, I have seen them out, just back of the tents, drilling. And they take to drill as a child takes to its mother's milk. They soon learn the step, soon learn the position of the soldier, and the manual of arms. You can see that, in the innermost recesses of their souls, the "devil is in them." General Washington did not lie when he said his negroes fought as well as white men. General Jackson did not lie when he paid that noble compliment to his back soldiers at New Orleans. Give them a fair chance, put arms in their hands, and they will do the balance of the fighting in this war.
So terrific is the crime of these traitors, I care not who involves them in ruin and death. Let us teach them treason against this government is crime against God, as well as against man. I care not whether the punishment is inflicted on the battle-field, on the gallows, or from the bush by a negro. Death! death that crushes out this terrible rebellion-let our children remember that the punishment of treason is death.
Why see here-it almost unmans me to hear people talk about the "constitutional right" of States in rebellion, of States outside of the Constitution! The "constitutional rights" of South Carolina! Great God! I wonder how long it will be before Kansas is called upon to return a fugitive slave to South Carolina, to Missouri. When the Kansas man is called upon to return a slave, let him remember the five hundred and seventy dead and wounded at Springfield, now charged up to the account of the State of Missouri. Do you love Kansas, love your wife and home? See to it that Missouri is free. If you love these things, see to it that there is not a slave left there in thirty days hence.
There is that Cherokee country, down there. We want Kansas a square State, with a much front north and south, as east and west. The Cherokee country just gives us that. If there are slaves there, they must be treated as we treat them in Missouri. Then add that territory to Kansas, and we can raise our cotton and carry on our own manufactures; and if hereafter our children are smitten with the secession disease, they can secede, and sustain themselves.
I believe it is the business of Kansas exclusively, with the gallant assistance of Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio, and other States soon to be represented here, to free all slaves west of the Mississippi. Oh, what a thrill of delight would run through the country to hear Kansas declare that neither slavery nor involuntary servitude shall exist within the boundaries of Texas, and having made the declaration, to fight it through! That little colony planted here in 54 freed Kansas, then Cherokee, then Texas, then Arkansas, then Louisiana, and slavery was blotted out, crushed out, west of the Mississippi. That's the business of Kansas, assisted by the gallant West.
I am authorized by the Government to say to every officer and private, that I will feed a slave for each one of you, and I don't care how soon you catch him.
In conclusion, let me tell you that the only way to serve your Government, and serve it effectually, is by declaring that you are soldiers of Freedom. Take up the glove the traitors have thrown down; answer their challenge by boldly proclaiming the battle-cry of freedom. With that O how certain are we of our leader! just as soon follow him as any other leader.
Farewell, and when we meet again, may it be in the piping times of peace!
GENERAL LANE AND THE SOUTHERN EXPEDITION.
Leavenworth, Feb. 7th. The lower House of the Kansas Legislature have, by a vote of 60 to 7, passed a resolution requesting the President to appoint General Jim Lane a Major-General, and give him command of the Southern expedition.

We commend the speech of JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., of this city, as delivered at the late annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and published in another part of our present number, to the thoughtful consideration of those who are yet querying whether the colored race in this country are susceptible of civilization- Mr. Rock being one of those who, according to Judge Taney, "have no rights that white men are bound to recognize and respect." Notwithstanding the Judge's dictum, Mr. R. was professionally admitted to the Suffolk Bar some months since, and may yet be heard before the Supreme Court at Washington-the unjust Judge then being non est inventus, or, rather, sent to his "appropriate place".
The Editor of the Liberator has been absent the past week, attending the State Anti-Slavery Convention at Albany, N.Y., lecturing, &c.; and, consequently, has not been able to give any attention to the present number.

For an interesting Letter from Hon. Gerrit Smith to George Thompson, Esq., on the Relations of England to America, see first page.

CONVENTION AT ALBANY. The usual State Anti-Slavery Convention was held at Albany on Friday and Saturday last-six sessions in all. The weather was propitious, and the proceedings highly interesting. Speakers-Phillips, Garrison, Pillsbury, Foss, Beriah Green, Aaron M. Powell, Abraham Pryne, Lizzie M. Powell, and others. The resolutions that were passed at the late annual meeting of the Massachusetts A.S. Society,-defining the position of the abolitionists in relation to the war,-were adopted, and others.

The friends in Hopedale and vicinity will notice that Mr. Heywood's appointments are postponed one week.

We are indebted to Hon. Charles Sumner for a copy of his speech on 'Maritime Rights." It is a State Paper that will be valuable for reference hereafter.
<c04>
LATER NEWS FROM EUROPE
PORTLAND, Feb. 11. Steamship Jura, from Liverpool January 30th and Londonderry 31st, arrived here at half-past twelve to-night.
The steamer La Plata, with Mason and Slidell on board, arrived at Southampton on the 29th. They were taken to St. Thomas by the Rinaldo, as she was unable to reach Halifax. They were received at Southampton courteously, but no demonstrations were made. Both proceeded to London, where Mason remains, but Slidell forthwith left for Paris.
The Times remarks that both gentlemen will probably keep themselves perfectly quiet, and await events that are at hand. Although there is a large party in the House of Commons which will endeavor to urge upon the government a policy of interference in the American struggle, the envoys will do well to maintain a masterly inactivity.
A Southampton letter says they complain of bad treatment in the prison at Boston.
The Tuscarora had left Southampton, and anchored off Yarmouth, Isle of Wight.
George Thompson had again been lecturing at Manchester on American affairs. His remarks were mainly in response to the late speech of Mr. Massey at Sanford, whose statements he branded as absolutely false, and grievously unjust to the North. the lecturer said the breaking of the blockade would be a wicked and fiendish act, and no greater crime could be committed against any country. He had faith, however, in the pacific and neutral policy of Earl Russell.
Napoleon opened the French Chambers on the 27th. In his speech he said: "The civil war which desolates America has greatly compromised our commercial interests. So long, however, as the rights of neutrals are respected, we must confine ourselves to expressing wishes for an early termination of these dissensions." The speech refers to the pacific relations of France, and recapitulates the financial programme of M. Fould's budget.
Some of the English journals construe the allusion of America into a threat, and as significant that France is impatient and will interfere when the occasion appears to demand it.
The Paris correspondent of the Times says great misery prevailed in some of the large manufacturing commercial towns of France, and it would probably increase if the American war continues. The reports of prefects to the Government not only allude to the destitution, but to that which generally accompanies destitution. disquietude.
The Government encourages manufacturers to keep their mills open as long as possible, and some of them busy themselves under the belief that if the Federal blockade continues beyond March, the independence of the South will be recognized.
The Journal de St. Petersbury of the 29th publishes a note, dated the 21st, from Prince Gortschakoff to Baron Stoekel at Washington, stating that the Emperor has with deep satisfaction seen his anticipation confirmed by the determination of the Federal Government to deliver up Mason and Slidell. The Emperor hopes the same wisdom and moderation will guide the steps of the Federal Government in its interior policy, and expresses his conviction that the Federal Government will, in carrying out that policy, place itself above popular passions. The Emperor also states that he should with great satisfaction see the Union reconstructed by conciliatory measures, as the maintenance of the American power influences in a considerable degree the general political equilibrium.
A Turin letter of January 26th, says during the three preceding days, the citizens of Genoa had been amused by the evolutions of the privateer Sumter steaming to and fro between Valtrie and Portifeno. Her object in tarrying off Genoa was a matter of much speculation.

CAPTURE OF FORT HENRY.
The operations of Commodore Foote's gunboats in the Tennessee river, in connection with the land forces under General Grant, have succeeded in striking a heavy blow at the rebels, and planting the stars and stripes once more on Tennessee soil, Where, we doubt not, many loyal men are waiting to hail it with joyous shouts. Fort Henry, which has been captured, is an important point on the Tennessee river, three or four miles over the Tennessee line, and its possession enables our forces to have easy access to the line of railroad communication between the rebel strongholds at Bowling Green on the one hand, and Columbus on the other. The action took place on Thursday, and the result is thus tersely announced by General Halleck:
"Fort Henry is ours. The Flag of the Union is reestablished on the soil of Tennessee. It will never be removed.
By command of Major-General Halleck.
W.W.SMITH, Captain and A.D.C."
Commodore Foote's despatch to the Secretary of the Navy was as follows:-
"U.S. FLAG SHIP CINCINNATI, Off Fort Henry, Tennessee river, Feb.6.
The gunboats under my charge, consisting of the Essex, Commander, Porter; the Carondolet, Commander Walker; the Cincinnati, Commander Stembel; the St. Louis, Lieut. Com. Paulding; the Conestoga, Lieutenant Phelps; the Taylor, Lieut, Gwinn; and the Lexington, Lieut. Shirk, after a severe and rapid fire of an hour and a quarter, have captured Fort Henry. We have taken Gen. Lloyd Tilghman and his staff, with sixty prisoners. The surrender to the gunboats was unconditional, as we kept an open fire upon them until their flag was struck. In half an hour after the surrender, I handed the fort and prisoners over to Gen. Grant, commanding the army, on his arrival at the fort in force. The Essex had a shot in her boilers after fighting most effectively for two-thirds of the action, and was obliged to drop down the river. I hear that several of her men were scalded to death, including the two pilots. She, with the other gunboats, officers and men, fought with the greatest gallantry. The Cincinnati received 31 shots, and had one man killed and eight wounded, two seriously. The fort, wit 20 guns and 17 mortars, was defended by Gen. Tilghman with the most determined gallantry. I will write as soon as possible. I have sent Lieutenant Phillips and three gunboats after the rebel gunboats.
(Signed,) A.H.FOOTE, Flag Officer."
Correspondents of the Cincinnati papers say that when the enemy struck his colors, such cheering, such wild excitement as seized the throats, arms and caps of the four or five hundred sailors of the gunboats, can be imagined and not described. After the surrender, it was found that the rebel infantry, encamped outside the fort, numbering 4000 or 5000, had cut and run, leaving the rebel artillery company in command of the fort. The infantry left everything in their flight. A vast deal of plunder has fallen into our hands, including a large and valuable quantity of ordnance stores. General Tilghman is disheartened. He thinks it one of the most damaging blows of the war.
In the engagement the Cincinnati was in the lead, and flying the flag officer's pennant, and the chief mark of the enemy's fire.
The Essex was badly crippled when about two-thirds through the fight, and crowding steadily against the enemy. A ball went into her side forward port, through her heavy bulkhead, and squarely through one of her boilers, the escaping steam scalding and killing several of the crew. Capt. Porter, his Aid, S.P. Britton, Jr., and Paymaster Lewis were standing in a direct line of the balls passing, Mr. Britton being in the centre of the group. A shot struck Mr. Britton on the top of his head, scattering his brains in every direction. The escaping steam went into the pilot house, instantly killing Messrs. Ford and Bride, the pilots. Many of the soldiers, at the rush of steam, jumped overboard and were drowned. The Cincinnati had 1 killed and 6 wounded; the Essex had 6 seamen and two officers killed, 17, men wounded and five missing. There were no casualties on the St. Louis or Carondolet, thought the shot and shell fell upon them like rain.
The St. Louis was commanded by Leonard Paulding, who stood upon the gunboat and wrought the guns to the last. Not a man flinched, and with cheer upon cheer sent the shot and shell among the enemy.
Gen. Smith on the west and Gen. Grant on east side to Tennessee River are pursuing the retreating rebels. it is reported, and is credited by some of our offices, that the rebel troops at Fort Henry were not true to the rebel cause, and took advantage of the opportunity offered by an attack to run away from a fight that was distasteful to them.

THE BATTLE OF ROANOKE ISLAND.
The Rebel Fleet of Gunboats Completely Destroyed-The Victory Followed Up by an Attack on the Main Land-Elizabeth City Taken-Norfolk Menaced in the Rear-The Entire Rebel Force, about Three Thousand Men, Captured.
FORTRESS MUNROE, Feb.11. By a flag of truce, to-day we learn of the complete success of the Burnside expedition at Roanoke Island. The island was taken possession of, and Commodore Lynch's fleet completely destroyed. Elizabeth City was attacked on Sunday, and evacuated by the inhabitants. The city was previously burned, but whether by our shells or the inhabitants, it is not certain. The first news of the defeat arrived at Norfolk on Sunday afternoon, and caused great excitement.
The previous news was very satisfactory, stating that the Yankees had been allowed to advance for the purpose of drawing them into a trap. The rebel force on the Island in supposed to have been only a little over 3000 efficient fighting men. Gen Wise was ill at Nag's Head, and was not present during the engagement. When the situation became dangerous, he was removed to Norfolk.
All the rebel gunboats but one were taken, and that escaped up a creek, and was probably also destroyed. One report says that only 70, and another that only 25 of the confederates escaped from the Island. Gen.
<c05>
Huger telegraphed to Richmond that only 50 on the Island escaped.
It is reported that one regiment from Massachusetts was badly cut up, but it is impossible to ascertain which of the five it was that were attached to the expedition.
All the Southern papers received to-day are unanimous in admitting a complete victory to our troops, and in saying that the loss of the Island is a very serious one.
The prisoners captured, numbering at least 2000, will be here in a few days.
There appears to be no bright side of the story for the rebels.
A steamer with official despatches from General Burnside is hourly expected.
The Richmond Examiner of this morning, in a leading editorial, says: The loss of an entire army on Roanoke Island is certainly the most painful event of the war. The intelligence of yesterday by telegraph is fully confirmed. 2500 brave troops on an Island in the sea were exposed to all the force of the Burnside fleet.
NORFOLK, Feb. 10. A dispatch was received at Richmond at midnight, stating as follows: "A courier arrived here this afternoon at 4 o'clock, and brought intelligence that Elizabeth City was burned this morning by its inhabitants. During the conflagration, the Federals landed a large force. All our gunboats excepting one were captured by the enemy. Gen. Wise has not yet arrived at Norfolk."
NORFOLK, Feb. 10. The latest news states that Capt. O. Jennings Wise, son of Governor Wise, was shot through the hip and disabled, thought his wound was not mortal. Maj. Lawson and Lieut. Miller were mortally wounded. About 300 Confederates were killed. Our wounded is about the same as ours Midshipman Cann had his arm shot off. The other casualties are as yet unreported.

REBEL GUNBOATS CAPTURED OR DESTROYED-
Washington, Feb. 12th. The following is the official report of Lieut. Phillips to Flag Officer Foote:-
Railroad Crossing, Gunboat Conestoga, February 10th. SIR,-We have returned to this point from and entirely successful expedition to Florence, at the foot of Muscle Shoals, Alabama. The rebels were forced to burn six steamers, and we captured two others besides the half-completed gunboat Eastport. The steamers burnt were freighted with rebel military stores. The Eastport had about 250,000 feet of lumber on board. We captured 200 stand of arms, a quantity of clothing and stores, and destroyed the encampment of Colonel Crews. We found the Union sentiment strong.

KANSAS DECLARED UNDER MARTIAL LAW-AFFAIRS IN NEW MEXICO. Leavenworth, Feb. 10th. By General Order No. 17, Gen. Hunter declares marital law throughout the State of Kansas, and declares the crime of jay-hawking shall be put down with a strong hand and summary process.
James H. Holmes, Secretary of New Mexico, 12 days from Santa Fe, brings important dispatches to Gen. Hunter, and information regarding affairs in that territory. The rebel General H. H. Sibley was within 30 miles of Fort Craig with 200 Texans with artillery, and issued a bunkum proclamation. Col. Canby has taken active measures to oppose him, and felt able to make a successful resistance. It is reported that a considerable force of Texans are advancing up the Rio Pecos to attack Fort Union. An express had bee sent to Denver City for reinforcements, and the Colorado troops would probably march immediately. Martial law has been proclaimed in this territory, and all able-bodied men drafted to serve in the militia. All the mules, horse and ammunition in the territory have been seized for the use of the Government. The Indians in the territory are reported to be troublesome.

ARREST OF GEN. STONE FOR TREASON.
WASHINGTON, Feb.10
THE CHARGES AGAINST BRIG. GENERAL STONE-Sunday acts of Treason alleged against Him-Other Arrests Made. The following is the substance of the charges under witch Brigadier-General Charles P. Stone was arrested. yesterday morning, at 2 o'clock, by a guard, under the immediate command of Brig. Gen. Sykes of the Provost Marshal's force, and sent to Fort Lafayette by the afternoon train:-
1st. For misbehavior at the battle of Ball's Bluff.
2d. For holding correspondence with the enemy, before and since the battle of Ball's Bluff, and receiving visits from rebel officers in his camp.
3d. For treacherously suffering the enemy to build a fort or strong work since the battle of Ball's Bluff under his guns without molestation.
4th. For a treacherous design to expose his force to capture and destruction by the enemy, under pretence of orders for a movement from the Commanding Genera, which had not been given.
A court martial will be speedily ordered.
Major W. J. Rassin was arrested recently in Kent county, Maryland. He was an officer in the rebel army. B. H. Jenkins of Alexandria was also arrested, several days ago. He had arrived from Richmond via Norfolk, and had a pass signed by the rebel Secretary of War. Both of them are in the old Capitol prison. Jenkins acknowledges that he is a secessionist, and refuses to take the oath of allegiance to the Government. He left Alexandria during the month of August for Richmond, and was assisted in making his escape by a known secessionist.

REV. DR. CHEEVER IN WASHINGTON. Dr. Cheever thrilled a vast audience last Sunday in the Representatives Chamber with a sermon against the Border State policy, which has so long directed this war. He said:
"Herodius stands for the Southern rebellion's slave-trading Confederacy, with its cruelty and blood-claiming perpetual property in man, and in perpetuity of slavery. Herodius stands for the policy of the Northern Government, maintaining these impious claims, and resolving to enforce them, though pretending a determination to put down the rebellion. Between these two parties the Border Slaveholding States are signified by the daughter of Herodius, represented especially by Kentucky, defending the rights and perpetuity of slavery, and demanding new guarantees of the sacredness of property in man. John, in prison, whose head is demanded by Herodius, represents the millions of the enslaved whom our Government are required anew to sacrifice. The Border States dance so eloquently, so gracefully before our Administration, that in order to please them, and secure their friendship, we give them and order on the Union for whatever they desire. The pretended constitutional compact is pleaded for the reconstruction of the Union and slavery, which is the re-enslavement of the poor slaves and their posterity. And thus, if this policy be persisted in, instead of being governed, as formerly, by 300,000 slaveholders, we are governed now by less than 30,000-by the slaveholding oligarchy of Kentucky."
WHAT A SOUTHERN UNIONIST SAYS. A letter to the Cincinnati Gazette, written from Nelson's Division in Kentucky, contains this passage:-"I recently had the pleasure of meeting a Union man, or refugee, from Nashville. He is a thorough Southerner in all things, but unswerving in his devotion to the Union. 'You Northern men,' said he, 'have fallen into a fatal error. You hope to conquer the insurgents by a conciliatory course. You are simply sacrificing the lives and property of your Southern friends. The South will scruple at no means to accomplish their end. Meet them with their own weapons-fire and sword-and awe them into obedience to the laws. Not one of them disavows the fact that this is a rebellion instituted for the purpose of overthrowing our Government. For the accomplishment of that end, they will pour out their blood like water. Let them but succeed, and their arrogance will know no bounds. The veriest serf of Europe might then pity you Northern men. Your moderation but prolongs the struggle and lessens your chances of success.'"
SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. The bill providing for the abolition of slavery within the District of Columbia, introduced by Senator, Wilson, and referred to the District Committee, was intrusted to Senator Morrill, who has prepared a bill which provides for the immediate emancipation of all the slaves in the District, and for a limited compensation to loyal owners, not to exceed 8300 per slave on the average. Owners must, within ninety days, file their claims, together with proofs of value, and of loyalty, with Commissioners. These are to report within nine months. They are authorized to examine the slave as well as the master, in order to determine the latter's right to compensation. It is believed that the bill will commend itself to a majority of the Committee. It is composed of Messrs. Grimes, Dixon, Morrill, Wade, Anthony, Kennedy, and Powell. The number of slaves now in the District is about 3,000. Probably more than half belong to masters who will swear that they are loyal. The total cost to the nation of emancipating cannot be over $1,000,000 and may not be much more than $500.000.
THE HUTCHINSONS. The tuneful Hutchinsons, having the commendation of Secretary Cameron and the permit of Gen. McClellan, commenced what they hoped would be a series of concerts through the camps across the Potomac. They were audacious enough to sing Whittier's noble song commencing, "We wait beneath the furnace blast." A Dr. Oakley, of the 4th New Jersey, made so noisy and expression of his scorn for its Anti-Slavery spirit, that Gen, Franklin revoked the license of the choristers-a simple method of avoiding dangerous disorder. Gen Kearney had the family ranged before him, and judicially informed them that he "thoughts as much of rebels as the Abolitionists." Gen. Franklin also ventilated his opinion.that the song was incendiary, and deserved to be suppressed.-Tribune.
<c06>
WHAT THE ENGLISH THINK OF OUR WAR POLICY.-Letters have been received by Senators, brought by the last English mail, from Messrs. Bright, Richard Cobden, the Duke of Argyle, and other members of the Liberal party, stating that unless something is done very soon to demonstrate the ability of the Federal Government to put down the rebellion, and to convince the Anti-Slavery party in England that we are in earnest about emancipation, the sympathy of the Liberal element will be lost, and the Southern Confederacy must be recognized. Immediate action, they add, should be taken to abolish slavery in both Delaware and Maryland to begin with.-New York Tribune.
The petitions for universal emancipation to the present Congress have been more numerous and respectably signed than were those presented to the Parliament which abolished West Indian slavery at its opening. In that case, the petitions increased in number until, one day, it took six men to carry them into Parliament. The lightning came soon after that thunder. So it will come in this country. The year will see thousands of petitioners at the door of Congress imploring justice, and peace which reposes only on justice. It is, I learn, a fact, and one which should be more widely known, that every petition which has been handed in for emancipation proposes to pay loyal masters for their slaves. Nor let it be forgotten, that this nation could pay every loyal master $500 per head for his slaves, with the sum it is now paying per month, at the very largest estimate of the numbers of such slaves which could be made-Tribune.
Gen. Thomas Official report of the battle of Mill Spring has reached Washington, fully confirming previous reports. The rout of the enemy was complete. Their loss was Gen. Zollicoffer and 115 other killed and buried, 115 wounded, and 45 prisoners not wounded, besides ten guns, about 100 wagons, over 1,200 horses and mules, from 500 to 1,000 muskets, and large quantities of stores, ammunition, &c. Our loss was 39 killed and 127 wounded.
The funeral of ex-President Tyler took place January 21st, and was attended by Jefferson Davis and his Cabinet, and by the members of the rebel Congress.
The Richmond Examiner declares that the Union Generals have forever lost immense advantages in South Carolina, Western Virginia and Kentucky, by failing to push forward boldly in the hour of victory.
Senator Wilson thanked God, in the Senate, because a Brigadier General, who had ordered a fugitive slave to be delivered to his master, had not had his appointment confirmed by the Senate. The Senator intimated that no appointment of a General could be confirmed where the General had ordered the return of a fugitive slave.
The Governor of Kansas estimates that, during the year 1861, tea thousand white Union refugees, from Missouri and Arkansas, came into Kansas, and five thousand fugitive slaves, principally from Missouri.
MICHIGAN FOR ABOLITION. The Legislature of Michigan has done their State the honor to be the first to ask the Federal Government to sweep slavery from the land.
What State Legislature speaks next?
Let the State Legislatures be plied with petitions for similar action.-Principia.
Whittier's "Song of the Negro Boatmen" strikes us as possessing more of the elements of poetry, pathos, and music of rhythm in its verses than almost any song which we remember. We are surprised that it has not already been set to music. With an appropriate melody, it would fasten itself upon the popular heart as few songs have ever done.-Norfolk Journal.
The legislature of South Carolina has passed an act authorizing a loan of one million of dollars to rebuild Charleston.
The Richmond Examiner says that Governor Letcher made a beast of Himself one day last week, in goring into the House of Delegates in a drunken condition, with a segar in his mouth, making himself a spectacle for the whole house, and a butt for the jokes of the gallery.
The Louisville Journal states that one of the cavalry battalions in Hindman's brigade of rebels, near Bowling Green, contains about twenty-five negroes, fully armed and equipped. "We have this fact," adds the Journal, "from the most unquestionable authority."

MASSACHUSETTS A.S. SOCIETY.
Receipts into the Treasury, from Jan. 1 to Feb. 1, 1862.
Samuel Dyer, to redeem pledge, Jan..1862, $5.00
Alfred Bicknell to redeem pledge, Jan..1862, 1.00
Mrs. E. B. Chase to redeem pledge, May,1860 5.00
Weymouth Female A.S.S., to redeem pledge, Jan., 1861, 25.00
Wendell Phillips, to redeem one half pledge, Jan., 1862, 50.00
Edmund Jackson, to redeem pledge, Jan, 1862, 50.00
Collections by E.H. Heywood, Neponset, 5.50
Contributions at Annual Meeting, 471.97
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Feb.1,1862.

ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING-SPRINGFIELD.-
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in MUSIC HALL, Springfield, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock.
Subject-"Let the Oppressed go free"-the Divine command, and only hope of the country.
C.H. BRAINARD, ESQ., will deliver his lecture, "Life-Pictures at Washington.' at Fraternity Hall, corner of Province and Bromfield streets, THIS (Friday) EVENING, at half-past 7 o'clock. The public are invited to attend.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., is expected to lecture on "The Colored Man and the War," in Groveland, tomorrow (Saturday) evening and Sunday afternoon anti evening, at West Newbury.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak on "Common Sense" in
Hopedale, Sunday, A.M. Feb 23.
On "The War, "in
Milford, Sunday evening, Feb.23.
Rock Bottom, Monday evening Feb 24.
East Cambridge, Sunday, evening March 2.
HENRY C.WRIGHT will hold a meeting in Essex, Sunday, Feb 16, all day and evening.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.-The closing lecture will be given at Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening next, by WENDELL PHILLIPS. Single ticket, 25 cents.
MERCY B. JACKON, M.D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren, Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2 to 4. P.M.
DIED-In East Abington, Jan. 26, Mr. DAVID POOL, aged 83 years.
Thus, in the full ripeness of years, hath passed away one who enjoyed the high respect and esteem of a large circle of friends endowments of a very high order, and a strongly marked character, fraught, as a whole, with the most foreible influences, for good upon all who knew him.
In former years, Mr. Pool was widely known for his musical genius; and his proficiency in this, his favorite art, was evidenced by numerous compositions and publications, which, in the estimation of competent judges, soar into the highest regions of musical creation. Only a few weeks previous to his death, he composed an anthem of the highest order, which was sung at his funeral. Many have profited by his labors in this department, to whom his name and works were unknown, for it happened to him as it has to so many laborers in science and art, to have the creations of his skill frequently stolen from him, without credit or reward.
He was also a man of keen moral sensibilities, and took a deep and steadfast interest in the reforms of the day. Evan the day he died, he requested to have Mr. Garrison's late speech in New York read to him.
His illness, though not of long duration, was of a very distressing character, but was borne by him with unaffected cheerfulness and resignation; and he was sustained to the end by a steadfast faith in the immortality of being beyond the tomb. he retained the full possession of his faculties to the last, and, but a few moments before he ceased to breathe, attempted, in feeble seconds, the execution of some of the solemn and pathetic strains which had so often constituted the labor and delight of his life.
Fortunate are the mourners whose affection is thus strengthened and respect W.W.

JOHN S.ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6 TREMONT STREET, Boston,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
(Translated for the Liberator from the Boston Pionier of Jan. 23.)
IN MEMORY OF ONE DEAD.
When, on the snow-spread heights of Alpineland,
The traveller climbs, with anxious fears o'ertaken;
No tempest need sleep the avalanche to waken:


Enough the tinkling of a pack-horse bell,
The starving cry of raven faint and wearied,-
The first flake loosened in the course, pellmell
Snow masses follow, towns beneath are buried.
Brimming the goblet; add but one drop more,
It bubbles over, with impatient seeming;
Even a rose-leaf proves a load too sore
For a tired people, and they leave off dreaming.
Only a shock is needed, to repay
The martyr's thousand pains on his tormentor,-
Only a clod to stand on, and away
The wise man stirs the planet from its centre.
JOHN BROWN, thou wast the bell that jingled out,
Thou wast the raven shrieking, hunger-wasted,
Thou wast the flake that, loosening, led the rout,
Thou wast the cold whereon Fate's lever rested.
Now, down upon the head of Slavery,
Thunders the avalanche by thee excited,
Grinding and crushing to the vale, and, free,
O'er the drones' grave the work-bee hums delighted.
A conscious victim, to the holy fray
Thou marchedst forth, thy faithful twenty taking;
Grappledst the foe in much courageous way, 
Their craven souls, old lion! for fright were quaking.
Two days, the state tow whole days heldest thou
In clock before the lightning of thy rifle,-
That even the shadow of an ancient cow
Called for a thousand troops her fears to stifle.
And when a blow had brought thee to the ground,
And thy last bulwark fell, in fragments shivered,
No victor's mercy covered thee around,
Nor from his chivalric assault delivered.
Captive thou wast, like wild beast in a pit,
The chains already clanked for thee unheeding,
Yet came and stabbed thee with his bayonet
A gallant officer-poor prisoner, bleeding!
And as along the wires electric sped
The unwonted tale, through town and city humming,
Many a patriot woke as form the dead,
Eager to greet the hour of Freedoms coming.
But who before had raised the loudest cry,
And of all people most of freedom prated,
These shouted; Madman! Madman! Crucify!
Naught by his crazy act is indicated.
The saw the flake alone, nor ever thought
That then, even then, the avalanche was falling;
The babbled on, until the sword was wrought
Wherewith strode Justice to her work appalling.
Laughing they saw thy gallows built, and thee,
John Brown, defying death, upon it dangling,
And dared to dream, in their simplicity,
That they all Freedoms friends with thee were strangling.
Fools, who, with eyes wide opened, nothing see,
Nor, ears agape, unto Fates footstep hearken!
Over their bodies must its progress be,
So their deluding words none more may darken!
Two years have flown, since that time was, away,-
Ah, but two seconds in the People's being!-
Five hundred thousand stand in arms to-day,
For the subjection of the South Agreeing.
O, do not thing that you can hold them back
With empty phrases and with compromises;
The wheel of Time rolls swiftly on its track,
And to its perfect course no barrier rises.
Needs must the avalanche its victims have;
Out of its path and save you, now or never!
John Brown aroused it, on it comes, one grave!
May bury Slavery and yourself forever!
Monroe, (Mich) Dec.1 1861. EDW. DORSCH

From the New York Independent
FREE-SONG ON THE POTOMAO.
DEDICATED TO THE HUTCHINSONS.
Ha, TAPE and TINSEL! will ye stop
The swelling tide of Freedoms song,
Even while judgment Hour lets drop
God's lightning on the towers of wrong?-
Forbid the fearless free! who fling
Their lives on battle's combing wave
To hear their Mountain Warblers sing
Our ransom with the ransomed slave?
But Truth divine can pass your line
Without your word and countersign:
The winds will wing it,
The birds will sing it,
The seas will ring it,
The shouting brooks from the hills will bring it,
And your shattering connon-peal shall fling it
Wherever a slave may pine!
Sweet songsters of the Granite Hills,
Birds of the rock and forest oak,
Wild-bubbling as their own free rills
Their music, through the cannon-smoke,
Rained like the skylarks from her cloud;
And might have laid the fiend of Saul,
But makes your haunting fiend more loud,
Whose javelin seeks the life of all.
Unjustly strong, from out your throng
Ye drive the Flock, but not the Song!
The winds will wing it,
The birds will sing it,
The seas will ring it
The shouting brooks from the hills will bring it,
And the scream of your roaring shells will fling it
Wherever the weak bears wrong.
Not clanging; horns nor rumbling drums
The tones that deepest thrill the land;
The Resurrection Angel comes
With Freedom's trumpet in her hand!
Its blast will call the living dead,
Redeemed, from slavery's Hadean tomb,
To find our welcome; or, instead
Peal the last charge of flying Doom!
The hour of Fate will never wait,
Ye hear its judgment knell too late.
The winds will ring it,
The birds will sing it,
The Seas will ring it,
The shouting brooks from the hills will bring it,
And a nations drying groan shall fling it
Through the shattered prison-gate.
Once old chivalric Honor reigned,
And Bards were sacred, e'en to foes;
They kept the glory heroes gained,
And sang high deeds that shamed repose.
But cheer, my Warblers! fly away
To sing more clearly in smokeless air;
The herald Angels sing to-day,
Nor ask a tinseled tyrant where.
From heaven's blue cope the song of hope
Thrills down the bondmans dungeon slope;
The winds will wing it,

The birds will sing it,
The seas will ring it,
The shouting brooks from the hills will bring it,
And a rescued nations voice shall fling it
Where the last lone slave may grope.
GEOGE S. BURLEIGH.

From the Missouri Democrat
SICK AND WOUNDED, AND IN PRISON.
At our door, foul, unmasked Treason
Curses, with hot, pestilent breath,
Urges, with its wild unreason, 
Battle, murder, sudden death;
While across the wild Atlantic tyrants smile, and patriots
true
Tumble, last the rolling war-cloud hide the Red, the
White, the Blue.
Waste and bare our fields are lying,
Where once waved the yellow corn;
Bitter tears our wives are crying-
Widowed, desolate, forlorn.
Little children, gaunt and hungry, cry for unprovided
bread;
<c02>
Maidens keep dream-trysts with lovers, on the cold field,
stark and dead.
Afric, from the lap of Slavery,
Like a Samson shorn and blind,
Bound and bleeding-sore with scourging-
In our prison-house doth grind;
And the pillars of our UNION threatening with giant hand,


Cry aloud to God for Freedom-in convulsions of the land.
Visit as, O Lord arisen!
Help us, cure as, set us free;
Sick and wounded, and in prison,
Wilt thou hear us-dost thou see? 
Look not on our wild behavior, Bethlehem's Star of mildest ray-
Comfort us, thou blessed Savior, ere the coming Christmas day!
St. Louis, Dec. 21.
LILY Sr. JOHN.

THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH.
The Twenty-Eighth Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary was held, as usual, in the Music Hall, Boston, on the evening of January 22d. The travelling was bad, and the state of the atmosphere such as to take elasticity out of the spirits of men. The condition of our unhappy country necessarily filled all reflecting minds with anxiety, if not with sadness. But, notwithstanding these draw-backs, the hall was very full of guests, and the friends of freedom greeted each other with sober cheerfulness, exhorting each other to faith in these hours of darkness, while the more hopeful spoke of the certain approach of morning. The State Arms of Virginia, blazoned in bright colors, with the motto "Sic Semper Tyrannis," seemed to utter the same prophecy. Liberty, strong in immortal youth, was pictured there, trampling on a prostrate tyrant and broken chains. Under it, stood Brackett's sublime bust of old JOHN BROWN, and the Germania Band played, "His soul it marching on !"
We cannot call the occasion a joyful one; for no one who loves his country could be joyful in this her hour of extreme peril; but it was refreshing and strengthening to meet and take counsel together. All agreed that we ought not to lay aside our armor because troops of such a totally different character had taken the field. They will do whatever work God has appointed them to do, but they cannot do our work. If emancipation comes as a mere " necessity of war," it will come unsanctified by any considerations of justice or humanity toward the victims of our oppression, and the strenuous exertion of moral influence in their behalf will still be greatly needed. The question anxiously asked of each other by all our guests was, "Do you think the war will produce emancipation?" The answers were various as the temperaments of individuals. Some had strong belief in a happy issue, many hoped, but the feelings of the greater part were best expressed by the inspired minstrel of freedom, our own Whittier:-
"We dare not share the negro's trust,
Nor yet his hope deny;
We only know that God is just,
And every wrong shall die."
The Ship of State is out on a tempestuous sea, drifting through thick fog without captain or pilot. If we are dashed to pieces on the breakers, it will not be a worse fate than we have deserved; and there is comfort in the belief that, even in that case, Yankee energy would soon construct a strong and safe life-boat from the timbers of the wreck. God did not bring the Mayflower here for the comfort and aid of tyrants; of that we may be certain, happen what will.
Instead of striking against rocks, the Ship of State may "drift" into the spacious harbor of Universal Freedom. If the fog should roll away to reveal that sun-lighted vision to our longing eyes, how glorious it will seem, after the long and dreary storm!
Meanwhile, we who have so long been praying and working for the deliverance of the enslaved must be content to serve the Lord and wait. At every successive gathering, we miss from our side some tried and faithful friends, who have borne with us the burden and heat of the day. Since we last met, FRANCIS JACKSON has gone from us; a man honest and true, stronger in his moral courage than "an army with banners." And NATHAN WINSLOW, whose large sympathizing heart and generous hand were always open to the claims of the oppressed, will be seen among us no more. And never again will our meetings be refreshed by the beautiful presence of LUCIA WESTON, sister of our highly gifted, energetic, and persevering friend, Mrs. Chapman. Our ranks are indeed visibly and rapidly thinning. But our old friends are like the Sybil's Books,-the more that are lost, the greater the value of those that remain. Moreover, oppressors and their tools can find no cause for exultation over the departure of our old moral heroes, for where one passes away, ten new recruits start up to carry on the work they had begun. The designs of Providence never fail for want of laborers.
Among the most interesting of the agencies now employed for the redemption of the slave is Mr. Davis, one of the men called "contrabands," who has come among us from Fortress Monroe, and who addressed a few words to the audience on this occasion. It is interesting to hear this intelligent man tell of his earnest longing to read the Bible, of the difficulties he had to surmount in the accomplishment of that object, and of the peace and joy that filled his heart when he was able to spell out the words of Jesus. For years, the sad song of these poor "contrabands" has ascended to the God of the oppressed with its supplicating chorus, "Oh let my people go!" From lowly cabins and rude congregations of the ignorant, year after year, this cry of souls in thraldom has arisen in tones of plaintive music, and the world heard it not. Now, this "Song of the Contrabands" is for sale in the music-stores of Broadway and Washington street. The nation hears them now. Let us thank God, and renew our courage, in view of the wondrous changes that have come to pass in these days!
The financial results of our meeting much surpassed our expectations. The contributions were exceedingly liberal, considering the hard pressure of the times and the numerous demands made on the patriotism and benevolence of individuals. The amount received was $3,900; including in this sum various contributions made during the past four or five months in response to the call for advance payments, amounting in all to about Eight Hundred and Fifty Dollars. We cordially thank our friends, at home and abroad, for the efficient aid they have given us. They have supplied us with oil, and we will try to keep our "lamps trimmed and burning."
We also thank our friends for numerous letters of encouragement and sympathy. They were not intended for publication, but we take the liberty to give extracts from a few of them:-
An extract of a letter from our ever-faithful and, dear friend, SAMUEL J. MAY, will be read with pleasure:-
"SYRACUSE, (N.Y.,) Jan. 18, 1862.
There are not a few who seem to think that we Abolitionists proper have done our work; that the loyal States have been, or will be, compelled to complete what we began; that the stress of circumstances will do for the enslaved what we have been laboring more than thirty years to effect. Little do such persons comprehend the nature and extent of our undertaking. The breaking of their chains, their deliverance from slavery, is but a small part of what is to be done for four millions of people who have been all their lives, and whose parents, grand-parents and progenitors for many generations were subjected to the deteriorating influences of the worst kinds of oppression and bondage. When they shall be set free, much, very much most needs be done to protect, to guide them, and to help them to become what, as the children of our Heavenly Father, we know they are capable of being.
It is incumbent upon us, therefore, to keep up our organization, to maintain unimpaired our moral instrumentalities; that when the enslaved in our country shall be given up to themselves and the care of their friends, we may be in readiness to render them all the services they may need."
<c03>
The following words of "lofty cheer" came to reassure our faith and our purpose, and were very welcome:-
"-, Jan. 20, 1862.
RESPECTED LADIES,-Having been honored with your invitation to attend a pleasant meeting on the evening of the 22d, at which I cannot be present, I am moved to say a few words from a heart thankful to the noble band of women, who have so zealously and so unselfishly labored for a down-east race for many years, as to have drawn upon themselves respect from the world.
As I read over your names in the newspaper, and found there thirty-four, I wondered if you had designed it purposely, as representing the thirty-four States, once in Union, according to the Constitution. I see by the names on your invitation, you have added one more; so I suppose you were not willing each to be a representative of a State. Probably no one desired to personate South Carolina, or Alabama, or Mississippi.
As I have sat in my office, revolving over the events of the last year, and have asked, 'What is to be done?' I could find no answer to the question. I was rejoiced to 'ring out the Old Year, and ring in the New,' for I feel certain that, ere another year shall come, you, ladies, will have seen the sure reward of your endeavors. It shall come! Aye, that for which you have prayed and labored so long-the freedom of millions-shall come! Many of you have seen pass away the companions who stood by you while on earth. Their spirits have ascended to a higher sphere, but they are permitted to see this day from their blest abode. They hover about you on this Anniversary. As, one by one, you shall rise to meet these glorified spirits, you with them shall look down on emancipated America! And as these millions of the freed shall also go up, together you will sing praises to the good God, the Father of all, while you hear the voice of His dear Son, saying, 'In as much as you did it unto these, my brethren, ye did it unto me.'
What is to be done? Much is to be done! The true glory of America is just dawning. The black cloud is receding, and the morning light is breaking on us. When four millions of men, women and children have passed safely through the Red Sea, and are made free, what shall be done for them? Then our country is to prove how great it can be. Then will open a mission such as no former philanthropist has witnessed, as our daughters, sisters and mothers shall take the poor trodden-down ones, to teach them that they are human beings. All these millions must be educated. Yes, they have to sit on the primary benches, as our little ones now do, that they may learn to read! Save up your cast-off school books of all kinds, ye families of the land! Let depots be established to which they may be sent, to be distributed to the ignorant. There will be missionary ground for all who will work.
Will you not inaugurate such a mission? So, hereafter, shall America and the whole world bless you, as they see that our country has fulfilled its destiny, and has truly become the asylum of the oppressed, 'the land of the free.'
With sincere respect, -."
The following, from Judge GALE of Montreal, cannot be abridged, and is given entire:-
"MONTREAL, Jan. 17, 1862.
MRS. L. MARIA CHILD: My Dear Madam,-I have faith in the principles of freedom and in the effects of righteousness. He must be indeed devoid of feeling who is not sensible of the influence of an association of women moved by no other motives than love of their fellow-creatures. May their memories live forever!
With every wish to be present at your Anniversary, my health constrains me to content myself with sending my contribution.
Since my last slight tribute, civil war has broken out, and the Government of the United States appears wrongfully averse to banish slavery from amongst them. I had once hoped that I might live <illegible>ee slavery and polygamy, (otherwise called Mormonism,) now exiled from every other Christian country, no longer prevailing in the United States; but that hope, like others, seems now becoming more distant.
I have now to trouble you once again, to add to the funds of the Anti-Slavery Society the amount of the enclosed draft, drawn by the Bank of Montreal on the Merchants' Bank of Boston, for one hundred dollars, which I have endorsed in your favor.
I remain, with the sincerest respect and best wishes, Your Obedient Servant,
SAMUEL GALE."
From Western New York, come to as these instructive and warning words:-
"To our best vision, the Abolitionist must direct and guide this struggle, that it may bring the most valued results to all, with the least possible shedding of precious blood. And to preserve our hearth stones and altars, to redeem the outraged and long-suffering slave, to conserve the spirit and genius of truly free institutions, we must uproot, at once and forever, the poisonous tree that has cast, its baleful shadow over us, and dropped its 'apples of discord' in our midst. To avert anarchy, and, in the event of the success of this rebellion, to prevent the establishment of a despotism for white and black in the rebellious States, we are warned by the most discerning, that Government should now enact Emancipation as the only salvation and the only justice. I pray you, let us continue to exalt our glorious standard and hold up our beacon-lights, that our rulers may see the right path and guide the nation therein, to safety, righteousness and honor. Let us not falter, then, but strive to direct the moral power, the governmental policy, the military force, and the pecuniary resources of our beloved country to this accomplishment, to
'Convert the men who waver now, and pause
Between their love of self and human kind.'"
The following is from EDWARD HARRIS, Esq., of Rhode Island:-
"WOONSOCKET, Jan. 15, 1862.
LADIES,-I thank yon for your kind invitation to be present at the Subscription Anniversary, on the evening of the 22d instant. It gives me great satisfaction to see so many good names attached to this greatest of good causes-'Human Rights.' It would, I assure you, give me much pleasure to be with you on that occasion, but circumstances beyond my control prevent. It makes me feel sad to see so many of the pioneers of humanity drop away, one after another, before the consummation of their wishes can be realized; but I am hopeful when I see your names in the work. There is need yet to work, work, and work on.
I remain, yours, against all oppression,
EDWARD HARRIS."
A lady in New Hampshire, long a true-hearted friend of the cause, thus writes:-
"How deplorable it will be, if this nation shall fail to perform the simple act of justice, to acknowledge and protect the colored man as born to the same inalienable rights as ourselves? Since slavery is the acknowledged cause of our national trouble, and its poisonous and corrupting power is now so palpable that it cannot be denied, even by those who thought the Union proof against all storms, what will be the measure and weight of our guilt, if now this Government refuses to let the people go? For our warning and instruction, we have not only the history of the ancient Egyptians, but of God's 'ancient covenant people,' the Jews, who crucified his Son. Of him the Egyptians had no knowledge; but we accept him as our Redeemer; we hang all our hopes of salvation on him; and if we persist in treading down the poor and needy, and refuse to set at liberty them that are bound, ours will be the double guilt of re-crucifying him, in the midst of all the light and civilization of the nineteenth century, as he is presented to us in the person of the down-trodden and despised; and be tells us it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than for such. We will hope and pray that this may not be; that the Anti-Slavery friends will continue to press on, urge the claims of Truth and Right, notwithstanding the want of right action in the Government. If Government fails in its duty to liberate the enslaved and protect the weak, Infinite Wisdom is rich in resources to crush or remove the wrong, and in some other way to crown your labors with success."
The excellent letter received from the Rev. EDWIN CHAPMAN of Bristol, England, is one for which he has our sincerest thanks. We give the following extract:-
"BRISTOL, Nov. 27, 1861.
DEAR MADAM,-In reply to your circular, I have the pleasure of enclosing a check for five pounds,-the sum which, for some years past, I have had the honor of paying in aid of your great enterprise, the emancipation of the slave,-through our dear friend Mrs. Follen first, lately through the Bristol and Clifton Anti-Slavery association. I am not sorry, however, to come into direct communication with you and our other friends, whose names are so familiar to me.
Every day I anxiously wonder what events are passing in the States-what for freedom, what against? How near does the deliverance of the oppressed and down-trodden approach? Is the battle for the enslaved to be now fought out to the end, by the force of circumstances and the growing perception of the people of the North that secession is the genuine fruit of the cankered tree of slavery? Or, is it to be put off for an indeterminate period by compromise, to which the last number of the Anti-Slavery Standard which has reached me seems to point as a not unlikely or undesired policy of your Government, hampered alike by its platform and by the mixed feelings of your people with regard to emancipation? My hope is, that Lincoln and his Cabinet may be driven from their ultimately untenable position, midway between freedom and slavery, by a perception of the impossibility of concluding a stable peace with the Southern States-separated or re-united!-while the cruel and unholy institution separates them in heart and soul from all other civilized peoples.
God grant that Garrison, W. Phillips, and all the noble band who have so long striven to undo the heavy burdens and to let the oppressed go free, may be spared to see the end of their glorious and bloodless warfare, and the triumph of their righteous cause, even though it come through less pure hands than theirs, and in ways which bring grief, distress, almost despair, into so many homes.
Pray excuse the length at which I have written, and believe me,
Very sincerely yours,
EDWIN CHAPMAN.
Mrs. L. M. CHILD, A. S. Office, Boston, U. S."
To the several Anti-Slavery families and friends in Boston, Roxbury, Dorchester, Weymouth, Hingham, Plymouth, Kingston, Lynn, Lexington, Concord, Salem, Newburyport, and Leicester, in this State, and Brooklyn, Connecticut, whose liberal care ena-
<c04>
bled us to spread the tables whereby the hospitalities of the Cause might be extended to its friends, and especially to those from a distance, our grateful acknowledgments, for the Cause's sake, are rendered. They will not desire a more particular recognition.
Messrs. YERRINTON & GARRISON will please accept our thanks for their contribution of valuable printing.
To Mr. JONES, Superintendent of the Music Hall, and to his assistants, our thanks are due and are given for their efficient and gratuitous aid in our prepararations, and during the evening of the meeting.
To Mr. JOSHUA B. SMITH and his corps of experienced men, who took the entire charge of the tables, spread with the free donations of the friends of the Cause, and who gave us their time and indispensable services without charge, out of their regard for the great Cause which we are all laboring to serve, we feel that especial thanks are due, and we beg them to believe that their labor of love is highly appreciated by us.
To Mr.LEVI WHITCOMB, who for many years has rendered us valuable and gratuitous services, as doorkeeper, we unitedly offer our sincere thanks.
And to the friends of Emancipation and of Freedom everywhere, we offer the assurance of our warmest sympathies and the pledge of our continued labors.
For the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Committee,
L. MARIA CHILD.

SUBSCRIPTION LIST
OF THE TWENTY-EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARY.
Mrs. Maria Weston Chapman, $200.00
Miss Mary G. Chapman, 50.00
Miss Anne Warren Weston, 20.00
Mrs. Mary May, 100.00
Miss Henrietta Sargent, 20.00
Mrs. Louisa Loring, 25.00
Mrs. Helen Eliza Garrison, 10.00
Mrs. Anna Shaw Greene, 200.00
Mrs. Theodore Parker, 15.00
Mrs. Evelina A. Smith, 5.00
Mrs. Sarah Russell May, 5.00
Mrs. Eliza Apthorp, 5.00
Mrs. Von Arnim, 5.00
Miss Mary Willey, 1.00
Mrs. Sarah J. Nowell, 10.00
Mrs. Ann R. Bramhall, 5.00
Mrs. Katherine E. Farnum, 1.00
Miss Sarah H. Cowing, 2.00
Miss Mary Jane Parkman, 5.00
Miss Georgina Otis, 5.00
David Lee Child, and L. Maria Child, 10.00
Mrs. Ann T. G. Phillips, 100.00
Hon. Gerrit Smith and daughter, 10.00
Rev. Dr. Francis, Cambridge, 5.00
Hon. John G. Palfrey, 5.00
Charles Follen, Esq., 200.00
Rev. Samuel J. May, Syracuse, N. Y., 10.00
Miss Hannah Robie, 20.00
Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., 10.00
Mrs. Samuel E. Sewall, 10.00
Hon. Samuel Gale, Montreal, Canada, 100.00
Samuel May, Esq., 100.00
Miss C. Putnam, Peterboro', N. H., 10.00
Miss Mary P. Payson, Peterboro', N. H., 5.00
Mrs. Mary M. Brooks, Concord, 10.00
Mrs. Robert C. Waterston, 5.00
Rev. R. C. Waterston, 5.00
Frank B. Sanborn, Esq., 5.00
Marcus Spring, Perth Amboy, N. J., 20.00
S. B. Stebbins, Esq., 20.00
Mrs. E. Stebbins, 10.00
A. A. Burrage, Esq., 20.00
Edward Harris, Esq., Woonsocket, R. I., 10.00
Francis W. Bird, Esq., 5.00
Mrs. Samuel G. Howe, 3.00
Henry Willis, Battle Creek, Michigan, 2.00
Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 10.00
Mrs. Margaret P. Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 10.00
John C. Haynes, Esq., 10.00
Mrs. Lucinda Otis, 20.00
Mr. and Mrs. Win. Ashby, Newburyp't, 10.00
Mr. and Mrs. William Sparrell, 5.00
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, 10.00
Wm. L. Garrison, Jr., Lynn, 5.00
George T. Garrison, 5.00
Wendell P. Garrison, 5.00
Francis J. Garrison, 2.50
Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Draper, Hopedale, 100.00
W. W. and M. A. Dutcher, Hopedale 50.00
Mr. and Mrs. William I. Bowditch, 50.00
William E. Coffin, Esq., 10.00
William Dall, Esq., 10.00
Mrs. James Freeman Clarke, 10.00
George S. Winslow, Esq., 30.00
Rev. J. M. Manning, 5.00
Frank Cabot, Esq., 3.00
William L. Foster, Esq., Milton, 20 00
James N. Buffum, Lynn, 30.00
Perley King, Esq., South Danvers, 25.00
James Edward Oliver, Lynn, 10.00
D B. and A. B. Morey, Malden, 10.00
J. B. Swasey, Esq., Roxbury, 5.00
E S. Aldrich, Providence, R. I., 10.00
W. Gibbons Hopper, New York City, 50.00
Alvan and Nancy L. Howes, Barnstable, 10.00
Miss Jane Alexander, Jamaica Plain, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Magill, Jamaica Plain 10.00
Mrs. L. H. Bowker, Hopkinton, 5.00
Mrs. Charlotte Austin Joy, 25.00
Mrs. Martha Smith, Plainfield, Conn., 25.00
Miss M. De Peyster, Staten Isl'd , N. Y., 10.00
Miss Caroline F. Putnam, 1.00
Miss Sallie Holley, 1.25
Mrs. Sophia L. Little, Newport, R. I., 2.00
Misses Andrews, Newburyport, 5.00
Misses Bradford, Duxbury, 10.00
Misses Ireson, Lynn, 8.00
Miss Anna Alley, Freeport, Me., 5.00
Mary C. Shannon, Newton Corner, 2.00
Miss Rebekah M. Northey, Salem, 3.00
Mrs. Richard Clap, Dorchester, 10.00
Miss Catherine Clapp, Dorchester 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Clapp, Dorchester, 5.00
Mr. F. F. Weis, Dorchester, 3.00
Miss Harriet Carlton, Dorchester, 2.00
Mrs. Lucretia Reed, Dorchester, 5.00
Mrs. S. E. B. Channing, 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Thaxter, Hingham, 5.00
Miss Percy Scarborough, Hingham, 2.00
Parker and Sarah H. Pillsbury, 6.00
Charles K. and E. C. Whipple, 5.00
Rev. Edwin Thompson, 1.00
Mrs. Joel W. Lewis, 1.00
Mrs. Sarah Chamberlain, 1.00
Mrs. Mary J. Silloway, 1.00
Miss Wiggin, 1.00
Miss Mellicent Jarvis, 3.00
Nathaniel Barney, Nantucket, 20.00
Mrs. James M. Robbing, 15.00
Miss Mary S. McFarland, 20.00
Miss Sophia S. McFarland, 20.00
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hall, Jr., 10.00
Henry G. Denny, Esq., 10.00
Rev. Alfred P. Putnam, Roxbury, 5.00
John R. Manley, Esq., 5.00
Misses R. A. and M. Goddard, 3.00
Mrs. Littlehale, 4.00
Mrs. E. D. Cheney, 3.00
Miss M. F. Littlehale, 5.00
Mrs. Lydia L. Walker, Leominster, 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. Elias Richards, Weymouth, 5.00
Ezekiel and Alice Thacher, Barnstable, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Ober, 10.00
Charles E. Hodges, Esq., 3.00
Barthold Schlesinger, Esq., 10.00
J. B. Pierce, Esq., Lynn, 5.00
Mrs. M. J. Tilden, 5.00
C. B. Le Baron, New York, 5.00
N. and A. S. White, Concord, N. H., 20.00
Rev. P. Fisk, 20.00
Dr. Daniel Mann, Painesville, Ohio, 5.00
Miss Dora Neill, New York City, 20.00
Samuel May, Jr., 20.00
John J. May, Esq., Dorchester, 10.00
Mrs. Caroline S. May, Dorchester, 5.00
Fred. W. G. May, Esq., Dorchester, 5.00
Mrs. Martha R. May, Dorchester, 5.00
Mrs. Mary G. White, 3.00
A. W. M., $5.00, A. M., $2.00, 7.00
Miss Elizabeth Sargent, 1.00
Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam, Salem, 5.00
E. T. Putnam, Salem, 1.00
E. B. Mundrucu, Esq., 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. James Hutchinson, Vt, 2.00
Dr. Jarvis Lewis, Waltham, 5.00
Miss Nancy Lewis, Waltham, 1.00
Miss Maria Cowing, Weymouth, 1.00
Miss Jane Danforth, Dorchester, 1.00
Miss H. L. Brown, Dorchester, 1.00
Mrs. Anne L. Gwynne, 1.00
Miss Anne E. Morrill, 5.00
Miss H. Augusta Wilson, 1.00
Mrs. J. C. Nichols, 2.00
Two Friends, $5 each, 10.00
Rev. J. Scott, Sudbury, 1.00
P. Brainerd Cogswell, Concord, N. H., 5.00
Fall River Anti-Slavery Sewing Circle, by J. M. Aldrich, 25.00
Mrs. Hamilton Willis, 5.00
Estus Lamb, Blackstone, 2.00
Mrs. M. Jenckes, Blackstone, 1.00
Mrs. C. Comstock, Blackstone, 1.00
Mrs. Nancy B. Hill, Blackstone, 1.00
Moses Farnum, Blackstone, 1.00
William Kelley, Blackstone, 1.00
Other friends in Blackstone, 2.10
Mrs. Dr. D. Thayer, 10.00
<c05>
Mrs. Theodore Simmons, 1.00
B. S. Lockwood, M. D., 3.00
A. J. Fuller, M. D., 1.00
Thomas W. Ripley, 2.00
Ephraim Willey, Jr., 1.00
George M. Rogers, 5.00
J. G. Dodge, West Cambridge, 3.00
Custom House officer, 2.00
C. Henry Adams, 2.00
Mrs. Hannah Castell, 5.00
Miss Louise Wellington, 3.00
Leslia M. A. Knox, 1.00
J. P. Coburn, 1.00
S. H. Lewis, 2.00
Mrs. B. Newell, 50c., Mrs. Freeman, 50c., 1.00
J. S., $3,-M. M. R., $1,-J. A. N., $1, 5.00
F. Burnham, 1.00
James Hall, 1.00
Charles W. Tyler, 50
Mrs. L. A. Stevens, 1.00
A. M. Piper, 1.00
J. Russell, 2.50
George F. Woodman, Esq., 2.00
W. W. Churchill, Esq., 2.00
William Bassett, Lynn, 5.00
William Bassett, Jr., Lynn, 5.00
Mr. William G. S. Keene, Lynn, 2.00
Friend in Lynn, 2.00
Mrs. E. H. Payson, 1.00
G. C. Hickok, 1.00
John Warren, 5.00
E. H. Heywood, 2.00
Mrs. Harriet Jacobs, Moodna, N. Y., 2.00
Friend in New York City, 1.00
Dr. O. Martin, Worcester, 1.00
Abram Folsom, Esq., 5.00
George W. Simonds, Esq., 10.00
H. Wellington, Roxbury, 5.00
Cornelius Wellington, 5.00
W. P. Atkinson, Esq., Cambridge, 10.00
John H. Stephenson, Esq., 10.00
C. H. Codman. Esq., 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Southwick, 5.00
Judith Hathaway, 1.00
Two Friends, 10.00
Miss Crane, 1.00
Amicus, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvanus Smith, 2.00
Dr. W. S. Brown, 3.00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 10.00
Mrs. Anna D. Hallowell, Medford, 2.00
Isaac H. Marshall, Hampstead, N. H., 2.50
John Wilson, Jr., 2.00
J. J. Locke, 1.00
John E. Robinson, Rochester, N. Y., 3.00
Sarah L. Willis, Rochester, N. Y., 5.00
Mary H. Hallowell, Rochester, N. Y., 1.00
Mary S. Anthony, Rochester, N. Y., 3.00
Susan B. Anthony, Rochester, N. Y., 2.00
James Campbell, Rochester, N. Y., 1.00
Sarah D. Fish, Rochester, N. Y., 1.00
Mary B. F. Curtis, Rochester, N. Y., 5.00
Ann Pound, Rochester, N. Y., 50
Elizabeth Smith, Rochester, N. Y., 1.00
A Friend, Rochester, N. Y., 50
C. A. F. and G. B. Stebbins, N. Y., 2.00
Charles T. Beach, East Otto, N. Y., 10.00
Mrs. Mary H. Devine, Genoa, N. Y., 1.00
Slocum Howland, Sherwoods, N. Y., 3.00
Miss Emily Howland, Sherwoods, N. Y., 5.00
Isaac Jacobs, King's Ferry, N. Y., 1.00
Matthias Hutchinson, King's Ferry, N. Y., 1.00
James A. Burr, Ludlowville, N. Y., 6.00
F. D. Ormsby, Ludlowville, N. Y., 1.00
Mrs. M. K. Hubbard, Ludlowville, N. Y., 1.00
Benjamin Joy, Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
Nelson Parsons, Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Lord, Ludlowville, N. Y., 1.50
Rev. J. W. Pratt, Ludlowville, N. Y., 25
Mrs. S. R. Howland, Union Springs, N. Y., 1.00
Mrs. Sophia Hoskins, Union Springs, N. Y., 1.00
Griffith M. Cooper, Williamson, N. Y., 1.00
Mrs. James G. Birney, 2.00
Mrs. Judge Cleveland, Coventry Falls, Vt., 1.00
Charlotte L. Hill, West Gouldsboro, Me. 1.00
Mrs. Ann F. Greeley, Ellsworth, Me., 1.00
Mrs. Alice B. Baxter, Jonesville, Mich., 1.00
Friends in Brooklyn, Ct., by Mrs. Whitcomb, 5.00
Mrs. J. M. Hall, West Killingly, Ct., 5.00
Mrs. Morrill, Concord, N. H., 5.00
T. B. Drew, Kingston, 5.00
Miss Adeline Whiton, Hingham, 2.00
Moses and Hannah Sawyer, Weare. N.H., 3 .00
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Merrill, Danversport, 2.00
Maria S. Page, Danversport, 1.00
E. F. Burnham, So. Danvers, 4.00
E. G. Lucas, 5.00
Moses Wright, Georgetown, 1.00
George W. Stevens, 3.00
Mrs. Lucinda Jameson, 1.00
Philip A. Chase, 5.00
P. Wicksell, 3.00
C. H. Estabrook, 1.00
Dr. M. E. Zakrzewska, 1.00
M. J Zakrzewska, 1.00
Mrs. J. M. Bacon, 1.00
Josephine Bacon, 1.00
M. A. Bacon, 1.00
Mrs. B. F. Danforth, 5.00
Jonathan Buffum, Lynn, 2.00
Thomas B. Rice, 2.00
Robert Adams, Fall River, 5.00
Benjamin Chase, Auburn, N. H., 2.00
Mrs. Clarissa G. Olds, Hampton, N. H., 3.00
Mrs. William Tuttle, Salem, 2 .00
Mrs. Sarah Hayward, Salem, 2.00
Josiah Hayward, Esq., Salem, 2.00
Josiah Hayward, Jr., 1.00
Robert R. Crosby, 2.00
Augustus Haskell, 1.00
John Winslow, 2.00
Mrs. H. S. Denham, 1.00
Mrs. Scarlet, 1.00
Samuel L. Young, 3.00
Mrs. A. R. F. Mann, New York, 1.00
John T. Hilton, Brighton, 50
W. D. Scrimgeour, Andover, 50
Richard Hinchcliffe, Andover, 50
John Hill, Andover, 25
Miss Haliburton, Cambridge, 1.00
Mrs. E. H. Partridge, Jewett City, Ct, 50
Mrs. Mary Guild, 50
G. W. Stetson, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. Ansorge, 1.00
Miss Young, 1.00
Miss Carrie Otis, 1.00
Miss Elizabeth Howard, 1.00
Mrs. James A. Waite, Hubbardston, 2.00
Eliab Wight, Esq., Bellingham, 3.00
Isaac W. Roberts, Danversport, 1.00
Miss Sarah Clay, Lowell, 1.00
Henry Abbot, Lowell, 2.00
S. D. Chandler, East Cambridge, 5.00
B. F. Hutchinson, Milford, N. H., 1.00
A. Twitchell, 1.00
Misses A. A. and M. <illegible> 2.00
M. W. Stetson, Hanover, 1.50
Friends in Leominster, by Mrs. F. H. D., 1.59
E. R. Brown, Elmwood, Illinois, 3.00
Miss Wilson, 1.00
John J. Smith, 1.00
N. L. Perkins, 1.00
J. H. Sterling, 1.00
"Friends," in various sums, 18.70
Cash, by M. Willey, and others, 6.13
Mrs Coburn 50c, Mrs. J. Wright 50c, Lucretia M. Wright 10. E. E. Wright 25. Mrs. Pinder 25, David Wilson 50, J. C. Dunlop 50, H. Jones 25, Miss Hemmenway 25, W. Johnson 50, C. P. Taylor 50, Mrs. Logan 50, Miss Lawton 50, Miss Nichols 26, Mrs. W. B. Earle 50, Mrs. E. A. Parshley 25, Mrs. Williams 25.
EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Mrs. Reid. London, 20 0 0
Miss Sturch, London, 20 0 0
Friends in PERTH, Scotland, by Mr. D. Morton, 11 6 3
Rev. Edwin Chapman, Bristol, 5 0 0
Friends in BRISTOL, by Mrs. Stephens, 18 2 0
Friends in BOLTON, by Miss Whitelegge, 18 0 0
Anti-Slavery Society in MANCHESTER, 12 0 0
Anti-Slavery Society in WARRINGTON, by Mrs. Robson, 15 0 0
Collections by Mrs. Thorpe, 26 3 6
Mrs. Harriet Martineau, 1 1 0
Mrs. George Martineau, 2 2 0
Mrs. Henry Turner, 1 1 0
Miss Jane Ashby, Tenterden, Kent, 10 0
LEEDS Anti-Slavery Association, 5 0 0
Joseph Lupton, Esq., Leeds, 2 0 0
W. Armistead, Leeds, 2 0 0
Wm. Scofield, Leeds, 1 0 0
Mrs. Coxon, Leeds, 1 0 0
Mrs. Buckton, Leeds, 1 0 0
Mrs. J. W. Read, Leeds, 5 0
Miss H. Lupton, North Wales, 2 0 0
B. Smith, Thirsk, 1 0 0
DUBLIN Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society-for circulation of the Standard, 5 0 0
Richard D. Webb. Esq., Dublin, 5 0 0
James H. Webb, Esq., Dublin, 1 0 0
Mrs. Allen, Dublin, 6 0 0
James Haughton, Esq., Dublin, 2 0 0
S. Wilfred Haughton, Dublin, 1 0 0
Mrs. A. Haughton, Dublin, 1 0 0
Mr. John G. Richardson, Dublin, 1 0 0
Mr. Samuel Haughton, Dublin, 1 0 0
Miss Haughton, Dublin, 5 0
Miss Mary Haughton, Dublin, 5 0
Mrs. W. N. Hancock, Dublin, 5 0 
Miss Kennedy, Dublin, 5 0
Mrs. Palmer, Waterford, 10 0 0
Friends in BELFAST, Ireland, 14 0 0
M. de Tourgueneff, Paris, 100 francs.
<c06>
The friends, both at home and abroad, are earnestly entreated to inform us, not only of any mere clerical errors in the above list, but especially of omissions, as such information helps to recover in case of sums, if such there be, lost on the way. Such information may be sent to Rev. Samuel May, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston.
PIETY WITHOUT RELIGION.
Capt. Fifield, whose vessel was taken the other day by the privateer "Jefferson Davis," and who was kept prisoner on board that craft for a day or two, says that they had regular morning prayers. They were, very possibly, devout in their prayers, being pious, but not religious. The brigands of Italy, before they go out to rob and murder, pray fervently to the Virgin. There is no hypocrisy in it; their devotion is sincere; it is merely piety without religion. Walter Scott in "Quentin Durward," describes the same psychological phenomenon in the case of Louis, XI of France, who prayed fervently to the Virgin for success in one little crime he was about to commit, promising her, if she let him succeed, it should be the last. This is another case of piety without religion.- Rev. J. F. Clarke.
There is plenty of this sort of piety North as well as South. One of the reasons why our country has become so depraved is that the clergy and the churches cultivate piety as the main thing, with comparatively small regard for religion. The clergy abuse and pervert their office of teaching to such an extent that nine out of every ten church members suppose piety and religion to be perfectly synonymous words. Young people (or old ones) begin to feel the desire of being religious, they go for instruction to the persons popularly reputed to be the best teachers, namely, the clergy, and these give them instruction in piety, under the name of religion. Following this instruction in a short time they join the church, erroneously taking for granted that that institution will help them in the right practice of religion, just as they erroneously took for granted that their minister would give them the right theory of it. Thus they grow up under false instruction, all the while supposing themselves enlightened and truly religious, and really believing that the party to which they belong-the party who make Sabbath-keeping, attendance on prayer-meetings, and distribution of tracts the best tokens of religious, character-are the salt of the earth and the light of the world.
What is religion?
An ancient apostle gave us a formal definition of it as follows: "Pure religion and undefiled before God, (even the Father,) is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."
The Master of that apostle gave his idea of it in these expressions: "He that keepeth my commandments, he it is that loveth me."-"He that doeth the will of my Father in heaven, the same is my brother"-"Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say?"
A modern apostle, in substance following these two has said-"Religion is voluntary OBEDIENCE to the will of God."
The piety which is so much in vogue in the churches alike of our Northern and Southern States, is an at tempt to cultivate a sentimental love for God, without that obedience, that doing of the things commanded by Him, which is insisted on as essential in all three of the definitions above quoted. Thus the church people have formed the habit of giving slight consideration and regard to the natural, instinctive feeling of right. If an unpopular duty is to be done, something that will bring trouble and odium upon a man, while it is not demanded by the usages and traditions of the church, the church-member will, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, refuse to do it; and the consideration that it is a right thing and a needful thing (even if, in discussion, he finds himself obliged verbally to admit it to be such) will have no more weight with the church-member, than with the swearer or the drunkard, to induce him to do it. A clergyman of this sort (since dead, and praised to the skies as a shining example of piety,) refused to sign a petition against the Fugitive Slave Law, which I carried to him, saying by way of explanation -"I am a law-abiding man"!
The lives of this class of men are controlled mainly by the "traditions of the elders." Thus it happens that our churches have been, up to the time of the rebellion, the main bulwark of slavery; and their members are among the last to favor the turning of the war against slavery. To the Northern clergy and church-members, the Southern clergy and church-members are still Christian brethren, because they are still pious. The fact that they do all manner of atrocious wickedness does not discredit their piety, as long as they keep up their Sabbaths and prayer meetings. And this sort of piety, in the eyes of the church people, is religion, is Christianity!
The particular incident which has given rise to these reflections is a passage in the Vermont Chronicle, a strong partisan of piety, but a desperate opposer of Anti-Slavery. It is speaking of the testimony of Mr. Spurgeon respecting the feeling of those classes of the British people with which he is most familiar, in regard to our President's policy of putting down the rebellion without interfering with slavery. Mr. Spurgeon says, writing to the Watchman and Reflector of this city:-
"I speak what I do know, when I say that our public sympathy with your government is clean gone, not only with the higher classes, but more thoroughly and completely with our people. Our populace to a man have ceased to respect the truckling policy which controls you; and I believe they would speak far more harshly of you than the richer classes care to do. It is no ones business here which of you conquers, so long as slavery is not at issue. That was the key to the British heart-it has been discarded, and we remain unmoved, if not indignant spectators of a pointless, purposeless war. My whole heart and soul wished you God speed, until, like all the rest who looked on at your awful game. with an ocean between us to cool the passions, I saw clearly that only extreme peril would compel your leaders to proclaim liberty to the captives."
The comment of the Vermont Chronicle is-
"Alas! poor, deluded Mr. Spurgeon! Ineffably narrow!"
And it proceeds-
"Well;-even if Mr. Spurgeon were right as to all the people of England (which we do not believe,) yet, with the help of God, we could go through the trial alone."
"With the help of God"! This is the assumption that the church and the clergy are always sanctimoniously taking for granted. These bodies, however corrupt, however active upholders of slavery, are still pious! Night and day, morning, noon and evening, they are uplifting their hands and crying "Lord! Lord!" Is He not necessarily on their side? Will He not help them as a matter of course, first to put down the rebellion, and then to reestablish all loyal slaveholders in their Constitutional rights? The President is a firm ally of the church. He upholds Constitutional slaveholding as they do; he is a pious man, and, before leaving Egypt for Washington, he asked the prayers of the pious for his success. They have ever since been praying for him. Must he not necessarily succeed? Will not so many repetitions of "Lord! Lord!" be certain to bring the Lord's help!
It may be well for these people to remember that righteousness is at least as important a thing as piety, towards securing the favor of God. They have not hearkened to Him in "proclaiming liberty;" and now He has proclaimed a liberty for them "to the sword."
How soon pestilence and famine may follow after, He only knows. But if the pious upholders of slavery wish to avert these judgments, and to bring the war that is now afflicting as to a close, they had better mix with their prayers at least an equal amount of repentance and reformation.-C. K. W.
The Life and Letters of
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN,
WHO was Executed at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American
Slavery: with Notices of some of his confederates. Edited by RICHARD D. WEBB.-This very valuable and interesting work, which has met with a most favorable reception and ready sale in England, has been carefully prepared by one of the most intelligent and experienced friends of America in the old world. For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston, 221 Washington street, Room No.6. Also in New York, at No.5 Beekman street; and in Philadelphia, at No. 106 North Tenth street.
