THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON SRTEET, ROOM No, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAR, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID.) to the General Agent
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI.NO. 42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1861.WHOLE NO. 1908.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
GERRIT SMITH vs. THE BIBLE AND THE CONSTITUTION.
This notorious fanatic, who aspires to high rank as a philosopher, and who claims to be the friend of freedom, and a Democrat of the Wendell Phillips school, has recently delivered a characteristic tirade of abuse against the Bible, the Constitution, and the President of the United States. It is well known that, owing to the success of his father in accumulating a large property through speculation in lands, Mr. Smith came in possession of an immense fortune early in life, instead of using his wealth for the purpose of benefiting his fellow-citizens, his charities have been almost wholly devoted to the colored race, and his great effort in life has been to make a negro as good as a white man. In the furtherance of this great object, Mr. Smith has gained some little notoriety, and has paid roundly in hard cash for the very questionable honors attained. Until the last Presidential election, Mr. Smith acted independently of the political organizations of the day, and has been honored on divers occasions with the votes of some scores of longhaired, crack-brained individuals, for the Presidential office. But, in 1860, he gave the Republican party, designated at that time as the "friends of freedom," the full benefit of his Herculean labors, in the political line, and ever since the inauguration of the worthy gentleman who now presides over the destinies of a free people, he has been hard at work, with pen and voice, to the full extent of his moderate abilities, in aid of the revolutionary scheme to turn the tide of war from its legitimate purpose to an unconstitutional onslaught against the institution of slavery. On the day when Mr. Smith read the proclamation issued by the General commanding the Western Department of the army, he rejoiced with exceeding great joy in the full belief that the colored millenium had at last arrived; but when he saw the letter from the President, vetoing the insane projects of the "Pathfinder," Mr. Smith opened the flood-gates of his wrath, and since that day he has filled the air with his denunciations of everything sacred and profane, in which he can see the least toleration towards the institution of slavery, and with cries for vengeance against the President of the United States, and all others in authority, excepting, always, one colored Justice of the Peace, recently appointed to office in and for the State of Massachusetts, "God bless her."
To show the temper of this burly-headed son of fanaticism, and the wickedness of his pestilential doctrines, we present our readers with a few choice extracts from his late "discourse," the whole of which may be found recorded in a recent number of that useful journal known as the New York Tribune:
SMITH ON THE BIBLE.
"But there is much in the Bible which cannot be proved. Its moral character, meaning that of its great principles and sentiments, speaks for itself and commends itself. But nearly all else in it is destitute not only of conclusive, but even of considerable proof. The wars of the Bible are probably as inaccurately described as the wars of other as old books. And its miracles are, doubtless, as groundless imaginations or sheer fictions, as are the miracles of other books of those ancient dates, when the empire of superstition was universal, and the popular appetite for marvels so clamorous."
SMITH ON THE CONSTITUTION.
"If need be, for the salvation of the country, let the Constipation be thrown to the winds. To that end, the North may trample it as deep under foot as the South has done. The democratic principle, which our people cherish, will reproduce Constitutions as often as there may be occasion for them."
SMITH ON THE PRESIDENT.
"President Lincoln would be as brave as a lion in the presence of the biggest gun in the whole Southern army. But only remind him of his Constitutional obligations to Slavery-in other words, only take him where habit has already taken and conquered him-and he becomes as weak as a Scythian slave. However brave and strong he is elsewhere, nevertheless; in the line of his weakness, he is nothing but weakness."
We trust the above will suffice to define the position of Mr. Smith as a Christian and as a patriot; whether Iris claim to full membership in the "regular " Republican party will be recognized, is not for the "like of us" to say. We have indeed fallen upon an evil day, when such infamous abuse of the divine writings, the solemn compact of the Constitution, and the character of the Executive, is tolerated by the authorities. Where is the puissant Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police? let him make an example of this man, who has shown greater malignity against the Government than all the distinguished guests who are now confined within the walls of the Hotel de Lafayette. Do your duty, good Mr. Kennedy, and take within the potent grasp of your august official authority the person known as the Hon. Gerrit Smith, of Peterboro’, New York.-Brooklyn (N. Y.) City News.

THE FREMONT (EMANCIPATION) PROCLAMATION DEPRECATED.
The account which we gave with some feeling of doubt last week, of the partial character of Gen. Fremont's proclamation of negro emancipation in Missouri, is fully borne out by the document itself, which has now reached us, and is as follows:-
"The property, real and personal, of all persons, in the State of Missouri, who shall take up arms against the United States, or who shall directly be proven to have taken an active part with their enemies in the field, is declared to be confiscated to the public use, and their slaves, if they have any, are hereby declared free men."
This is a new feature in the civil conflict, and may well inaugurate an entirely new phase. Its importance cannot be over estimated, and demands the most careful consideration. We feel pretty certain that Gen. Fremont, in issuing this bolt proclamation, must have acted without the orders, and probably against the wishes, of his superiors. Even if it be so, however, though he may have disobeyed and embarrassed them, he has, we fear, effectually committed them. He is too important a man to be lightly disavowed; he is employed on an expedition of vast consequence and peril, in which any interference with his authority and free action may be fatal to success; he may be able to plead something very like necessity on behalf of his daring assumption; and be this "as it may, a rescinding of his proclamation by the Supreme Government would be now peculiarly difficult. It would betray the divergence of feeling in the several sections of the party on one of the most imminent and vital questions involved in the strife; it would go far to cool the zeal, if not to effect the entire alienation of the Abolitionists, who are the most energetic and determined supporters of the Union; and it would virtually be a promise to the secessionists that the terrible weapon of negro insurrection would never
<c02>
be used against them,-as we feel tolerably confident it never will.
If, however, the Government at Washington, in the view of the difficulties before them, should have determined upon crossing the Rubicon which cannot be repassed; if they should either have authorized Gen. Fremont's emancipation proclamation, or should adopt and act upon it now that it has once been promulgated,-what is the inevitable influence, and what must be the practical result? There can be no reason for pursuing one course in Missouri, and another in Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee.
Can it be for a moment believed that the Federal Government are ready for such a trenchant and fearful measure? Have we any reason to suppose that their prospects are so desperate as to necessitate so questionable and so terrible an expedient? Will not the merchants of Boston and New York recoil from a proceeding which, if it produces the effect anticipated from it, will inflict utter ruin and universal desolation on those fertile territories from whose prosperity so large a portion of their own has always been derived; and which, if it be not effective, will have manifested a design and a temper which the Southern planters can never pardon? Will not all the soberer, and wiser, and gentler spirits of the Union, however earnest and sincere be their political predilections,-will not all who shrink from suffering, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood,-cry out against the inauguration of a policy which, if it means anything, means negro insurrection, servile war, outrages and horrors without number and without name? Will not, in a word, every one whom the intoxication of war and passion has not utterly blinded, and hardened, and perverted, rise to drive from power a party whose incapacity has brought the country to so dreadful an emergency, and who in their folly or their phrenzy do not scruple to let loose four millions of Africans against eight millions of Anglo-Saxons-or, on the most favorable supposition as to the result, to liberate four millions of ignorant semi-savages, unaccustomed either to provide for themselves or to control themselves, without making any arrangements to guard against the possible consequences of so unparalleled a step? It appears to us, we confess, that Gen. Fremont's proceedings, if disavowed, must shake the Federal Government most seriously; and if adopted and followed up must produce results of which any shock to that Government will be by far the most insignificant.
But there is another point of view in which this extraordinary proclamation requires to be considered, and which still further enhances its singularity. Fremont proclaims emancipation only to the slaves of rebels. He does not liberate the negroes out of affection for their race, but out of enmity to their masters. He sets them free, not as an act of sublime justice, but of military policy. His edict is a hostile weapon against the slave-owners, not a message of mercy to the slaves. It can be justified on no abolition principles, and it ought to command no abolition sympathies. Conceive the position in which, if sanctioned and consistently carried out, it will place the residual States-the United States, as they still call themselves. The slaves of secessionists-that is, the slaves of the South, the slaves of the slave States, as a rule-are to be set free; but those only-the slaves of "loyal subjects," that is, of adherents to the free North, are not to be meddled with. Their fetters are unbroken-their servitude is confirmed and sanctioned. Suppose this policy to be persisted in, and the authority of the Federal Government to be ultimately reestablished over the whole country-(and established possibly by means of the servile war created by this very policy which Fremont has inaugurated)-it will follow that the only slaves that will be tolerated will be those of the Free Soilers,-the only men entitled to hold slaves and to perpetuate slavery will be the devoted followers of the party who have made war upon the slaveholding South, and whose advocates here and there would persuade us that they have made war in the name and with the object of emancipation!
Was there ever an instance in which the want of principle and self-contradiction reached such gigantic dimensions?-London (Eng.) Economist.

MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH.
We are sorry to see a disposition in several quarters to represent the Republican party, mainly on the strength of Mr. Sumner's unfortunate speech at Worcester, as a party of emancipation, a "John Brown party," a party that desires to carry on this war as a war of abolition.
The convention certainly disavowed any intention of endorsing the fatal doctrines announced by Mr. Sumner, with a distinctness which can scarcely be flattering to that gentleman's conception of his own influence in Massachusetts. The resolutions offered by Rev. Mr. Clarke as a crucial test of the readiness of the convention to adopt open Abolitionism as its creed, went to the table and were buried, never to rise. The convention nominated as Lieutenant-Governor, and as the successor of Governor Andrew in any of the unwelcome contingencies laid down in the Constitution, a member of a party which has claimed and now claims in a peculiar degree the right to the title of "constitutional." It nominated for the legal adviser of the State government a Democrat of the straightest sect. None of these things did the convention need to do, if Mr. Sumner was in truth its organ. The effect of passing Mr. Clarke's incendiary resolutions, indeed, we will not venture to predict; but, certainly, the nomination of two gentlemen, diametrically opposed to the offensive doctrines, was a step in opposition to the policy charged upon the convention, which was required by no political necessity. Mr. Foster could nave remained upon the ticket, and a thorough Republican could have been nominated for Lieutenant-Governor, and the whole would still have been elected by a majority counted by tens of thousands. It is alleged that the convention cheered Mr. Sumner. His supporters among the delegates and spectators undoubtedly did so, but who does not see that this goes for nothing, in the face of the obvious fact that the silent party who disapproved were so much superior in number as to control the action of the whole body?
A glance at these facts, as it seems to us, is enough to show the extreme unfairness of the attempts to charge sinister purposes upon the Republicans of Massachusetts as a body. The attempt is, however, as unwise and unpatriotic as it is unfair. It may not appear so to Mr. Sumner and his supporters, and it may be forgotten by some who oppose him, but we hold it for an incontestable truth, that neither men nor money will be forthcoming for this war, if once the people are impressed with the belief that the abolition of slavery and not the defence of the Union is its object, or that its original purpose is converted into a cloak for some new design of seizing this opportunity for the destruction of the social system of the South. The people are heart and soul with their government in support of any constitutional undertaking; we do not believe that they will follow it, if they are made to suspect that they are being decoyed into the support of any unconstitutional and revolutionary designs.
<c03>
The speech to which we have several times referred has certainly done as much as lay within the compass of one man's powers to inspire this suspicion, to distract and weaken the loyal, and by indirection to aid the disloyal. But they are as culpable and as dangerous to the public welfare as Mr. Sumner, who recklessly strengthen the effect of what he said, who represent a great party as consenting to the schemes which he disclosed, and who are telling the people here and elsewhere, that the success of certain nominees, which is sure to occur, will be the triumph of an unconstitutional, wicked and dangerous policy. The conservative Republicans have joined in time past with the opponents of their party in calling upon what is termed its "extreme wing" to concede something, for the sake of strengthening the hands of Union men in other States. We now call upon Democrats, also, to refrain from falsifying the record, to desist from unfounded charges, and not to furnish the enemies of Holt and Johnson and Prentice with the ready reply that Massachusetts, by whose side they would place Kentucky, fights for abolition, and not for Union.-Boston Daily Advertiser, October 5th.
The history of the anti-slavery movement in this country will hereafter rank as one of the strongest cases where, human impatience and devotion to a Utopian idea have blinded men's eyes to the practical good which Providence has placed ready at hand. The insane folly of the Abolitionists killed out, years ago, the emancipation party, which at one time had the actual control of Virginia, and promised to eradicate slavery in other border States. The over-nice scruples of the same extremists, some years later, elected Mr. Polk, and insured the consummation of the Texan scheme, which they affected to deprecate. Their follies and excesses have still later furnished the Southern extremists and their allies with a whole arsenal of weapons, which have been turned, without reason, but with marked effect, against the Republicans, the only political party which has pretended to recognize any moral duty connected with slavery, as resting upon the nation or upon the citizens of the free States. What the Abolitionists affected to desire, that they have prevented. What they affected to deprecate, that they have insured. Those who wished to do something in the only practical way against the extension of slavery, they have weakened and loaded with a heavy weight of odium.
The same folly is now repeated by those who urge the conversion of this war into a war for emancipation. They clamor for a blow to be struck against slavery itself, unmindful that Providence has already foreshadowed the decay and end of that institution, in such terms as are clearly intelligible even to human apprehension. They are eager to be made the instruments of God's displeasure against an abhorred system, neglecting the palpable determination of Providence, that the system shall prison by the suicidal folly of those who uphold it. No more instructive lesson could be left for future imitators of the selfishness, arrogance, and wickedness of the ruling Southern interest, than is given in its destruction by its own hands, and in consequence of its own grasping and treacherous conduct; but foolish zealots would fain weaken the force of this example, and would leave it for future ages to believe that wickedness has perished, not by its own venom, but by some external interference.-Ibid.

THE WAR AND SLAVERY.
The Boston Journal thus disposes of Mr. Sumner's propositions to plunge us into anarchy:-
"Mr. Sumner and other radical anti-slavery men, dazzled by visions of universal freedom, entirely overlook the insurmountable difficulties which stand in the way of immediate emancipation. The unutterable horrors of a servile insurrection do not present themselves, or they would shrink from the prospect. The economic problem of supporting four millions of human beings who have never been self-dependent is not considered. All practical considerations, in fact, are ignored by a miscalled philanthropy which is as impracticable as it is visionary, and which would lay waste the most prolific soil, and fill our land with vagrants and marauders.
We must limit the war to the purposes so distinctly avowed by the Administration, or the sun of our national prosperity will set in darkness and gloom, to rise again, if at all, only after years of bloodshed and anarchy. Proclaim the policy of emancipation, and all hope of a reconstruction of the Union will be crushed out. All the loyal elements in Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri will be alienated at once, and every prospect of awakening the dormant loyalty in the seceded States will have passed away. It will come to this, that we must subjugate or be subjugated. The people of the South would defend their homes and their firesides to the last extremity, as we would do should the chances of war favor them. The present generation would not see the end of such a contest, unless the North should be conquered and subdued by the aid of foreign bayonets or internal dissensions. From such a war we may well pray to be delivered."
We learn from the Journal the further fact, that Mr. Sumner's speech was not even on invitation of the State Committee, but was either his volunteer effort, or the work of some individuals on their own responsibility. The Republicans of Boston desire to be rid of any connection with the fanatic Senator's remarks. The signs of the times improve. -New York Journal of Commerce.
MESSRS. EDITORS,-Day is breaking! There is hope for the NATION when Charles Sumner is repudiated by Republicans, and his maudlin speeches, with their false classics and falser politics, fall stillborn. His last effort before the late Republican Convention is disapproved by the party, as announced by the Boston Journal and Daily Advertiser, both strong Republican papers. But for the attack of Brooks by which Mr. Sumner was martyrized, he would not even now misrepresent Massachusetts in the Senate. J. S. F.-Boston corr. N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
After the reading of a very superfluous string of resolutions, Charles Sumner came upon the platform, and was received with warm cheers; and as be was introduced and went off into the usual anti-slavery speech, we could not help thinking of Mr. Wemmick's little cannon, touched off so regularly at sunset in "Great Expectations." Every year, as it comes around, and brings a convention, brings out Mr. Sumner in full dress, and a speech, which proves that he has sworn never to talk of anything but slavery, with, perhaps, a mental reservation touching himself. The "aged parent" is always present to hear the gun go off, and to express his delight with the noise. We could not but feel that Mr. Sumner's speech was ill-timed and but of place.-Report Republican Convention in Springfield Republican.

THE LINE MUST BE DRAWN.
The line must be drawn distinctly between men who are for the Union and the Constitution, and men who are for abolition in spite of Union or Constitution. If the North shows, what is beyond doub
<c04>
the truth, that the overwhelming majority here is for the old Union as it was, against all disorganizes, emancipationists and pseudo-reformers, if we can <illegible> Southward a shout .of victory over our own revolutionists, which shall be heard in the heart of the South, we shall do more to dethrone rebellion than all threats of freeing the slaves will accomplish in a generation. The Union men of the Southern States are looking anxiously from hour to hour for arguments in favor of the Union by which they can overcome the enemies of the country. The only cry against them is "The North is Abolitionist, and we cannot unite with Abolitionists." It is no time for us to discuss whether they have any ground for their assertion. Let us frankly acknowledge that there has been much Abolitionism at the North, and now, with one heart, drive it out of our midst. Then we can tell the friends of the Government at the South, “the North is with you, to put down every species of rebellion and revolution among ourselves or you. We will protect your rights as firmly as our own." Now is the moment to do this, when even in Massachusetts, the headquarters of Abolitionism, the leading Republican papers and voters are casting off their Abolition allies, and seem to invite the co-operation of the Democrats. The movement that is begun may be judiciously carried on until the entire North will be for Union with the Union men of the South. Then we hope to see a conservative party arising and advancing ahead of our army, from the Lakes to the Gulf, a party that will be so tremendous against secession and Abolition before next Spring, that men will say the country is unanimous.-New York Journal of Commerce.

Selections.
THE WORCESTER CONVENTION.
We devote considerable space, to-day, to the record of the proceedings of the Convention held at Worcester on Tuesday, and only regret that that record is not more consonant to the true sentiment of Massachusetts in this hour of our national peril-that it fails lamentably to express the duty of true patriots at a moment when decided, positive action is rendered imperatively necessary by the ever varying events of the hour, but rather indicates a timeserving, make-shift policy on the part of the dominant party of the State, thus following in the wake of those political organizations which have preceded it, and in its eager pursuit of popularity ignores forever the principles upon which it was founded.
The only redeeming feature from this evident tendency to forget the past in an insane craving for perpetuity, even if that were to be secured upon the ruins of principle, is to be found in the noble and eloquent speech of Hon. Charles Sumner, which, recognizing the aim of the rebellion, indicates the infallible remedy for its monstrous evils and terrific progress, and with characteristic fidelity to the cause of Freedom, points to Slavery as the prolific source of our national troubles-its annihilation the only effective method of securing a speedy and permanent peace.
In vain do we turn to the resolutions passed at this Convention for any evidence that they emanated from a body of men representing the idea or policy of that phase of Republicanism which finds its most fitting exemplar in His Excellency Gov. Andrew, or fairly indicate the position and sentiments of a vast majority of the Republican party in the State and nation. Instead of meat for strong men, we are treated to a dish of diluted milk, neither palatable nor wholesome even for babes; where one would expect a bountiful repast of solid and substantial food, we are bidden to a meagre complement of husks and chaff; instead of a plain recognition of the vital issue forced by the progress of armed rebellion upon the country, and the advocacy of prompt and decisive measures on the part of the Government to meet and grapple with it, the people are gravely informed that the preservation of the Constitution and form of Government under which we live is of paramount importance to the extirpation and eradication from our midst of the cause which weakens the efficacy of the one, and would fain overthrow and destroy the other; instead of a bold and manly rebuke of treasonable proposals for peace with armed rebels, charging home upon them with the severity of offended justice their manifold sins and iniquities, probing the national wound, and having found the true source of the trouble, recommending a radical curative, we are told that our only duty is to put down armed rebellion, and nothing else. Ignoring completely the fact that this rebellion has been inaugurated by slaveholders for the extension and perpetuation of the abominable and accursed system of human bondage-that Massachusetts men by thousands are now in arms defending the National Capital from the assaults of the minions of slavery-that slaves, armed and equipped with the enginery of war are daily confronting our gallant troops on the banks of the Potomac, unwilling instruments in the hands of their robber masters, to launch the missiles of death among our people-knowing that such is the case-it is with unfeigned sorrow that we record it, as the calm decision of a party from which better things were to be expected-a large and influential body of delegates to a so-called Republican Convention in Massachusetts practically repudiate the issue which the stern necessity of war, bloody, vindictive, savage war, has forced upon the country, and with the wisdom and caution of owls solemnly decide that Republicans cannot consistently weaken the power of the enemy by attacking his most vulnerable point! Furthermore, we are informed that the Republicans of Massachusetts will not "rejoice when the time shall come, in the wisdom of the Government, to remove" slavery, "the root and cause of this rebellion," and the "radical source of our present troubles,"-that they will not, "when ,the proper time shall arrive, welcome any act under the war power of the Commander-in-Chief, which shall declare all the slaves within the lines of our armies to be free, and accept their services in defence of the Union, thus carrying liberty for all human beings wherever the Stars and Stripes shall flow."
It was not strange that a Convention, composed of such material, should have been ready to strike hands with the bitter and unrelenting opponents of the principles and policy of the Republican party, and to select as a candidate for Lieutenant-Governor of the freedom-loving State of Massachusetts, a representative of a party which, for malignant hostility to the prevailing sentiment of our people, out-Herods Herod, for our present worthy and efficient Secretary of State, Hon. Oliver Warner, to substitute one of the most mischievous of the late Breckinridge conspirators, and for the present Attorney-General select one of the most rabid pro-slavery, anti-Republican hunkers in the State, and having mingled as they might, "blue spirits and white, black spirits and grey," present this ring-streaked and speckled concoction as a genuine unadulterated article, the Republican State Ticket!
We opine that the mass of voters will not coincide with this latest praise of "truck and dicker," and
<c05>
maugre all the schemes of truckling politicians, will indicate, at the election in November, their opinion of such management. Do as you please, Messrs. Politicians, in proposing names of candidates for office, the people will dispose of all your cobweb sophistries, by electing worthy men to stations of honor and trust, and leaving unworthy, incapable, hunker politicians at home!-Sandwich Advocate.

MR. SUMNER’S SPEECH.
Some of the Boston newspapers, being zealous or such a suspension of antagonisms as will allow union and harmony among loyal men of different views and parties, have fallen rudely upon Charles Sumner. His speech at the State Convention is made the occasion of this crusade. Some of them employ very coarse terms, while others use more decent expressions, but fail to use honest criticism. The Post thinks that Mr. Sumner should be "ducked in a horse pond." The Courier sees nothing in the Convention but Mr. Sumner and his speech, finds in them that the "Republican managers" are insincere, misrepresents the speech, and evidently desires to see Mr. Sumner crucified. The Advertiser briefly condemns the speech; and the Journal, after characterizing it as the "ill-timed eloquence of Mr. Sumner," undertook the not very honorable business of explaining and apologizing to the Courier.
What a sacrilegious thing it is to speak strongly against slavery! It is excusable to curse any other work of the devil, but this must be kept apart from the light of common day, and carefully guarded against rude treatment. When Charles I. was destroying England, in such style as provoked resistance and led to civil war, the rescuers of the nation were greatly embarrassed and weakened by the influence of a superstitious reverence for his "sacred majesty." It was deemed sacrilegious to wound the king or to do him a personal harm in battle; and this policy continued disastrously active until it was crushed by the powerful hand of Cromwell. He shocked timid people by declaring that he would not hesitate to kill the king in battle; and his famous "Ironsides" were pledged to shoot the king as readily as they would shoot any other foe. There is prevalent in this country a similar feeling towards slavery, which for so many years has officiated as our sacred majesty; and that will be a blessed day for the country, when we exchange it for a tone of feeling similar to that which Cromwell inspired.
There is no occasion for such treatment of Mr. Sumner and his speech, and it is felt by quiet lookers-on as an attempt at proscription little in keeping with the professed desire to suspend antagonisms and abstain from fomenting disturbances among loyal men. Mr. Sumner uttered his thought frankly. He told what can be constitutionally done against slavery by the war power of the Government, and expressed his belief that "to carry Africa into the war" would make it more effective. He does not demand this policy for the Government, nor make any controversy in regard to it, but merely expressed his views with his usual eloquence and courtesy. Gen. Butler has spoken substantially in the same way, but without being attacked in the same fashion. We presume there are not many loyal men who would not actually decide finally that the salvation of the Republic is paramount to any claim of slavery. That institution is at the bottom of all our troubles, and deserves no mercy.-Worcester Spy.

PARTIZANS NO PATRIOTS.
Nowhere in the loyal States, since the guns of Fort Sumter called the nation to arms, has there been such an exhibition of unpatriotic and reckless partisanship as has been shown by many journals in Massachusetts since the State Convention of the 1st instant. The Boston Post, with its party State ticket every day at the head of its columns, the Daily Advertiser, and the representatives of various other phases of popular opinion, rival each other in open abuse or ingenious depreciation of sentiments as loyal, and patriots as pure and true, as the country contains.
It is not material whether the Republican party is responsible for the sentiments of Mr. Sumner, or the resolutions of Mr. Clarke. They both stand upon their own footing, and time will speedily enough show how far they are prudent and right. The burning fact remains, that the system against which their arms are turned, and which has been the ruinous political power of this country for fifty years, is now the colossal WAR power which threatens to wipe it from the face of the earth. It may be pleasant to turn away from the danger, and to denounce as traitors whoever sound the alarm; but for all our false prudence and velvet-footed tenderness, the fiend of this Republic does not for a moment stay his destroying hand. It may be an attractive recreation to advocate patriotic sacrifices upon generalities, and to hold the advocates of specific measures of policy responsible for the calamities which we all purpose to avert; but to our mind, no "partyism" is so "abominable," no "serpent's tooth" is so sharp, as that spirit of angry proscription which at this hour is conspiring to overawe the expression of convictions which are above all parties, and which are dear to the people of this Commonwealth, and to men who love liberty all over the world.
Surely the evidence of events, during the last eight months, ought to have shown the folly of the reticent purposes which it is easy and popular to advocate, but which in every instance of trial have resulted in disaster. It was the fire which the brave and gallant Anderson returned, when his forlorn hope was assailed, that gave courage to the country after its long period of distress and humiliation; because it was the signal which announced the grateful purpose of the Government at last to act vigorously for the defence of its flag and its existence. The event of the 19th of April, though it carried mourning into many a household never before clouded by the incidents of war, was welcomed with sad satisfaction, because it gave renewed evidence of the depth of the loyalty of the country, and its generous alacrity to sacrifice everything for its safety. The arrest of conspirators, the reception of fugitives into the Federal service under the name of "contrabands," McClellan's triumphant march through Western Virginia, Fremont's proclamation of martial law and freedom to slaves-every bold step that has been taken, if taken toward destroying the rebellion, has been received with enthusiastic approval by the people, and revived their flagging ardor in the great cause.
If the dilatory and round-about policy, which finds so many lively advocates, is at length to be established, it should not be done, of all the States, with the consent and approval of Massachusetts. We believe that while the people are ready to contribute out of their abundant treasure and life freely for the defence of the Government, by whatever method shall seem best to the authorities who control its destiny, they will not by their silence become responsible in any degree for the fetal error that the protection of slavery is consistent with, the salvation
<c06>
of the Republic. And while they will fight bravely and faithfully with such weapons, and upon such battle-fields as are assigned to them, they can patiently await the time when it will not be deemed disloyal to advocate freedom as the inalienable birthright of mankind.-Worcester Spy.

WHAT HAS FREMONT SAID?
He has said that the slaves of the rebels should go free. He has not said that the slaves of the men loyal to the Constitution and the Government should go free, but only of those who are traitors and at war with the Government. Is not this right? Is it not in accordance with the conscientious convictions of every honest man, who is a well-wisher to his country and her glorious institutions? What are they endeavoring to do but to overthrow our Government, which they have sworn to uphold and protect, and thus not only making themselves traitors and rebels, but adding perjury of the vilest kind to their already accumulated crimes? Are not they approaching us with drawn swords ready to cut our throats? And for what? For supporting the Government and upholding the Constitution and the laws. Are not these rebels laying waste the country, destroying the property and taking the lives of innocent persons, for no cause but for the love and affection they have for the Constitution and the laws of the United States? Are they not forcing men of their own States, at the point of the bayonet, to embrace their cause contrary to their own convictions of right and duty? What deed in the black catalogue of crime have they not been guilty of in their madness and rage against Union men, and that of their own neighbors and States?
Then, we ask, in view of all these facts, what right has a rebel and a traitor to come and ask protection for his property, his slaves or his neck, of the Constitution and the laws he has set at defiance, and claims have no binding authority over him? Strange anomaly is this!
He has no right to make any such claim. He has forfeited all right to such protection, and the law holds only a rod over his head until he return to obedience. What, then, has Fremont said or done that should cause a censure, or disturb the sensitive nerves of those, who, by being long surrounded by the influences of the "peculiar institution," have become tainted by it, and are fearful that something should be said or done to weaken its power? Whatever may be said or done by men high in authority in this Government against the proclamation of Gen. Fremont in Missouri, the people of the United States will sanction it, in spite of all the influences that may be brought against it, and the Government will, in the end, have to adopt it. The entire civilized world will approve of it, and the intelligent slaveholders in Kentucky will approve of it, and say it is right, and just, and what ought to be proclaimed everywhere.
When the proclamation was first issued, there was but one grand acclamation of applause and approval from one end of the country to the other. The press almost universally, of all politics, were loud and earnest in their approval. Our literary journals, our divines and statesmen, nearly all claimed that it was right-that it was just the thing-that it superseded the "contraband doctrine," and solved the mystery of the negro question, as pertaining to our military affairs. If it was right then, is it not right now? Has the rebel changed his position and become loyal? What, then, has produced such a change as we see in the tone of many of the press at this times? Is it not strange that a brush from the pen of those standing in high places should produce such a trembling and weakness as is manifested in certain quarters?-Sturgis (Michigan) Journal.

THE HERALD BLOWING HOT AND COLD.
Few persons unacquainted with the N. Y. Herald's system of ground and lofty tumbling would imagine, from the frantic demonstrations now daily made against Gen. Fremont's course, what the tone of that paper was upon the same subject a few weeks ago. It is somewhat curious, though certainly not astonishing, to find that where unmitigated abuse is lavished now, nothing but unqualified praise was awarded then. On the 2d of September, the day after the publication of Gen. Fremont's liberating; proclamation, the Herald spoke as follows:-
"The energetic proclamation declaring the State of Missouri under martial law, and giving freedom to the slaves of all slave-owners found in arms against the Government, and the highly efficient state of organization to which the army of the Potomac has been already brought, go to show that the Government, the military authorities and the people of the loyal States are duly impressed with the importance of the task before them, and are undertaking it with the proper spirit and energy. The pronunciamento to of Fremont will strike terror throughout the Border States."
On the next day, Sept. 3, the Herald said:-
"The rebellion must be put down by some means or another, else it will put us down; and if nothing else will do, even to proclaim the abolition of slavery
would be legitimate. All is fair in war Gen. Fremont and the other Generals must act according to circumstances, and their own judgment, Tax less when otherwise ordered. If he is acting upon his own responsibility, he is only carrying out the confiscation act, so far as the slaves are concerned. We have no fear of die result"
On the next day, Sept. 4, it said:-
"This manifesto will be apt to stir up the anti-slavery enthusiasm of England to such a degree as to endanger the cotton cabinet of Lords Palmerston and Russell, and the present cotton party supporting it.”
Two days after, Sept. 6, it said:-
"Fremont's proclamation was doubtless the result of careful deliberation, and will operate to make practical Union men of many Missouri slaveholders, who, with all their love for secession, love their niggers still more. We have every indication that the strong medicines applied by Fremont to this secession plague in Missouri will core the patient as by a miracle."
And, on the same day:-
"Fremont ought to be vigorously supported by men and money, and arms and munitions of war."
On the next day, Sept 7, it said:-
"We apprehend that the danger to the rebels of having their slaves liberated will be apt to convince every slaveholder of the wisdom of adhering to the Union as the best security for their property."
On Sept. 9, it said:-
"Gen. Fremont moat be supplied with men and money without stint. Whatever money he needs should be placed immediately in Ms hands, so as to enable him to buy what he requires at once, and at such prices as it can be obtained for, without delay, red tape, or circumlocution."
On Sept 10, it said:-
"A Republic in which, the slave influence predominates is naturally an anomaly; and the proclamation of Gen. Fremont, in reducing the latter to its proper limits and destroying its political character, will afford the assurance that it will never again be allowed to endanger the stability of our institutions."
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of whole, than any order of nobility over known. To call, government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with, the infection of riches and of slavery. There, is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the "United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch-was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
On Sept. 14, it said:-
"The way in which Fremont and his associates are working un the rebels in Missouri is altogether encouraging."
And so on, brightly and cheerily, until Sept 18, when, lo!-
"President Lincoln has officially promulgated the important fact that he does not approve the late emancipation proclamation of Gen. Fremont In this, the President has acted very properly. The General acted without authority, and without discretion in the matter."
On Sept 20, fast and furious in its pursuit of the new scent, the Herald said:-
"The proclamation of Mr. Fremont was a piece of dictatorship akin to the mutiny and insubordination in California, for which he was tried by court-martial and found guilty, in the Mexican war. He was sentenced to death, but saved by the influence of his father-in-law. His recent act is far more reprehensible, because involving more serious consequences."
As a general specimen of blowing hot and cold from the same mouth, the foregoing is tolerably successful; but in the way of more particular and direct examples, we submit the following.
On the 6th of September it blue hot, thus:-
"The true path to victory and a speedy termination of the war is down the Mississippi; and in order to a successful expedition in that direction, Fremont ought to be vigorously supported."
On the 24th it blew cold, thus:-
"He planned wild expeditions prematurely, some down the Mississippi," &c." It is contrary alike to the dictates of common sense and military science, to proceed with an expedition down the Mississippi."
Here is a recent cold blow, dated Sept. 21:-
"Lyon was sacrificed for want of a reenforcement of 5,000 men. Owing to the failure of Gen. Fremont to send him reenforcements, the grand object of his expedition was lost"
Here is the hot blow to match, dated Sept. 9:-
"He (Lyon) died of red tape. He would hare been reinforced, as it was, by Gen. Fremont, but for lack of means of transportation."
Cold, Sept 19:-
"An ill-advised proclamation, which carried out the ideas of the Abolitionists. A high-handed piece of insubordination."
Hot, Sept 6:-
"The result of careful deliberation, and will operate to make practical men of many Missouri slaveholders."
And, once more, cold, Sept. 24:-
"But for the President's letter, Kentucky would have been by this time precipitated out of the Union by the conspirators, who seized upon Fremont's proclamation as the instrument by which to accomplish their nefarious design."
Answered, in advance, by hot, Sept 3:-"We presume that the insidious conspirators in loyal Kentucky will at once seize upon this edict of Fremont to drag their State into the morass of this rebellion. But we have no fear of the result."
This will suffice to show up the Herald's twisting and turnings upon this single topic. The value of its hue and cry against Gen. Fremont can now be better estimated. It says, of late, that it has "convictions" in the matter. The Herald never had a conviction, (except in certain libel cases.) but it has plenty of unprincipled caprices, and to one of these we must attribute its vicious attacks upon General Fremont-Sew York Tribune.
FREMONT
The Daily Advertiser of this morning publishes a letter from St Louis, written with great ability, candor and command of information, defending Fremont from the charges made against him, and placing his conduct in a new light. Far from being deficient in comprehensiveness and power of combination, in vigor and vigilance, it is shown that he has from the first understood his position, appreciated the magnitude of the work he had before him, and done all that intelligent energy, working with insufficient means, could possibly perform.
This position is sustained by an elaborate review of the facts of the case-facts which have been so distorted by Fremont's enemies and misapprehended by the public, that they have passed from facts into falsehoods, and need to be stated in their real nature and true relations in order to be properly appreciated. Among his bitterest assailants are men who arc responsible for the confusion of his department, its lack of arms, ammunition and men, when he took the command. The writer says-"He has not had the opportunity of carrying his plans fully out, and the threat of removal has for a past month been hanging over his bead. But he has accomplished an immense work, and if he were superseded now, would leave things in a condition to enable his successor, if properly sustained at Washington, to finish what he has begun."
Indeed, it is plain that a reaction in favor of Fremont has begun, and if he succeeds in his present campaign, he will be second in popularity to no man in the country. The gross injustice from which he Las suffered will, when an official investigation of his Department has demonstrated his integrity and capacity, make the people more than ever desirous of doing him honor. The only hope of his enemies was to create a furious prejudice against him by making him responsible for disasters he did his utmost to guard against, and then to get him dismissed from his post-Boston Transcript.
OUR GUILT AND OUR DUTY.
Extract from the Fast-Day Sermon of Rev. Dr. STEBBINS, of Woburn, (formerly President of the Meadville Theological School,) a very able and eloquent performance:-
We had laid the flattering unction to our souls that by putting our hands over our eyes and our fingers in our ears, we should not see oppression or Lear the cry of the oppressed; but the roar of the traitor's cannon startled us, and, lo! we see four millions of men, women and children whose future condition is to be determined by us. We cannot avoid the responsibility. We cannot say the South must take care of its own institutions. All that has passed by forever. When we were at peace, it might be so. But old things arc done away. The Constitution is trodden under foot by the "traitor-s. War has silenced laws. They ask, they will receive, no favors. What is bestowed when the rebellion is put down will be a grant from the victor, not a claim of right by the vanquished. The state before the treason cannot be regained. What is to be done with these enslaved millions now that their destiny is put into our hands? This is the question, and we must answer it. There is no such thing as throwing off the responsibility. We cannot escape it. The South have chosen to rebel, to plunge the country into civil war: they Lave voluntarily put their destiny into our hands. They say to us, "If yon conquer us, do what you will with us; for if we conquer, we shall do what we will with you." What shall we do with them? "Conquer them first, and then determine," does one say? That cannot be done. It is impossible. The moment our armies invade slave territory, the inevitable question comes up, " What is to be done with these slaves? " They rush into our camps; they offer service; they can be efficient soldiers, able and most devoted laborers on fortifications; they can work our heavy cannon; pass cartridges; heat balls; carry shells; drive our wagons. "What is to be done about it? " We cannot march a mile into slave territory without being compelled to act on this subject, to answer this question. It is simply impossible to delay this answer to the end of the war. What then shall be done? What shall be the policy of the nation? Though no settled policy has been developed, I cannot doubt that the Government has one which time will unfold, for it would be the sheerest folly as well as the completes! impossibility to prosecute this war without one. But we, the people, ought to have clear and decisive views on this subject It is the most momentous question of the war. There is far less danger that we shall fail of victory, than that we shall fail of wisdom how to use it. There is vastly more danger that, having put down the rebellion, we shall leave all the elements of future strife and of this strife ready to break forth into treason again, than that our anus will be victorious. Indeed, this question of "What is to be done with the slaves?" hangs like an incubus on the army itself; and were it not for the treasonable neutrality of Kentucky, which is now changed to loyalty, thank Heaven, long ago the question would have been answered. Now it must be. The moment the army marches South, the sphinx must speak, those granite lips must open, the silence of that tongue of stone must be broken.
<c02>
Revolutions make their own laws; and as fast as our army advances the slaves, should be freed; all slaves should be freed. Rather it should be presumed that every person is free, and should be treated as such. The so-called property of the citizens which is destroyed by the United States for the purposes of the war should be paid for, if it belongs to loyal citizens, but they must prove their loyalty. If the United States has freed from his indenture a person, white or colored, owing labor or service to a loyal citizen, let the damage be paid: if to a rebel, he must suffer the loss he has invited or risked.
But we must not be impatient with those in power. There will be mistakes made, there will be difference of opinion about methods of action, but all will work itself right if the people keep a sharp eye upon all movements. The recent proclamation of Gen. Fremont has been modified by the President. It may have been prematurely issued, it may have been unwise to modify it, but both have been done. It will not answer to stop for personal criticism in the great contest. As the General did declare martial law, and by that declaration all the slaves of the rebels within the lines specified were actually set free, no modification made by the President can effect any, except the slaves of such as may become rebels after the date of his modification of the General's proclamation; and nothing hinders another proclamation of martial law over still another territory, before which the feeble and impotent act of Congress will go down as a reed before a tempest. And this will be done. The so-called property in men and women and children will certainly be held no more sacred than that in land and ships and goods and cattle. It is painful to witness the tenderness, the chariness, which the government manifests toward slave property, while all other property is seized j without stint, without caution even. If Southern property in Northern ships is seized with due diligence, to the great annoyance and loss of Northern loyal part owners, why not seize Southern slaves, which is no annoyance but a blessing to heart and pocket of the supporters of the government? Why should the goods of rebels from Maryland be confiscated, and not their slaves? These questions will be asked in louder and louder tones by men who are pouring out their blood and treasure like water to put down the rebellion. Why not accept regiments of our colored citizens in the free States, and form regiments of the freed slaves in the slave States'? No men fought better than the "contrabands " on board the Minnesota off Hatteras. They worked the great guns which they maimed, with a relish. With flashing eyes and open lips, they watched the parabolic track of the shall which bore their compliments as well as confusion and dismay into the midst of their late masters. One tiling at least is due to the North. It is due to-day. Command should be given this hour along our lines from Washington to Kansas, and round the ocean and gulf shore, that no soldier;-officer or private,-shall aid in returning a fugitive, or permit the camp to be entered in search of one. It is due to law as well as to patriotism, that the army shall be neither made nor permitted to be slave-catchers. If we are to spend a thousand million of dollars, and pour out rivers of blood merely to drive these traitors to their dens, and leave the real cause of this war untouched, and blot out the hope of freedom of four millions of God's children, better pause where we are, infinitely better. I would not march a rod or pay a cent-I hope I should have both principle and nerve enough to suffer any penalty first, either of bullet or brand-to support the government. This great question of slavery must be settled forever, by blotting out the word from our vocabulary. And it will be done, unless we show that we are unworthy of our freedom by bowing our necks to tyrants. And we, ought to bear their yoke and be. scored by their lash, and despised for our pusillanimity, if we come back from those bloody fields leaving a single bondman behind us.
Having freed the slaves, we shall have a police of four millions to see that no harm is done to the republic. Put arms in their hands, and those who are now their masters will keep the peace. We shall have no more rebellions against freedom. One thing at least will be fettled.
I know that some persons are fearful that great evils will befall the nation, if freedom is given to the slave. I have none. Doing justice brings no judgment. We all see what we have got by servitude, bloody fields and rivers. The, negroes could work as owners on the soil which they now till. Let the plantations of the rebels, those in arms, be given in part to the former slaves, and the other part-sold as other public lands arc to settlers. In a few years, society would be adjusted to the new state of things and peace would pervade the land. It is said, I know, that white men cannot work in the Southern States. This is true but to a very small extent, and if it were wholly true, what would be the inference? that the white man must own, sell, beat, brutalize black men and women to make them till the soil? or let those have the soil who can till it in he freedom which God gives to every one of his children? Because a white man cannot work in a rice field, is he authorized to seize, a black man by the throat to make him work for him? Rice is not necessary for man; but righteousness is. And it seems to me that nothing can be more self-evident than that God does not design me to do that which I cannot do and if there are tracts of country where no man can live a freeman, it is evident enough that the Creator made it for reptiles and reeds. Let His will be done. 1 am sick at heart when I hear men estimating the priceless boon of freedom by bales of cotton, hogsheads of sugar, and tierces of rice. My soul loathes all estimates of the value of one's liberty. A great statesman once said he "never estimated the value of the Union." It was a noble testimony from eloquent lips to its worth. I never estimated the value of freedom; but the immortal Henry of Virginia, in the fervor of his soul, exclaimed, "Give me liberty or give me death." Think of the great army of the Potomac, its officers musing round the camp to sec if a panting fugitive has not hidden in the stuff, and finding him trembling with terror, sending him back to the lash of his master! Merciful God! save my eyes from such a sight! Save my ears from hearing it! Is this what we have risen to arms to do? Never! Never! We have risen to arms as one man to put down this rebellion, and when it is done, we mean this soil shall be trodden by none but freemen. By.the madness of the masters, the I door has been opened to free the slaves, and it will not be closed till the humblest has passed out.
This, then, must be the people's policy. As the army of liberty advances, the oppressed must be set free, and when the rebellion is crushed, and the rebels driven out of the country or punished, all loyal citizens who suffered loss must, as far as possible, be compensated. " As far as possible," I say, for it is to be borne in mind that no compensation can be made for some losses. Is the loyal Northern merchant, whose debts have been repudiated, whose ships have rotted at the wharf, to go uncompensated while we are making Southern men, who have lost their slaves, as comfortable as possible? Are Northern mechanics, whose bread has been taken from their mouths by this barbarous treason, to be passed by, while we are freely distributing gold among those who have lost their so-called property in men and women? We sometimes hear statements made implying that no persons will be sufferers by this war but these precious slaveholders, and that all other property must stand in abeyance till their accounts are posted and settled. Bear this in mind, and when you hear a recreant son of one who fought at Lexington or Bunker Hill, asserting that property is sacred and that the slaves must not be freed, ask him if property is not as sacred in Woburn and Boston as in Norfolk and New Orleans'? If slaves are taken from their masters by force to work for the country, let compensation be made as for any other labor: but if slaves are declared free by the necessities of war for the peace of the country, there is no more reason why their masters should be compensated even though loyal, than that owners of shipping in Boston should be compensated for the loss of freight produced by a blockade of Southern ports. We have become so accustomed to go down on our knees before the demands of slavery, that even now we forget our own losses in wondering how we shall pacify and satisfy slaveholders for theirs. O, be men! Up, upon your feet. Be manly, erect men. Cringe, crouch, fawn no longer. Be just, and fear not. Do righteously, and God will bless you.
The number of colored persons in the New England States was as follows, at the periods named:
1830. 1860.
Maine, 1,356 1,195
New Hampshire, 520 450
Vermont, 718 582
Massachusetts, 9,064 9,454
Rhode Island, 3,670 3,918
Connecticut, 7,693 8,542
Total, 23,021. 24,141
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FEIDAY, OCT. 18, 1861;
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that <illegible> military authority task for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that state of things, so far from its being true that the State where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
"From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of war, civil, servile or foreign, from that <illegible> stant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of the State <illegible> with slavery to a foreign power."
"If civil war come, if insurrection come, is this leaguered capital, is this besieged government to see millions of its subjects in arms, and have no right to break the fetters which they are forging into swords? No! The war power of the Government can sweep this intuition into the Gulf." JOHN QUINCY ADMAS. 
The following Memorial to the next Congress has been prepared for universal circulation, with tie belief that it will readily be adopted by all but those who are in favor of eternizing the accursed system of slavery-who, while pretending to be on the side of the Government, are secretly in hearty sympathy with the Southern traitors-and who would prefer to see the Federal forces every where defeated, the blood and substance of the people expended to no purpose, and the rule of the Southern Confederacy victorious over the whole country, rather than have the oppressed set free under law, even though a satisfactory adjustment is proposed in the case of the so-called loyal slaveholders. Let the most active measures be at once taken to procure the signatures of men and women, voters and non-voters, to this Memorial, in every city, town and village. A MILLION such can be easily obtained I by energetic and concerted action-but no time is to he lost. In a note just received from Gerrit Smith, he says-" I am glad to receive this morning from Boston, three copies of a Petition of excellent form I immediately put my name to one, and will, without delay, have them all in circulation. Let the enclosed draft be accepted as my share of the expense in Scattering copies of the Petition over the country."
Printed copies of the Petition, for gratuitous circulation, may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Offices in Boston, New York and Philadelphia.
MEMOEIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS
"PROCLAIM BIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of, State of, respectfully submit -
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of shivery throughout the country-liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and. while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties: and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Editors of newspapers arc requested to give this Memorial one or more insertions in their columns,
THE LONDON ECONOMIST.
Among the various pro-slavery assaults made upon Gen. Fremont for his just, righteous and constitutional Proclamation, emancipating the slaves belonging to all in Missouri who are treasonably at work to overthrow the Government, none has been more venomous than the one that may be found on our first page, in the "Refuge of Oppression," from the London Economist. Indeed, so thoroughly pro-slavery is it, in spirit and expression, that it seems as if none but a base-hearted American could be the author of it. Commenting upon another villanous article from the same paper, on the same subject, the London Anti-Slavery Advocate pointedly remarks:-
Does the Economist forget, that when they were emancipated in the British West Indies, the blacks were to the whites in the proportion of more than 10 to 1, whilst throughout the American slave States they are outnumbered in the proportion of 2 to 1; that in only two of the States-South Carolina and we think Mississippi-are they equal in number to the whites, whilst in most of the others they are greatly outnumbered; that they are unarmed; that they are rarely gathered in large numbers, because the large plantations are scattered at wide intervals, with scanty means of concert or communication; that very few of them can read or write; that they are by far a gentler race than their owners, who are the most bloody, lawless, and vindictive of all people claiming to be civilized; that none of the horrors shadowed forth by the Economist were justified by the events of West Indian emancipation, and would be impossible to any great degree under the actual circumstances of the slave States; that the abolition of slavery is the only remedy for the evils which afflict America; that such a measure, besides its inherent justice, would he amply justified by its necessity; and that the real or supposed interests of 350,000 slaveholders should no longer be regarded as paramount to those of the rest of the people of the United States.
It should be remembered that all the measures of preparation, provided by the British Parliament in 1830, were baffled as far as possible by the West Indian planters; and that such indignation was called forth in England by their opposition that the local legislatures were obliged, by the apprehension of imperial interference, to abolish the apprenticeship system, and to proclaim complete and immediate emancipation-a measure which was followed by no violence, turmoil, or bloodshed whatever.
EVERETT AND SUMNER. On Wednesday evening last, Hon. Edward Everett gave the opening lecture of the Mercantile Library Association course, before a brilliant and crowded audience. It was on the Rebellion, and was delivered with that grace of action and rhetorical eloquence for which he is so distinguished. It was a graphic, comprehensive and felicitous sketch of the rise, progress, and disastrous results of the Great Conspiracy, characterizing it in fitting terms of indignant reprobation, and was rapturously applauded; but it left "Hamlet" out of the play, by ignoring the whole question of slavery as the producing cause, and emancipation as the only remedy for disunion. He marked out no course of policy to be pursued by the government in any contingency, except blindly and "patriotically" to fight for the flag.
This (Friday) evening, Hon. Charles Sumner opens the Fraternity course at the Tremont Temple, on the same subject. Of course, the house will be packed and what Mr. Everett (through constitutional weakness and characteristic timidity) "remembered to forget," we doubt not Mr. Sumner will elucidate in a forcible and telling manner,-cheered by the smiles of the friends of freedom, and unintimidated by the frowns of its enemies. Get your tickets!
PENNSYLVANIA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. The annual meeting of this faithful and steadfast auxiliary of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held at West Chester, on Thursday and Friday next Having been urgently invited to be present, (though needing nothing of the kind as a matter of desire,) we have made our arrangements to do so, and anticipate a great deal of pleasure in again meeting the old am tried friends of the noblest of causes in that section.
<c04>
STILL ANOTHER REJOINDER.
As the rejoinder of the reply of the Liberator of Sept. 27 to J. W. 's communication therein is stated as a "Final Reply," and, moreover, does not appear to answer his arguments at all, (which was J. W.'s object, so that the subject might be fully elucidated,) it would be to only repeat his sentiments and arguments to proceed any further in the general discussion. The Liberator itself furnishes a witness (in the article from the Edinburgh Scotsman, copied in the same number) to J. W.'s position at first-that the war is to preserve slavery in the Union. If this is not so, will the Liberator say what it is for as respects slavery? But what J. W. only intended to say, at present, was, that disliking slavery as much as any man, he has always deemed it wise to found the opposition to it upon the evils we see in the system, rather than upon Bible authority, which, to say the least, is contradictory; and where testimony is not clear on one side, it is never with while to use it. For instance, the Liberator says, "If there be any tiling in the 25th chapter of Leviticus contrary to the 58th of Isaiah, then it is no 'offset,' but only a cool assumption, on the part of our correspondent, that what is right in one instance is nullified by what is wrong in another." That is, God is wrong in his express commands as to perpetual slavery in the 25th chapter of Leviticus, but the prophet (His prophet or agent) is right in what he says, Isaiah 58:6-"to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke." Is one sentence of this verse more imperative than another? Why don't we "break the bands of wickedness" in our own midst? Why do we allow gambling, prostitution, intoxication, avarice, &c., to keep untouched their bands around us? Again, are there no oppressed but slaves? Are not tyrants every where? And lastly, how do, we know what species of oppression the prophet intended, local and of that period, or of universal application through all time? Nay, the last clause, "break every yoke," might be quoted by the ("soi-disant") oppressed secessionists themselves. Not only, therefore, does the Liberator not sustain its proposition of the "cool assumption" of J. W., but it shows that it is far better to take the tenable ground of J. W., the palpable evils of the institution; and the more, because both the Hebrew and Greek words rendered "servant" in the Bible do in fact mean slave, and both Christ and his apostles recognize them as such. Of course, it must always be a question what was the kind of slavery of the whole Jewish dynasty, and of other nations, and whether worse or more lenient than ours. God permitted the Hebrews to be as much or more oppressed for four centuries, in Egypt, as he now does our slaves. In His own good time, He changed His policy, but he provided a preparation of forty years, and then only allowed freemen born in the wilderness to rule a free country; not of their own devices, but in strict laws of His own providing.
Why God has recognized slavery, both in the Old and New Testament, and why, on the other hand, he has in the latter established doctrines opposed to its cruelties, we cannot know. It may be that the unvarying command of "Love" was to have a greater scope under the slave system; that, placed by God's providence in his hands, the master was never to oppress but love his dependants as his children. Such an one is no oppressor; but his next neighbor may be the vilest of oppressors. Against the one, Isaiah's prophecy has full force; certainly not against the other, unless he can see clearly beforehand where he can place his dependants so as to have all the love and care he bestows, and freedom besides. All these considerations render a general plan of emancipation or emigration a stupendous difficulty. But in the meantime, as the institution of slavery seems recognized by the Bible, it is better for us to take our stand upon the manifest evils of the whole system, as a system; and, full of holy love and zeal, tempered with prudence and reason, calmly look out for some remedy not worse than the disease-some progressive measure, so as not to destroy the body politic by one rude exit of the cancer, so long existing and so firmly rooted. It was in this view, O friend Liberator, J. W. first entered your columns, <illegible> that safe and <illegible> remedy 1 and if so, how? J.W.
REMAKS. We had supposed this discussion terminated, but our correspondent is still dissatisfied. Entirely willing that he should have the last word, if he desires it, we deem it proper to notice one or two points in his present rejoinder.
He says-"The war [on the part of the government] is to preserve slavery in the Union. If this is not so, will the Liberator say what it is for as respects slavery?" And if this is the object of the government, why, in the name of reason, is the slaveholding South in hot rebellion 1 It is neither to support nor sanction slavery, in itself considered, that the people of the free States have simultaneously taken up arms in defence of the government; but they have done so under such an inspiration of freedom as has not been felt since the recognition of American independence by England. Their object, primarily and essentially, is to maintain free institutions, and the right of the people to elect their own rulers; though it is true that, if they should succeed in restoring the old order of things, they will be ensnared by constitutional complicity with slavery, in certain particulars, as hitherto, to their curse and condemnation. To prevent this complicity being renewed in any form or to any extent, we are doing what in us lies; and as it must be plain to all who are not idle dreamers, that the Constitution of 1787 can no longer bind the States together, and that either slavery must be abolished under the war power, or the independence of the Southern Confederacy acknowledged, it follows that freedom is to be the gainer by the conflict, even if the latter alternative ensues; for, in the language of Mr. Arnold of Tennessee, "the dissolution of the Union will be the abolition of slavery."
"J. W." says he "dislikes slavery as much as any man." If he were to make that declaration aloud in the hearing of the traitors, it would be his death-warrant, and he would write no more confused, querulous and contradictory communications for our columns! If the rebels would give him time to be heard, however, he would soon satisfy them that he meant nothing by it; that he had never seen nor heard of any reasonable or safe plan for the abolition of slavery; and that he had endeavored to neutralize the "fanatical" abolitionism of the Liberator, by writing for its columns a series of semi-treasonable and essentially pro-slavery articles, every one of which had been promptly published, without any recognition on his part of the courtesy and fairness thus extended to him!
We, too, believe that the Southern slave system must be tested by what it is, and what it legitimately produces, and not by any text in the Bible; but " J. W." is himself text-ridden, and not we-for, professing to believe that the 25th chapter of Leviticus is in direct antagonism with the 58th chapter of Isaiah,-the one in favor of slavery, the other in favor of liberty,-he attributes them both to the same divine source! As to the 58th chapter of Isaiah, we expressly said, " We refer to it because it is based upon the reason of things, upon everlasting truth, upon the nature of man and the law of the living God, so far as it relates to oppression." And we reiterate the declaration; at the same time, denying the correctness of the construction placed upon the 25th chapter of Leviticus by "J. W.," though not disposed to go again into an exegesis of passages, which, since we commenced the Liberator, have been worn threadbare by critical manipulation.
"J. W." will occupy his time profitably in tracing the difference between the "recognition" and the sanction of a crime. He says that " God has recognized slavery, both in the Old and the New Testament" Again he says-"The institution of slavery seems recognized by the Bible." So are adultery, theft, lying, and many other iniquities; but to recognize is one thing, to approve quite another. Strange that he should urge any one to "look out for a remedy" for that which God and the Bible "recognize"!
<c05>
A PAMPHLET FOR THE TIMES.
THE REJECTED STONE: OR, INSURRECTION vs. RESURRECTION IN AMERICA. By a Native of Virginia. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington Street. 1861.
This is a pamphlet of 132 pages, on good type, and in a style creditable to the publishers. We do not know, but only surmise, who the author of it is; but from its affluent style, its earnest spirit, and its unfettered utterance, we have no doubt that he and MONCURE D. CONWAY, the brave and eloquent preacher in Cincinnati, are the same person. It is the most glowing production that has appeared on the War and Slavery since the rebellion broke out, and ought to secure a rapid sale. Below we give a specimen of it.
When we stand true Knights of Humanity; when we have set our hearts to strike for the innocent and wronged; when we have bound ourselves in a holy compact, as a Legion of Honor, to strike down these who raise themselves upon the weak,-then the royal Soul of our race shall rise and return to lead us, and the sword that never failed shall carve the path of our victory through every "bar," and bring back the thirty-two stars as jewels in its hilt.
As yet the watchers must sit by the foaming, seething sea of events, awaiting the great hand, and the sword which alone can win the day for America. Not yet, not yet. As yet, our leaders turn their faces from the hunted fugitive, even if forced to receive him; as yet, the soldier's sword has not the caliber to carve the iron of the slave's manacle. When our Anglo-Saxon blood mounts to its royal height, and grasps its final, noblest weapon, four million chains will fall,-nay, six million hearts, whose drugged blood owns the same fountain with ours, will cast off the virus which has maddened them, and every State hasten as a Knight to the Table where Arthur reigns. Why does not this nation at once draw this sword? Why does it not, owning what is whispered in every heart, that this war means freedom fur all or chains for all, at once inscribe EMANCIPATION on its banner?
No one questions that Slavery is the cause of this rebellion.
No one questions that to recover the Union as it was-i. e., with slavery in it-is to recover the elements that have led to this collision, and must bring it on again whenever the slave interest thinks itself strong enough for another effort.
No one questions but that the only alternative of this will be the subjugation of the North in a moral sense,-the suspension over the ballot-box of the hair strung sword of Civil War, so that Fear, and not Conviction, shall decide every election.
No one questions that Slavery is the one stain and blot which disgraces our flag and cripples our progress, and that, but for the protection given it by the Constitution, the nation should and would have abolished it for ever.
No one questions that, by the appeal which Slavery has made to an arbitrament beside the Constitution, compelling the temporary obedience to military law and military necessity, by which the Constitution itself has provided for its own possible suspension, our nation has a right to strike at the very root of the evil, which, so long as it remained subject to the Constitution, it must protect.
No one questions the position of John Quincy Adams, that the power to abolish Slavery is contained in the War power.
Yet in this War, law has been as often suspended in favor of Slavery as against it; for it is a direct violation of law for one of our soldiers or military officers to return a fugitive slave, such return being provided for in due form of law, and assigned to appointed civil officers. Where, by the growing compulsion of events, our government has been compelled to liberate slaves, it has done so with all the tenderness for the South that a mother might show for her pet babe. To-day conies the news that, by a final decision, escaping slaves shall be retained, whether belonging to loyal or disloyal; but, as if frightened at reaching this dizzy height of resolution, the order of the Secretary of War immediately provides that any slave wishing to return to the service from which he has escaped shall have no let or hindrance! We quote this, not as an instance of unfaithfulness to Freedom, but as an example of the infatuation and terror which seem to seize upon and confuse all our public men, when they touch this question of property in man. Any one whose wits are about him can see that, by this order, any treacherous negro of Gov. Letcher's household may be bribed into escaping to Fortress Monroe, and, after suitable observations, "voluntarily return," to give such information as, at Manassas, the rebels had, by their own account, to pay $100,000 for.
Why this timidity? Why this overweening tenderness with human bondage? One would suppose that a system, repulsive to all the instincts of Humanity, which can exist only by a toleration almost barbaric, would be at once crushed when it became an outlaw and a foe; but here we are, pirouetting amongst its interests as daintily as Mignon among the eggs she dare not break. Wherefore?
Not because any member of this Administration loves Slavery, but because the government fears to divide its physical forces; that is, to alienate certain persons in the North and (supposed) in the South from the cause of the Union itself, as separate from the Slavery question. In fact, for the sake of certain persons who, in case of a direct issue between the American Union and Slavery, would take sides with Slavery.
But if such men should, unwashed, put forth their hands to defend the Union, would it not be a sure proof that it would be the old tar-and-feather Union-a Union not fit to be saved '?
Unto their assembly, mine honor, be not then united Indeed it is, in the eyes of every lover of universal Freedom, the highest mission of this conflict to liberate this land from the influence of that vile Northern Mephistopheles, the party which has in every way fostered the arrogance of Slavery, and encouraged the madness of the South, which it is now forced to abandon in the conflict to which it has seduced that misguided section. The guilt of this rebellion is not heaviest on Dixie's Land, by any means.
These tories would be a drag and a curse to our side, if they should espouse it. The hearts of freemen, the world over, would shrink back chilled and distrustful.
"We shall march conquering,-not thro' I presence;
Songs shall inspirit us,-not from their lyre;
Deeds shall be done,-whilst they boast their quiescence,
Still bidding crouch whom the rest bade aspire."
FREMONT
I.
Thy voice, FREMONT, hath broke the fatal spell!
Now all the wizards may, with busy hand,
Wave, to renew it, each his ancient wand,
Potent crewhile to bind with influence fell
The faith that in the nation's soul doth dwell,-
Potent no more for ever,-we are free!
Questioned with one heroic touch by thee,
The nation's heart rings out,-as if a bell
In heaven, by some archangel smitten now,
Did as a signal through the azure say,
"A damning stain from Earth is washed away,
And she henceforth shall wear a whiter brow,
Joyous among the stare." And, Hero, then
Art as a star precluding light of day!
II.
O eye, that canst discern the cloud and flame!
O eagle spirit, fit for high career!
True then continues to thine early fame,
And art, as rest, the people's Pioneer,
Across the desert teaching it to steer;
Mid all the terrors of the time, the same
As when through mountain cloud-rack, void of fear,
Thou held'st toward lands of gold high-hearted aim.
O'er darker desert now and craggier peak,
Stormed on, alas! with a more blinding snow,
And buffeted by winds more bitter-bleak,
Thine eye, thy footstep must before us go
To lands with joy of justice all aglow- 
To lands of which all hopes and prophets speak.
D. A. W.
<c06>
IS THE HOME MISSIONARY SOCIETY ANTI-SLAVERY?
Having been providentially led. last Sunday morning, to the Berkeley Street Church (of which Rev. H.M. Dexter, editor of the Congregationalist, is pastor,) I heard a sermon from Rev. Dr. H. B. Hooker, Secretary of the Massachusetts Home Missionary Society, which is auxiliary to the American Home Missionary Society
The Home Missionary Society has for several years past chosen to hold a middle ground between pro-slavery and anti-slavery, refusing to help the worst class of slaveholding churches, and claiming a right. when its an is asked by a church composed more or less of slaveholders, to inquire into the extent and the circumstances of that relation before granting the request. This course has occasioned the Society of be called "anti-slavery " by two different classes of persons-some using that word as a reproach, and others as a commendation. This position of the Society. however, necessarily implies that its managers tolerate slaveholding to a certain extent as right and Christian,
To any impartial examiner of the state of our country for half a century past, it must be evident that slavery, which has so enormously corrupted our manners and morals, our politics, our literature, our social life, and the administration of our Federal and State Governments, has had a like pernicious influence upon our religion. All the great religious denominations, and all the great Societies formed to aid the diffusion of religion, (such as the Bible. Tract Missionary and Sunday School Societies, and the Young Men's Christian Associations,) have shown themselves deeply tainted with this infection. The church is the main bulwark of slavery, and all these Societies have been formed and managed by leaders in the church.
After a long continuance of this pernicious influence, slavery meanwhile increasing in power, twining itself into closer and closer connection with all our concern, and getting to be openly defended in the name of religion by a larger and larger number of reputable clergymen, a crisis has arisen in our national affairs which offers the opportunity of throwing off its yoke, and (according to the measure of our earnestness zeal and faithful perseverance) either expelling it altogether from the nation, or at least thoroughly purring the North from complicity with it. Every individual worker, even towards this latter end. helps the overthrow of slavery, helps the ultimate triumph liberty. Every already established organization me do very much, by turning its working machinery more or less in that direction. And labors of the Home Missionary Society in that direction would be exactly and directly in the line both of its duty and interest No work could be more appropriate to such a body than the movement to clear away one of the greatest corrupters of our morality and our religion.
The Northern people, united in opposing the rebel. lion, are very much divided, in their views respecting slavery. Some of them positively defend it; but a very great number determinedly resist opposition to it, saying that its continuance or discontinuance should be left to the decision of the States where it exists, Both these classes probably exist in larger proportion in the church than out of it. And this proportion is probably yet larger among the clergy than among the laymen of the church. Nevertheless, a feeling of opposition to slavery has of late been spreading from "the world" to the church, faster than ever before; and the critical circumstances of our time compel church-member as well as others to consider and debate the question of the continuance or non-continuance of slavery. Never before (within our life-time) have the minds of our countrymen been so open to truth and reason on this subject as at present. 
If now the preachers connected with the Home Missionary Society (probably far exceeding a thousand in number) would interweave with their professional labors a systematic attempt to awaken their people to the pernicious character and tendency of slavery, its malign influence on religion and morality, and the imperative necessity of using the present peculiar circumstances of our nation to effect its abolition, they would not only accomplish tar more him ever before towards the purification of our religion and morals, and the diffusion of evangelical truth, but they would sensibly and very greatly assist the nation to overcome its present difficulties, and to become in fact that "free" country which it has hitherto only pretended to be. Nay, if the Secretaries only, of the State and National Home Missionary Societies, (in these preaching tours which they are constantly making to urge the claims of their cause, and collect the funds for its support,) would devote one quarter of their sermon in each place to a statement of the immense obstacle now presented by slavery to the diffusion and reception of the Gospel, and of the immense aid to missionaries and all other preachers of that Gospel which would spring from the abolition of slavery, they would at once greatly forward their professional object, help their country in her hour of need, and aid in the permanent establishment alike of religions purity and civil liberty.
These things being so, I was very glad of the opportunity to learn, from the Secretary of the Massachusetts branch of this great Society, whether it made any effort in this direction-whether it really cared to oppose slavery-whether it were at all distinguishable from that American church at large which is "the great bulwark of slavery," and from that Foreign Missionary Board which has so persistently sheltered slavery in its churches!
Not the slightest movement towards leading the minds of his hearers in this direction was even attempted. Although, both in prayer and sermon, Dr. Hooker repeatedly turned aside to make allusion to the war we are waging, and the creditable zeal of the people to defend their government, he avoided even to hint at the precious opportunity now presented to remove the greatest obstacle to the success of the missionary work; and, instead of showing any right in his Society to be favorably distinguished from the openly pro-slavery Foreign Missionary Boar, he claimed support for it as the ally and coadjutor at that body; presenting, as distinguished specious of success in Home Missionary labor, the case of two churches-which, having originally been wised from poverty and feebleness by the aid of this Society, were now among the largest contributors to the American Board of Commissioners for foreign Missions.-C.K.W.
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
It has been conceded by all statesmen, from the day your form of government was set up, that it was to be an experiment. To be sure, it had the wishes of all good men that it might succeed; yet there were not wanting many ardent lovers of freedom, and many strong minds, who doubted the capacity of the people for self-government. They had not forgotten that Adam had been placed in Eden, surrounded with every thing that could satisfy the most perfect, with only one restriction, "not to eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge"; neither did they forget, farther down the descent of centuries, the experiment with was so graciously permitted at the time to the Jewish theocracy, when the Insulates had the Almighty for their President, and Moses for their Secretary of State. They could not but recollect how jealously this able statesman guarded the purity of the Jewish Commonwealth; how expressly the people were commanded not to introduce among them the worshippers of strange gods; and when, led away by avarice and the love of ease, they broke the law, how continually did ruin in the State make the wisdom of that law apparent:-or when, leaving behind them the week of Israel, they stepped forward a thousand years, and stood upon the threshold of ancient Rome (a free republic,) and were compelled also to pass that by with its fallen fanes and crumbling palaces, its people extinct and their language forgotten, could they fail to bring the truth home to themselves, that Adam was yet a weakly child, and tumble to go alone. 
How much better has your experiment succeeded than those of former years? Wherein have you progressed to a purer form of government, than
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
when you began by stating that all men were, of right free, and at the same time made provision to enslave every seventh man, woman and child under the Constitution?
It is a matter plain to the common sense of freemen, that it is a free government you seek to establish, (if necessary, by the sword.) when you peril life and property, as you do at present, to make it a sure thing, an absolute, unalterable fact, that five slaves shall give to the owner the political power of three freemen? How many years have the people of the United States had cause to rejoice in the good effects produced, by giving such power into the hands of persons who do not hold themselves responsible for the observance of any agreement whatever?
Is that form of government worth contending for on the part of freemen, which will enslave any man? and if it is how much more worthy is that which will, enslave no man? It becomes freemen, who take arms, to know what they fight for; and if it is to establish the fact that five slaves are worth (politically) three freemen, then it is not for a free government they contend.
Under any circumstances, from henceforth the Constitution is dead; you can never live again united under it. Why, then, war to reestablish it as a rule of government, which all can see is untrue and incompetent?
Cunning men who favor your enemies, and who see the dilemma you are placed in, are strong in their expressions of respect for that tainted instrument; for, by keeping your aim fixed upon a false issue, they succeed in preserving the weakest point and most vulnerable part of your enemies untouched. As long as Democrats, or no-party men, or Republicans, (so in name,) can persuade you to war for the reestablishment of the three-fifths vote, so long are they quite sure that slaves, who can tell the difference between black and white, will not trouble themselves to get rid of their present tyrants by rising to help a cause which recognizes slavery as a fundamental political power in the government.
If your commander, supported by the military necessity of the case, should have the wit and the grit to proclaim martial law, with freedom to all slaves, and accept military service from them, with promotion for good conduct in action, a widely different aspect of affairs would be presented. There would be no want of a war material to essentially weaken your enemies. He would set in motion a centrifugal force, which, true to the laws of political dynamics, must tear them asunder. How many pitched battles would your enemies be able to fight on the sea-board, or along their left behind a servile people who had every inducement men can have to quit slavery and unpaid labor for freedom, certain pay, and military respectability and self-esteem? It is needless to answer such questions; for every man, capable of holding a plough or a sword, can answer them for himself.
What have you gained since 1776? Well, you have gained numbers, land, wealth, THREE AND A HALF MILLIONS OF SLAVES, and a civil war: but you have not obtained a free government, neither can you educate the masses that have grown up around. All through the western and southern portions of your country are multitudes who can neither road nor write, who accept from sheer ignorance that Christ's gospel is the-corner stone of slavery, and that manual labor is degrading. Where can you point to the annual report of your minister of public instruction from the Bureau at Washington, of the degree of education afforded to every child in the whole country? What law exists, compulsory upon every parent to so educate his children as to make them perfectly acquainted with the principles which lie at the roots of free government? Without a foundation, it is madness to attempt the building of a superstructure: how mad, then, must a people be who would seek to establish a free government, without. educating the whole body of their youth as freemen, and by enacting that five slaves are worth, politically, three freemen's votes, and fighting to establish such INSANITY?
You have had eighty years' experience of the political effects of a union of two deadly opposing elements in your Constitution. Thirty years has the moral and religious aspect of the case been most faithfully preached in your ears; and now, with two hundred thousand men marshalled in the field, with all nations as spectators of the fight, you are preparing to strike for the immense fact, that five slaves are as good as three freemen! If this is to be your progress,-if you are so doltish that you cannot fully see, and entirely comprehend, that it is a religious, a moral, a political, and a military necessity to proclaim all men free, in order to secure freedom to yourselves,-then are you unworthy of being freemen, and unfit for, because incapable of self-government. Prophecy is not needed in your case: it follows, of necessity, that your enslavement will follow, unless a principle is sought to be established more powerful than slavery.
Your enemy has the advantage in seeking to establish a greater evil. If his aim cannot be met by the more powerful aim of establishing a greater good, then the victory is his, as you may be able, when it is too late, to realize, that your ruin was as necessary a consequence of your action, as that substraction increases diminution. CARBON.

A FLAX COTTON DODGE.
"The man whose genius shall perfect machinery for the manufacture of flax into cotton at a low cost, will do more for the abolition of slavery than a thousand Senators who confine themselves to making speeches against the institution, without offering a single practical idea toward the abolition of it. And that machinery being once perfected, every farmer who produces a ton of flax becomes a practical, working abolitionist, (without perhaps giving a thought to the subject.) of far more influence than a distinguished Senator who thinks and talks of nothing else"-Boston Journal, 14th inst.
The weakness of this assault upon Senator Sumner is only equaled by its malignity. The Senator, forsooth, has not "offered a single practical idea toward the abolition of slavery," but the Journal has.
The Senator proposes the most expeditious and feasible plan-the most "practical "to be conceived- a proclamation of freedom to the slaves of the rebels, by virtue of the war power, conceded by the rebels in inaugurating and prosecuting the war.
The Journal proposes the transmutation of flax into cotton, by some machinery to be invented. This is belling the cat with a witness. Flax cotton has been produced by experiment, but whether it can become "a cheap substitute" for the fibre now extensively in use, and now a king, is problematical. The experiment is worthy of the utmost effort, but, like many other plausible and seemingly hopeful inventions, it may prove a failure. It is not a "practical idea." The plan proposed by "a distinguished Senator" is It was practical in South America, and will be practical and effectual in those United or Disunited States, if put into vigorous execution. The thing can be done in a comparatively short time, and with comparatively little cost of blood and treasure; but if we depend upon the success of our arms and the invention of machinery for the successful transmutation of fibres, the rebel States will achieve their independence, or years of warfare, bloodshed and expense will impoverish the country, and accumulate a public debt like that of Britain, with a consequent exhausting taxation. The economical problem is worthy of the most attentive consideration-the humane is infinitely more important.
The writer of this article has voted for freedom wore than twelve years, and belongs strictly to the Republican party. He offers his contribution to the Liberator, because he does not know of another Boston Paper that would be likely to publish it
CIVIS.
The fact is well worth recording, that nearly all the men in the last Congress who voted against the prosecution of the war-with the exception of those from the free States-have either entered the rebel army within a short time past, or are preparing to do so-John C. Breckinridge among the number.
<c02>
MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS IN NEW BEDFORD.
A meeting of the colored citizens of New Bedford who are in favor of using their influence in behalf of the government to put down the rebellion of the South, assembled in the City Hall on the evening of the 9th inst. A very general attendance was present.
The meeting was called to order by Mr. Wm. Henry Johnson, who read the following list of officers for the meeting, which was adopted:-
President-WILLIAM P. POWELL.
Vice Presidents-Wm. Bush, John Cowing, Wm. Berry, Alfred Swan, Lewis Betts, Peter Nelson, Rev. Wm Jackson, Rev. Wm. Giles, Alfred Smith, Wm. Ferguson, Charles Carter, Lloyd H. Brooks.
Secretaries-Wm. H. Johnson, J. C. Richmond, Wm. P. Powell, Jr., John Freedom.
The President addressed the meeting as follows:-
FELLOW CITIZENS-It is with no small degree of pleasure we give our consent to preside over the deliberations of this patriotic assembly; because we believe that it is the duty of every citizen of whatever complexion, however humble, to throw the whole weight of his influence on the side of the. government under which he lives; because, notwithstanding the invidious distinctions so prevalent all over the country against our race, "for no color of crime, but for the crime of color," we equally feel the burden of our country's trouble in common with our other heretofore highly favored fellow-countrymen; because the signs of the times clearly indicate that the non-slave-owning States are now reaping the bitter fruits of their base servility to the interests of the Slave Power; because, to use the language of another, " If you fasten a chain on the ankle of another, a retributive Providence will surely fasten the other end around your own neck." If the doctrine of enforced, unrequited labor "is a holy and wholesome thought," then it is right to enslave white as well as black men." What's sauce for the goose is most certainly sauce for the gander." If it is right to enslave black men in South Carolina, under the U. S. Constitution, then it right to enslave white laborers in Massachusetts, and put them, their wives and their children, on the auction-block, and sell them to the highest bidder. The Richmond Enquirer thus speaks on this topic:-
"Until recently, the defence of slavery has labored under great difficulties, because its apologists (for they were mere apologists) took half-way ground. They confined the defence of slavery to mere negro slavery; giving up the slavery principle, and admitting other forms of slavery to be WRONG.
The line of defence, however, is now changed. The South maintains that slavery is RIGHT, natural and necessary, and docs not depend upon differences of complexion. The laws of the slave States SUSTAIN the holding of WHITE MEN in bondage."
Ex-Senator Downes, of Louisiana, thus speaks:-
"I call upon the opponents of slavery to prove that the white laborers of the North are as happy, as contented, or as comfortable, as the slaves of the South. In the South, the slaves do not suffer one-tenth of the ills endured by the white laborers of the North. Poverty is unknown to the Southern slaves, for as soon as the master of slaves becomes too poor to provide for them, he sells them to others who can take care of them. This, sir, is one of the excellencies of the system of slavery, and this the superior condition of the slave over the Northern WHITE laborer."
Such, fellow-citizens, are the declared purposes of the lords of the lash. We, as uncompromising Abolitionists, contend that chattel slavery is a violation of man's inherent, God-given right; that no system, custom, tradition, usage, precedent framed into law, except fur crime, is a justification for the enslavement of any of God's children. The election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency is only a pretext for secession; the great contest now going on all over the country, disguise it as we may, is between Slavery and Freedom- "Slavery sectional, Freedom national." Also the disintegration of this American Union, now almost divided North and South-the one by God's blessing to be forever free, and the other, slave only for a season, till the negro Goths and Vandals, like the white slaves of classic Rome, wipe out the accursed sin in rivers of blood. Of course, we are all deeply sensible of the existence of this terrible war-terrible in its brutality as well as destructive in its ravages. The Revolution of 1776 was nothing in comparison with this of 1861. Then, it was only against a 3 1/2d. impost duty levied on tea, and the Stamp Act, insignificant of themselves, which the colonies successfully resisted. Now, the final struggle is, that the South slave States, not satisfied with the pro-slavery guarantees of the U. S. Constitution, which, for eighty-two years, has secured to them their property in human flesh, now demand greater security for the preservation of negro slavery, and that the re-opening of the African slave trade shall be legalized all over the American continent by unalterable law forever!
Never in the history of our unfortunate country have the Stars and Stripes been held in greater veneration by Abolitionists, even by colored men, than now. For one, I must confess that, heretofore, I have held in utter contempt the United States flag, because it gave us no protection, and have often exclaimed, in the language of the poet Campbell-
"United States, your banner wears
Two emblems-one of fame:
Alas! the other that it bears
Reminds us of your shame
The white man's liberty in types
Stands blazoned by your stars:
But what's the meaning of your stripes?
They mean your negro's scars."
But now the Stars and Stripes, with the exception of fifteen slavery stars, which are rapidly approximating to the sun's centre of the world's political progress, and soon to be forever lost in the immensity of Freedom's space, never looked more beautiful, more hopeful. It represents, in this fearful crisis, the express will of the free States, the total annihilation of negro slavery.
Fellow-citizens, I believe that God's own time, long wished for, has now come; slavery must come to an end, and that speedily. Whether by bloody massacre, exterminating the slave-owner, or by peaceful means, God only knows; but by whatever means, in God's name, let it come!
The great change now witnessed all over the free States is truly encouraging. Pro-slavery flunkeyites, old-line Whigs, Democrats, Political Abolitionists, Garrisonians, Republicans, disfranchised colored Americans, and non-resistants, all vie with each other in support of the government, and look up to the Stars and Stripes as the John the Baptist of the slaves' coming redeemer, and will defend it, in whatever way their own convictions of duty may dictate, to the bitter end.
We regret the necessity which calls this extraordinary distinctive meeting. It should not be so. It is no fault of ours that we are not this day mixed "in this imminent deadly breach." It is no fault of ours that we are not standing shoulder to shoulder in battle array with the men of the North, "to put down the rebellion of the South." It is no fault of ours that we are standing still, with folded, arms, whilst government is straining every nerve in the maintenance of its legitimate constitutional authority. We stand now on the same "broad ground of our common humanity," where our fathers stood in 1776 and 1812, and are ready and willing to follow their illustrious patriotic example. But why should government stand halting between two opinions? Why hesitate, and stoop to pander to the sickly sentimentalities of " conscience and the Constitution"? If custom makes law, then the past history of the country's struggles fully justifies government calling into active service every muscle, without regard to the texture of the hair which adorns the head, or the color of the cuticle which covers the body. We are not begging this question; neither do we mean to rummage among the musty pages of history to find a precedent upon which to hang a doubt Neither do we care for legal or illegal technicalities, or constitutional prohibitions: these all sink into insignificance as compared to the fearful exigencies into which the country is now plunged.
There is a law,-a higher law, if you please, a law as old as the Bible,-viz: Inter arma silent leges: "In time of war, there is no law," This law should more particularly be now enforced to the very letter, because
<c03>
the nation is at war with itself, to pat down high treason, backed up by 300,000 slave-owning rebels, against 27,700,000 freemen, and the constituted authorities. In time of war there is no law, only the law of superior force. It is only when the rebels are whipped into submission and sue for peace, that their "sober second thought" will be made to obey the powers that be, ordained in form of physical force. Hence we advocate this law of necessity, because it obviates the slow process of doubtful legislation. Proclaim this law, and 50,000 able-bodied men of our race will not wait to be asked to take up arms to defend the liberties of the country. Proclaim this law of liberty, and four millions of our race will rise up as from the sleep of death, and leap into the front ranks of freemen. Proclaim this law of strength, and our country will not present the shameful spectacle to the sneering gaze of the world, as being too weak to defend herself without foreign aid. Proclaim this law of retaliation, and we shall have given the rebels in exchange "a Roland for an Oliver." Proclaim this law of righteousness, and this afflicted, but, we trust, repentant nation will then have vindicated the cause of truth, justice and liberty.
Mr. Powell's remarks were received with considerable applause.
The Chairman read the following resolutions:-
Whereas, the United States government are now at war to put down the Southern slave-owners' rebellion; and, whereas, in several engagements with the rebels, the Federal troops Lave been out-numbered, out-generaled and defeated; and, whereas, notwithstanding the existence of negro slavery in the rebel States, which they are at war with the general government to perpetuate, yet the rebels do not scruple to employ slaves, free negroes and Indians to fight against the Federal Union, thereby abandoning the dangerous doctrine of teaching negroes the art of military defence; and, whereas, the militia laws of Massachusetts still retain the invidious distinction which precludes free colored citizens from bearing arms in their country's defence, contrary to the Constitution of the United States; therefore,
Resolved, That speaking for ourselves as citizens of Massachusetts, anticipating that this law will be repealed at the nest session of the Legislature, we hereby tender our services for the second time to the Governor of this State.
Resolved, That a committee of five ladies and five gentlemen be appointed to circulate petitions, asking the next Legislature to strike the word "white" from off the statute laws of the Commonwealth.
Resolved, That this meeting recommend the formation of a military company.
Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting be published in the Evening Standard, Mercury, Liberator, National Anti-Slavery Standard, and the American Baptist Journal.
Hon. Rodney French was the first speaker, who urged the colored people to commence drilling, for he thought that their services would very soon be required by the government.
Other speeches were made by Wm. H. Johnson, Rev. Mr. Jackson, Rev. Mr. Jones, Wm. Berry, and His Honor Mayor Taber, after which the resolutions were adopted, and the meeting adjourned.

IS THERE HOPE?
Disguise the fact as we may, it is nevertheless a fuel, that slavery draws its life from the great national heart. See how every pulsation of that heart beats in sympathetic obedience to slavery! See how this great national heart quivers and palpitates when slavery is menaced! Its life seems mysteriously bound up in the life of the slimy monster. Let that monster but hiss, and the sympathetic chord is touched, as seen in the present developments of the extent to which slavery has coiled itself around the national heart. Poor heart! how it lies quivering under the poisonous stings of the monster! How sensitively it anticipates any tightening of the coils, as though it looked for no life beyond the slimy embrace in which it lives!
Not content with having plunged the country into the horrors of a most savage and bloody rebellion- a rebellion the most unprovoked of any in all the annals of time-Shivery has now the matchless effrontery to demand for that rebellion the protection of the assumed guarantees of the Constitution!
A little fiery hissing and tightening of the coils, and the representatives of our nationality at Washington succumb. Martial law must not be martial law, i. e., the assumed sanctities of the Constitution in favor of slavery must not be transcended, even under the most pressing military necessity!
To out-Herod Herod, or go beyond either the spirit or letter of the Constitution, pro-slavery as it is held to be, the slaves of rebels are regarded as property, i. e. decreed to be contraband, &c. Let the commander of any department presume to treat them as men, by decreeing their emancipation, rather than the holding of them as property in sacred trust, to be re-delivered to rebel masters whenever those masters may affectedly ground the weapons of their rebellion, and forthwith the head, at least, of the national heart fidgets till it brings forth a quietus for a decree embodying a high and holy principle.
A. HOGEBOOM.

MIDDLESEX A. S. SOCIETY.
WINCHESTER, Oct. 18, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON-There was a meeting of the Middlesex Anti-Slavery Society at Reading, Sunday, Sept. 15, all day and evening. The meeting was the largest held in the county for a long time. The Anti-Slavery spirit seems to be reviving again in old Middlesex. The meeting was addressed by A. T. Foss and C. L. Remond. The Hutchinsons were, present, and added very much to the pleasure of the meeting by singing some of their patriotic songs. In the afternoon, a business meeting was held for the choice of officers. Samuel Barrett was reflected President, J. G. Dodge of West Cambridge, and Reuben Locke of Stoneham, Vice Presidents, Andrew Wellington of Winchester Secretary, T. W. Hartshorn of Reading, and Reuben Locke, Finance Committee. The sum of five dollars was collected.
ANDREW WELLINGTON, Sec'y.

LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH.
PETERBORO', Oct. 8,1861.
Mr. W. W. CHAPMAN, Oswego Co., Chairman of State
Abolition Committee:
MY DEAR SIR,-Election is again approaching, and you and others are asking me to lead in the work of bringing the Abolitionists to the polls. Whilst confessing my gratitude for these expressions of continued confidence, I must, nevertheless, say that, if it was ever proper to regard me as one of the leaders in the Voting Abolition Party, it is certainly no longer so.
The lessons which were read to me by Abolitionists a year ago, I am neither mistake nor forget. In one State and another, Nominating Conventions could not bear with me because of the unsoundness of my Religion. In Pennsylvania, this unsoundness was so abhorrent that a good man disdained to have his name on the same ticket with mine. In some States, the complaint was not only of the unsoundness of my Religion, but the unsoundness of my Abolitionism also.
Surely, surely, if I have any remaining modesty, such facts as these must make me shrink from putting myself forward, or from allowing others to put me forward, among Voting Abolitionists.
My Religion and my Abolitionism must bide their time! Your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
The only persons exempted from military service at the South are overseers. Consequently most "gentlemen" have assumed the watch on their own plantations, from their aversion to "villanous saltpetre," and dismissed the usual chevaliers of the lash to exercise their functions on the soldiers of the North. No apprehension of negro insurrection is felt at Richmond. The negroes are not only lied to about the dispositions of our soldiers toward them, and our Government's measures toward them cited to indorse the lies, bat they are also treated unusually well. It is remarkable that no friend of the Union from the far South has arrived in the North but regards the proclamation of Fremont concerning the slaves as a home thrust, and wonders at the President's modification thereof. -Correspondent of the New York Tribune.
And well may the rebels laugh at such folly!
<c04>
CARD FROM CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN, JR.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, 12th, 1861. 
EDITORS LEADER,-A rumor is current that my company of "Sharp shooters," in camp near Camp; Wade, Cleveland, Ohio, is about to disband from lack of sufficient numbers to organize a company. This rumor I wish to contradict through the medium of your columns and the columns of all papers friendly to my success in raising this company. The above rumor has gained some credence chiefly from two causes. 
First cause: It has been industriously circulated by designing men, who are at least disguised secessionists, that my company is a mere independent guerilla band, notwithstanding I have over my own name emphatically stated that the company is for United Slates service for three years or the war in the Regiment of Col. Montgomery, Brigade of Gen. Lane, and Division of Major General John C. Fremont.
Second cause: In consequence of the proclamation of Gov. Curtin, of Pennsylvania, giving effect to the Pennsylvania law of May last, which forbids the citizens of that State to join and serve in Regiments not belonging to that State, some twenty of my best riflemen, whom I had enlisted and transported to Cleveland from the head waters of the Allegheny river, though enlisted prior to the Governor's proclamation, got frightened by the penalties of the Pennsylvania law, and left my company arid returned home. Yet, Messrs. Editors, in spite of these discouraging circumstances, I have yet left from sixty to seventy men, good and true, and the places of those who have left are rapidly being filled.
Early in September last, I proposed to the Secretary of War to raise a company of one hundred riflemen, to serve as above specified. Not receiving an immediate reply, I made the same proposition to Gen. Fremont. An acceptance of the company finally came from Secretary Cameron, with the proviso that it should be in readiness for marching orders Sept. 22d. The company was also accepted by Gen. Fremont. On the 21st September, I telegraphed Gen. Fremont that the company had just gone into camp of temporary rendezvous at Cleveland. Since then have arisen the above named causes for a rumor, which shall not prevent ultimate, success.
The chief expense of recruiting this company has thus far come out of my very limited means. Perhaps in the end I may get it back from the Government, perhaps not, since it remains to be proved whether or not we are to have a Government. At least for the present, I very much need the "material aid" which I know many of my friends can furnish. I need it now, and perhaps now more than I ever shall again. I am aware gentlemen are now being pecuniarily bled in support of this war. But I would say these are and must be bleeding tines, if we would save anything we have that is worth preserving.
Faithfully yours,
JOHN BROWN, JR.

REV. JOHN PIERPONT.
The Massachusetts Twenty Second Regiment (Col. Wilson's) had a very flattering ovation given them at New York, last week, on their way to the seat of war. In the course of the speech-making-
Rev. Mr. Pierpont, Chaplain of Col. Wilson's regiment, was next called for, and delivered one of the most stirring addresses of the day. He said he was a son of both Massachusetts and Connecticut. (Laughter.) He could not say whether he was delighted, or surprised, or overwhelmed by his reception. He did lot know that he was to speak at this table. A friend had told him that he had been announced in the Herald, but, since that veracious journal had called him a saint, (laughter,) he had not relied upon the general accuracy of its information. (Applause and laughter long continued.) Ever since, he had not had what his friend Bryant called an "unshaken faith" in its statements. Therefore he did not know that he was to speak. (Laughter.) What had brought them here? They wanted to put down civil war. They might perhaps differ in their opinion as to the cause of the war. Some might suppose that the war grew out of the conflict between Freedom and Slavery. Some might entertain that idea, but not all, he supposed. One gentleman of his cloth, and of Dr. Bellows' cloth, (though not Dr. Bellows,) had said he supposed the war grew out of the abolition of capital punishment. (Laughter.) He assumed that it grew out of a conflict of ideas as to the true liberty of man and abject slavery, [applause,) and that one or the other of these ideas must conquer before this war could cease. The question was whether the Government must be all slave under Jeff. Davis, or whether it should be all free. [Applause.) In his unsophisticated mind that was the issue. And they were prepared to argue that issue at the point of the sword. Some of them had been asking for thirty years, as God asked of the prophet, "Art thou he that disturbs Israel?" It was too late now to preach; they must practice. (Applause.) Some of his people in Boston would not allow him to preach for fifteen years past, but, by the blessing of God and the charity of Gen. Wilson, (laughter,) he had now found some opportunity to practice. (Laughter.) It would be exceedingly difficult to disabuse the South of the idea that they were born to command, but, he judged by the force moving to Washington, the South would have an opportunity to stand corrected. (Applause.) For many years the noble women of Massachusetts who had had the boldness to denounce slavery had been teamed Cassandras, but the people were beginning to see that they were not Cassandras but Deborahs. (Applause.) He related, with thrilling effect, the story of the officer's struggle with that deadly serpent, the cobra de capello, and startlingly compared it to the struggle between Freedom and Slavery. He said that now was the time to give slavery its death-gripe, and end the contest. His speech was received with vociferous cheering, and concluded the exercises at the breakfast-or rather dinner-table.
A SLAVE WHO TOUCHES THE SOIL OF SPAIN DECLARED TO BE FREE. A decision of Marshal O'Donnell, Minister of War and the Colonies, published by the Madrid Gazette, and addressed to the Captain-General of Porto Rico, declares, in principle, that a slave who has touched the soil of Spain must be considered as emancipated, even without the consent of his former master. The Marshal's letter is thus worded:-
"I have laid before the Queen the letter which your Excellency's predecessor addressed to the Ministry of War and the Colonies, dated the 27th of October, 1858, accompanying it, by way of proof, with the documents of the examination relative to the slave Rufino, who sold himself at the Havannah after having resided for several years in the Peninsula, on which matter he solicited an explicit declaration relative to the Royal order of the 29th of March, 1836, regulating the condition to which slaves from the Antilles are subjected on coming into Spain. In conformity with the decision of the Council of State, and in virtue of the above-mentioned decree, Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to declare that slaves coming from that island and from Cuba into Spain with their masters must consider themselves emancipated, without the consent of their owners being indispensable; that the freedom granted to the said slaves, in virtue of the decision of the 29th of March, 1836, is not revocable; and that they acquire, by their arrival in the mother country, without any other act being necessary to confirm it, the quality of free men, even should they return to a country where slavery is authorized by the laws.
O'DONNELL."
In view of such a decision, how shameful and humiliating is the contrast presented in what follows!-The Washington correspondent of the New York Evening Post makes the following statement. From other sources we learn that there were never so many alleged fugitives in the jail at Washington as there have been for the last six months, and, what is more, they are arrested and imprisoned without the slightest legal process, and given up without examination to any body who claims them:-
"Our district jail is used at present as a receptacle for 'contraband' negroes. A friend who was over it yesterday was astonished to find in it so many unclaimed fugitives from slaveholding injustice. Among them he discovered a slave belonging to the notorious rebel John A. Washington. According to the Confiscation act of the extra session, this slave is free. It is understood that he will soon be brought out on a writ of habeas corpus, and nearly all the slaves kept in the jail are there without the color of the law. A writ of habeas corpus would show that no legal charge lies against them, and no master appears to claim their services. Every suspicious negro is instantly put into jail, as if he were guilty of treason, instead of being suspected of being a slave. Why these arrests are made, no one can tell. The jail-keepers seem to know nothing about it, and to care nothing about the matter, as nearly all of-them are bitterly pro-slavery."
THE SLAVES IN VIRGINIA: One of the Massachusetts volunteers,-a correspondent of the Milford (Mass.) Journal,-writing from a position near Alexandria, and referring to a Mrs. Scott, says-
"Next morning, I took occasion to visit her slaves, and gather what I could of their story. It was the same sad tale they all tell. I have learned much of slavery from these victims' own simple minds, and cannot discover any of the mitigating conditions others have. I saw in one of Mrs. Scott's cabins an old slave woman; who, through over one hundred years of bondage, had served live successive masters of the Scott family. One hundred years of slavery! think of it, you who live enjoying the blessings of freedom! Her great-great-grandchildren were playing about her. I looked in one of their innocent faces, and thought of a hundred years of bondage. One bright-eyed boy, with bright skin, top, and well formed features, was particularly pleased, with the gold in my teeth; and when I took out two false ones that I have in front, he was amazed. I remarked that there was white blood in his veins. 'Lor' bless
<c05>
you, yes there am, and a smart good lot, too,' was the reply. Sweet and I ate the hoecake they had pre-pared, and left for home."
Referring to the case of an aged slave, he adds-
"Those who think the slaves do not know any thing should hear him. He is a Christian man, and believes God has sent this war upon the nation to deliver the slave. I gave him what consolation I could, which was but little. Fifty-five years he has lived a slave; his children have been sold away from him. He had never seen a man like me before. I turned and drove from him, with fresh resolutions for the struggle. This war must be his jubilee." 
ELEGANT EXTRACT. A correspondent of the Memphis (Tenn.) Appeal uses the following elegant language. It would disgrace the Hottentots:-
"If hell does not break loose under the feet of every Federal soldier and every Federal adherent-aye, every persistent Union man-in Missouri, Kentucky and Maryland, it will be because there is no such place as hell, or those States are unworthy to join our glorious Confederacy.
"We know what vast pyramids of human hones they are in imagination erecting all over our Southern plains; and every Southern man, with even a piece of soul in him, should brace himself like steel for the rush of Scythian hordes that Lincoln is preparing to hurl upon us. Ho! every Southern man; ho! every man on this side of the border-fling yourself from this day forward heart and soul into the conflict, each in his appropriate sphere of action.
"Let the brutal minions of a beastly despotism come on! The slaughter pens are ready, and Yankee blood shall flow as free as festal wine."
REBEL BARBARITIES. From Linn Creek, the intelligence still is, that the rebels are remorselessly sacking and plundering the premises both of Union families and secession residents, to meet the necessities of army subsistence. The entire region for ten miles along the river and seven or eight miles buck into the country, in Camden county, is occupied by the enemy, and the property of every other inhabitant is taken, with no other limitation than its utility to the marauders. Wagon loads of the booty are daily being conveyed to Lebanon.
In the Southwest, Judge Chenault's bandits are ravaging the border counties, and fiendishly maltreating as well as robbing the Union citizens. Eleven of the latter had been hanged for the crime of being American as well as Missourians. Their sole offence was the expression of Union sentiments.
These every-day incidents, together with the sacking of the Insane Asylum at Fulton, the ransacking of the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, and the atrocious system of impressing persons of nearly all ages and conditions into their ranks, fairly indicate the diabolical spirit possessing the rebels. Unless soon and effectually checked, they will convert the lately blooming garden of Missouri into a "waste-howling wilderness."
A REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER OUTRAGED. A North Carolina correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune writes-
"When the news came that Fort Hatteras was taken by the United States, a serious turn was given to the popular mind, and some were in favor of having the State, by the Legislature, resolve itself back into the Union. Hereupon sides were taken and blows were struck. The secessionists had all the arms, and they of course had the upper hand. One man declared ' He was a Union man, and not ashamed to confess it.' At this expression, he was taken into a shop, his nose put into a vice, and screwed nearly out of his head; and the lips which uttered the sentiment were treated in the same way, and both nearly pulled out of his face. A lady just from Washington, N. C., tells me that about the same time a company of men wore assembled in a store, and extolling the secession flag, when an old Revolutionary soldier (the only one known to be living in North Carolina) interfered, and asked the secessionists if they knew how much the old Stars and Stripes cost? He said he did, for he fought under them, and saw them when first raised, and that he would never recognize another. At this he was taken, his head half shaved, a plaster put on, and the plaster covered with tar, and the tar with feathers, and then he hurled into the street! Who would think that a soldier of Washington would ever be subjected to such treatment in the land where Washington himself was once almost worshipped as if he were a god? How long will Americans allow such things to be?
These are but samples of a series of barbarous acts, which, to mention separately, would fill a dozen pages, and only make one's blood curdle in his veins to think of them."
JOHN BELL. A Nashville (Tennessee) correspondent of the New York Tribune, speaking of John Bell from a personal knowledge of his position, says:-
"Once a great leader, famed all over the land, honored far beyond the usual measure of man, he is now without friends, without influence-an unpitied ruin- a living monument of weakness, error, folly and self-degradation. There really seems none left to do him reverence. His lot is that of complete political isolation. He stands unreconciled to the present, and parted with the past. The leaders in the false cause that brought about his fall have no honor, no sympathy for him, while those that once clung to his political fortunes have grown indifferent, and lost their trust in him. And thus he lives, an unenviable, lonesome, hopeless existence, embittered, beyond all doubt, by the consciousness of having, by one false step, inflicted a stain upon his record that obscures all glory of his past, and "can never be fully wiped out.
"He resides here with his son-in-law, one of the numerous Yateman family. He is not only politically, hut also financially ruined, and his love of liquor is said to have increased greatly of late."
FROM THE SEAT OF WAR. There are slight daily skirmishes between the rebel outposts and the Federal pickets in Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri; but a pitched battle between the hostile armies, within a few days, is confidently predicted.
Intercepted letters from Price's army represent that he is within eight miles of the Osage river, near Papinsville, with from 18,000 to 20,000 men.
The Louisville Evening News states that Messrs. Breckinridge and other secession notables are organizing a large rebel camp at Prestonburg, Floyd county, Kentucky. They have a force of 6,000 or 7,000 men, whom they are drilling eight hours per day.
A detachment of forty men, of the 39th Indiana regiment, attacked, without loss, 300 rebels, eight miles from the encampment on Green river, killing five, and driving the whole force beyond Bacon Creek.
The Norfolk Day Book contains a report from New Orleans, that Col. Wilson's Zouaves were attacked on the night of the 8th inst, at Santa Rosa island, and, although they fought with great bravery, their guns were spiked, and all their camp equipage destroyed. The rebels claim to have committed great slaughter, and to have carried off a number of prisoners, but admit a loss themselves of forty killed, and about double that number wounded.
GERMANS IN THE ARMY. The following is given as a very nearly correct statement of the number of Germans in the Federal Army, from different sections of the country:-New England 200; New York 12,000; New Jersey 2,000; Pennsylvania 10,000; Ohio 5,000; Indiana 4,000; Illinois 6,000; Missouri 13,000; Minnesota 500; Wisconsin 2,000; Michigan 1,000; Iowa 1,000; Kansas 500; California and Oregon 2,000; Western Virginia 1,000; Maryland and District of Columbia 400; Kentucky 500; Delaware 100 -total 59,000.
A COSTLY REBELLION. A Leavenworth (Kansas) paper says that it has information to the effect that one hundred slaves leave Missouri every day for Kansas. At this rate, should this rebellion hold on for a year or so, it will need no emancipation proclamation to make Missouri a free State. In fact her manifest destiny is already clearly foreshadowed. So much for secession in Missouri.
SOCKS FOR THE SOLDIERS. Women of all ages and conditions are entering with alacrity upon the business of knitting socks for the troops of our army. It is decidedly the fashionable employment at present.
A VENERABLE AND PATRIOTIC STOCKING KNITTER. The New Bedford Mercury states that Mrs. Samuel A. Frazer, of Duxbury, is now engaged in knitting stockings for the soldiers in our army. She was employed eighty-five years ago in knitting stockings for the soldiers in the revolution. She is now 92 years of age.
THE ARCTIC EXPEDITION. The polar expedition of Dr. Hayes returned to Halifax on Tuesday of List week, the party being in good health. Two have died-August Son tag, the astronomer of the expedition, and Gibson Carruthers. Dr. Hayes reached Smith's Strait on the 26th of August last year, but could not penetrate it with his vessel either last season or this. He wintered at Port Foulke, near Cape Alexander, and with a dog sledge reached latitude 81 degrees 35 minutes, May 18th, this year. The latitude attained by Dr. Kane's party, in 1854, was 82 degrees 27 minutes. The results of this last exploration, if any, remain to be stated. Dr. Hayes put into Halifax for repairs and water, after a stormy passage.
In one of the Troy pulpits, on Sunday last, the pastor made a special prayer for Gen. Fremont, whom he alluded to as a man between two fires-the enemy in front and a distrustful and slanderous people behind. [A mistake-the people side with Fremont]
Loss OF A RUSSIAN GUN SHIP AND EIGHT HUNDRED LIVES. A letter from Paris states that the Russian gun ship, the Sweltana, has foundered on the coast of Japan, and that all on board, numbering eight hundred, perished.
<c06>
OBITUARY,
A very old friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, (a very old friend in both senses,) Mrs. SALLY BRADFORD of Duxbury, has ceased to be mortal. On Thursday, the 10th inst, having almost completed her 90th year, she reached that stage of life which we call death. Her husband, the late Capt. Gershom Bradford, herself, and her four surviving daughters, were among the earliest to embrace, and the most steadfast to hold, and the most diligent to diffuse, be truths taught by the pioneers of abolition. In aid of such truth, they gave not only money, as others did, but self-denying and persevering labors, and the ready exercise of their utmost social influence. Their house has ever been a centre of reformatory action, and a chosen resting-place, not only of anti-slavery, but various other departments of unpopular truth. It was early given them to see the corrupt complicity held by the popular churches, Orthodox and Unitarian, with slavery; and they had the rare courage and fidelity to testify against it.
Mrs. Bradford gave a beautiful example of cheerful, serene and happy old age. Eminently social in disposition, warm in her affections, and hospitable alike to her personal friends and the friends of truth and righteousness, her attachments and her benevolence extended also to the animal creation. Her heart and her sympathies remained always young. Favored beyond moat persons of her ago with bodily health, she preserved also a healthy frame of mind, looked upon the bright side, and sympathized with, youth, kept up an acquaintance with modern literature, and felt an unfailing interest in human progress. A great lover of home, she was also a "keeper at home"; but she will be remembered and missed by a largo circle of friends.-C. K. W

FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FOURTH SERIES
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FOURTH SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES will be inaugurated at TREMONT TEMPLE, on FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 18, 1861, on which occasion
HON. CHARLES SUMNER
will pronounce an Address on
THE REBELLION: ITS ORIGIN AND MAIN-SPRING.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:-
October 22-JACOB M. MANNING.
" 29-GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
November 5-T. WENTWORTH HIGGLNSON.
" 12-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
" 19-WILLIAM R. ALGER.
" 26-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 3-FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
" 10-DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
" 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
" 24-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
" 31-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
January 7-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Organist - HOWARD M. Dow, Esq.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A limited number of tickets (admitting the bearer and a lady,) are offered for sale at $2 each; to be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.'s, No. 277 Washington street, John C. Hayes A Co.'s, 33 Court street, D. O. Goodrich's, 302 Washington street, of the several members of the Fraternity hitherto having the disposal of tickets, and at the Tremont Temple. Oct. 11
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak on " The War," at Newbury, Vt. Friday, Oct. 18.
Bradford, " Sunday," 20.
Cornish Flat, " Friday, " 25.
Croydon,
E. Village, N.H. Thursday, " 24.
Brattleboro', " Sunday, " 27.
Springfield, " Tuesday, " 29.
AID FOR FUGITIVE SLAVES.-The fund raised to aid fugitive slaves is now, and has boon for some time, exhausted. Those who are disposed to contribute to this deserving charity are respectfully invited to leave their contributions with FRANCIS JACKSON, Hollis st., or R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery office.
NOTICE-Mrs. H. F. M. BROWN, of Cleveland, Ohio, has been appointed an Agent for the Anti-Slavery Standard; and is fully authorized to receive new subscriptions to the same, as well as payments on old accounts. Mrs. Brown's address is 288 Superior street,
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to P. M.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread. Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Roam, 188 "Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan. IS, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elisa Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover A Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a, manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length, of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
J. B. SWASEY,
BOSTON.
LAW OFFICE, 114 STATE STREET, ROOM 11.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucher,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases. Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 18G1. 3m

TRANSIENT BOARDERS,
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle st., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who way favor the house with A call. Rooms furnished with or without board, Terms moderate.
Boston, Jan. 7. S. NEWELL,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
from the Boston Transcript.
FREMONTS PROCLAMATION.
A CHIME FOR THE HOUR.
Hearken! Borne upon the breezes blowing from the wakening West,
Freedom’s first deep throb is struggling from the nation’s mighty breast.
Do ye hear it, oh ye people, over all the storm and strife,
Over all the clash and clamor, sword to sword and knife to knife?
Do ye hear the throb prophetic, prophesying coming life?
Lo, the very heavens are brightening! Through the rifted cloud I see
Glimpses of the mighty Future, promises of what shall be.
Oh, the beauty and the glory! Faint and weak I turn away,
Dazzled even unto blindness by the dim yet certain ray:
If the dawning be so glorious, who then shall endure the day?
God be merciful! A nation groping in such dreadful night,
That the first faint flush of morning palsies all its powers of sight!
God be merciful! A people pledged to Liberty and Truth,
Hugging still the old delusions clinging round its cast-off youth,
Worshipping its olden Idol, grim, unholy and uncouth!
Is it tree that Christ, the Master, walked the earth in years agene,
Having all the garb of Godhead like a glorious garment on?
Have ye heard his Proclamation? “Liberty” these lips proclaim:
“Open every door of bondage, open, in my Father’s name!”
Have ye heard, and do ye falter? Shame upon ye, Christians, shame!
“Nay,” ye say, “but this is folly, for the hour has not yet come.”
Could ye in His presence say so? Would not your white lips grow dumb
‘Neath the quick, majestic kindling of that eye whose sacred ken,
Clothed with more than human vision, sees the inmost thoughts of men!
Could ye say so in His presence-could ye? would ye falter then?
Oh, my brothers, fling your flimsy logic to the mocking wind,
Lay in dust your smitten foreheads, saying, “Master, we have sinned!”
Sepulchre your guilty weakness, yield it to the pitying sods,
Then arise and front the nations, face the hour with all its odds;
Rise and rally to the watchword, “Duty’s ours, the Issue, God’s.”
For the truest cause is surest, and the nation or the man, Rallying at the call of Freedom, sees Jehovah in the van; He it is shall lead our armies when they battle for the Right,
Marshalling his own grand legions to the brave, victorious fight.
Do ye see the signs, ye watchmen, watching from your mountain height?
Ay, the dawn begins to brighten! One great venture has been cast,
And the deed has shook the nation like a trumpet’s pealing blast!
He, the Hero of the Epoch, striking Freedom’s morning chime,
Foremost of the generations, standing on the height sublime,-
Sends his name adown the ages, noblest of his race and time!
Link your hands with his, my brothers; so shall dawn the golden year
Spoken of by all the prophets: “Lo, the Lord our God is here!
Alleluia, for He reigneth! Through the earth the chorus rings:
Every bondman’s yoke is broken,-praise Him, all created things!
Alleluia, for He reigneth, Lord of Lords, and King of Kings!”
But, if still ye shrink and falter, with the black brand on your brow,
Warding off His blessed purpose with your impotent “not now,”
Hear your doom, oh guilty nation; for, as God in heaven is true,
Though to His poor suffering millions Peace and Freedom shall ensue,
All without your help or hindrance, His dark curse shall rest on you!
Fitchburg, Mass. CAROLINE A. MASON.

From the Boston Journal.
OUR COUNTRY’S GUILT.
BY MARY G. HARPINE.
Before His dread and awful throne, the Righteous and the Just,
Do thou, my bleeding country, lay thy forehead in the dust;
Fling at His feet thy starry crown, and humbly lay aside
The haughty ensigns of thy power, the robes of state and pride.
Let the coarse sackcloth wrap thy proud and lofty form instead;
Upon that day, let ashes strew thy tall and stately head.
Where all the countless hosts of heaven their shining foreheads lay,
Columbia, low in the dust bewail thy sins that day!
A few short yean ago, oppressed ‘neath England’s iron rod,
A people small and weak, we raised th’ imploring hands to God:
Our cry came up before His throne, He hearkened to our. prayer;
A mighty nation have we grown beneath his fostering care.
Than ours, beneath th’ all-seeing sun no fairer land may be;
Proudly our stately cities rite, our ships ride every sea;
But, woe to all our land this day! as strong we grew, and great,
We wronged the stranger, and oppressed the poor within our gate.
We have heard, with smiling lip and brow, the cruel despot’s plea,
Who would spread through all the glorious West the curse of slavery.
Long has God borne with us, but now has risen in his might;
Has come with gleaming fire and sword that fearful wrong to right;
For this has brought us low, for this has hedged with thorns our path;
Caused us with heavy hearts to drink “the wine-cup of his wrath.”
And as for us, we can but lay our humbled lip in dust,
And own, in penitence and tears, our punishment is just!
The sword within their hands we’ve placed, who’ve done this treacherous thing,
And the vipers warmed to life, who now our fostering bosom sting!
But God is merciful as just, we shall not plead in vain;
If humbly we return to Him, He will turn to us again,
He will lift our forehead from the dust, take our reproach away;
His mercy lasts through endless years, His wrath but for a day!

THE BATTLE OF LIFE.
Wearied and worn one, stricken in spirit,
Fret not at feeling the gall in thy lot;
Seemingly favored ones do not inherit
All thy imaginings-envy them not.
Think, when the battle of life at the hottest
Presseth thee downward on every hand,
A trace, or a triumph, may come ere thou wettest;
Let hope ever gird thee, imperilled, to stand.
Faint not, nor falter, nor whine broken-hearted;
Thousands are fighting in common with you;
Thousands have fought-has the spirit departed
That nerved for the conflict and carried them through?
<c02>
The Liberator.

For the Congregationalist.
DR. ANDERSON’S “MEMORIAL VOLUME.”
The senior Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions has just published an octavo volume of 462 pages, purporting to give, as fully as that space will allow, a sketch of the history and chief characteristics of the missionary enterprise conducted by that body, in its half century of labor, completed a year ago.
An editorial notice of this book in the Congregationalist regrets “that the relations of the missionary churches to slavery have not been stated as freely as those which they sustain to caste and polygamy.” This seems to imply that these relations have been stated there, though too briefly. The fact, however, is, that in this octavo volume, purporting to be historical, no mention whatever is made of the Board’s relation to slavery, or of the numerous and important transactions growing out of that relation, except the incidental mention-in speaking of two deputations, which were sent, in 1848 and 1855, across the whole breadth of the United States to visit the Cherokee and Choctaw missions-that they were designed, the first, to show the relations of those missions, and their churches, “to the subject of slavery“; the second, “to make further efforts for removing the difficulties growing out of the question of slavery.” The book contains nothing more upon this immensely important subject.
Examination has shown me, not only that one important class of facts, most seriously affecting the character and credit of the Board, is carefully avoided and kept out of sight in this volume, but that certain claims made in it in favor of the Board, in regard to their success in their missionary work, are in melancholy conflict with existing facts. Since the matters in question are suited to attract the interest of all Christians, and since those who furnish the large sums annually required by the Board are entitled to know that which relates both to the Board’s faithfulness in labor, and its success in accomplishing the object of labor, I request permission to speak, as briefly as may be, on these two points, to the readers of the Congregationalist.
1. The facts in regard to one very important department of the action and influence of the Board have been carefully left out of this volume.
No mention is made in it of the fact that, during forty years of the Board’s half-century here commemorated, the action of its missionaries in the Cherokee and Choctaw nations was such as to confirm and increase the habit of slaveholding which those tribes had already formed, and to give to that evil habit the strength and respectability naturally resulting from the free admission of slaveholders to the mission-churches as Christians.
Again, no mention is made in it of the very important fact that, in almost every year from 1837 to 1860, strong remonstrances against the continuance of the Board’s complicity with slavery were made by some of its members and patrons. And it is equally silent in regard to the very significant fact, that these remonstrances were never complied with by the Board, but were met, sometimes with uncourteous silence and neglect, sometimes with the mere show of consideration and action, sometimes with deceptive evasion, and sometimes with replies compounded of sophistry and fraud.
Even if shame at his own large share in the commencement and continuance of the Board in this unchristian policy sufficed to keep the senior Secretary from a full account of it, he might at least have given one page to the bare statement of facts so important as those above mentioned. That he has altogether omitted such facts is a serious drawback to the historical value of the book.
2. But, bad as is the omission of one important branch of the Board’s history, from a book purporting to give that history, this volume contains something worse, namely, a misrepresentation of some of the results of their missionary labor.
Nobody knew better than Dr. Anderson that the Prudential Committee’s declaration (in their Annual Report for 1860) that “The Cherokees are a Christian people,” was a gross misrepresentation, not only unsupported by facts, but contradicted and proved false by the statement respecting the Cherokee nation in that very Annual Report which he had just prepared.
The ground on which the Board declared the 21,000 Cherokees to be “a Christian people,” if carefully scrutinized, is found to be this, and only this. The Board’s four mission churches in that nation contained 136 Cherokee church-members; and the preaching at these four stations (one of them holding only a monthly meeting) had average congregations (churchmembers included) of 40, 60, 80 and 75; making in all, saints and sinners, Cherokees, white people and colored people, only 255 customary hearers of the Board’s preaching. Rather a small basis for the declaration that a nation of 21,000 persons is “a Christian people.”
It is not, however, the smallness of these numbers merely on which I rest the assertion that the Prudential Committee’s claim in regard to the Cherokees is a gross misrepresentation. A little genuine leaven leaven leaveneth the whole lump. If the Board’s 136 Cherokee church-members were thorough, zealous and active Christians, no doubt they would exercise a strong influence upon their 20,800 countrymen, and do much towards giving the nation the aspect of “a Christian people.” But the Prudential Committee’s own statement of the character of these churches in another place, where, they are urging the very small prospect of any further improvement among the Cherokees, and of any advantage whatever to be expected from continuing the mission, throws serious doubt upon the question whether even the 136 church-members are properly entitled Christians. Here are the admissions of one of the missionaries in regard to the discouragements of his brethren:-
“They are laboring under a complication of disadvantages; at a great expense-greater, I suppose, in proportion to the extent of their operations, than that of any other denomination; shut out, at least for the present, from adding to the number of their stations, or exchanging them for more promising localities; regarded with jealousy by a very influential portion of the community; with no active native preachers; with small congregations; with very few young persons connected with their churches; with a membership that has not materially increased for many years, and with scarcely any promise of future occasions.”- Ann. Rep. of 1860, p. 140.
To these admissions of the missionary, the Prudential Committee add the following on their own account, under the same head, namely-” Difficulties in the way of further operations by the Board “:-
“The proportion of the people now reached by our ministrations is comparatively small. The audience at Park Hill is not far from forty; that at Fairfield (a monthly meeting) is sixty; at Dwight, it is from sixty to one hundred; and at Lee’s Creek, seventy-five. Moreover, all the missionaries preach through interpreters If it were possible, as it is not, to procure native pastors for the small churches at each of these places, the people could not be induced to support them.”-Ibid.
How deep is the significance of these admissions! When we consider that the missionaries and the Prudential Committee join in confessing that of their 136 Cherokee church-members (the last result of a forty years’ mission, conducted at an expense of three hundred and fifty-six thousand dollars-$356,421) not one is active and zealous enough to preach to his own people, in his own language, the religion he is assumed to have learned, and that, if such could be found, his (assumed) fellow-Christians could not be induced to support him, how monstrous seems the claim made by the Prudential Committee, and repeated by Dr. Anderson in the volume before us, that “the Cherokee people have been Christianized “!
These admissions of the Board respecting the spiritual destitution of the Cherokees are well suited to remind us of the description of the Laodicean church, “wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked.” But the Cherokees are not merely “lukewarm”; they are actively vicious.
<c03>
Not only are they determined slaveholders, not only has their slaveholding steadily increased during the forty years of the Board’s labors among them, not only did this slaveholding include (by Mr. Secretary Treat’s admission in 1848) “cases of gross cruelty and oppression,” and laws forbidding the teaching of slaves and free negroes to read the Bible, but the habits thus cherished by the nation out of the church, and by the Board’s missionaries IN the church, have now brought forth their natural fruit, in the decision of the Cherokee nation to join the rebels in their war upon the United States for the extension and supremacy of slavery. Here is the evidence, which I find in the Transcript of the 1st inst.:-
“THE CHEROKEE NATION JOINS THE CONFEDERATES.-Rev. Mr. Robinson, a missionary teacher in the Cherokee Nation, has arrived at St. Louis, and reports that the Chief of that Nation finally succumbed to the secession pressure, and on August 20 called the Council together at Telequah, and sent in a message recommending the severance of their Connection with the United States and an alliance with the Southern Confederacy. The Council approved of the recommendation, and appointed Commissioners to make a treaty of alliance with the Southern Government. The Confederate Commissioner had assumed the payment of the annuities hitherto received by the Cherokees from our Government.”
This action, be it observed, is not forced upon the nation by their Chief, but forced upon the Chief by the nation. And this is the nation which, only one year ago, the American Board declared to be “a Christian people “!
This last shameful conduct of the Cherokees-making war upon our nation without the pretence of any present ill treatment on our part, or ground of complaint against us-has occurred since the publication of Dr. Anderson’s book. But the union of the Choctaw nation with the rebels in the prosecution of this atrocious war took place earlier, and before the publication of the book; yet Dr. Anderson has the hardihood to represent them also as “a Christian people “; exceeding, in so doing, even the misrepresentations previously published by the Board. 
Not only did the Prudential Committee (in discontinuing the Choctaw mission in 1859) make no claim of Christian character for the Choctaw nation, but their language in proposing the discontinuance, and their voted resolution accomplishing it, and their comments in the Annual Report for 1859 respecting it, show the reason to have been something altogether different Here is the evidence.
The letter of the Prudential Committee, proposing this discontinuance to the Choctaw mission, mentions as its cause “the unceasing embarrassments and perplexities” connected with that mission.-Ann, Rep. for 1859, p. 140.
The subsequent letter, accomplishing the discontinuance, gives the formal vote in regard to it as follows:-
“Resolved, 1. That in view of the embarrassments connected with the missionary work among the Choctaws, which affect injuriously, as well the labors of the brethren in that field, as the relations sustained by the Board to its friends and patrons, it is incumbent on the Prudential Committee to discontinue the Choctaw mission; and the same is hereby discontinued.”-lb., p. 145.
In commenting upon this correspondence, the Prudential Committee admit that-
“They have felt themselves greatly embarrassed by facts and considerations which they cannot properly submit to the public eye.”
And they add, immediately after-
“In presenting to the Board, therefore, a letter which has closed its responsibilities in a part of the great missionary field, the Prudential Committee wish it to be understood that the whole case is not here.”-lb., p. 143.
This is mysterious and suggestive. In the two years that have passed since the Prudential Committee’s use of this very peculiar language, they have given no solution of the mystery. But at least they have the negative merit of having refrained from claiming a Christian character for the Choctaw nation. They were then ignorant (so, at least, their Secretary, Mr. Treat, deelares) of the burning alive of one of their Choctaw church-members by another, without prejudice to the good standing of the latter in the Stockbridge church. Moreover, the Choctaws had not then joined the South to fight against the United States in aid of the extension and perpetuity of slavery. Still, the Prudential Committee did not venture to say that the Choctaw nation had been Christianized by their labors. This amount of hardihood was left for the senior Secretary; and he is not deterred from it even by the knowledge of the shameful facts above mentioned.
The slaveholding of the Choctaw nation-continued, with the Board’s consent, during the forty years of their mission-is already extensively known, however little regarded by the corrupt churches of this pro-slavery American people. The alliance of the Choctaws with the Southern rebels will soon publish itself, in the tomahawking and scalping of our citizen soldiers. But the claim of Dr. Anderson that such a nation is “a Christian people” renders it indispensable that a wider publication be made of some portions of their church history-of the demeanor to each other of the Board’s “converts” in the Choctaw nation. Here are five facts in regard to the Choctaw churches, which need to be read, marked, learned and inwardly digested by all Christians-especially by all who are asked to give money to the “American Board.” 
I.
A female slave, a member of the Stockbridge mission church, (under the pastoral care of Rev. Cyrus Byington,) was burned alive on Sunday, Jan. 2d, 1859, by the instigation of her mistress, a sister in the same church, who was present, with others of the church-members, while this murder was perpetrated. The victim had previously been tortured, to extort from her a confession of guilt; but she continued, both then and with her dying breath, to declare her innocence of the crime imputed to her. Another slave, who had also been tortured for the same purpose, but who also persisted in declaring his innocence, committed suicide to avoid being burned alive; and his dead body was burned on the same pile with the living woman.
II.
The Stockbridge church soon after held “a big meeting” for the celebration of the Lord’s Supper. No mention was made in it of the recent murder of one of its members by another! No objection was made to the recognition of the murderers as Christians! No charge was brought, either then or afterwards, (as far as diligent inquiry has revealed,) by the church, or by any member of it, or by the pastor, against the instigator of this horrible deed, as having violated their standard of Christian character! 
III.
As far as diligent inquiry has succeeded in revealing, none of the Board’s other churches in the Choctaw nation took the least notice of this transaction, or seemed to consider the mere burning alive of a slave (though a “sister in Christ”) as imposing upon them any duty of interference, discipline, or even inquiry. 
IV.
The missionary-pastor of the Stockbridge church (if Mr. Secretary Treat’s testimony is true) gave no report to the Prudential Committee, or to the Board, respecting the perpetration of this crime, or the neglect of the church to institute discipline for it, or the neglect of the other mission-churches to make protest against the allowance of such conduct by the Stockbridge church. He concealed the whole transaction from his employers, the Prudential Committee, and from the Christian public, who, having furnished the large sums annually consumed by the Choctaw mission, had a right to be informed of its “walk and conversation.” And when, afterwards, he received a respectful letter of inquiry from Prof. S. C. Bartlett, of Chicago, he first left it for three months unanswered, and, then wrote, “refusing to give any information or explanation.”
V.
After some months of further delay, ah anonymous letter appears in the Congregationalist, (May 3d,1861,) wondering that so much stir should be made about “a dead negro,” and alleging, in extenuation of the quiescence of the Stockbridge church, and of the
<c04>
other Choctaw churches-1, that there is no more freedom of opinion in the Choctaw nation than in Spain, and that, on matters pertaining to slavery, its citizens and its missionary teachers have to conduct themselves just as they would under the most despotic government in the world!-and, 2, that Mrs. Harkins, the murderess, belonged to the Pitchlyn family, a family of such power and influence in the nation, that any attempt to take even legal measures against one of them, even on his commission of murder, “would be simply ridiculous.” (This anonymous letter, with the comments of Prof. Bartlett, may be seen in full in the appendix to a recently published book, entitled “Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for foreign Missions to Slavery.”)
The state of things among the Choctaws thus revealed is well suited to bring to our minds, by contrast, the declaration of the Prudential Committee, (p. 29 of their Annual Report for 1852,) that “the Choctaws have a good government.”
Has that nation a good government in which the burning alive of a human being by mob violence passed unnoticed by the civil authority, and cannot be made to claim its attention as an offence?
Is that nation “a Christian people” whose churches utterly ignore and disregard the commission of such a crime by one church-member upon another?
Dr. Anderson represents the nation whose past recent history includes these features, and whose present position is that of unprovoked war against the United States for the very worst of purposes-as “a Christian people”! Whether this representation is true, whether it is honest, whether it is just, whether it is pure-whether the “Memorial Volume” which omits so much, and which perverts so much, of the actual history of the American Board’s operations, is to be received as authentic history-let the Christian public judge, C. K. W.
October 7th, 1861.
The foregoing communication was written for the Congregationalist, but the editor of that paper refused to insert it. In a note explaining his refusal, he says that he censures the silence of Dr. Anderson in regard to slavery as heartily as I do; but that, “having condemned that silence,” he does not feel called upon to say more about it at present; moreover, he sees no good purpose to be answered by further comment upon it.
In reply to this it may be said, that the proportion of this editor’s condemnation to his approval-both of the book in question and the course of the Board during the years of its worst complicity with slavery-has been but as one grain to a hundred pounds; and that even his disapproval has uniformly been expressed such terms as to conceal both the extent and the true character of the offences committed. For example, his comments on that feature of Dr. Anderson’s Memorial Volume to which he objects are such as to utterly mislead the confiding render who has no seen the book in question. When he faintly regrets that “the relations of the missionary churches to slavery have not been stated as freely as those which they sustain to caste and poly gamy”-who would imagine the shameful fact that they were not stated at all? And when he further says-“Silence in this matter seems to us both less dignified and expedient than speech”-who would imagine that these gentle terms were a screen carefully chosen to hide the entire suppression of a course of action covering forty of the Board’s fifty years; producing many hours of exciting debate at its Annual Meetings; calling forth, for fifteen or twenty years, earnest remonstrances against the policy of the Prudential Committee from members and friends of the Board all over the Northern States; and requiring elaborate reports from a dozen or more Committees, at as many Annual Meetings, to explain away the vicious course of the pro-slavery missionaries, and to show that measures of active reform should not be even attempted;- what reader of the Congregationalist, I say, would imagine that the mild terms of criticism above quoted referred to the fraudulent suppression, from a book purporting to be historical, of so large and so weighty a portion of the genuine history in question?
When Mr. Dexter further says that he sees no good purpose to be answered by additional comment on this matter, it is instructive to remember what are the faults upon which he would deem it indispensable to go on speaking, shouting, lifting up his voice like a trumpet, until they were abandoned, and the offenders reformed. If-instead of the mere burning alive of a member of the Stockbridge church by the “brethren and sisters,” without even a subsequent attempt at “discipline,” and the mere persistent concealment of these facts by the missionary pastor from his employers and the Christian public-that church had voted to disregard the Sabbath, or to strike out the recognition of eternal punishment from their creed, and their missionary pastor had tried to keep this action concealed- Mr. Dexter would never cease from protestation, warning, admonition, rebuke, until the offending church had returned to its faith, until the leaders in the offence had undergone discipline, until the offending pastor had made confession, and until the Prudential Committee had made due provision against the repetition of such enormities.-Such is the relative estimate of different classes of offences, in the mind of a minister of that church which calls itself “evangelical”!
From my personal knowledge of the editor of the Congregationalist, I feel sure that he would scorn to practise, on his own account, or for any considerations of personal advantage, a tithe of the disingenuousness, the persistent attempts at deceptive concealment which he has now (and often before) practised in behalf of his church and its auxiliary propagandist Societies. With him, and with many other well-meaning ministers, an impression seems to prevail that the church and its customary working machinery must be supported, right or wrong! The ground of this impression is probably the taking-for-granted, on their part, that the creed of their church, and the credit of that creed in the public mind, are of such transcendent importance, that no other interests can bear comparison with these; and that whenever their credit can be preserved only by deceit, even deliberate and persistent deceit is less harmful than the loss of that credit.
These impressions, held and acted upon in behalf of the creed of the church, naturally tend to slide into practical use in favor also of the clergy, and of the propagandist Societies which assist the clergy. And thus it has happened that most of those “religious newspapers” which call themselves “evangelical” have practised the same systematic dishonesty, in treating of the “American Board” and its operations, which we have seen in the Congregationalist.
It has been said that the rulers of the Jesuits expressly permit deception when the credit or purposes of their church may be promoted by it The Protestant ministers and editors of whom I have been speaking would shrink with real horror from the formal acceptance of such a rule of action; yet, when the emergency conies, when the credit of the church or of the “American Board” can be saved only by deception, they do just what the Jesuits have been affirmed to do.
It is worthy of serious inquiry whether the violations of truth in question -used, be it remembered, by ministers of religion, in the preparation of “religious” books and newspapers, and with the assumption that true religion may allow or require such methods of support-are not really tending to weaken the regard for truth among our American people. Must not the frequent detection, by that people, of “pious frauds” practised by their clergy, tend to make them look upon other deceits as venial? And must it not tend to fix a gross and distorted idea of God in the popular mind when the people see those who assume to be His ministers using deception in His service?-c. K. W. 
A clergyman in Worcester county, Mass., recently preached a sermon appropriate to the times from the text Jeremiah xii. 19: “The cities of the South shall be shut up, and none shall open them.”
<C05>
THE ABOLITIONISTS AND SLAVERY.
Extract from a Discourse delivered on the occasion of the National Fast, September 26th, 1861, in the First Congregational Unitarian Church in Philadelphia, by W. H. FURNESS, Minister.
After fifty years of silence, a few humble and earnest voices were heard speaking aloud, denouncing the great violation of the Law of Right which the nation was allowing, and warning the people of the deadly peril which was growing every moment that this violation was persisted in. At the sound of those voices, publicly declaring what every man knew, and could not help knowing, in his heart to be true, the whole country was thrown into a state of the greatest consternation and rage. A price, was instantly put upon the head of the man who first had the courage to say aloud, that we were breaking the Eternal Law. I will not pause here to praise the valor and the faith of those who were the first to break the awful silence of the nation. I will only say that, noble and heart-stirring as are the instances which we now witness of a generous love of country, there are, at this hour, no purer or more devoted patriots than was the little company of men and women, through whom the Freedom and the Justice, which alone can save this people from the woe and ruin with which the Slave Power has always threatened us, first found a voice. I will make no further claim for them now, nor will I dwell upon this, because it seems to me that, if they had not spoken boldly out in condemnation of the great wrong which we were upholding, and in warning of the danger which menaced us, the very stones of the streets would have cried out. In the demand which was made for an instant cessation from the great sin of the nation, I hear not so much the voices of private individuals, as the mighty and irrepressible voice of Nature,-of Almighty God himself. It could not be, it was impossible, that the hour should not come when the cry of outraged Humanity would be heard, startling the nation out of its dreadful sleep. It lay not in the will of man, but in the unchangeable nature of things, that this voice must be heard. Those through whom it space did not choose it, it chose them. And as the word came to them, they had to give it utterance or die. A storm of violence and abuse instantly broke upon their devoted heads. They were ridiculed, reviled, mobbed, put to death; every avenue to popular favor was closed against them. All which shows most convincingly how much the nation stood in fear of the institution of Slavery; what a foreboding there was, in the secret hearts and consciences of the people, of the evil that must flow from it, and which they idly thought to postpone by never saying a loud word about it, vaguely trusting that, in some inconceivable way, Providence would some day interpose to relieve our soil of this dreaded curse.
The object of those who, at so much personal risk, sought to awaken the country to its peril, was to adjure it to return to the paths of Righteousness, which alone are the paths of security and peace; and not a few are they whom they have enlisted in their cause. We, my friends, can never forget how heartily he became interested in the Anti-Slavery movement, who, in his day, was by far the most able and eloquent representative of liberal Christianity in this country and in this age, William Ellery Channing; and nothing that he ever did was a worthier or more consistent illustration of the simple faith of which he was the most distinguished advocate, than his labors in behalf of Freedom and Humanity, terminating only with his life.
But the most decisive effect of the Anti-Slavery movement has been to drive the Slave Power to show itself undisguised, to lay itself bare in all its malignity and barbarism, which it has done by a series of outrages, each more atrocious than its predecessor, and culminating at last, as it has done, in this wicked and savage rebellion. The advocates of Freedom, in their denunciations of slave institutions, have always been charged with dealing in too violent language. They have been stigmatized as abusive and slanderous. And yet who that sees, and who that has eyes can help seeing, what the Slave Power is doing at this moment, can find terms of reprobation strong enough adequately to characterize its inhuman and barbarous character? If, at times, the language used against it seemed too strong, that language was hardly uttered before there came tidings of some new outrage perpetrated by it that more than justified the burning words that had been hurled against it, that indeed made those words cold. Indeed, it has again and again seemed as if this evil power were forced by a resistless destiny to vindicate the veracity of those who have denounced it, to prove by trampling in the dust, as it has done, the most sacred claims of Honor and of Humanity, that the worst that was said of it was true.
But, however this may be, whether the language in which the giant wrong of the country and the day has been spoken of, has been justifiable or not, one thing is plain: for the last five-and-twenty years, the people have been learning to see more and more clearly what a foaming fountain of insecurity and alarm, of violence and crime and blood, the institution of Slavery is. What, from an early period, has been a deep but vague presentiment in their minds; what caused Jefferson to tremble for his country; what made Pinckney say, that if slavery lasted fifty years, it would extinguish the spirit, the life of liberty in the nation,-this prophetic dread of trouble to come has slowly ripened into assured knowledge. What was long ago more or less dimly foreseen is now palpable. And no man now can fail to see that Slavery bears bitter and deadly fruit. What misery and ruin it produces is no longer a matter of doubtful prophecy; it is not, as has been so often charged, the wild dream of harbrained fanatics; it is spread out now and shown before all eyes, in the unhappy state of the country, “shining o’er with civil swords,” in the ruthless plunder of the national property, in a beleaguered capital, in whole tracts of country laid waste and desolate, in women and children fleeing for life from their burning homes, in the blood of noble and brave men poured out in battle, in the tears of the widow and the orphan, in the heavy weight of anxious care which now burdens all hearts, and in the energies of our young men forced away from all the honorable pursuits of peace, and driven to study the bloody arts of violence and destruction.
But, although no man can fail now to perceive the relation of cause and effect, between the Slave Power and the present most painful condition of the country, still it is not yet seen as it might, and as it must be seen, how direct and intimate and necessary this relation is. We do not yet appreciate, as we might, the irrefragable logic by which it is inevitable that precisely 
such effects as we see had to follow from such a cause. So long as Slavery is suffered to exist, no power on earth or in heaven can avert the consequences 
of it, such as we are now suffering.
FAIR WARRIORS. In Cleveland, last Wednesday, three young women were discovered in the 4lst Regiment, attired as males, having enlisted as such.
A feminine recruit named Mary Smith, lately enlisted in the McClellan Zouaves, was discovered at Camp Wood, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday. Mary is said to be intelligent, good-looking, full of patriotism, pluck, and aged about twenty-two years. Suspicion as to her sex was first excited by the peculiar wring of the dish-cloth, which she gave when assisting in cooking the company’s rations, but all doubts vanished when, in the distribution of “unmentionables,” a pair was handed to the recruit with the feminine voice to fit on. He sat down, pinned the garment to his knee, and began to sew with the expertness of a professional seamstress. On being questioned, Mary pleaded guilty, and said she wished to go to the war to avenge the death of an only brother, who fell at the battle of Bull Run. Miss Smith was sent to Dayton.
APPEAL TO MINISTERS. We have received an appeal, signed “B. C. WARD, Pastor Congregational Church, Genesee, Illinois,” for one hundred young ministers of the Gospel, to join the ranks for the war. Are they intended for service against Rev. Bishop General Polk? Mr. Ward is raising a company of laymen for service in Missouri.-New York Christian Inquirer.
<c06> 
MORE ABOUT THE CONTRABANDS.
I understand that an order has been received from Washington by Gen. Wool to send there the “contraband” negroes at this post. This is a blunder, and the result of misapprehension. The real truth is that the “contrabands,” so far from entailing an incumbrance on this department, by their withdrawal will embarrass its operations, and impose no small expense for the hire of men in their place. Taken as a whole, the negroes are paring their way admirably, and instead of there being ground for apprehending burdens or trouble from them, more are to be desired; and no place or circumstances can be selected or imagined where they will be so comfortable, so free from complications, so sure to work out the interesting problem that surrounds their condition, as here. They are contented, because they are well cared for, feel sure of protection, and are a community of themselves. For the sake of keeping them free from entanglements, and of giving the problem the solution to which it naturally and rapidly gravitates here, the “contraband” negroes should not be sent to Washington, or anywhere else. They are well enough off; their removal would impose burdens on the Government, and complicate the question that surrounds them. They are needed here, and their present employment confers positive and important advantages on themselves and the Government; and the order for their removal has arisen from a total misapprehension of the case, their numbers, their usefulness here, and of the reasons why their situation should not be disturbed. I do not look for this removal, for the present, at least.- Correspondent of the New York Tribune.

MASSACHUSETTS SOLDIERS AS SLAVE WHIPPERS.
A private letter to a Baltimore journal, from Carroll county, Maryland, speaking of the recent expedition to lower Maryland, says the presence of Col. Cowdin’s Massachusetts Regiment has convinced the wavering that even Massachusetts men could march through out county without interfering with the slaves. “I know of several instances,” the letter continues, “where negroes seeking their camp were whipped and sent home.” How does the old Bay State relish having the soldiers apprenticed to this base business?- Washington Dispatch to New York Tribune.
Now, we want to know, and the people of the North want to know, by whose order that slave-whipping was done. If Col. Cowdin gave the order, where did he get his instructions to that effect? Has he been appointed a Deputy Marshal, or does he hold a Marshal’s commission as well as a Colonel’s? Has he authority to hold a civil court as well as a court-martial? If not, then we protest against any and every instance of such transactions. It is full time that the War Department commit itself to our army as to the course that is to be adopted toward fugitive slaves. It has been altogether too vague heretofore, and it is full time to have a “policy” in this matter. Gen. Ben. Butler, sturdy old-school Democrat as he was, and bitterly pro-slavery as he always had been, saw at the opening of the campaign that this slave question would speedily confront the war powers, and he cut the knot in his blunt way by declaring these slaves contraband. But, time and again, we have been called upon to chronicle the return of fugitives to their rebel masters by the army, and at length we find a Massachusetts Colonel not only sending them back, but giving them an admonitory whipping for having dared to suppose that freedom was to be found in the army of the United States!
Now, if our army is to be a slave-catching posse, and if our volunteers, after enlisting to support a free government, and binding themselves beyond recall to the orders of their officers for the term of three years or the war, are to be drilled in negro whipping instead of guard-mounting, and deployed as negro catchers instead of skirmishers, then let it be so announced to all the world.
But if, on the other hand, the army is for crushing out this rebellion in the shortest and surest way, then let that be so understood and proclaimed. The Crittenden resolutions which passed Congress, and which are so often quoted by the sticklers for the letter of the law, declare that the, war is not to interfere with slavery. Interfering in favor of slavery, as has been too much practised by our army, is therefore as contrary to those resolutions as direct abolition would be, a fact that it would be well for the advocates of that platform to bear in mind.-Cleveland (Ohio) Leader.

A NOVEL SIGHT.
A procession of several hundred stout negro men, members of the “domestic institution,” marched through our streets yesterday in military order, under the command of Confederate officers. They were well armed and equipped with shovels, axes, blankets, &c. A merrier set never were seen. They were brimful of patriotism, shouting for Jeff. Davis and singing war songs, and each looked as if he only wanted the privilege of shooting an Abolitionist.
An Abolitionist could not have looked upon this body of colored recruits for the Southern army without strongly suspecting that his intense sympathy for the “poor slave” was not appreciated, that it was wasted on an ungrateful subject.
The arms of these colored warriors were rather mysterious. Could it be that those, gleaming axes were intended to drive into the thick skulls of the Abolitionists the truth, to which they are wilfully blind, that their interference in behalf of Southern slaves is neither appreciated nor desired; or that those shovels were intended to dig trenches for the interment of their carcasses? It may be that the shovels are, to be used in digging ditches, throwing up breastworks, or the construction of masked batteries, those abominations to every abolition Paul Pry who is so unlucky as to stumble upon them. -Memphis Avalanche, Sept. 3d.

ABOLITION.
Charles Godfrey Leland, in “Words to the West,” in the October Knickerbocker, says:-
“This dread of incurring the name of ‘Abolitionist’ is as cowardly as it is paltry. Thorough -going courage, as it seems to me, should rather inspire a man to take it up, out of sheer defiance to an insolent and ferocious enemy. Just at present, the entire Union presents the spectacle of men afraid of adopting ‘abolition’ views, yet itching to adopt emancipation as the only effectual means of smashing the South.’ Why bother about the word ‘abolition’ al all? Why boggle at being suspected of friendliness for the black, or of belief in his capacity, or of endorsing amalgamation? Why not sweep over the whole intermediate stage, ignore the entire chain of arguments, and bravely adopt the essential point, of freeing the slaves for the sake of putting an end to this pestilent nuisance? Call it abolition or thievery, God’s work or the devil’s, anything yon please, but let us have the negroes out of the way. Hustle them out of the Border States, at least, in double-quick time: pay the loyal Union men, if you please, but out with them, and lose no time about it. Bring Canada down to the Virginia line, forthwith! It is a pity to see men- brave fighting men-quibbling about ‘contrabands,’ and to have the Secretary of War driven (unwillingly enough, I doubt not) into the meshes of a decision as to the disposal of the chattels, when the whole country should have the decision and manliness to settle the question for him by acclamation.
“Men of the West, and you of the East too, this war is destined, sooner or later, to effectually abate this nuisance of slaveocracy by removing the cause. Why not plunge in and settle it at once? Go at it bravely, and be done with it. Your are all threatening it-why not do it? 
“Abolition - for the sake of the white man! That is the new platform, the only compromise to which we should listen. Do you want to wait for more Bull Runs? Well, you can have them. But you had better do as the enemy does- strike promptly and fear not.”

JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street,
An elaborate Work, entitled “Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery. By Charles K. Whipple,”- a volume of nearly 250 pages. In cloth, 37 cents-in paper covers, 25 cents. Aug.30.

NOW READY,
SERMONS AND SPEECHES BY GERRIT SMITH: containing his Six Sermons on the Religion of Reason, and three of his recent Speeches-one of them delivered lately, on the War. Price 50 cents.
For sale by ROSS & TOUSEY,
July 19. -It No. 121 Nassau street, N.Y.
