THE LIBERATOR
-ISPUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World our Countrymen are all mankind.
j. B. YERRINTON & SON, PRINTERS
VOL. XXXIV.No.44. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1760.
Selections.
THE GREAT WESTERN CONSPIRACY.
Official Exposition by Judge Advocate Gen. Holt.
ASTOUNDING REVELATIONS!
History of the Secret Orders of the Golden Circle, American Knights, and the Sons of Liberty.
VALLANDIGHAM PRIME COMMANDER OF THE ARMY OF JUDASES.
An Overwhelming Mass of Testimony from Members of the Order, Soldiers, and Government Detectives.
WAR DEPARTMENT,
BUREAU OF MILITARY JUSTICE,
WASHINGTON, D. C., Oct. 8, 1864.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
SIR.: Having been instructed by you to prepare a detailed report upon the mass of testimony furnished me from different sources in regard to the secret associations and conspiracies against the Government formed, principally in the Western States, by traitors and disloyal persons, I have now the honor to submit as follows:
During more than a year past, it has been generally known to our military authorities that a secret treasonable organization, affiliated with the Southern rebellion, and chiefly military in its character, has been rapidly extending itself throughout the West. A variety of agencies, which will be specified herein, have been employed, and successfully, to ascertain its nature and extent, as well as its aims and its results; and, as this investigation has led to the arrest, in several States, of a number of its prominent members as dangerous enemies to their country, it has been deemed proper to set forth in full the acts and purposes of this organization, and thus to make known to the community at large its intensely treasonable and revolutionary spirit.
The subject will be presented under the following heads:
I. Its origin, history, names, &c.
II. Its organization and officers.
III. Its extent and numbers.
IV. Its armed force.
V. Its ritual, oaths, and interior forms.
VI. Its written principles.
VII. Its specific purposes and operations.
VIII. The witnesses and their testimony.
I.-ITS ORIGIN, HISTORY, NAMES, ETC.
This secret association first developed itself in the West in the year 1862, about the period of the first conscription of troops, which it aimed to obstruct and resist. Originally known in certain localities as the "Mutual Protection Society," the "Circle of Honor," or the "Circle" or "Knights of the Mighty Host," but more widely as the "Knights of the Golden Circle," it was simply an inspiration of the rebellion, being little other than an extension among the disloyal and disaffected at the North of the association of the latter name, which had existed for some years at the South, and from which it derived all the chief features of its organization.
During the summer and fall of 1863, the Order, both at the North and South, underwent some modifications, as well as a change of name. In consequence of a partial exposure which had been made of the signs and secret forms of the "Knights of the Golden Circle." Sterling Price had instituted as its successor in Missouri a secret political association, which he called the "Corps de Belgique" or "Southern League;" his principal coadjutor being Charles L. Hunt, of St. Louis, then Belgian Consul at that city, but whose exequatur was subsequently revoked by the President on account of his disloval practices. The special object of the Corps de Belgique appears to have been to unite the rebel sympathizers of Missouri, with a view to their taking up arms and joining Price upon his proposed grand invasion of that State, and to their recruiting for his army in the interim.
Meanwhile, also, there had been instituted at the North, in the autumn of 1863, by sundry disloyal persons, prominent among whom were Vallandigham and P. C. Wright, of New York, a secret order, intended to be general throughout the country, and aiming at an extended influence and power, and at more positive results than its predecessor, and which was termed, and has since been widely known as the O. A. K., or "Order of American Knights."
The opinion is expressed by Colonel Sanderson, Provost Marshal General of the Department of Missouri, in his official report upon the progress of the order, that it was founded by Vallandigham during his banishment, and upon consultation at Richmond with Davis, and other prominent traitors. It is, indeed, the boast of the order in Indiana and elsewhere, that its "ritual" came direct from Davis himself; and Mary Ann Pitman, formerly attached to the command of the rebel Forrest, and a most intelligent witness, whose testimony will be hereafter referred to states positively that Davis is a member of the order.
Upon the institution of the principal organization, it is represented that the "Corps de Belgique" was modified by Price, and became a Southern section of the O. A. K., and that the new name was generally adopted for the order, both at the North and South.
The secret signs and character of the order having become known to our military authorities, further modifications in the ritual and forms were introduced, and its name was finally changed to that of the O. S. L, or "Order of the Sons of Liberty," or the "Knights of the Order of the Sons of Liberty." These latter changes are represented to have been first instituted, and the new ritual compiled, in the State of Indiana in May last, but the new name was at once generally adopted throughout the West, though in some localities the association is still better known as the "Order of American Knights."
Meanwhile, also, the order has received certain local designations. In parts of Illinois it has been called at times the "Peace Organization," in <illegible> the "Star Organization," and in Missouri as the "American Organization;" these, however, being apparently names used outside of the lodges of the order. Its members have also been familiarly designated as "Butternuts" by the country people of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, and its separate lodges have also frequently received titles intended for the public ear; that in Chicago, for instance, being termed by its members the "Democratic Invincible Club," that in Louisville the "Democratic Reading Room," &c.
It is to be added that in the State of New York, and other parts of the North, the secret political association, known as the "McClellan Minute Guard," would seem to be a branch of the O. A. K., having substantially the same objects, to be accomplished, however, by means expressly suited to the localities in which it is established. For, as the Chief Secretary of this association, Dr. R. F. Stevens, stated in June last to a reliable witness, whose testimony has
<c02>
been furnished, "those who represent the McClellan interest are compelled to preach a vigorous prosecution of the war, in order to secure the popular sentiment and allure voters."
II. ITS ORGANIZATION AND OFFICERS.
From printed copies, heretofore seized by the Government, of the constitutions of the Supreme Council, Grand Council, and County Parent Temples, respectively, of the Order of Sons of Liberty, in connection with other and abundant testimony, the organization of the order, in its latest form, is ascertained to be as follows:
1. The government of the order throughout the United States is vested in a supreme council, of which the officers are a Supreme Commander, Secretary of State, and Treasurer. These officers are elected for one year, at the annual meeting of the Supreme Council, which is made up of the grand commanders of the several States, ex officio, and two delegates elected from each State in which the order is established.
2. The government of the order in a State is vested in a Grand Council, the officers of which are a Grand Commander, Deputy Grand Commander, Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer, and a certain number of Major Generals, or one for each Military District. These officers also are elected annually by "representatives" from the County Temples, each Temple being entitled to two representatives, and one additional for each thousand members. This body of representatives is also invested with certain legislative functions.
3. The Parent Temple is the organization of the order for a county, each Temple being formally instituted by authority of the Supreme Council, or of the Grand Council or Grand Commander of the State. By the same authority, or by that of the officers of the Parent Temple, branch or subordinate temples may be established for townships in the county.
But the strength and significance of this organization lie in its military character. The secret constitution of the Supreme Council provides that the Supreme Commander "shall be Commander-in-chief of all military forces belonging to the order in the various States when called into actual service;" and further, that the Grand Commanders "shall be commanders-in-chief of the military forces of their respective States. "Subordinate to the Grand Commander in the State are the " Major Generals," each of whom commands his separate district and army. In Indiana, the Major Generals are four in number. In Illinois, where the organization of the Order is considered most perfect, the members in each Congressional District compose a "brigade." which is commanded by a "Brigadier General." The members of each county constitute a "regiment" with a "colonel" in command, and those of each township form a "company." A somewhat similar system prevails in Indiana, where also each company is divided into "squads," each with its chief—an arrangement intended to facilitate the guerrilla mode of warfare in case of a general outbreak or local disorder.
The "McClellan Minute Guard," as appears from a circular issued by the Chief Secretary in New York in March last, is organized upon a military basis similar to that of the order proper. It is composed of companies, one for each election district, ten of which constitute a "brigade," with a "brigadier general" at its head. The whole is placed under the authority of a "commander-in-chief." A strict obedience on the part of members to the orders of their superiors is enjoined.
The first "Supreme Commander" of the order was P. C. Wright, of New York, editor of the New York News, who was, in May last, placed in arrest and confined in Fort Lafayette. His successor in office was Vallandigham, who was elected at the annual meeting of the Supreme Council in February last. Robert Holloway, of Illinois, is represented to have acted as Lieutenant General, or Deputy Supreme Commander, during the absence of Vallandigham from the country. The Secretary of State chosen at the last election was Dr. Massey, of Ohio.
In Missouri, the principal officers were Charles L. Hunt, grand commander, Charles E. Dunn, deputy grand commander, and Green B. Smith, grand secretary. Since the arrest of these three persons, (all of whom have made confessions, which will be presently alluded to.) James A. Barrett has, as it is understood, officiated as grand commander. He is stated to occupy also the position of chief of staff to the Supreme Commander.
The Grand Commander in Indiana, H. H. Dodd, has just been tried at Indianapolis by a military commission for "conspiracy against the Government," violation of the laws of war," and other charges. The Deputy Grand Commander in that State is Horace Heffren, and the Grand Secretary, W. M. Harrison. The Major Generals are W. A. Bowles, John C. Walker, L. P. Milligan, and Andrew Humphreys. Among the other leading members of the order in that State are Dr. Athon, State Secretary, and Joseph Ristine, State Auditor.
The Grand Commander in Illinois is-Judd, of Lewiston; and B. B. Piper, of Springfield, who is entitled " Grand Missionary " of the State, and designated also as a member of Vallandigham's staff, is one of the most active members, having been busily engaged throughout the summer in establishing temples and initiating members.
In Kentucky, Judge Bullitt, of the Court of Appeals, is grand commander, and with Dr. U. F. Kalfus and W. R. Thomas, jailor in Louisville, two other of the most prominent members, has been arrested and confined by the military authorities. In New York, Dr. R. F. Stevens, the chief secretary of the McClellan Minute Guard, is the most active ostensible representative of the secret order.
The greater part of the chief and subordinate officers of the order and its branches, as well as the principal members thereof, are known to the Government, and, where not already arrested, may regard themselves as under a constant military surveillance. So complete has been the exposure of this secret league that, however frequently the conspirators may change its name, forms, passwords, and signals, its true purposes and operations cannot longer be concealed from the military authorities.
It is to be remarked that the Supreme Council of the Order, which annually meets on February 22d, convened this year at New York city, and a special meeting was then appointed to be held at Chicago, on July 1, or just prior to the day then fixed for the convention of the Democratic party. This convention having been postponed to August 29, the special meeting of the Supreme Council was also postponed to August 27, at the same place, and was duly convened accordingly. It will be remembered that a leading member of the convention, in the course of a 
speech made before that body, alluded approvingly to the session of the Sons of Liberty at Chicago at the same time, as that of an organization in harmony with the sentiment and projects of the convention.
It may be observed in conclusion, that one not fully acquainted with the true character and intention of the order might well suppose that, in designating its officers by high military titles, and in imitating in its organization that established in our ar-
<c03>
mies, it was designed merely to render itself more popular and attractive with the masses, and to invest its chief with a certain sham dignity; but when it is understood that the order comprises within itself a large army of well-armed men, constantly drilled and exercised as soldiers, and that this army is held ready at any time for such forcible resistance to our military authorities, and such active co-operation with the public enemy as it may be called upon to engage in by its commanders, it will be perceived that the titles of the latter are not assumed for a mere purpose of display, but that they are the chiefs of an actual and formidable force of conspirators against the life of the Government, and that their military system is, as it has been remarked by Colonel Sanderson, "the grand lever used by the rebel Government for its army operations." 
III.-ITS EXTENT AND NUMBERS.
The "Temples" or "Lodges" of the order are numerously scattered through the States of Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Missouri, and Kentucky. They are also officially reported as established, to a less extent, in Michigan and the other Western States, as well as in New York, and also in Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, and Tennessee. Dodd, the Grand Commander of Indiana, in an address to the members of that State in February last, claims that at the next annual meeting of the Supreme Council, (in February, 1865,) every State in the Union will be represented, and adds, " this is the first and only true national organization the Democratic and Conservative men of the country have ever attempted." A provision made in the Constitution of the Council for a representation from the Territories shows, indeed, that the widest extension of the order is contemplated.
In the States first mentioned, the order is most strongly centred at the following places, where are situated its principal "temples." In Indiana, at Indianapolis and Vincennes; in Illinois, at Chicago, Springfield, and Quincy (a large proportion of the lodges in and about the latter place having been founded by the notorious guerrilla chief, Jackman;) in Ohio, at Cincinnati, Dayton, and in Hamilton county (which is proudly termed by members "the South Carolina of the North"); in Missouri, at St. Louis; in Kentucky, at Louisville; and in Michigan, at Detroit (whence communication was freely had by the leaders of the order with Vallandigham during his banishment, either by letters addressed to him through two prominent citizens and members of the order, or by personal interviews at Windsor, C. W.) It is to be added that the regular places of meeting, as well as the principal rendezvous and haunts of the members in these and less important places, are generally well known to the Government.
The actual numbers of the order have, it is believed, never been officially reported, and cannot, therefore, be accurately ascertained. Various estimates have been made by leading members, some of which are no doubt considerably exaggerated. It has been asserted by delegates to the Supreme Council of February last, that the number was there represented to be from 800,000 to 1,000,000; but Vallandigham, in his speech last summer at Dayton, Ohio, placed it at 500,000, which is probably much nearer the true total. The number of its members in the several States has been differently estimated in the reports and statements of its officers. Thus, the force of the order in Indiana is stated to be from 75,000 to 125,000; in Illinois, from 100,000 to 140,000; in Ohio, from 80,000 to 108,000; in Kentucky, from 40,000 to 70,000; in Missouri, from 20,000 to 40,000; and in Michigan and New York, about 20,000 each. Its representation in the other States above mentioned does not specifically appear from the testimony; but, allowing for every exaggeration in the figures reported, they may be deemed to present a tolerably faithful view of what, at least, is regarded by the order as its true force in the States designated.
It is to be noted that the order, or its counterpart, is probably much more widely extended at the South even than at the North, and that a large proportion of the officers of the rebel army are represented by most reliable witnesses to be members. In Kentucky and Missouri, the order has not hesitated to admit as members not only officers of that army, but also a considerable number of guerrillas, a class who might be supposed to appreciate most readily its aims and purposes. It is fully shown that as lately as in July last several of these ruffians were initiated into the first degree by Dr. Kalfus, in Kentucky. 
IV.-ITS ARMED FORCE.
A review of the testimony in regard to the armed force of the order will materially aid in determining its real strength and numbers.
 Although the order has, from the outset, partaken of the military character, it was not till the summer or fall of 1863 that it began to be generally organized as an armed body. Since that date its officers and leaders have been busily engaged in placing it upon a military basis, and in preparing it for a revolutionary movement. A general system of drilling has been instituted, and secretly carried out. Members have been instructed to be constantly provided with weapons, and in some localities it has been absolutely required that each member should keep at his residence, at all times, certain arms and a specified quantity of ammunition.
In March last, the entire armed force of the order, capable of being mobilized for effective service, was represented to be 340,000 men. The details, however, upon which this statement was based are imperfectly set forth in the testimony, and it is not known how far this number may be exaggerated. It is abundantly shown, however, that the order, by means of a tax levied upon its members, has accumulated considerable funds for the purchase of arms and ammunition, and that these have been procured in large quantities for its use. The witness Clayton, on the trial of Dodd, estimated that two-thirds of the order are furnished with arms.
Green B. Smith, grand secretary of the order in Missouri, states in his confession of July last: " I know that arms, mostly revolvers, and ammunition have been purchased by members in St. Louis to send to members in the country where they could not be had;" and he subsequently adds that he himself alone clandestinely purchased and forwarded, between April 15th and 19th last, about 200 revolvers, with 5,000 percussion caps and other ammunition. A muster roll of one of the country lodges of that State is exhibited, in which, opposite the name of each member, are noted certain numbers, under the heads of "Missouri Republican," "St. Louis Union," "Auzeiger," "Miscellaneous Periodicals," "Books," "Speeches," and "Reports;" titles which, when interpreted, severally signify single-barrelled guns, doubled-barrelled guns, revolvers, private ammunition, private lead, company powder, company lead; the roll thus actually setting forth the amount of arms and ammunition in the possession of the lodge and its members.
In the State of Ohio and Illinois the order is claimed by its members to be unusually well-armed
<c04>
with revolvers, carbines, &c.; but it is in regard to arming of the order in Indiana that the principal statistics have been presented, and these may serve to illustrate the system which has probably been pursued in most of the States. One intelligent witness, who has been a member of the order, estimates that in March last there were in possession of the order in that State 6,000 muskets and 60,000 revolvers, beside private arms. Another member testifies that at a single lodge meeting of two hundred and fifty-two persons, which he attended early in the present year, the sum of $4,000 was subscribed for arms. Other members present statements in regard to the number of arms in their respective counties, and all agree in representing that these have been constantly forwarded from Indianapolis into the interior. Beck & Brothers is designated as the firm in that city to which most of the arms were consigned. These were shipped principally from the East; some packages, however, were sent from Cincinnati, and some from Kentucky, and the boxes were generally marked "pick-axes," "hardware," “nails," "household goods," &c.
General Carrington estimates that in February and March last nearly 30,000 guns and revolvers entered the State, and this estimate is based upon an actual inspection of invoices. The true number introduced was therefore probably considerably greater. That officer adds that on the day on which the sale of arms was stopped by his order, in Indianapolis, nearly 1,000 additional revolvers had been contracted for, and that the trade could not supply the demand. He further reports that after the introduction of arms into the Department of the North had been prohibited in General Orders of March last, a seizure was made by the Government of a large quantity of revolvers and 135,000 rounds of ammunition, which had been shipped to the firm in Indianapolis of which H. H. Dodd, Grand Commander, was a member; that other arms about to be shipped to the same destination were seized in New York city, and that all these were claimed as the private property of John C. Walker, one of the major generals of the order in Indiana, and were represented to have been " purchased for a few friends." It is to be added that at the office of Hon. D. W. Voorhees, M. C., at Terre Haute, were discovered letters which disclosed a correspondence between him and ex-Senator Wall, of New Jersey, in regard to the purchase of 20,000 Garibaldi rifles, to be forwarded to the West.
It appears, in the course of the testimony, that a considerable quantity of arms and ammunition was brought into the State of Illinois from Burlington, Iowa, and that ammunition was shipped from New Albany, Indiana, into Kentucky; it is also represented that, had Vallandigham been arrested on his return to Ohio, it was contemplated furnishing the order with arms from a point in Canada near Windsor, where they were stored and ready for use.
There remains further to be noticed, in this connection, the testimony of Clayton upon the trial of Dodd, to the effect that arms were to be furnished the order from Nassau, N. P., by way of Canada; that, to defray the expense of these arms or their transportation, a formal assessment was levied upon the lodges, but that the transportation into Canada was actually to be furnished by the Confederate authorities.
A statement was made by Hunt, Grand Commander of Missouri, before his arrest, to a fellow-member, that shells and all kinds of munitions of war, as well as infernal machines, were manufactured for the order at Indianapolis; and the late discovery in Cincinnati of samples of hand-grenades, conical shells, and rockets, of which one thousand were about to be manufactured, under a special contract, for the O. S. L., goes directly to verify such a statement.
These details will convey some idea of the attempts which have been made to place the order upon a war footing and prepare it for aggressive movements. But, notwithstanding all the efforts that have been put forth, and with considerable success, to arm and equip its members as fighting men, the leaders of the order have felt themselves still very deficient in their armament, and numerous schemes for increasing their armed strength have been devised. Thus at the time of the issuing of the general order in Missouri requiring the enrolment of all citizens, it was proposed in the lodges of the O.A.K., at St. Louis, that certain members should raise companies in the militia, in their respective wards, and thus get command of as many Government arms and equipments as possible for the future use of the order. Again it was proposed that all the members should enroll themselves in the militia instead of paying commutation, in this way obtaining possession of United States arms, and having the advantage of the drill and military instruction. In the councils in the order of Kentucky, in June last, a scheme was devised for disarming all the negro troops, which it was thought could be done without much difficulty, and appropriating their arms for the purposes of the order.
The despicable treachery of these proposed plans, as evincing the animus of the conspiracy, need not be commented upon.
It is to be observed that the order in the State of Missouri has counted greatly upon support from the enrolled militia, in case of an invasion by Price, as containing many members and friends of the O. A. K.; and that the " Paw-Paw Militia," a military organization of Buchanan county, as well as the militia of Platte and Clay counties, known as " Flat Foots," have been relied upon, almost to a man, to join the revolutionary movement.
V.-ITS RITUAL, OATHS, AND INTERIOR FORMS.
The ritual of the order, as well as its secret signs, passwords, &c., has been fully made known to the military authority. In August last, one hundred and twelve copies of the ritual of the O. A. K. were seized in the office of Hon. D. W. Voorhees, M. C., at Terre Haute, and a large number of rituals of the O. S. L., together with copies of the constitutions of the councils, &c., already referred to, were found in the building at Indianapolis, occupied by Dodd, the Grand Commander of Indiana, as had been indicated by the Government witness and detective, Stidger. Copies were also discovered at Louisville, at the residence of Dr. Kalfus, concealed within the mattress of his bed, where, also, Stidger had ascertained that they were kept.
The ritual of the O. A. K. has been furnished by the authorities at St. Louis. From this ritual, that of the O. S. L. does not materially differ. Both are termed "progressive," in that they provide for five separate degrees of membership, and contemplate the admission of a member of a lower degree into a higher one only upon certain vouchers and proofs of fitness, which, with each ascending degree, are required to be stronger and more imposing.
Each degree has its commander or head; the Fourth or "Grand" is the highest in a State; the Fifth or "Supreme," the highest in the United States; but to the first or lower degree only do the great majority of members attain. A large pro-
<c05>
portion of these enter the order, supposing it to be a " Democratic " and political association merely; and the history of the order furnishes a most striking illustration of the gross and criminal deception which may be practised upon the ignorant masses by unscrupulous and unprincipled leaders. The members of the lower degree are often for a considerable period kept quite unaware of the true purposes of their chiefs. But to the latter they are bound by their obligation "to yield prompt and implicit obedience to the utmost of their ability, without remonstrance, hesitation, or delay," and meanwhile their minds, under the discipline and teachings to which they are subjected, become educated and accustomed to contemplate with comparative unconcern the treason for which they are preparing.
The oaths, "invocations," "charges," &c., of the ritual, expressed as they are in bombastic and extravagant phraseology, would excite in the mind of an educated person only ridicule or contempt, but upon the illiterate they are calculated to make a deep impression, the effect and importance of which were doubtless fully studied by the framers of the instrument.
The oath which is administered upon the introduction of a member into any degree is especially imposing in its language. It prescribes as a penalty for a violation of the obligation assumed, "a shameful death;" and further, that the body of the person guilty of such violation shall be divided in four parts and cast out at the four "gates" of the temple. Not only, as has been said, does it enjoin a blind obedience to the orders of the superiors of the order, but it is required to be held of paramount obligation to any oath which may be administered to a member in a court of justice or elsewhere. Thus, in cases where members have been sworn, by officers empowered to administer oaths, to speak the whole truth in answer to questions that may be put to them, and have then been examined in reference to the order and their connection therewith, they have not only refused to give any information in regard to its character, but have denied that they were members, or even that they knew of its existence. A conspicuous instance of this is presented in the cases of Hunt, Dunn, and Smith, the chief officers of the order in Missouri, who, upon their first examination under oath, after their arrest, denied all connection with the order, but confessed, also under oath, at a subsequent period, that this denial was wholly false, although in accordance with their obligations as members of the order. Indeed, a deliberate system of deception in regard to the details of the conspiracy is inculcated upon the members, and studiously pursued; and it may be mentioned in this connection, as a similarly despicable feature of the organization, that it is held bound to injure the Administration and officers of the Government, in every possible manner, by misrepresentation and falsehood.
Members are also instructed that their oath of membership is to be held paramount to an oath of allegiance, or any other oath which may impose obligations inconsistent with those which are assumed upon entering the order. Thus, if a member, when in danger, or for the purpose of facilitating some traitorous design, has taken the oath of allegiance to the United States, he is held at liberty to violate it on the first occasion, his obligation to the order being deemed superior to any consideration of duty or loyalty prompted by such oath.
It is to be added that where members are threatened with the penalties of perjury, in case of their answering falsely to questions propounded to them in regard to the order before a court or grand jury, they are instructed to refuse to answer such questions, alleging as a ground for their refusal that their answers may criminate themselves. The testimony shows that this course has habitually been pursued by members, especially in Indiana, when placed in such a situation.
Beside the oaths and other forms and ceremonies which have been alluded to, the ritual contains what are termed "Declarations of Principles. "These declarations, which are most important as exhibiting the creed and character of the order, as inspired by the principles of the rebellion, will be fully presented under the next branch of the subject.
The signs, signals, passwords, &c., of the order are set forth at length in the testimony, but need only be briefly alluded to. It is a most significant fact, as showing the intimate relations between the northern and southern sections of the secret conspiracy, that a member from a Northern State is enabled to pass without risk through the South by the use of the signs of recognition which have been established throughout the order, and by means of which members from distant points, though meeting as strangers, are at once made known to each other as " brothers." Mary Ann Pitman expressly states in her testimony that whenever important despatches, are required to be sent by rebel generals beyond their lines, members of the order are always selected to convey them. Certain passwords are also used in common in both sections, and of these none appears to be more familiar than the word "Nu-oh-lac," or the name "Calhoun" spelt backward, and which is employed upon entering a temple of the first degree of the O. A. K.-certainly a fitting password to such dens of treason.
Beside the signs of recognition, there are signs of warning and danger, for use at night as well as by day; as for instance, signs to warn members of the approach of United States officials seeking to make arrests. The order has also established what are called battle-signals, by means of which, as it is asserted, a member serving in the army may communicate with the enemy in the field, and thus escape personal harm in case of attack or capture. The most recent of these signals represented to have been adopted by the order is a five-pointed copper star, worn under the coat, which is to be disclosed upon meeting an enemy, who will thus recognize in the wearer a sympathizer and an ally. A similar star of German silver, hung in a frame, is said to be numerously displayed by members or their families in private houses in Indiana, for the purpose of insuring protection to their property in case of a raid or other attack; and it is stated that in many dwellings in that State a portrait of John Morgan is exhibited for a similar purpose.
Other signs are used by members, and especially the officers of the order, in their correspondence. Their letters, when of an official character, are generally conveyed by special messengers, but when transmitted through the mail, are usually in cypher. When written in the ordinary manner, a character at the foot of the letter, consisting of a circle with a line drawn across the centre, signifies to the member who receives it that these statements as written are to be understood in a sense directly the opposite to that which would ordinarily be conveyed.
It is to be added that the meetings of the order, especially in the country, are generally held at night and in secluded places, and that the approach to them is carefully guarded by a line of sentinels, who are passed only by means of a special counter-sign, which is termed the "picket."
<c06>
VI-ITS WRITTEN PRINCIPLES.
The "Declaration of Principles," which is set forth in the ritual of theaorder, has already been alluded to. This declaration, which is specially framed for the instruction of the great mass of members, commences with the following specious proposition:
"All men are endowed by the Creator with certain rights, equal as far as there is equality in the capacity for the appreciation, enjoyment, and exercise of those rights." And subsequently there is added: " In the Divine economy, no individual of the human race must be permitted to encumber the earth, to mar its aspects of transcendent beauty, nor to impode the progress of the physical or intellectual man, neither in himself nor the race to which he belongs. Hence, a people, upon whatever plane they may be found in the ascending scale of humanity, whom neither the divinity within them nor the inspirations of divine and beautiful nature around them can impel to virtuous action and progress onward and upward, should be subjected to a just and humane servitude and tutelage to the superior race, until they shall be able to appreciate the benefits and advantages of civilization.
" Here is the whole theory of human bondage—the right of the strong, because they are strong, to despoil and enslave the weak, because they are weak! The languages of the earth can add nothing to the cowardly and loathsome baseness of the doctrine, as thus announced. It is the robber's creed, sought to be nationalized, and would push back the hand of the dial plate of our civilization to the darkest periods of human history. It most be admitted, however, that it furnishes a fitting " conerstone " for the government of a rebellion, every fibre of whose body and every throb of whose soul is born of the traitorous ambition and slave-pen inspirations of the South.
To these detestable tenets is added that other pernicious political theory of State sovereignty, with its necessary fruit, the monstrous doctrine of secession—a doctrine which, in asserting that in our federative system a part is greater than the whole, would compel the General Government, like a Japanese slave, to commit "hari kari" whenever a faithless or insolent State should command it to do so.
Thus, the ritual, after reciting that the States of the Union are "free, independent, and sovereign," proceeds as follows:
"The Government designated ' The United States of America' has no sovereignty, because that is an attribute with which the people, in their several and distinct political organizations, are endowed, and is inalienable. It was constituted by the terms of the compact, by all the States through the express will of the people thereof, respectively— a common agent, to use and exercise certain named, specified, defined, and limited powers which are inherent to the sovereignties within those States. It is permitted, so far as regards its status and relations, as common agent in the exercise of the powers carefully and jealously delegated to it, to call itself 'supreme,' but not 'sovereign.' In accordance with the principles upon which is founded the American theory, Government can exercise only delegated power; hence, if those who shall have been chosen to administer the Government shall assume to exercise powers not delegated, they should be regarded and treated as usurpers. The reference to ' inherent power,' 'war power,' or ' military necessity,' on the part of the functionary for the sanction of an arbitrary exercise of power by him, we will not accept in palliation or excuse."
To this is added, as a corollary, "It is incompatible with the history and nature of our system of government that Federal authority should coerce by arms a sovereign State."
The declaration of principles, however, does not stop here, but proceeds one step further, as follows:
"Whenever the chosen officers or delegates shall fail or refuse to administer the Government in strict accordance with the letter of the accepted Constitution, it is the inherent right and the solemn and imperative duty of the people to resist the functionaries, and if need be to expel them by force of arms.! Such resistance is not revolution, but is solely the assertion of right—the exercise of all the noble attributes which impart honor and dignity to manhood."
To the same effect, though in a milder tone, is the platform of the order in Indiana, put forth by the Grand Council at their meeting in February last, which declares that " the right to alter or abolish their Government, whenever it fails to secure the blessings of liberty, is one of the inalienable rights of the people that can never be surrendered."
Such, then, are the principles which the new member swears to observe and abide by in his obligation, set forth in the ritual, where he says: "I do solemnly promise that I will ever cherish in my heart of hearts the sublime creed of the E. K. (Excellent Knights,) and will, so far as in me lies, illustrate the same in my intercourse with men, and will defend the principles thereof, if need be, with my life, whensoever assailed, in my own country first of all. I do further solemnly declare that I will never take up arms in behalf of any Government which does not acknowledge the sole authority or power to be the will of the governed," 
In the same connection may be quoted the following extracts from the ritual, as illustrating the principle of the right of revolution and resistance to constituted authority insisted upon by the order: 
"Our swords shall be unsheathed whenever the great principles which we aim to inculcate and have sworn to maintain and defend are assailed." 
Again: "I do solemnly promise that, whensoever the principles which our order inculeates shall be assailed in my own State or country, I will defend these principles with my sword and my life, in whatsoever capacity may be assigned me by the competent authority of our order."
And farther: " I do promise that I will, at all times, if need be, take up arms in the cause of the oppressed—in my own country first of all—against any power or Government usurped which may be found in arms and waging war against a people or peoples who are endeavoring to establish or have inaugurated a government for themselves of their own free choice."
Moreover, it is to be noted that all the addresses and speeches of its leaders breathe the same principle, of the right of forcible resistance to the Government, as one of the tenets of the order.
Thus P. C. Wright, Supreme Commander, in his general address of December, 1863, after urging that "the spirit of the fathers may animate the free minds, the brave hearts, and still unshackled limbs of the true democracy," (meaning the members of the order,) adds as follows: To be prepared for the crisis now approaching, we must catch from afar the earliest and faintest breathings of the spirit of the storm; to be successful when the storm comes, we must be watchful, patient, brave, confident, organized, armed."
(Concluded on the fourth page.)
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
174 THE LIBERATOR. OCTOBER 28
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ,
AT THE
TREMONT TEMPLE, BOSTON,
Thursday Evening, October 20, 1864.
I shall venture to speak to you to-night on the Presidential Election.
Let me begin with some statements in which we all agree-statements touching the nature of the war, the motives which led to it, and the indispensable conditions of any durable peace.
This civil war is no accident-no chance jostling of little interests one against the other; its end as hard to guess as its beginning. On the contrary, it is the inevitable death-grapple of ideas forever irreconcilable with each other. The struggle began when Freedom and Slavery were brought face to face in 1789 by the adoption of the Constitution. For seventy years the weapons were arguments and votes. In that arena every thoughtful man saw, four years ago, that slavery touched its downfall. Warned and made desperate by that defeat, Slavery appealed to arms. How long this military form of the struggle, this civil war, will last, no one can tell. How near its close will bring us to the end of the “irrepressible conflict," none can tell. This only every man can see, there will always be some form of struggle between these two foes, Slavery and Freedom, until one or the other gains a perfect and entire victory-until one supersedes the other wherever our flag floats. No one who believes in a just God can doubt which will in the end crush out and supersede the other. Every one knows that, in the nature of things,
"The ethereal mould,
-Incapable of stain, must soon expel
Her mischief, and purge off the baser fire,
Victorious."
But how and how soon? these are the questions. Will this war scourge from the continent the monster and all his brood? or shall it close, and leave the fester<illegible> remains to poison and embitter our future for many a year? Who can tell?
But in this we are all agreed, it is the duty of every good citizen to do his utmost that the nation may reap the greatest possible advantage from this war. If it be possible to make it result in the immediate and entire abolition of the system of slavery among us, then we should strain every nerve to secure that result. All that the most advanced Republicans offer us to-day is a constitutional prohibition of slavery throughout the Republic. Once I claimed more, and thought it might be wisely and hopefully struggled for. But that was before the nation had been debauched and betrayed by its leaders.
Such a peace, to be sure, would not be the end of the irrepressible conflict. No man, no nation, can be at peace while its conscience and life are at odds. Our institutions rest on the idea of perfect equality- every man equal before the law. Toward that goal, Tocqueville has shown us that the whole race is tending by irresistible gravitation. Toward that goal, this nation struggles by definite and long-avowed purpose. There will never be rest till we reach it. There ought to be no rest till we reach it. But no matter whether this tendency be good or bad; that it exists and overbears all opposition, no man will deny. Science must either prove the negro not a man, or politics must admit his equality in the army, at the ballot-box and the Senate Board. The South sought consistency in a bastard science: afraid, like Montesquieu, to allow that the negro was a man, lest the world should infer that they were not Christians: the North acknowledged the negro's manhood in theory, and trampled on it in fact. This inconsistency has poisoned her literature, her politics and her religion, for seventy years. It will continue to do so for seven hundred, if it shall exist so long. Until it ceases, real peace is impossible. I believe now, as I have always done, that there can be no real peace, no durable reconstruction of the Union, except based on the suffrage and equality of all men, without distinction of color.
Mr. Lincoln's model of reconstruction is the experiment in Louisiana, which puts all power into the hands of the unchanged white race, soured by defeat, hating the laboring class, plotting constantly for aristocratic institutions. To reconstruct the rebel States on that model is only continuing the war in the Senate chamber after we have closed it in the field. Such reconstruction, leaving the South with its labor and capital at war, puts the whole payment of the debt on the industrious North, and in that way it will hang on us for half a century. Such reconstruction makes the freedom of the negro a sham, and perpetuates slavery under a softer name. Such reconstruction, leaving the seeds of discontent and division in the South in places of power, tempts and facilitates another rebellion, at the instigation or with the aid of French Mexico. Such reconstruction dooms us to a second or third-rate place among nations, and provokes foreign insult and aggression.
There is no plan of reconstruction possible within twenty years, unless we admit the black to citizenship and the ballot, and use him, with the white, as the basis of States. There is not in the rebel States sufficient loyal white basis to build upon. If we refuse this method, we must subdue the South, and hold it as territory until this generation of white men has passed away, and their sons, with other feelings, have taken their places, and Northern capital, energy and immigration have forced their way into the South. Should we adopt that plan, and wait for such changes, twenty years must elapse before we can venture to rebuild States. Meanwhile, a large and expensive army, and the use of despotic power by a government holding half its territory and citizens as subjects, make every thoughtful man tremble for the fate of free government. A quick and thorough reorganization of the States, on a democratic basis, every man and race equal before the law, is the only sure and speedy way to save the Union. I urge it not for the black man's sake alone; but for ours-the nation's sake.
Mr. Lincoln's offer of amnesty has been accepted by men with wealth in their hands and treason in their hearts all over West Virginia, Missouri, Tennessee and Louisiana. This is the class which has always hated the democratic tendency of the Union, and still hates it. This is the class which rebelled to break the Union, and their purpose is unchanged. Military defeat has not converted these men; the soreness of defeat is only added to the bitterness of their old hate. Make peace on the basis of that amnesty proclamation, and you increase the evil a thousand fold. These men, the moment our army returns, will wield those States against us, and while they crush the negro at home, will send to Washington the same conspirators to cripple the Union that they did before 1860. No theory of State Government can deny their full right to do so. Slavery out of the question, I should myself defend their clear right so to use their power.
How shall we avert this? There was a time, in 1861 and 1862, when the Government, using its vast influence over a people roused to lofty heroism, might by appropriate constitutional amendments have guaranteed the Union forever in the Southern States by basing it on the negroes' indestructible love and need of it. At that time, if an Abolitionist or a statesman had been at the head of the nation, the word of war might easily have cut this Gordian knot. Lack of knowledge, lack of vigor, lack of purpose, lack of loyalty in the highest sense of the <illegible> on the part of the Government, has forfeited that God given opportunity, and has brought us instead a united South and a divided North.
The only way open to us now is to call the poor whites of the South into political existence, and thus withstand this aristocratic anti-Union power which Mr. Lincoln has reestablished. Hitherto ignorant, poor and besotted, they have been driven in herds to the ballot-box, as Mr. Davis, General Harding or John C. Calhoun directed. Northern skill, enterprise, business and wealth must invade and permeate
<c02>
those States, developing intellect and thrift in this class, giving them something to defend, and intelligence and sense to defend it, and thus securea Union element in Tennessee, for instance, to outweigh the masked treason which now governs those States. Of course, this is a long process, but it is the only one. In this struggle between Aristocracy and Democracy, Northern civilization, based on Democracy, must commend itself to the minds, plans, itself in the hearts of these five millions, and we must create there that love of Union which God gave us ready made end indestructible in the negro's heart, and which we so madly flung away.
In this work of education, the Federal Government must lead the way. With its great power and vast patronage, it may command attention and buy support anywhere, in time. Said Cassius Clay to me, ten years ago, ”Give me the patronage of the Government and I'll make Kentucky an Abolition State in ten years." To effect this, the Government must work with clean hands; the lesson must be plain and consistent; wherever it appears, the negro must be treated as a man; if he may not rise yet to the just level of a voter, his manhood must be sacred. Only, by a true democratic practice can the nation breed up this ally in the convictions and habits of the South. In this necessarily slow education of the poor whites, we need not only the example of consistent practice by the Federal Government, but we need also the weight of the non-voting four million blacks grappled, to us by links stronger than steel-gratitude for justice and fair play. In any attempt to govern there by merely playing off one class against the other, we shall be beaten. Said a most sagacious Tennessee lawyer to me within a week-"Leave one square inch, one thread of the slave system, and the old slaveholders will rule us as before, and use us ever against the Union." Mr. Whalley, member of the House of Representatives from West Virgina, made a similar remark to the House in still more emphatic terms. State laws and customs will continue for years to crush the negro, while he has no ballot to defend himself; and this will keep alive class hatred, and poison State politics. But let the Federal Government, in all its branches, in every act, ignore the difference between white and black, be blind to color, and soon its preponderating influence will lift State habits to its own level, and make true democracy possible. This shows the kind of man and policy I deem indispensable the next four years-why I demand a President disposed and resolved to administer the government in this mood,-which Mr. Lincoln has never done, either in the army or in civil affairs, even since his Proclamation of January, 1863.
You see I come round again to the corner-stone of justice and equal rights. I am an Abolitionist still as well as a citizen. The experience of thirty years assures me that no peace basis but one of justice to the negro is possible. I should <illegible> it as infamous if it were possible. For twenty-five years I sought to break the Union in order to secure justice. I seek to save it now only for the same end-justice. I know as well as any man the value of a true nationality. No words can adequately describe it. But even a true nationality is nothing to me when weighed against justice. That sham nationality we have had-a herd of States kept together, as a great orator said, by partnership in hunting slaves-I detest. The same curse I once asked of God on the old Union, I shall pray for any new one which does not rest on absolute justice. War, war forever, oh God! until this nation acknowledges the manhood of the negro!
So much for the nature of the war and the conditions of any durable peace. One word now as to the motives which inspired the war. If you ask nine out of ten of the Republican editors and speakers in this canvass, ”What are we fighting for?" they will reply, ”For the Union-nothing more-nothing less nothing else." This I believe is the idea which lightens out of the gorgeous eloquence of Everett yesterday at Faneuil Hall. When I quote him for it, I can give it no more honorable endorsement; for, since 1861, few men have a more honorable or enviable record than Edward Everett.
But with due deference let me say, this popular statement has only a homoeopathic proportion of truth-about truth enough to furnish a basis for a Congressional resolve. But it would never hold water under cross examination in any county court. What made the North, in 1861, resist the South's attack? Had that been the simple and only motive, the North would, in my opinion, have yielded, as she had done a score of times, and secured, on infamous conditions, an infamous Union. The North chose war instead of submission as the means to save the Union, in 1861, because she perceived that war would practically destroy slavery, and give the nation at the same time the right solemnly to abolish it. But for this motive, I do not believe the North would have ever accepted the Southern challenge. All our history shows this. Every man familiar with 1861 one inch below the surface has facts to prove it heaped up and running over. The South, judging us by Washington alone, had a right to expect, as she did, the usual submission from the North. But the Abolitionists, in thirty years of agitation, had lifted the people to a nobler level. You remember that struggle against what Macaulay calls “a sullen priesthood and a raving crowd”-that hurricane which swept over us, tearing the sects to pieces, scattering parties in fragments, and tearing up colossal reputations by the roots. In that storm, Webster's frigate foundered at dead of night, and Seward's dory keeled bottom-side up and drifted.
Moulded by that long and faithful teaching, the masses clutched eagerly the opportunity to reconstruct the Union on an anti-slavery basis-one sure to last, and worthy to last. But for the Anti-Slavery agitation, the North would have had neither opinion nor purpose capable of joining battle with the South in defence of our idea of the Union. But for that agitation, the North would have submitted to have the Union either broken or remodelled, as South Carolina pleased.
And no matter what Jefferson Davis may say in his mad despair, we all know (witness Stephens and every confederate authority.) that the South seeks independence only to save slavery.
Again: after years of war, Lincoln, on the 1st of January, 1863, summoned the negro to our aid, and pledged the nation's honor and power for his freedom. It is, therefore, no longer true, if it ever was, that we are fighting only for union. No; as the President proclaimed, to the music of Niagara's thunder, we fight now for union and the liberty of the negro.
You see, therefore, that what we need as the basis of honorable peace is the real and substantial freedom of the negro, not its mere form; what we began the war for, arid what we have since solemnly pledged ourselves to, is that. Up to this point, with most of what I have said I suppose the larger portion of those I have the honor to address will agree. Here, if at all, our paths separate. You will say to me, grant it all; Mr. Lincoln acknowledges the manhood of the negro, and will use all the means of the nation to protect it. He announces Union and Liberty, as the objects of the war. If I could believe in him, I, like you, would accept his re-nomination, and deem his re-election a judicious act. But I judge him by his words and deeds, and holding him to that test, I dare not trust him with our future. [This announcement was received in marked silence, and created considerable attention. Several persons interrupted the speaker, inquiring as to whom he would trust, &c., to which, at the moment, he paid ho attention.]
The military horizon is so bright that we may reasonably hope the next four years will see this war close, and the form and basis of reconstruction will test the honesty and statesmanship of the nation. The more brilliant and decisive our military success, the greater the danger of a false magnanimitay in the hour of compromise. Such an hour is infinitely more critical than Antietam or Gettysburg. There, we may fully expect that, in the long run, victory will rest with the strongest battalions; and who.
<c03>
doubts which section is the stronger? But all history shows us that, in making peace, the weakness and disloyalty of leaders, have, in nine cases out of ten, lost the people half they had fairly earned. see nothing in Mr. Lincoln's past to encourage the hope that we shall be any exception to that rule. Every thing, on the contrary, confirms it. At such an hour. I have no faith in Abraham Lincoln.
Let me give yon my reason for this distrust. But, first, let me allow that he is the only candidate in the field. As for that Confederate gunboat which anchored off Chicago, August 29th, and invited G. B. McClellan to be captain, my only wish is may she soon meet her Kearearge, and join her sister pirate Alabama in the ocean's depths! And may her would-be captain not be to lucky as his brother Semmes! May he find no English swindler to save him from the fate he deserves!
Again: let me say that any fact which I recall to your memories to-night, I do not recall in order to throw blame on Mr. Lincoln. I have neither time nor wish for recrimination. There is a well-known phrase,” Indemnity for the past, and security for the future." I ask no indemnity for the past. Let by-gones be by-gones, I only seek security for the future. I invite your attention to Mr. Lincoln's record only to judge his character and bias. American citizens, trusted at this critical hour with the future of our children, the fate of the negro, and the honor of Democratic institutions, we are bound to scrutinize carefully and anxiously the man to whom we are about to give a predominant, an almost omnipotent influence over the most momentous period of the nation's existence. I allow all his merits-remember all he has done. I am perfectly willing, here and now, for the purpose of this argument, to concede that he means the right, and has only missed it-intended the public good, but has only mistaken the way. Cardinal DeRetz says that ”irresolute men often wish an end, but reluct at the necessary means." Let this explain Mr. Lincoln.
You will remind me that he pledged himself at Niagara to Union and the abolition of slavery. Granted. I will not say, what I really believe, that the pledge was wrung out of him by the pressure of the Cleveland movement, and is, in a very large degree, only an electioneering act. I will accept it without question. Let me remind you, in return, that of common wars, not one in ten ever gained all they at first demanded; and of civil wars, not one in four ever did so. Reconstruction, then, will be matter of bargain. In a bargain, neither party ever gets all he sets out with asking. We must expect, therefore, that when the bargain is made, one or the other of the two claims made at Niagara will be wholly or in part surrendered. This is inevitable. Mr. Lincoln's offer is Union and Abolition. On one or the other he must compromise. Which is it likely to be? If William Lloyd Garrison stood in the President's place, I should have no fears. I should feel that though he might yield on the question of Union, he would never surrender a hair's breadth on that of Liberty for all men. Can I put the same trust in Abraham Lincoln?
In the first place, remember he is a politician; not like Mr. Garrison, a reformer. Politicians are like the fore leg and shoulder of a horse,-not an upright bone in the whole column. That which is not itself crooked, stands crooked. But for this the beast could not move. Reformers are Doric columns. Weight may crush them, but can neither bend nor break. But our politician, whose function is to bend,-without it the State could not move,-how much will he bend, and to which side,-the Union side or the Abolition side? Look at his life and judge.
Bear in mind, while we examine it, that it was Slavery which struck at the nation's life; that the war was accepted to free the negro; and that the nation's necessity has forced it to link its fate with that of the negro. Now, then, observe how unduly tender the President has been, toward the South; how unduly and dangerously reluctant he has been to approach the negro, or use his aid. Vigorous, despotic, decisive, every where else, he halts, hesitates, delays, to hurt the South or help the negro.
First, look at the policy of the war. At a Cabinet meeting, (of something equivalent to it,) held early in the summer of 1861, it was distinctly determined not to fight the South, not to hurt it, but only to array the North in terror and strength, and wait for the effect, which it was thought would be conciliation. We were to show the South what we could do, but not do it, lest her pride be wounded and compromise rendered impossible. Mr. Blair was the only dissentient. He thought war should be carried on upon military not political principles, but was overruled. This policy continued for more than a year, and explains the dreary nightmare of McClellan. For fifteen weary months the President flung away the treasure of the North, and let her sons rot inactive. Raymond, of the New York Times, the President's most prominent champion, has written the history of the Administration, and devoted a chapter to McClellan. Read it,-accept every fact as stated,-and you will see that very defence shows the President wholly unfit for his place, provided his only object was to fight down the rebellion. Any man so conducting his own business would be bankrupt in a year, and deserve to be. Yet we have Montgomery Blair's un contradicted and reiterated affirmation, that, for political reasons, the President “concerted,” last August, to put McClellan at the head of an army. Mr. Lincoln himself told Congress, in July, 1861, that the Government's greatest perplexity was to avoid receiving troops faster than it could provide for them. ”In a word, the people will save their Government, if the Government itself will only do its part indifferently well." When 1864 opened on us with the Confederacy in such flush of strength and defiance, it seems to me it proved that Government had not done its duty even “indifferently well." It is a foul libel on a generous nation and on Democratic institutions to say that the Administration did as much, militarily, as it might. It is a fouler libel still to say that it led the people forward to the adoption of wise measures as fast as public opinion would bear. Bear with me, fellow-citizens, while I say that no nation ever loaded its Government down with such lavish treasure as we did. The world has seen no such fighting since Waterloo, if even then. Taking this into account, the war has been a failure compared with what it should have been. Notwithstanding bull-dog Grant, the old sea-kings Farragut and Dupont, the dash of Sheridan and Hooker,-notwithstanding Sherman's cool persistency, more like an unyielding law of nature than a mere human will,-the blood of Sedgwick and Wadsworth,-Butler, the indefatigable, equal to every emergency,-and Fremont, statesman and soldier alike,-spite of all, means and results weighed against each other, the war is a failure. A little knot of aristocrats, discountenanced by then own fellow-citizens, standing on a volcano of four million slaves, presumes to rebel against twenty million shrewd, brave, rich, and roused men,-against the richest and most skillful people in the world,-and defies them for four years! Is that success? Either Democratic institutions are a failure, or our use of them is,-choose! Who raised, as Moncure. Conway says, McClellan from a petty Western Copperhead into the colossal power which divides and affrights the nation? Who called back to life the Democratic party, killed by the wind of the cannon ball against Sumter? Abraham Lincoln's halting, half way course-neither hot nor cold-wanting to save the North without hurting the South. Mark you! this failure sprung from no want of brains, but want of purpose-of willingness to strike home.
Second. Mr. Lincoln does not lack vigor. He can be despotic when it suits him; yes, go up to, and beyond even, his war power of despotism, when he pleases. In these four years, he has been decisive land vigorous every where except on the slave question. This is another reason why I fear he will bend on this side when the final settlement is made.
Look at his despotism. I do not mean his neces-
<c04>
sary, judicious, honorable despotism. Suppressing disloyal presses, sending traitors to Fort Warren, suspending habeas corpus, is legal, necessary, to his honor. I only wish Vallandigham had been sent to prison Instead of across the lines, or stayed there.
But, on the 11th of last May, Arguelles, a Cuban, was seized in New York by order of the President, and secretly conveyed on board a vessel bound for Cuba. Several days passed before even his wife knew-what had become of him. The seizure was not made by virtue of any writ or order of any court, but on the simple order of the President. The State Department had been informed that Arguelles was guilty of trading in slaves. The reasons which made it a clear case of kidnapping (I mean no disrespect- that is the legal description of the offence) on the part of the President, are these: 1. It is the settled policy of our Government never to surrender criminals to any foreign power, unless where we are bound by treaty to do so. This is not only acknowledged to be the settled policy of our Government, but it was recognized as the general law of nations, both in Westminster Hall and the House of Peers, so late as 1812, in the Creole case. 2. The Executive cannot act even under a treaty, unless Congress by statute has directed the method. 3. Our Government must be furnished with such evidence of the person's guilt as would here justify his commitment for trial. We have no treaty with Spain, and of course no law of Congress to execute one. No tittle of evidence against Arguelles was offered our Government.- You have just seen the method of surrendering Muller, the London murderer; openly, in face of day; means, and time, and counsel given him for defence, and to scrutinize the charges against him. Arguelles, unaccused, in any legal sense, is stealthily kidnapped in the early morning, and without one friend being informed, without one moment given him to explain or defend himself, is consigned to a foreign dungeon. Mr. Seward confesses that the act was an exception to the whole course of our history. You all know that the Constitution gives the President no right to arrest any man. Congress has given him no right to arrest one situated like Arguelles. Of course the plea of military necessity has no place in this case. It is a wanton, needless act of usurpation and despotism on the part of the President. Napoleon committed no greater offence against national law when he sent the kidnapped Deputies to Cayenne. The U. S. Senate knows all this as well as we do, and postponed the case to December for fear of ruin to the Republican party in this canvass.
3. Gen. Frank Blair commands now a corps of the U. S. army, by the President's order, without any commission. He had held a commission as major general. To serve Mr. Lincoln's political purposes, he allowed Gen. Blair to resign his office, take a seat in the House of Representatives, and speak and vote there, and then resume his place in the army. His commission he could not give him back. That was gone forever, since the Constitution provides (Art. I., Sect. 6,) ”No person holding any office under the United States shall be a member of either House (of Congress) during his continuance in office." The first act that Blair did in the House of Representatives, after placing his resignation in Lincoln's hands, vacated his generalship. He could not be major general again without the Senate's concurrence, which the President well knew Mr. Blair would never have. Hence he sent him to command a corps without a commission. The Senate submitted in silence. Louis Napoleon did nothing worse, in principle, on the 2d December, 1851. The sham French Senate of Peers has since done nothing more shameful than this sycophancy of our Senate. For whom was this despotic act ventured? For Frank Blair, whose intrigues have thus far held back Missouri from being a free State; whose sole purpose in entering the House was to insult Chase, the only anti-slavery member of the Cabinet; and who, from 1862 to the present moment, has omitted no opportunity to belch forth his colonization bigotry in the most insulting terras he could select. For Frank Blair, whose brother, a member of the Cabinet, poisoned our New England air in 1863 with his impudent advocacy of colonization, and whose intrigues have nearly if not wholly lost us the Free Constitution of Maryland. Cannot Mr. Lincoln be vigorous,-aye, break law in his onset,-when it suits him? And, judging by such instances as these, which side in this great controversy suits him best?
4. One Hahn has been appointed and acts as Governor of Louisiana by a private, unofficial note of Abraham Lincoln. Another act of wanton and needless usurpation on Lincoln's part. This, however, is only a part of his whole gigantic usurpation in taking to himself the whole matter of reconstruction. The President manipulates into existence sham military Boards in Tennessee, Arkansas, and Louisiana, baptizes them State governments, and it is asserted by a leading Republican Senator that they are to be and ought to be permitted to vote in this Presidential election. It is to carry out this unblushing scheme that he vetoed the Congressional bill last July, (there is really no veto under our Constitution, but we use the term for convenience,) a veto which drew forth the only manly act done by the Republicans for a twelvemonth; I mean the protest of Messrs: Wade and Davis.
I call the whole action of the President usurpation, because reconstruction cannot begin in any State till war ends. Whenever and wherever war ends, all authority to reconstruct rests in Congress; every act of the Executive under the idea of reconstruction is usurpation, wanton, needless, and preeminently dangerous. If we had statesmen and not partisans in Congress, the first act of the President of this nature would have been met by impeachment, or full warning of it, unless the step was retraced. I am an Abolitionist, and rejoice in everything which prolongs this war now that its prolongation becomes necessary to the freedom of the negro. But I am also a citizen, and watch vigilantly for the welfare of constitutional Government. If Mr. Lincoln should use such votes, and be elected by them, no citizen would be bound to submit to his election; every lover of constitutional liberty would be bound to resist it in the best way he could.
These certainly are acts of pure despotism, and such as no theory of the war power can justify, and for which no plea of military necessity can be made. I do not recal them now as matter of accusation against the President, so much as to show that he can be energetic, vigorous and decisive where it suits him; and if he is not so in protecting and using the negro, it is only from lack of wish. But in themselves these acts are of grave importance in judging the Administration and the President. You think little of these things now, shutting your foolish eyes, sealing them tight with childish confidence in Abraham Lincoln. But suppose McClellan should be elected, and, with Chicago managers behind him, inherit these despotic tools Mr. Lincoln has manufactured-what that Suppose he should exercise the right, without law, Constitution, or evidence, of crime, to kidnap men in their bed-chambers, and answer congressional inquiry by telling them he knew it was opposed to all law and precedent, but it was his will? Suppose, without consulting the Senate, and without commissions, he should put Vallandigham, Seymour and Wood in Grant's, Sherman's and Sheridan's places-what then Suppose he should claim exclusive right to reconstruct the South so as to secure his own election, with the aid of some convenient Banks to help him, and veto all bills that interfered with his plan? All these things he could do, and silence criticism by saying he was only following in such steps of his illustrious predecessor as had been silently or expressly approved by the Republican party, and endorsed at Baltimore.
But let us come directly to the Emancipation question, and Mr. Lincoln's general bearing toward the negro, and by a fair examination of his whole record fit ourselves to judge which, at the final settle-
<c05>
ment, he will yield on, the question of Union or that of the Negro.
First let me say, that though valuing the war chiefly; as I believe the controlling minds of the North do, for this its incidental but inevitable result, (those minds but for which the war would never have been undertaken,) still no one of them ever asked Government to abolish slavery merely because it was sinful. When Mr. Lincoln had got power by swearing to sustain a pro-slavery Constitution, no one ever asked him to do an official act “in mere deference to his abstract judgment and feeling on slavery.” We have only called on the Government to touch slavery as a righteous, efficient and necessary means to save the Union, But let us recur to Mr. Lincoln's record. In his debate with Douglas, in 1858, he would not grant the negroes citizenship or suffrage-was opposed to their poltical or social equality-and believed the two races could never live together.
In Congress, he made himself prominent by adding to the power of the infamous Fugitive Slave Bill-extending the area to which it would apply. When he left home to assume the presidency, his first pledge was to return slaves. During his administration, Congress has been busy and glorious in a dozen anti-slavery measures-admitting negroes to testify in courts-abolishing slavery in the District and Territories-freeing the slaves of rebels and others-acknowledging Liberia and Hayti-attempting to do justice to the colored soldier in the matter of pay- &c. &c. Of originating all these, the merit belongs wholly to Congress. We do not hear of any effort of the President connected with them. He only cooperated, and in some (as confiscation) reluctantly cooperated. Their effort to guarantee his own Proclamation he vetoed. Bear in mind that the North accepted the war mainly, if not wholly, to get at the means of abolishing slavery that the South rebelled to save it-and that Mr. Lincoln, in his interview, September, 1862, with the Chicago Committee, said,” Slavery is at the root of the rebellion, or at least its sine qua non."
Still, after that long interview between the President and the Border State representatives, in July, 1862, Mr. Horace Maynard, one of those present, thus describes to Mr. Lincoln the impression it made on him:-
"Your whole administration gives the highest assurance that you are moved, not so much from a desire to see all men everywhere made free, as from a desire to preserve free institutions for the benefit of men already free; not to make slaves free men, but to prevent free men iron being made slaves; not to destroy an institution which a portion of us only consider bad, but to save an institution which we all alike consider good. I am satisfied that you would not ask from any of your fellow-citizens a sacrifice not in your judgment imperatively required by the safety of the country. This is the spirit of your appeal, and I respond to it in the same spirit."
December, 1862, just before his Emancipation Proclamation, Mr. Lincoln says, in a letter to Fernando Wood, that if the South will only submit, a full and general amnesty will be granted; and asks that if Mr. Wood knows anything of a disposition on the part of the South to do so, he will inform him, the President; adding, ”such information might be more valuable before the 1st of January than after it." An intimation which confirms all we learn elsewhere of the reluctance with which he consented to issue his proclamation, and his wish that the slaveholding rebels might aid him to avoid it. In his message to Congress, a year after, December, 1863, the President says he had” HOPED the rebellion could be suppressed without resorting to it (Emancipation) as a military measure."
But he reveals his disposition on this matter most clearly in his letter to Mr. Greeley, August, 1862. He says:-" If there are those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them." That is true; nobody ever thought so ill of him. Farther: ”If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could, at the same time, destroy slavery, I do not agree with them." That is true; nobody ever thought so well of him. He goes on: ”My paramount object is to save the Union, and not either to save or to destroy slavery." Agreed: very allowable and right for an officer under the Constitution of 1789. Headds: “If I could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it." Here I differ; and this is the very spot where the Statesman and Abolitionist part company with Mr. Lincoln. That I am not catching at a chance phrase to judge him unfairly, let me remind you that he reiterates the same principle still more emphatically in his letter dated April, 1864. He tells Mr. Hodges that he vetoed Fremont, and then Cameron, and then Hunter, because he thought the hour of 1NDISPENSABLE necessity had not come. He adds that he endeavored, in March, May and July, 1862, by earnest appeals to the Border States, to avert that necessity, and when finally driven to Emancipation, he used it doubting whether he should get greater gain or loss from it.
This is a vastly important statement by which to test the President's mood oh this question; and on that mood depends largely our future. This word “necessary" has played a large part in our constitutional history. The Constitution gives Congress “power to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution” its other powers. Strict constructionists, specially at the South, have contended that this means indispensably necessary; Congress can, under this clause, only use such means as it is not possible to do without. On the other hand, the interpretation accepted at the North and by the Supreme Court is, that ”necessary" means conducive to, convenient for, requisite, &c. For instance, Congress, under its general power to make war, may use all “necessary” means;-that is, it may build forts as requisite and convenient for war. Yet war could be and has been made without forts, hence they are not indispensably necessary, and if the Southern construction prevailed, Congress could erect no fortiflcations. So of the use of iron-clads, monitors, and steamships -not indispensable; navies existed hundreds of years without them.
So of the war power. That gives Mr. Lincoln the right to use all means necessary for success. When he looks North, and deals with Northern blood, treasure or right?, he interprets this word “necessary” as covering what (to use his own words in his message' of March, 1862,) ”seems indispensable, or may obviously promise great efficiency." But when he looks South toward Southern institutions, it means “absolutely indispensable.” Journals and men talk too freely about the Government-suppress the one, and send the other to Fort Warren! Suspend habeas corpus, and let Mr. Seward's "little bell" supersede all courts, State and Federal! All right! In these things, Mr. Lincoln only did his duty, and deserves the thanks of all good citizens. But, mark, he does not try for a few months or years whether he could not get along with the ordinary course of law, indictments, juries, judges and State jails. Oh, no; to suspend habeas corpus is an efficient and convenient means to sustain the Government, therefore it is necessary in the sense of the Constitution and War power. No need to try whether you could not get along in the old ordinary way. This is a good way and sure, therefore select it alonce, and waste no time, treasure or blood in experiments. Agreed. The country says amen,-lays free speech, personal liberty, the blood of sons and the wealth of the nation cheerfully on the altar. Then Mr. President turns toward slavery-Is it the root of the rebellion? asks the Nation. Yes, says the President. Why not at once cut it up and end the rebellion? asks the Nation, which sees the whole Government swallowed up by General McClellan on the one hand, and Seward's “little bell" on the other.
Now, to this demand only three answers are possible. 1st, either Mr. Lincoln believes that slavery has some more sacred constitutional guarantee than free speech and personal liberty have; or, 2nd, he dreads grappling with and offending Southern and slaveholding public opinion more than he does trampling (necessarily) on Northern love of free speech; or, 3d, he
<c06>
believes that if it be not quit true “a negro has no rights which a white man is bound to respect," still, a white man's rights and wrongs are to be all setted before a negro is attended to. One or the other of these must be the reason why habeas corpus was in its shroud almost two years before the President ventured to touch slavery. Choose which you prefer to explain that lone criminal delay. When you have chosen, look and see whether the reason you give does not wholly or largely unfit one poisoned by it to hold the casting vote in that final settlement by it to the slave's rights and the North's hang trembling Do not avoid this by saying, ”Oh! Mr. Lincoln did not believe then that the negro would fight; he knows better now." That is evasion, and not reply. Grant that the negro had been a very poor soldier; to take at any time from the enemy even a poor soldier and an average laborer must be a gain, and wholly a gain, unless Mr. Lincoln feared that Emancipation would so fire the Southern heart and Northern copperhead against us as more than to counterbalance the gain; which is only my second reason under another name-that is, dread of the “south” as it shows itself at Charleston and Chicago, and contempt for the negro. This canvass, show how strong the Democratic party has become under his nursing, will only make him more timid and unfit. If dread of conservatism, North and South, delayed Emancipation and explains why he has not yet done justice to the negro in anything, as I shall show, and now turns the cold shoulder to radicalism, why may not that same fear make him sacrifice us next year in making peace? Indeed, I aspect that man who uses whold despotism in Massachusetts, and only half despotism in South Carolina.
"I would save the Union if I could without freeing a slave"! Suppose he and Fernando Wood, in December,1862,had patched up a peace wither freeing a slave, and then follow Mr. Lincoln to the bar of History. ”You held the Nation in your hand when slavery rebelled?" "Yes." “You had the right to free every slave." "Yes." “ You knew it would be a mortal blow at the rebellion?" "Yes." "And yet you hoped and struggled to make peace and avoid liberty?" "Yes." Would not History answer, ”I need no delicate scales of Christianity to weigh such sins. Paganism hisses from her grave of two thousand years- Quit non vetut, cum debeat et possit, juber. He who does not abolish when he might and ought, establishes. Go, new founder of Slavery!"
But you will say this is unjust to Mr. Lincoln. He would have freed the slave if he had believed that free negroes would have given us any help. He held back from freeing them because he would not risk the Union merely to help the slave. To that I answer, the ingrained Tory who believed a man would not fight because he was black is not the man to settled the terms of peace where the negro is so nearly concerned. I answer again, the man who knew so little what the North went to war for is not the man to mould its conditions of peace. Ignorance of his own time and contempt for the negro are not just the qualities to stereotype into law what our sons are dying for in Virginia.
Do you say Mr. Lincoln has unlearned contempt for the negro? Let us inquire and see.
In July, 1861, at the motion of Lovejoy, the House of Representatives resolved, 93 to 55, that ”it is no part of a soldier's duty to return fugitive slaves." A formal Bill was enacted March, 1862. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, said in the House that Grant returned twelve from Fort Donelson, February, 1862; Senator Grimes, in April,'62, charged” those high in military office” with this guilt. Mr. Sumner at that time denounced McCook, Buell, Hooker, and Halleck's infamous order No.3, banishing all fugitives from our lines. Show me from that day till now among the crowds of offenders one officer whom Mr. Lincoln has ever punished for this infamous offence! Is this the heart, this the fair play and sense of justice, that the negro or the Northerner can trust with the keen bargain which is to issue in peace?
In December, 1861, Congress denounced the horrible brutalities of the District jail,-showing that Christendom could hardly parallel it. The marshal had the almost incredible impudence to deny admission to Senators. The North shook with indignation at the barbarons and impudent violation of all law in the treatment of the colored race there. For more than a year, Mr. Lincoln refused to remove the cruel and brutal marshal. I am not sure that he has even yet done so.
In January, 1863, Mr. Lincoln summoned the blacks into the army, the War Department promising them the same treatment as white solditrs. He allows, in his letter to Hodges, that he has there some 300,000 enrolled. Their help he says is indispensable. He never freed them, he says, out of any regard for them; no, only when he could not help it. He confesses he could not now do without them. At any moment since that 1st of January, he might have paid these indispensable allies the same as he paid white soldier. The best lawyers in the land told him so. The entreaties of radicals were met with trifling and vulgar replies. He never moved. It was the summer of 1864 before he even asked his legal adviser, Mr. Bates, for his opinion. Congress specially authorized him to act on that opinion. Mr. Bates tells him that white and black soldiers stand legally on the same level.
The President still refuses to treat them so in the water of pay. Is this the man to watch their rights in the conferences touching peace?
Fort Pillow! Those two words tell the whole sad history. In July, 1863, Mr. Lincoln announced that if any black soldier were killed in violation of the laws of war, a rebel captive should be executed. Then came the massacre of Fort Pillow. MR. Lincoln went to Baltimore, and promised to carry out his order if any authentic case was brought to his notice. A Congressional Committee lays the sworne evidence of Fort Pillow before him. Nothing is done. When the rebel Gen. Jones puts fifty of our white officers under fire, Government is quick to put the same number of the same rank under their fire, and stop the outrage. Ah, but the victims there were white! they had rights which the President must attend to! men in our uniform were taken prisoners in Virginia, and sold into slavery, the President tells the Chicago Committee, in 1862, ”Mr. Greeley says we shall do nothing about it. What could I do?" Poor man! with only half a million of men in arms, and four million of dollars a day to spend, and a hot, indignant nation to sustain him, what could he do? Butler, to be sure, always finds a way to stop rebel cannon when poited at his trenches full of black soldiers. He merely spikes them with a Brigadier or two, and soon ”all is quiet at the front." But, to be sure, what could one poor, weak, isolated President do in such cases? He has no will, and therefore no way.
New Orleans! Freedmen whipped to their task-not allowed to pass from town to town, or to make their own bargains, by the favorite, General Banks. Free colored men twice give the city to us-once to Butler, once to Banks; but they cannot vote, even when the President breaks every Louisiana law to stuff the ballot-boxes with soldiers' ballot, and manufactures a sham State out of refuse to balance Massachusetts in the electoral college.
Missouri is told that the radicals do not represent Mr. Lincoln, who goes for ”gradual” emancipation. In consequence of this and Frank Blair's intrigues, Missouri is still a slave State, and we only dare yet hope, are not sure, that Maryland is saved from Mr. Lincoln's other pet, Montgomery Blair-both Colonizationists, as Mr. Lincoln is to this day, so far as the world knows. Chivalrous men! willing that the ”indipensable” negro should fight for them, and give them a country, but meaning to make the first use of peace and power to export their defenders! How nobly the negro has fought his way to recognition and respect! fought his way to it against a President who has poured contempt upon him in word and deed! He proposes to colonize men with the same right to their native land as himself; and he tells the Chicago clergymen, at a time when he himself re fuses to accept the negroes' service, that ”they do
OCTOBER 28.THE LIBERATOR. 175
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
nothing but eat, and he feared if he gave them muskets, it would only be giving them to rebels!" How must the uttered of such words blush when he hears of Port Hudson, Fort Wagner and Petersburg! Yet where's the evidence of any change of heart or opinion!
Do not these things show an undue tenderness to ward the South, and an undue and dangerous reluctance to use or help or do justice to the negro! Where is the officer, civil or military, ever punished, for a pro-slavery act?How long the list beginning with phelps Fremont, Butler, of those exiled and proscribed because they begged the President, as Everett says, to" draw this new weapon from the armory of public law"? The President never <illegible>made one step towards the negro; has never even kept step with Congress; never moved in that direction till driven by terrible disaster or imperious public opinion.Emancipation itself was not granted till the world cried Shame! and the North, bleeding at every pore, widows and orphans, childless men and mothers, shook the Capitol with their demands. Be sure, therefore, you keep alive such pressure, or Weed will own him next term.
But that great act, the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863. this trusty friend of the negro, to whom we blindly trust our and his future, knows that many lawyers doubt its validity, yet vetoes the effort of Congress to strengthen and endorse it! The only two members of his Cabinet who ever pledged themselves to its lasting longer than the war, and covering every slave-Blair and Chase-are out; the one, Seward who says it will cease with the war, is still the head of the Cabinet-yes, retained there in spite of the remonstrance of fourteen State in 1863, and the request of even the Baltimore Convention for his removal. The New York Times, Lincoln's organ, thinks the President is bound by it neither officially nor personally. Mr.Weed, whose support was of importance <illegible> to be bought with the gift of the New York Custom-House, and by turning Chase from the <illegible>, laments that Lincoln should ever so <illegible> have yielded himself to the radicals, and assures us that'the Administration is working itself out of its fulse position!"
Mr. Seward's home organ tells us that Mr. Lincoln will be elected by Mr.Seward's friends, and will co-operate with them; and the Evening Post, best of the Republican journals, said, Oct.17, 1864-
No, there is but one mode of getting at peace, and that is for all who are in arms against the constitution and laws to lay down their arms. Let them do that, and our armies will quickly disperse; let them do that, that and there will be no subjugations, no revenges, and nothing to submit to but the laws which are common to all; let them do that, and then we shall meet them in friendly conference to correct what is wrong, <illegible>what is narrow, to remove what is oppressive and grievous, and to modify our opinions even to my extent that may be necessary to the more secure <illegible>of liberty and justice. But Mr.Stephens and all his coadjutors may rely upon it that our national unity, the single means of prosperity at <illegible>and defence abroad, will never be abandoned while a hand remains to wave the glorious emblem of the one republic."
Yes, only Union! and we will all modify, to any extent, our opinions about liberty, to suit these rebels!
Do not imagine that I stand alone in this judgment of the President, though others are seemingly silent to-day, Judge Durant, of New Orleans, says,-
"The journalists, politicians and public men of our country hold two sets of opinions, one for their <illegible> which they believe in, the other for public display; so that what appears to be public opinion cannot be trusted as the opinion of the public. If this as not cease, the cause of liberty is in danger. Our <illegible>men look too much to the candidate, and too <illegible> to the law and the people. In secret they deplore the calamity of a choice they dare not repudiate, from the unfounded fear that opposition would secure the success of an anti-national candidat,”
I find the same insincerity or timidity here.The Republicans, born of the Whigs, have no faith in the people. That is the reason why I feel we shall never long hold the Nation in any line of policy till we get a certain section of the Democrats into the Republican ranks. Let me quote to you the private opinions of a dozen. Republicans;-not their chance street talk, but their ripe, solemn, reiterated counsels to their friends. I quote nothing which has not been stored since the 1st of May last, and I quote no man who in civil life does not stand on a level like that of a Major General in the service, and no one who is not <illegible>active supporter of Mr. Lincoln. "Mr Lincoln's reelection would be a disaster," says one." It would be national destruction," says another. "I would rather see McClellan President, and oppose him, than kill the virtue of the Republican party by <illegible>for Lincoln another four years," says a third." Out of twenty-four Republican Senators, only six voted for Lincoln's renomination," says a <illegible>"There is no such thing as a government at Washington- no purpose there," says a sixth. "Whether the Cabinet be good or bad, there's not <illegible> enough in Lincoln for a President in such hours are coming," says a seventh. "Lincoln is incapable, but is safe if managed by the Radicals, not otherwise," manfully declares Winter Davis. " Enter the Union League of the third city of the Union, and you would fancy by the talk there was not a Lincoln man there," says the ninth.
Two years ago, the most influential paper west of the mountains long debated whether or motto demand Mr.Lincoln"s withdrawal."The Supreme Court will most likely set aside the proclamation," said the <illegible> in the House to me, in January, 1863; but he would rather trust our chances there than trust Lincoln to appoint judges there. Wade submits to Lincoln, but even repeats his indigent protest against his <illegible>in the beginning of his speech. Before the news of Atlanta came, the leading Republicans of New York a committee to ask Lincoln to withdraw, and their circulars were scattered over the west, appointing a new convention. News of Atlanta came, and they succumbed. I hardly know of a leading Republican press or speaker who did not <illegible> that plan his countenance.
All this testimony and action prove the unfitness of the President, in the opinion of radical men, to could the peace which is coming. How then did Mr. Lincoln succceed to be denominated, and hence to <illegible> By using the same means which the South has used for seventy years. She was wont to say to the North, "Submit to my terms, or I'll break the Union," and till 1861 the North, afraid to risk division, submitted.So Lincoln, putting down his foot, said to Massachusetts and the Republican party if you dare!" They submit, and he is master situation. Perhaps on political and party grounds they can do nothing else, and he can not be averted. But I am no politician. I risked <illegable> the Union for the slave's sake, and iI dare, in the same cause to, to risk dividing the Republican party.In fact, the President has never done an act, and never will but from fear.He fears Weed, Seward and<illegible> today, and acts so as to conciliate it. Mr.Weed has the Custom-House, and Seward runs round the country disgracing the Nation with his offers to give up honor and all for peace. But Mr. Lincoln next year will obey Radicalism, for all that, if Rad<illegable> instead of putting its hand on its mouth as now, is as imperious as Weed;—and this is the moral of my talk to you to night.
Ask these Republicans why they submit, and they <illegible>—"We have made such a reputation for Mr. Lincoln that he can safely defy us, and is master of the situation." A poor reply, I think, specially when even Weed told them this fall-"Together, you can make Lincoln withdraw in forty-eight hours." Pluck and trast in each other, of both which there is plentiful would have made them masters of the hour. But if it be too late, I beg to remind them of Dryden's line- 
"Idiots only may be cozened twice."
Don't let them now pursue a policy of timid, <illegible> praise toward the President, which will make him master next year, and give him the weapon 
<c02>
to frighten them from protest if next summer he drags them into shameful compromise. Let them remember this was the folly which lifted the dwarf McClellan, and set him on the shoulders of power; this the policy that enabled the Baltimore Convention to defy the party. No more such mistakes. Sheridan used to say had heard of men knocking their brains out against brick walls, specially and only in order to knock one's brains out. And yet this is the policy pursued. Witness the offer of the Evening Post; and, further, listen to one of Mr. Lincoln's able advocates- Mr.Tilton, of the Independent-at Latimer Hall, Brooklyn. He says: 
"As other gentlemen have spoken on other topics, let me advert to Slavery. I regret that so many voices, speaking for the Union cause, are silent on this question-pushing it aside as irrelevant. Have they forgotten the Baltimore platform? It stands on two pillars- overthrow of the Rebellion, and the prohibition of Slavery. Therefore, when Republican speakers make the War question their only topic, burying the Slavery question in silence, they are not faithful to the banner they bear-they tear it in twain, and lift only half.The Baltimore platform lays fully before the people the Slavery question.If, therefore, this question is to be lulled to rest in Republican meetings, touched tenderly, called secondary, passed over as a theme on which the less said the better, then one great purpose of the Baltimore platform is already defeated before the day of battle in November."• • • 
"It is lamentable to notice how many influential Republicans are speaking and writing as if we ought, for prudential reasons, to thrust out of sight the nobler half of the Baltimore platform. The Constitutional amendment is not awarded its due share in the canvass. It is avoided as a subject which, too freely handled, may endanger the election-may frighten away some voters who mean to vote with us only on condition that the election, when gained, shall mean nothing. Let the Democratic party, if they will, abandon their platform, but let us beware of abandoning ours! The Democratic party, expecting to be defeated, can well afford to change their ground, if only for the sake of entrapping us into changing ours. Nothing will so please the Democrats as to silence Republicans on the slavery question. Our enemies will have everything to gain by that policy-we, everything to lose. This slighting of the main question is dangerous, unmanly, and cowardly.” . . .
"There are ominous whisperings in Washington, saying, ' We shall conquer at the ballot-box, and in the field; we shall bring the rebellion to its knees; we shall be asked for terms; now what terms shall we grant? ‘ And the counseled answer ‘Make the terms easy for white men and hard for black. Free all slaves who have freed themselves; but, beyond this, shield the surrendering States from the application of the Edict of Freedom.' Now to this I cry, Shame! Think of it, O my countrymen! The Government is at this moment being counseled to this baseness, to this perjury, to this shame-not that it will heed the Devil's whisper! but counseled to stand ready for the ignominy of breaking the nation's faith to compromise with the nation's enemy. Gentlemen, our ballots are yet uncast. Let us give fair warning, as we cast them, saying, ' This is for the Baltimore plat form, every jot and title-this is for the overthrow of the Rebellion-this is for the death and burial of Slavery—this is for a Constitutional amendment set upon its grave to watch against its resurrection!' I propose to you, therefore, for your loudest cheers, as a sentiment expressing the true duty of the hour, 'No parley with the Rebellion in the field: no compromise with Slavery in the readjustment.' "
These are true and loyal words. So are the manful protests of Davis and Wade, heard above the siren song of caucus praise.
 I know and regret that some even of those who have stood with me on a disunion platform for twenty years submit, and support Mr. Lincoln as " the less of two evils." When, till now, did the anti slavery cause have scales to weigh moral evils? Outsiders offer such Abolitionists the equivocal phrase of being "good men attempting half measures when whole measures are impossible, and thus turning reforming minorities into majorities." Reform never acknowledges that whole measures are impossible. Reform never planned, nor believed it possible-to allowable if it were possible-to change minorities into majorities, by lowering its demands and proclaiming itself content with half measures. Politics believes that, and acts accordingly; does what it can, not what it ought. There may be an hour sometimes-once in five hundred years-when it is so necessary to put some great man, only given to the world once in an age, into office, that conscience may, perhaps, be pardoned if she shuts her eyes, and not only submits but aids in the inevitable. But, in my opinion, this is no such hour, and Mr. Lincoln is by no means such an exceptional man, ripened, like the aloe, only once in an age. I see no reason for descending from my level of Reformer to that of politician,—no reason offered by any Republican issue or candidate. The anti-slavery party cannot safely thus desert its post. To be unwilling to risk dividing the Republican party, by demanding absolute justice of men who believe in it, is to throw discredit on our maxims of twenty years' use. I know of no one who claims support for Mr. Lincoln, except as a choice of evils, and to avert McClellan and Disunion. But we have always said the Union is nothing weighed against justice. Why change? We have always demanded the whole loaf. The Fremonters offered us half in 1856. We took the risk of refusing, and brought in Buchanan.'Horace Mann, surely as honest a man as Lincoln, offered us half a loaf in the dark night of 1850. We refused; and was our outside moral protest wasted? No; it, and it alone, made 1861 and its gallant resistance possible.It, and it alone, saved what little the nation did save from Buchanan. Why change our method now? " Fear nothing but fear," as Conway so aptly quotes from Montaigne. Mr.Lincoln shakes his finger at political Massachusetts, crying, " Risk dividing the party if you dare!" Political Massachusetts succumbs, sullen and reluctant, but silent. Anti-slavery Massachusetts neither succumbs nor is silent. She calls out, over the heads of these noisy and insincere, or silent and discouraged leaders, to the earnest men of the nation, " Save your own cause! " This is the people's cause, and I am willing, Mr. Lincoln in 1862 being witness, to trust them with it; it is safe to trust them with it; that course has saved liberty the last thirty years. We know its value by experience. But the people must know the truth, and the whole truth. No two sets of opinions, one for clubs and another for the hustings. I turn to the earnest men of the Republican party, and remind them that only by linking the people to their side and support have they ever been able to make headway against the selfishness of party, the ignorance and toryism of the conservative. Let not the people be induced or permitted, at this momentous hour, to put one iota of faith in any man more than his purpose and character justify. I charge them with inducing and permitting this, while they know, by thirty years' experience on this slave question, that such appeals in the past to the people have done nothing but good; indeed, been our only check on bad men and weak men, and our only salvation. I am speaking to those who stand on the political level, and mean to vote. To them I say, Be vigilant, and demand imperiously of your party now and always, in season and out, fidelity to the North and the slave. I am speaking to those who will ignore party, and pause long before they do any act which leads the country to believe they Abraham Lincoln.
You ask me why not try more direct methods.I did. I gave all of influence I had to that Cleveland movement, which pledged itself to absolute justice, whose official committee offered a letter of mine, as radical as I could make it, as part of the platform, to their candidate, and be accepted it. History will search and tell why the door opened by Cleveland to the earnest and leading men of both parties, at their request, was not used. I only here repeat my firm belief that that section of the Democratic party which looked to Cleveland (and allowed itself to be merged in Chicago only because Atlanta's good news came a day too late) will have to be won into the Re-publican ranks before this nation can be long held to any line of policy, good or bad. But the Cleveland movement did gallant and yeomanly service. It put the only anti-slavery plank into the Baltimore platform; it tossed Montgomery Blair out of the cabinet, though, to be sure,it has not wrenched him from the President's heart; and the Cleveland men were those whom it did concern Mr. Lincoln to reach by his pledge 
<c03>
at Niagara. Good wages for a single day's work at Cleveland! When Cleveland withdrew its whole loaf, I, a reformer, refused the Republican half loaf, and resumed my agitation. I have no great fear of the South; we can defend ourselves from her. It is deception, a timidity, a shortcoming on the part of our own leaders, that makes our greatest danger. 
Indeed, I regret that my old friends see no longer eye to eye with me. As for the common world, the Daily Advertiser, Evening Post, Tribune, the Governors and Senators, whose voices are loudest in this canvass, their dissent does not surprise me. It took them twenty years to find out that the Abolitionists were no fanatics, and to join us in 1861. I cheerfully grant them ten years more to see, not men like trees walking, but clearly, the whole meaning of this issue and its needs. Day dawns gradually from twilight to noon, for all who keep their eyes open; for those who will open their eyes wide enough only to take in a party platform or candidate, it remains always twilight. Reform cries always, " No danger in opening your eyes wide!" Lincoln will obey the strongest.Only agitation will keep us the strongest, or show him that we are so. Agitate! agitate! now, in the harvest time, when every ear in the nation is open, when hearts and minds are malleable! Indeed, gentlemen, this course is our only safety, Remember the pregnant words of Macaulay," The true secret of the power of agitators is the obstinacy of Government, Liberal governments make moderate citizens." Mr. Lincoln, in 1848, when he opposed the Mexican war, dared to tell Polk and his party that it was the duty of a good citizen to distinguish, in such times, between the President and the Country. Mr. Seward writes to Adams, Sept 10, 1862:
"In this country especially, it is a habit not only entirely consistent with the Constitution, but even essential to its stability, to regard the administration at any time existing as DISTINCT AND SEPARATE FROM THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF, and to canvass the proceedings of the one without the thought of disloyalty to the other, We might possibly have had quicker success in suppressing the insurrection if this habit could have rested a little longer in abeyance; but, on the other hand, we are under obligations to save not only the unity or the integrity of the country, but also its in estimable and precious Constitution. No one can safely say that the resumption of the previous popular habit does not tend to this last and most important consummation, if at the same time, as we confidently expect, the Union shall be saved."
Can I do any great harm by a fanaticism which Seward approves, and of which Lincoln sets the example?
Gentlemen, I will cheerfully support any man for the Presidency whom I believe honest, capable, and resolved to end this war so as " to form a more perfect Union," to " insure domestic tranquillity " forever, " to establish justice " for all men of every race, and to "secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posperity," — meaning by ourselves every one born under the flag, and every one who takes refuge beneath it. Against every other man I mean to agitate, till I bayonet him and his party into justice.
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1864. SPEECH OF MR. PHILLIPS. 
Under great pressure for lack of space, we devote more than one-third of our present number to a speech delivered by our friend Wendell Phillips at the Tremont Temple, on Thursday evening, 20th inst. We print it not only in accordance with our usual habit in his particular case, but all the more readily because, as he has kept silent for more than four months on the great issues of the times, there is naturally a desire widely felt to know his present views and feelings, especially pertaining to the approaching transcendently important Presidential election; and because, as our readers fully understand, we feel compelled strongly to dissent from many of his statements, and deem much of his criticism of Mr. Lincoln to be not only exceedingly ill-timed, but sererely unjust. We give the speech as carefully prepared by himself, and considerably extended since delivered,from his own manuscript. Of course, we have not any space, if we had the disposition, to go into a critical review of it; but we cannot allow it to pass without expressing our regret to perceive what seems to us a set purpose-prima facie-to represent Mr. Lincoln in the worst possible light, to attribute to him the worst possible motives, to hold him up as an imbecile and a despot, and to damage his chance of re-election to the utmost extent, as one who is only a selfish political trickster, seeking his own personal ends, who deserves impeachment for what he has done, and who will prove recreant to his heaven-attested pledges to the cause of the millions whom he has by proclamation set free from their fetters, at the earliest convenient opportunity! And this in face of the fact, that the entire slaveholding South is in hot rebellion, and the immense Copperhead forces at the North in organized conspiracy, to overturn the Government as administered by Abraham Lincoln, for the sole alleged reason that he is the political representative of Northern anti-slavery sentiment, inflexibly bent upon the abolition of slavery, and incurably diseased with " nigger on the brain "! And this, too, in disregard of the various death-dealing blows given to the slave system, and of the emancipation and advancement of a mighty negro host, by Mr. Lincoln and under his administration' which concentrates upon himself the murderous hatred and thetho treasonable hostility of every negro-contemner and every advocate of the chattel principle in the land, and when the most tremendous consequences are wrapped up in the struggle for his re-election to the Presidency, concerning freedom and free institutions, it seems to us that to join in an outcry against him is not the part of wisdom or statesmanship. The indictment of Mr. Lincoln, by Mr. Phillips, is a most sweeping one. In the case of the arrest and rendition of the Cuban piratical slave-trader Arguelles, Mr. Phillips not only accuses Mr. Lincoln of "stealthily kidnapping " him, but asserts that " no tittle of evidence against him was offered our Government." Strange and inexplicable, then, is it that, being pro-slavery in spirit and purpose as Mr. Lincoln is alleged to be, he should have been in such hot haste to seize a notorious and most perfidious dealer in human flesh! Mr. Phillips accuses the President of many other " acts of pure despotism " –of being " an ingrained Tory " of cherishing " contempt for the negro “ of whithholding to this hour, the just wages due the colored soldiers-of " stuffing the ballot-boxes with soldiers' ballots in order to manufacture a sham State " in Louisiana—of bullying Massachusetts and the Republican party by saying, "Submit, or risk dividing the Republican party if you dare! " -&c., —&c., &c. Look at an arraignment of Mr. Lincoln from another quarter. That learned Copperhead prosecutor, A. Oakey Hall,of New York city, made a speech at New Haven on the same evening in which Mr. Phillips spoke, in which, among the crimes and misdemeanors he laid to Mr. Lincoln's charge, were " treason, homicide, arson, kidnapping robbery, perjury, blasphemy, profanity, obscenity, bribery, embezzlement, forgery, mayhem, and thimble-rigging "! Surely, here is too close an agreement in the substance of the indictment, between persons whose objects and ends are so diametrically opposite, to be particularly desirable at this juncture!
How the loyal and liberty-loving people of the country regard Mr. Lincoln's trustworthiness for the next four years, in spite of every effort to disgrace him,the coming election will emphatically show.
There never was a more abortive or a more ludicrous gathering held, politically speaking, in our judgment, than the Cleveland Convention. Yet our friend Mr. Phillips invests it with astonishing powers, and attributes to it the most magnificent results!-The relation of Tenterden steeple to the Good win sands.
<c04>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The third lecture of the course before the Parker Fraternity was delivered on Tuesday evening last, by Miss Anna E. Dickinson of Philadelphia.
She said it was stated, in Gen. McClellan's letter accepting the nomination of the Chicago Convention, that the preservation of the Union was the sole avowed object for which the war was commenced. It was also stated in the Chicago platform that the war has been for four years a failure. Both of these assertions are false as the hearts that conceived them and the lips that uttered them.
Commencing with the act of secession adopted by south Carolina in 1860, the speaker gave a minute sketch of the early movements of the rebels, and declared that no one was better fitted to continue the policy thus begun than Gen. McClellan, Professor of the New Gospel of Peace. Compromise is the cry of the party herepresents. Compromise formerly meant national dishonor, now it means national death. Those who sustain McClellan, understanding his position, are clearly traitors; those who sustain him without such understanding are grossly deluded.
It is now proposed to assemble a Convention to treat for Peace. This would be merely the revival of an old failure. Such attempts have been made in Congress over and over again. The Crittenden compromise was one of these, and this failed through the action of the South, as examination of the votes of her Congress-men would show. The South refused a peace Congress in 1861. She should have none in 1864, except on the battle-field, and at the cannon's mouth.
The North, and even Massachusetts, so particularly complained of, had denied the South no just claim, had refused it no right, had inflicted upon it no injury, by confession of secessionists themselves. And it is absurd to claim a justification of secession from -the fact that one-fiftieth part of one per cent, of a certain species of property, being ill-treated, and having legs to run with, has chosen to run away 
After giving a severely accurate description of the defects and errors of the Chicago platform, the lecturer proceeded to say that, strange and incredible as it might seem, that platform actually commenced with a truth, saying that the Democratic party were devoted to the Union in the future as in the past. 
Miss Dickinson then described some of the specific acts of treason of Mason and Slidell, Yancey and Beauregard, Floyd and Toucey, Bragg and Buchanan, and proceeded to say that some men at the North were the special representatives, the color-bearers, of these rebels. Such a man was the candidate of the Democratic party for Vice President; one whose vote in Congress opposed every bill for giving aid to the Government; and one who was quite consistent in voting against the bill preventing disloyal men from holding office, because its success would have prevented him from being Vice President. To descend a little-to the consideration of McClellan, their candidate for the Presidency-he is Presidency—he is right in declaring his belief that the record of his public life was kept in view when the nomination was made. Most certainly it was so kept in view! 
The speaker next gave a scorching review of Mc-Clellan's military career. When asked his judgment respecting the force needful to capture New Orleans, he said it would require,50,000 men, and he could not spare them. Farragut and Ben. Butler thought otherwise, and took that city with a comparatively inconsiderable force. (The mention of these names called forth immense applause.)
Gen.McClellan's first military reputation rested upon the exploits of Rosecrans and others in West Virginia. He afterwards captured the wooden guns at Manassas, and then spent six weeks before York town, burrowing in the mud. The battle of Antietam was one of the grandest victories of the army of the Potomac, but who fought and won it? McClellan? No! But Hooker on one side, and Burnside on the other. McClellan was sitting five miles in the rear. After the defeat of Lee, he allowed him to sleep on the battle field, then gave him a day to bury his dead, then gave him another to move across the Potomac, and seventy-two hours after the battle he telegraphed to Washington that he had sent Gen. Pleasanton " in hot pursuit." To sum up Gen. McClellan's record briefly, as an army officer he has been everywhere deficient; as a General he has been always defeated; prating of economy in public expenditure, he pockets $6,000 a year for doing nothing; as a candidate for the Presidency, he sees no way of ending the war but by a compromise with rebels; wearing the uniform and bearing the arms of his country, he uses that position and those arms to stab his country to the heart; announcing that the Union is not to be abandoned, he yet says nothing of the public debt, nothing of confiscation measures, nothing of emancipation. What a contrast with the actual President of the United States! Whatever criticisms (the lecturer said) she had heretofore made upon him, it must be admitted that past ages have seen no act shining with such divine splendor as the dash of a pen that gave freedom, and manhood and womanhood, to three millions of chattels. (Great applause.) 
McClellan wishes to reverse this state of things, to nullify this decision, to send the soldiers, who have worn our uniform, shed their blood in our defence, upheld our tottering banner, and helped win our most glorious victories, back into bondage. Shall this act of infamous ingratitude be perpetrated? We answer, Never! Never! The soil of the whole South has been so hallowed by the blood of black patriots, fighting in their country's cause, that it can never again bear the footstep of a slaveholder or of a slave. 
Jefferson Davis says, We will have independence or extermination. They shall not have independence. If they desire and prefer it, let them have extermination. 
The lecture lasted an hour and a half, receiving frequent applause from an immense audience. The next lecture is to be delivered by Professor Goldwin Smith, of England, who nobly deserves and will assuredly draw an overflowing house.-c. K.w. 
"THE FREE SOUTH."
After an enforced discontinuance of nearly five years, the weekly anti-slavery newspaper bearing the above title has again been established by William S. Bailey at Newport, Kentucky. The number now is sued bears date October 19th, 1864, and is the 30th number of the l0th volume since its commencement. 
In the conduct of this paper heretofore, Mr. Bailey has given a signal example of courage and good principle combined with moderation. Advocating the abolition of slavery, exposing the injustice of slave laws, making free comments on the various pernicious in fluences of the peculiar institution, and doing all this in a slave State, he of course met with determined op position from the wealthy and powerful among its in habitants. But so calm and reasonable were his state ments, that it was only by a perversion of even the pro-slavery laws of Kentucky that an indictment could be found against him, and Lynch law was repeatedly brought in aid of the slow process of ordinary litigation, to put an end to his paper. He and his family labored with immense energy and industry against these discouraging circumstances, and used every available means of defence against the cowardly and brutal persecution which was employed against them. And when, at length, his office was sacked by a mob, and his press and types thrown into the river, he applied himself, with quiet perseverance, to the means of replacing them. He now starts again with a new press, new type, and an enlarged paper, and with the circle of his friends enlarged by the new circumstancesc in cumstances in which Kentucky finds herself. 
The new paper makes a very respectable appearance, and at first sight would be taken for a Northern rather than a Southern paper. Politically, it advocates the re-election of Abraham Lincoln, and seeks to engage in his favor the friends of Fremont, as well as the great mass of Republicans and Democrats. It represents that a change of opinion, similar to what 
<c05>
we see in the North, is taking place in Kentucky, and that many old-time advocates of slavery and partisan democracy are accommodating themselves to the new order of things; and it looks forward hopefully to the speedy extirpation of slavery and overthrow of the rebellion.
The price of The Free South is $2,50 per annum in advance. As the pioneer advocate of freedom in a slave State, it certainly merits a liberal support; and its editor will be glad to receive Northern as well as Southern subscriptions.-C. K.W. 
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK, NO. XIX,
NEW YORK, Oct. 20, 1864. 
To the Editor of the Liberator: 
It was the cold-blooded observation of Hawthorne, in one of his papers to the Atlantic Monthly, that John Brown deserved to be hung, if only for so abominably miscalculating the chances of success. The morality of this apothegm requires no discussion; the logic may be made to serve any turn. Any man who has learned the result of the three State elections last week, and who persists in voting for McClellan with a confident expectation of his election,will merrit the fate of the Virginia martyr. There can be no question of the popular voice on the 8th of November.For all practical purposes, the ballots have been already cast and counted, and Mr. Lincoln may proceed to readjust himself in his chair for a second term of office. Our victories, nevertheless, have not been gained without a struggle, and should stimulate rather than slacken our zeal in preparing for the decisive encounter next month. The Government needs the Strongest possible assurance of the cordial sympathy of the people; and the larger the majority at the polls, the holder and more radical will be the dealings of our magistrates with the social and military rebellion against Republicanism. In the coming four years, what a task is to devolve upon the nation! Peace to be won with the sword-treason to be punished-thes root of revolt extirpated-the Constitution remodeled-the Union gradually restored-old scars removed or concealed-new industries, new societies, new experiments in self-government. Scanty enough will be all the intellect, experience, devotion and patriotism which we can contribute to these great duties, and little will they avail if co-operation be wanting-if the members of the body politic be equally divided.
The interest which the soldiers evinced in the late elections, and the preponderance of their votes where these were allowed them, are proof, if any were needed, that our volunteers were inspired by no groveling motives when they abandoned their homes for the field of battle, and that the love of arms has not obliterated the sense of their civil obligations. In the army indeed is our hope. Without it, the maintenance of our national supremacy, much less our national integrity, would be impossible. Without it, the fruits of victory would be in danger of turning to ashes in our hands. Such a double stay to the Republic is the citizen soldier: our protection in the present, our security for the future. Witness what he has done for Maryland. His ballots decide in favor of freedom the scales which inclined the other way, and against the iniquitous weights of a brutal aristocracy he flings his sword in as the ransom of his State. 
The new Constitution is the brightest, the imperishable trophy of Maryland's loyal warriors, nor can any honor in her bestowal discharge posterity from gratitude to them, so long as men can define slavery, and remember who saved them from its accursed sway. Meanwhile the nation calmly accepts, without comprehending, the transfer of a people from one system of labor to another, from one section of the Union to another. We hear no outcry against the barbarity of immediate emancipation, no protest against the neglect to compensate the master. These latter-day Abolitionists scarcely deign to consider such trivial objections; they are not to be frightened by a bugbear, they know the real despoiler of the State. The action of Maryland becomes important as the first example in our history of a slave community revolutionized from within, and her career will be narrowly watched by the friends and foes of freedom. Let the welcome and encouragement of her sister Free States be generously extended. 
The freedman within our army lines, and the slave who is yet debarred from them, may sleep more soundly now that Judge Taney is no more. The constant peril of a decision from the Supreme Court which might invalidate the Proclamation is now at an end. Soon enough, if not so soon as we desired, the place of the Chief Justice has been vacated, and can be filled by one imbued with the principle of human equality. The change is as good as a battle gained. What further hope has slavery, except in the leniency of her conquerors? except in comprom ise and diplomacy? A new era dawns upon American jurisprudence, of which we have witnessed the lowest abasement. Henceforth before the national tribunal humanity will have rights which citizens are bound to respect; and liberty will be one of these rights, and the earnings of industry another. " The Angel Death" is not less the world's fair friend than " the good great man's." Mr. Chase is most prominently talked of as the successor (let me forget the late incumbent) of Jay and Marshall. Other names mentioned are not superior to his, and are generally those men who already are occupying positions from which they can ill be spared. The Ex-Secretary seems opportunely at liberty to serve his country a second time with fidelity and dignity. 
Before my next letter will have appeared in your columns, the November election will be over, amid a universal sense of relief. Men prefer settlement to uncertainty, even when the former is merely delusive, as it was in all the years preceding the present revolution. Happily, the new composition of affairs is not likely to be founded on an earthquake; and after the second Tuesday in November, it will be safe to chalk out definite plans in life, and to build with a view to permanence. For a little more than a fortnight the two great parties of the land will confront each other, and prepare for battle. The one is radiant with loyalty to the State and to Liberty. The other is like the ghoul of the Arabian story, who ate rice before her husband with a tooth-pick, and at night battened secretly upon corpses in the graveyard: the Democratic party makes its petty show of patriotism before the public, and conspires apart for the overthrow of a free, republican government. The conflict is near, and it will be desperate; but the cannibal faction will be crushed. 
 M. DU PAYS.
MRS. FRANCES ELLEN HARPER  This eminent anti-slavery lecturer, of long standing, delivered one of her able and eloquent addresses on " The Mission of the War," Sunday evening, Oct. 23,1864. It was one of her most felicitous efforts, and highly appreciated by the large and enthusiastic audience which crowded the meeting-house of the first Independent Baptist Church. Throughout, the discourse was full of thought, reason, and wit. And it is but due to say, all who listen to her will appreciate her power.
Mrs. Harper is at present in Boston. The friends of bleeding humanity will be abundantly satisfied by inviting her to their own place, to please the ear and instruct the heart.
Mrs. Harper is better known by her former name-Frances Ellen Watkins.
Address, No. 9, Gardner street, Boston, Mass.
Among various other matters designed for but excluded from our present number, in consequence of the great length of Mr.Phillips's speech, and of Judge Advocate General Holt's exposition of the formidable great Western Conspiracy against the Government, is the criticism of " E. H. H."
Gen. Banks is in Boston, and will speak in Faneuil Hall on Saturday and Monday evenings next.
Several book notices are unavoidably deferred this week.
<c06>
THE FREEDOM OF MARYLAND. 
WASHINGTON, Oct.19. The President was serenaded this evening, and spoke as follows; being frequentlyfollows, being fregently interrupted by applause:
"lam" notified that this is a compliment paid <illegible> the loyal Marylanders resident in this District. I infer that the adoption of the new Constitution for the State furnishes the occasion, and that in your views the extirpation of slavery <illegible> Most heartily do I congratulate you, and Maryland, and the nation, andthe world upon the event. I regret that it did not occur two years sooner, which I am sure would have saved to the nation more money than would have met all the private loss incident to the measure; but it has come at last, and, I sincerely hope its friends may fully realize all their anticipations of good from and that its opponents may by its effects be agreeably and profitably disappointed. 
A word upon another subject. Something said by the Secretary of State in his recent speech at Auburn, N.Y., has been construed by some into this, that if I shall be beaten at the election, I will between then and the end of my constitutional term do what I may be able to ruin the government. Others regard the fact that the Chicago Convention adjourned not sine die, but to meet again if called to do so by a particular individual, as the intimation of a purpose that if the nominee shall be elected, he will at once seize control of the Government. I hope the good people will permit themselves to suffer no uneasiness on either point. I am struggling to maintain the Government, not to overthrow it. I therefore say that if I shall live, I shall remain President until the 4th of next March, and that whoever shall be constitutionally elected therefor in November shall be duly installed as President on the 4th of March, and that in the interval I shall do my utmost that whosoever is to hold the helm for the next voyage shall start with the best possible chance to save the ship. This is due to the people both on principle and under the Constitution. Their will, constitutionally expressed, is the ultimate law for all. If they should deliberately resolve to have immediate peace, even at the toss of their country and their liberties, I know not the power or right to resist them. It is their own business and they must do as they please with their own. 
I believe, however, they are still resolved.to preserve their country and their liberty, and in this, in office or out of it, I am resolved to stand by them. I may add that in this purpose to save the country and its liberties, no classes of people seem, soaeem ao nearly unanimous as the soldiers in the field and the seamen afloat. Do they not have the hardest of it? Who should quail when they do not? God bless the soldiers and seamen, and all their brave commanders!" 
A VICTORIOUS WEEK. 
This week has been one of the most spirited times of the war, as it became that week to be in, which fell the 87th anniversary of the surrender of Burgoyne and the 83d anniversary of the surrender of Cornwallis,-October 17th,-October 17th. 1777, and October 19th. 1781.Gen Sherman 19th, 1781. Gen. Sherman has baffled Gen. Hood; Gen. Rosecrans has taken the field against Gen. Price, who has, apparently, gotgo: into bad quarters in Missouri; Gen. Grant is pushing operations against Richmond; and Gen. Sheridan, on the 16th, won one of the greatest successes of the war, defeating Gen. Longstreet, (or Early,) taking more than 2000 prisoners, many cannon, and much miscellaneous spoil. A number of minor successes are reported, one of the most agreeable of which is the defeat of 280 rebels at Fort Donelson, which was the work of only 80 colored soldiers -a handsome exploit, and as creditable to Lieut. Johnson, who fell fighting gallantly at the head of his men, as to the soldiers. The war, it will be seen, goes on well. The political field, too, affords a most encouraging spectacle, and in three weeks we shall have mighty triumphs to mention. In Pennsylvania, the Republican majority, including the soldiers' vote, will be 12,000 or thereabouts; and in Indiana, 22,000. Ohio's Republican majority is about 75,000. There is a gain of twenty-one members of Congress, besides the one gained in Maine. This secures a large majority to the Republicans in the next House of Representatives; and the Senate has always been theirs, and will so remain.-Boston Traveller of Saturday.
The results of Gen. Sheridan's operations in the Shenandoah Valley are footed up as follows : prisoners captured, 8600; cannon captured, 78; small arms, 12,100; caissons, 25; wagons, 260.
 From Missouri, we learn that heavy fighting was going on all Saturday between Gen. Curtis and the “main army of Price. The losses were heavy, and it was thought the Rebels had suffered much more severely than the Union army. Gen. Pleasanton, with cavalry, was pressing hard on the rear of the enemy. A dispatch from Leaveaworh, dated the 21st, says that Gen. Blunt had been all that day stubbornly resisting the advance of the Rebel Price's army toward the western part of the State of Missouri. Gov. Carney; of Kansas, having telegraphed that the danger was very great, and to send to the front every available man, troops were going forward rapidly. 
Gen. Sheridan officially states that he pursued the flying Rebels nearly to Mt. Jackson, and that the evidences of an entire rout were complete on every hand. The Rebels nearly took 24 pieces of artillery from us early in the morning, but Sheridan not only retook them, but added nearly as many more to them, and they are now at his headquarters. The Valley is strewn with arms and equipments, thrown away by the enemy, and not less than three hundred wagons have been captureor destroyed. Fifteen hundred of our wounded and 1,500 Rebel prisoners have arrived at Martinsburg. Gen. Custer arrived in Washington on Saturday with ten captured Rebel battle-flags. 
We have additional particulars of the seizure of the steamship. Roanoke by Rebel pirates, under Lieut. Braine. The Roanoke left Havana on the 29th of last month for this port, and about ten o'clock on that night, the Rebels, by a sudden movement, succeeded in securing all the officers. After seeing the passengers and crew on board another vessel for Bermuda, the pirates burned the Roanoke. Her freight was of no great value; but she had on board between fifty and sixty thousand dollars, which her Rebel captors secured.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in Cumming ton, Sunday, Nov. 6. 
In Florence, Friday evening, Nov. 11.
MARRIED-In Lynn, Oct 11, by Rev. Samuel Johnson, Dr. HENRY C. AHLBORN to Miss EMILY, daughter of James N. Buffum, Esq., all of Lynn. 
In the Church of the Holy Ghost, Heidelberg, Germany, August 18, by Stadtofarrer Schellenberg, Schellenberg, Rev. THOMAS VICKERS of Boston, to KAROLINA KATHARINA, youngest daughter of the late Martin SeeBerger, Superintendent of the Orphan Asylum in Heidelberg.
A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
No. 1, for November, contains Rev. O. B. Frothing-ham's Discourse before the Alumni at Cambridge, entitled, " THE NEW RELIGION OF NATURE," with a variety of other contributions.
$2 per year. Single numbers, 20 cents. To be had of the Newsdealers.
C. M. PUMB & CO, Publishers,
Oct. 28. 274 Canal St., New York.
SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK 
SHOWING what the present Administration has <illegible> for freedom. Being a
History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th and 38th <illegible> 
CONTENTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free. 
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army. 
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia. 
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of Slavery. 
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories. 
Certain Slaves to be made Free. 
Hayti and Liberia. 
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Colombia. 
The African Slave-Trade. 
Additional Act to Abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia. 
Colored Soldiers. 
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves. 
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington Jail..
Negro Testimony. 
The Coastwise Slave-Trade. 
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Malls, 
No Exclusion from the care on Account of Color. 
12 MO.-EXTRA CLOTH-<illegible>2
ALSO NOW READY: 
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES OF
A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12<illegible> 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style.$1.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.
JUST PUBLISHED :
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE.
By E. L. & A.L.Frothingham.1 vol. <illegible> elegant. $3.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO., 
PUBLISHERS,
245 Washington Street, Boston,
Oct.21. 2w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THE MORNING COMETH!
BY REV. S. F. SMITH.
It is coming, it is coming,
As comes the blessed rain,
When the burning heat and dryness
Have scorched the waving grain;
We hail the early promise-
‘Tis not in vain to wait; 
If the help serves GOD'S great purpose, 
It never comes too late.
It is coming, it is coming,
Said the slave, whose heavy toil
Was grinding bone and muscle,
As the cart-wheel grinds the soil; 
The trail of Desolation 
That marks the War's red wrath, 
Reveals, where Faith stands waiting,
The Almighty's onward path.
It is coming, it is coming, 
As comes the gentle dew 
On the weary, fainting flowers,
When the noontide heat is through;
 It comes in silent sweetness,
To comfort and to bless-
We never hear it coming,
But it blesses none the less.
It is coming, it is coming,
As the Giant, rested, wakes,-
As o'er the distant hill-tops
The morning redness breaks;
While the soldier on his picket
His solemn vigil keeps, 
The light already glimmers
On the highest rugged steeps.
It is coming, yes, 'tis coming,
But, 0 Prophet, Poet, when? 
We have lavished forth, like water,
Our treasure and our men.
We watch the cloudy pillar
That guides our devious way, 
And, blinded in the darkness,
GOD bids our Faith delay.
It is coming, it is coming-
Love can calm the maddened brain,
And the Palm-tree and the Pine-tree
Interlace their boughs again; 
The Corn and Cotton ripen
For the Loyal and the Brave, 
And Freemen till the acres
Of a Land without a SLAVE!
It is coming, it is coming-
PEACE o'er all the land shall rest,
With a Glory and a Beauty
Like Evening in the West; 
The noontide brightness lingers,
But GOD can bid it glow; 
The forest sleeps in acorns,
But GOD can make it grow.

NO SLAVE BENEATH THE FLAG.
No slave beneath that starry flag,
The emblem of the free! 
No fettered hand shall wield the brand
That smites for Liberty!
No tramp of servile armies
Shall shame Columbia's shore; 
For he who fights for Freedom's rights
Is free forevermore!
Go tell the ashes of the braves 
Who at Por Hudson fell;
Go tell the dust whose holy trust
Stern Wagner guards so well;
Go breathe it softly, slowly,
Where'er the patriot slave 
For right has fled; and tell the dead
He fills a freeman's grave!
Go tell Kentucky's bondmen true,
That he who fights is free; 
And let the tale fill every gale
That floats o'er Tennessee;
 Let all our mighty rivers
The story Southward pour,
And every wave tell every slave
To be a slave no more.
No [slave beneath that grand old flag!
For ever let it fly! 
With lightning rolled in every fold,
And flashing victory! 
God's blessing breathe around it;
And when all strife is done,
May Freedom's light, that knows no night,
Make every star a sun! 
-N. Y. Tribune.

TO THE PILOT OF THE SHIP OF STATE.
Though furious winds and tempests rage,
And lightnings flash and thunders roar;
Though all the elements engage, 
Their fury on the Ship to pour,
 Stand firm and steady at your post;
For if you yield, the Ship is lost.
Though on the billows fiercely tost,
And breakers threaten to destroy;
Though sail and spar are rent and lost,
 And false lights glitter to decoy,
 Stand firm and steady at your post;
 For if you yield, the Ship is lost.
Though part the crew be mutineers,
 And officers should recreant prove; 
Though friends take counsel of their fears,
 And from her course the Ship would move,
 Stand firm and steady at your post; 
For if you yield, the Ship is lost.
Though thicker gloom and darkness lower,
And more obscure appears the way,
Remember'tis the midnight hour 
Of darkness which precedes the day;
Stand firm and steady at your post,
And save the ship, whate'er the cost!
Roxbury, Mass. H. G. C.
-Boston Traveller.

OCTOBER.
The summer, slow retreating from the heavens,
Returns a space, earth's beauty to behold,
And through the mists of parting tears she sendeth
One last fond smile to haunts beloved of old.
Like the Egyptian queen in ancient story,
That garbed herself all royally to die,
The year around her folds her robe of beauty,
And stands a queen beneath the pallid sky;
And round her regal form, like hushed attendants,
The forests stand in anguished moanings toss'd,
For'neath her splendor heaves to death her bosom,
Smote by the aspic of the untimely frost.
Like <illegible> soon will come the chill December, 
To gaze upon her form whence life is fled;
And the wild winds that wail around her dying,
Will shrink in anguish o'er the bright year dead.

WHAT IT IS TO LOVE.
Love! I will tell thee what it is to love!
It is to build with human thoughts a shrine, 
Where hope sits brooding like a beauteous dove,
Where time seems young, and life a thing divine.
All tastes, all pleasures, all desires combine
To consecrate this sanctuary of bliss;
Above, the stars in cloudless beauty shine,
Around the streams their flowery margins kiss;
And if there's heaven on earth, that heaven is surely this.
Yes, this is love, the steadfast and the true,
The immortal glory that hath never set;
 The best, the sweetest boon the heart e'er knew;
Of all life's sweets the very sweetest yet! 
O! who can but recall the eve they met
To breathe in some green walk their first young vow;
While summer flowers with moonlight dews were wet,
And the wind sighs soft around the mountain brow,
And all was rapture then, which is but memory now
CHARLES SWAIN.
<c02>
Selections.
THE GREAT WESTERN CONSPIRACY.
(Concluded from first page.)
Thus, too, Dodd, Grand Commander of the order in Indiana, quoting, in his address of February last, the views of his chief, Vallandigham, and adopting them as his own, says:
"He (Vallandigham) judges that the Washington power will not yield up its power, until it is taken from them by an indignant people, by force of arms.”
Such, then, are the written principles of the order in which the neophyte is instructed, and which he is sworn to cherish and observe as his rule of action, when, with arms placed in his hands, he is called upon to engage in the overthrow of his Government, This declaration-first, of the absolute right of slavery; second, of State sovereignly and the right of secession; third, of the right of armed resistance to constituted authority on the part of the disaffected and the disloyal, whenever their ambition may prompt them to revolution-is but an assertion of that abominable theory which, from its first enunciation, 
served as a pretext for conspiracy after conspiracy against the Government on the part of Southern traitors, until their detestable plotting culminated in open rebellion and bloody civil war. What more appropriate name, therefore, to be communicated as a password to the new member upon his first admission to the secrets of the order could have been conceived than that which was actually adopted that of "Calhoun!"-a man, who, baffled in his lust for power, with gnashing teeth turned upon the Government that had lifted him to its highest honors, and upon the country that had borne him, and, down to the very close of his fevered life, labored incessantly to scatter far and wide the seeds of that poison of death now upon our lips! The thorns which now pierce and tear us are of the tree he planted.
VII.-ITS SPECIFIC PURPOSES AND OPERATIONS.
From the principles of the order, as thus set forth, its general purpose of co-operating with the rebellion may readily be inferred, and, in fact, those principles could logically lead to no other result. This general purpose, indeed, is distinctly set forth in the personal statements and confessions of its members, and particularly of its prominent officers, who have been induced to make disclosures to the Government. Among the most significant of these confessions are those already alluded to, of Hunt, Dunn, and Smith, the heads of the order in Missouri. The latter, whose statement is full and explicit, says:"At the time I joined the order, I understood that its object was to aid and assist the Confederate Government, and endeavor to restore the Union as it was prior to this rebellion.” He adds:" The order is hostile in every respect to the General Government, and friendly to the so-called Confederate Government. It is exclusively made up of disloyal persons-of all Democrats who are desirous of securing the independence of the Confederate States, with a view of restoring the Union as it was."
It would be idle to comment on such gibberish as the statement that" the independence of the Confederate 
States" was to be used as the means of restoring “the Union as it was;" and yet, under the manipulations of these traitorous jugglers, doubtless the brains of many have been so far muddled as to accept the shameless declaration as true.
But to proceed to the specific purposes of the order, which its leaders have had in view from the beginning, and which, as will be seen, it has been able, in many cases, to carry out with very considerable 
success, the following are found to be most pointedly presented by the testimony:
I. Aiding Soldiers to Desert, and Harboring and Protecting Deserters. Early in its history, the order essayed to undermine such portions of the army as were exposed to its insidious approaches. Agents were sent by the K. G. C. into the camps to introduce the order among the soldiers, and those who became members were instructed to induce as many of their companions as possible to desert, and for this purpose the latter were furnished by the order with money and citizens clothing. Soldiers who hesitated at desertion, but desired to leave the army, were introduced to lawyers who engaged to furnish them some quasi legal pretext for so doing; and a certain attorney of Indianapolis, named Walpole, who was particularly conspicuous in furnishing facilities of this character to soldiers who applied to him, has boasted that he has thus aided five hundred enlisted men to escape from their contracts. Through the schemes of the order in Indiana, whole companies were broken up; a large detachment of a battery company, for instance, deserting on one occasion to the enemy, with two of its guns, and the camps were imbued with a spirit of discontent and dissatisfaction with the service. Some estimate of the number of deserters at this time may be derived from a report of the Adjutant General of Indiana, of January, 1863, setting forth that the number of deserters and absentees returned to the army through the post of Indianapolis alone, during the month of December, 1862, was nearly two thousand six hundred. As soon as arrests of these deserters began to be generally made, writs of habeas corpus were issued in their cases by disloyal judges, and a considerable number were discharged thereon. In one instance in Indiana, where an officer in charge of a deserter properly refused to obey the writ, after it had been suspended in such cases by the President, his attachment for contempt was ordered by the chief justice of the State, who declared that the streets of Indianapolis might run with blood, but that he would enforce his authority against the President's order.” On another occasion certain United States officers, who had made the arrest of deserters in Illinois, were themselves arrested for kidnapping 
and held to trial by a disloyal judge, who at the same time discharged the deserters, though acknowledging them to be such.
Soldiers, upon deserting, were assured of immunity from punishment, and protection on the part of the order, and were instructed to bring away with them their arms, and, if mounted, their horses. Details sent to arrest them by the military authorities were in several cases forcibly resisted, and, where not unusually strong in numbers, were driven back by large bodies of men, subsequently generally ascertained to be members of the order. Where arrests were effected, our troops were openly attacked 
and fired upon on their return. Instances of such attacks occurring in Morgan and Rush counties, Indiana, are especially noticed by General Carrington. In the case of the outbreak in Morgan county, J. S. Bingham, editor of the Indianapolis Sentinel, a member or friend of the order, sought to forward to the disloyal newspapers of the West false and inflammatory telegraphic despatches in regard to the affair, to the effect that cavalry had been sent to arrest all the Democrats in the, county, that they had committed gross outrages, and that several citizens had been shot; and adding: "Ten thousand soldiers cannot hold the men arrested this night. Civil war and bloodshed are inevitable." The assertions in the despatch were entirely false, and may serve to illustrate the fact heretofore noted, that a studious misrepresentation in regard to the acts of the Government and its officers is a part of the prescribed duty of members of the order. It is, to be added, that seven of the party in Morgan county who made the attack upon our troops were convicted of their offence by a State court. Upon their trial it was proved that the party was composed of members of the K. G. C.
One of the most pointed instances of protection furnished to deserters occurred in a case in Indiana, where seventeen deserters entrenched themselves in a log cabin with a ditch and palisade, and were furnished 
with provisions, and sustained in their defence against our military authorities for a considerable period by the order or its friends.
2. Discouraging Enlistments and Resisting the Draft.-It is especially inculcated by the order to oppose the reinforcement of our armies, either by volunteers or drafted men. In 1862, the Knights of the Golden Circle organized generally to resist the draft in the Western States, and were strong enough in certain localities to greatly embarrass the Government. In this year, and early in 1863, a number of enrolling officers were shot in Indiana and Illinois. In Blackford county, Indiana, an attack was made upon the court-house, and the books connected with the draft were destroyed. In several counties of the State a considerable military force was required for the protection of the United States officials, and a large number of arrests were made, including that of one Reynolds, an ex-Senator of the Legislature, for publicly urging upon the populace to resist the conscription-an offence of the same character, in fact, as that upon which Vallandigham was apprehended in Ohio. These
<c03>
outbreaks were, no doubt, in most cases, incited by the order, and engaged in by its members. In Indiana nearly two hundred persons were indicted for conspiracy against the Government, resisting the draft, &c., and about sixty of these were convicted.
Where members of the order were forced into the army, by the draft, they were instructed, in case they were prevented from presently escaping, and were obliged to go to the field, to use their arms in battle against their fellow-soldiers rather than the enemy, or, if possible, to desert to the enemy, by whom, through the signs of the order, they would be recognized and received as friends. It is to be added that whenever a member volunteered in the army, he was at once expelled from the order.
3. Circulation of Disloyal and Treasonable Publications.-The order, especially in Missouri, has secretly 
circulated throughout the country a great quantity; of treasonable publications, as a means of extending its own power and influence, as well as of giving encouragement to the disloyal, and inciting them to treason. Of these, some of the principal are the following: "Pollard's Southern History of the War," "Official Reports of the Confederate Government,"" Life of Stonewall Jackson," pamphlets containing articles from the" Metropolitan Record," "Abraham Africanus, or Mysteries of the White House," "The Lincoln Catechism, or a Guide to the Presidential election of 1864," "Indestructible Organics," by Tifga. These publications have generally been procured by formal requisitions drawn upon the grand commander by leading members in the interior of a State. One of these requisitions, dated June 10th last, and drawn by a local secretary of the order at Genteryville, Mo., is exhibited in the testimony. It contains a column of the initials of a number of subscribers, opposite whose names are entered the number of disloyal publications to be furnished, the particular book or books, &c., required being indicated by fictitious titles.
4. Communicating with, and Giving Intelligence to the enemy.-Smith, grand secretary of the order in Missouri, says, in his confession:" Rebel spies, mail carriers, and emissaries have been carefully protected by this order ever since I have been a member. “It is shown in the testimony to be customary in the rebel service to employ members of the order as spies, under the guise of soldiers furnished with furloughs to visit their homes within our lines. On coming within the territory occupied by our forces, they are harbored and supplied with information by the order. Another class of spies claim to be deserters from the enemy, and at once seek an opportunity to take the oath of allegiance, which, however, though voluntarily taken, they claim to be administered while they are under a species of duress, and, therefore, not to be binding. Upon swearing allegiance to the Government, the pretended deserter engages, with the assistance of the order, in collecting contraband goods or procuring intelligence to be conveyed to the enemy, or in some other treasonable enterprise. In his official report of June 12th last, Col. Sanderson remarks: "This department 
is filled with rebel spies, all of whom belong to the order."
 In Missouri regular mail communication was for a long period maintained through the agency of the order from St. Louis to Price's army, by means of which private letters, as well as official dispatches between him and the Grand Commander of Missouri, were regularly transmitted. The mail-carriers started from a point on the Pacific Railroad, near Kirkwood Station, about fourteen miles from St. Louis, and, travelling only by night, proceeded (to quote from Colonel Sanderson's report) to" Mattox Mills, on the Maramee river, thence past Mineral Point to Webster, thence to a point fifteen miles below 
Van Buren, where they crossed the Black river, and thence to the rebel lines." It is, probably, also by this route that the secret correspondence, stated by the witness Pitman to have been constantly kept up between Price and Vallandigham, the heads of the order at the North and South respectively, was successfully maintained.
A similar communication has been continuously held with the enemy from Louisville, Kentucky. A considerable number of women in that State, many of them in high position in rebel society, and some of them outwardly professing to be loyal, were discovered to have been actively engaged in receiving and forwarding mails, with the assistance of the order and as its instruments. Two of the most notorious 
and successful of these, Mrs. Woods and, Miss Cassell, have been apprehended and imprisoned.
By means of this correspondence with the enemy, the members of the order were promptly apprised of all raids to be made by the forces of the former, and were able to hold themselves prepared to render aid and comfort to the raiders. To show how efficient for this purpose was the system thus established, it is to be added that our military authorities have, in a number of cases, been informed, through members of the order, employed in the interest of the Government, of impending raids, and important army movements of the rebels, not only days, but some times weeks, sooner than the same intelligence could have reached them through the ordinary channels.
 On the other hand, the system of espionage kept up by the order, for the purpose of obtaining information 
of the movements of our own forces, &c., to be imparted to the enemy, seems to have been as perfect as it was secret. The Grand Secretary of the order in Missouri states, in his confession: “One of the especial objects of this order was to place members in steamboats, ferryboats, telegraph offices, express offices, department headquarters, provost Marshals' offices, and, in fact, in every position where they could do valuable service;" and he proceeds to specify certain members who, at the date of his confession, (August 2d last,) were employed at the express and telegraph offices in St. Louis.
5. Aiding the Enemy, by recruiting for them, or Assisting them to Recruit within our Lines. This has also 
been extensively carried on by members of the order, particularly in Kentucky and Missouri. It is estimated that two thousand men were sent South, from Louisville alone, during a few weeks in April and May, 1864. The order and its friends at that city have a permanent fund, to which there are many subscribers, for the purpose of fitting out with pistols, clothing, money, &c., men desiring to join the Southern 
service; and, in the lodges of the order in St. Louis and Northern Missouri, money has often been raised to purchase horses, arms, and equipments for soldiers about to be forwarded to the Southern army. In the latter State parties empowered by Price, or by Grand Commander Hunt as his representative, to recruit for the rebel service, were nominally authorized to "locate lands," as it was expressed, and in their reports, which were formally made, the number of acres, &c. located, represented the number of men recruited. At Louisville, those desiring to join the Southern forces were kept hidden, and supplied with food and lodging until a convenient occasion was presented for their transportation South. They were then collected, and conducted at night to a safe rendezvous of the order, whence they were forwarded to their destination, in some cases stealing horses from the United States corrals on their way. While awaiting an occasion to be sent South, the men, to avoid the suspicion which might be excited by their being seen together in any considerable number, were often employed on. farms in the vicinity of Louisville, and the farm of one Moore, in that neighborhood (at whose house also meetings of the order were held,) is indicated in the testimony as one of the localities where such recruits were so rendezvoused and employed.
The same facilities which were afforded to recruits for the Southern army were also furnished by the order to persons desiring to proceed beyond our lines for any illegal purpose. By these, Louisville was generally preferred as a point of departure, and, on the Mississippi river, a particular steamer, the Graham, 
was selected as the safest conveyance.
 6. Furnishing the Rebels with Arms, Ammunition, &c.-In this, too, the order, and especially its female members and allies, has been sedulously engaged. The rebel women of Louisville and Kentucky are represented as having rendered the most valuable aid to the Southern army, by transporting very large quantities of percussion caps, powder, &c., concealed upon their persons, to some convenient locality near the lines, whence they could be readily conveyed to those for whom they were intended. It is estimated 
that at Louisville, up to May 1 last, the sum of $17,000 had been invested by the order in ammunition 
and arms, to be forwarded, principally in this manner, to the rebels. In St. Louis, several firms, who are well known to the Government, the principal of which is Beauvais & Co., have been engaged 
in supplying arms and ammunition to members of the order, to be conveyed to their Southern allies. Mary Ann Pitman, a reliable witness, and a member of the O. A.K., who will hereafter be specially alluded to, states in her testimony that she Visited Beauvais & Co. three times, and procured
<c04>
from them on each occasion about $80 worth of caps, besides a number of pistols and cartridges, which she carried in person to Forrest's command, besides a much larger quantity of similar articles which, she caused to be forwarded by other agents. The guerillas in Missouri also received arms from St. Louis, and one Douglas, one of the most active conspirators of the O. A. K., in Missouri, and a special emissary of Price, was arrested while in the act of transporting a box of forty revolvers by railroad, to a guerilla camp in the interior of the State. Medical stores in large quantities were also, by the aid of the order, furnished to the enemy; and a surgeon in Louisville is mentioned as having made $75,000 by smuggling "medicines" through the lines of our army. Supplies were in some cases conveyed to the enemy through the medium of professed loyalists, who, having received permits for that purpose from the United States military authorities, would forward their goods, as if for ordinary purposes of trade, to a certain point near the rebel lines, where by the connivance of the owners, the enemy would be enabled to seize them.
7. Co-operating with the Enemy in raids and invasions-While it is clear that the order has given aid, both directly and indirectly, to the forces of the rebels, and to guerilla bands, when engaged in making incursions into the border States, yet because, on the one hand, of the constant restraint upon its action exercised by our military authorities, and, on the other hand, of the general success of our armies in the field over those of the enemy, their allies at the North have never thus far been able to carry out their grand plan of a general armed rising of the order, and its co-operation on an extended scale with the Southern forces. This plan has been twofold, and consisted-first, of a rising of the order, in Missouri, aided by a strong detachment from Illinois, and a co-operation with a rebel army under Price; second, of a similar rising in Indiana, Ohio, and Kentucky, and a co-operation with a force under Breckinridge, Buckner, Morgan, or some other rebel commander, who was to invade the latter State. In this case the order was first to cut the railroads and telegraph wires, in order that intelligence of the movement might not be sent abroad, and the transportation 
of Federal troops might be delayed, and then to seize upon the arsenals at Indianapolis, Columbus, Springfield, Louisville, and Frankfort, and furnishing such of their number as were without arms, to kill or make prisoners of department, district, and post commanders, release the rebel prisoners at Rock Island, and at Camps Morton, Douglas, and Chase, and thereupon join the Southern army at Louisville
 or some other point in Kentucky, which State was to be permanently occupied by the combined force. At the period of the movement, it was also proposed that an attack should be made upon Chicago by means of steam-tugs mounted with cannon. A similar course was to be taken in Missouri, and was to result in the permanent occupation of the State.
This plan has long occupied the minds of members of the order, and has been continually discussed by them in their lodges. A rising somewhat of the character described was intended to have taken place in the spring of this year, simultaneously with an expected advance of the army of Lee upon Washington, 
but the plans of the enemy having been anticipated by the movements of our own generals, the rising of the conspirators was necessarily postponed. Again, a general movement of the Southern forces was anticipated to take place about July 4, and with this the order was to co-operate. A speech to be made by Vallandigham at the Chicago Convention was, it is said, to be the signal for the rising; but the postponement of the Convention, as well as the failure of the rebel armies to engage in the anticipated movement, again operated to disturb the schemes of the order. During the summer, however, the grand plan of action above set forth has been more than ever discussed throughout the order, and its success most confidently predicted, while at the same time an extensive organization and preparation for carrying their conspiracy into effect have been actively going on. But, up to this time, notwithstanding the late raids of the enemy in Kentucky, and the invasion of Missouri by Price, no such general action on the part of the order as was contemplated has taken place-a result, in great part, owing to the activity of our military authorities in strengthening the detachments at the prisons, arsenals, &c., and in causing the arrest of the leading conspirators in the several States, and especially in the seizure of large quantities of arms which had been shipped for the use of the order in their intended. outbreak. It was, doubtless, on account of these precautions that the day last appointed for the rising of the order in Indiana and Kentucky (August 16,) passed by with but slight disorder.
It is, however, the inability of the public enemy, in the now declining days of the rebellion, to initiate the desired movements which has prevented the order from engaging in open warfare; and it has lately been seriously considered in their councils, whether they should not proceed with their revolt, relying alone upon the guerilla bands of Syphert, Jesse, and others, for support and assistance.
With these guerillas the order has always most readily acted along the border. The latter, in cases of the capture by the Union forces of Northern memoers of the order engaged in co-operating with them, have frequently retaliated by seizing prominent Union citizens, and holding them as hostages for the release of their allies. At other times our Government has been officially notified by the rebel authorities that if the members of the order captured were not treated by us as ordinary prisoners of war, retaliation would be resorted to.
An atrocious plan of concert between members of the order in Indiana and certain guerilla bands of Kentucky, agreed upon last spring, may be remarked upon in this connection. Some 2,500 or 3,000 guerillas were to be thrown into the border counties, and were to assume the character of refugees seeking employment. Being armed, they were secretly to destroy Government property wherever practicable, to control the elections by force, prevent enlistments, aid deserters, and stir up strife between the civil and military authorities.
A singular feature of the raids of the enemy remains only to be adverted to, viz.: that the officers conducting these raids are furnished by the rebel Government with quantities of United States Treasury notes for use within our lines, and that these are probably most frequently procured through the agency of members of the order.
Mary Ann Pitman, believed to be a true and faithful witness, states that Forrest of the rebel army at one time exhibited to her a letter to himself from a prominent rebel sympathizer and member of the order in Washington, D. C., in which it was set forth that the sum of $20,000 in "greenbacks" had actually been forwarded by him to the rebel Government at Richmond.
8. Destruction of Government Property.-There is no doubt that large quantities of Government property have been burned or otherwise destroyed by the agents of the order in different localities. At Louisville, in the case of the steamer Taylor, and on the Mississippi river, steamers belonging to the United States have been burned at the wharves, and generally when loaded with Government stores. Shortly before the airest of Bowles, the senior of the major generals of the order in Indiana, he had been engaged in the preparation of "Greek fire," which was to be found serviceable in the destruction of public property. It was generally understood in the councils of the order, in the State of Kentucky, that they were to be compensated for such destruction by the rebel Government, by receiving a commission of ten per cent, of the value of the property so destroyed, and that this value was to be derived from the estimate of the loss made in each case by Northern newspapers.
9. Destruction of Private Property and Persecution of Union Men.-It is reported by General Carrington that the full development of the order in Indiana was followed by "a state of terrorism" among the Union residents of" portions of Brown, Morgan, Johnson, Rush, Clay, Sullivan, Bartholomew, Hendricks, and other counties" in that State; that from some localities they were driven away altogether; that in others their barns, hay, and wheat ricks were burned; and that many persons, under the general insecurity of life and property, sold their effects at a sacrifice, and removed to other places. At one time in Brown county, the members of the order openly threatened the lives of all "Abolitionists" who refused to sign a peace memorial which they had prepared and addressed to Congress. In Missouri, also, similar outrages, committed upon the property of loyal citizens, are attributable, in a great degree, to the secret order. In this connection, the outbreak of the miners in the coal districts of eastern Pennsylvania, in the autumn of last year, may be appropriately referred to. It was fully shown in the testimony adduced, upon the trials of these insurgents, who were guilty of the destruction of property and numerous acts of violence, as well as murder, that they were gener-
<c05>
ally members of a secret treasonable association, similar in all respects to the K. G. C., at the meetings 
of which they had been incited to the commission of the crimes for which they were tried and convicted.
10. Assassination and Murder.-After what has been disclosed in regard to this infamous league of traitors and ruffians, it will not be a matter of surprise to learn that the cold-blooded assassination of Union citizens and soldiers has been included in their devilish scheme of operations. Green B. Smith states in his confession that “The secret assassination of United States officers, soldiers, and Government employees has been discussed in the councils of the order, and recommended" It is also shown in the course of the testimony that at a large meeting of the order in St; Louis, in May or June last, it was proposed to form a secret police of members of the order, for the purpose of patrolling the streets of that city at nighty, and killing every detective and soldier that could be readily disposed of; that this proposition was coolly considered, and finally rejected, not because of its fiendish character-no voice being raised against its criminality-but because only it was deemed premature. At Louisville, in June last, a similar scheme was discussed among the order for the waylaying and butchering of negro soldiers in the streets at night; and in the same month, a party of its members in that city was actually organized for the purpose of throwing off the track of the Nashville Railroad a train of colored troops, and seizing the opportunity to take the lives of as many as possible. Again, in July, the assassination of an obnoxious provost marshal, 
by betraying him into the bands of guerillas, was designed by members in the interior of Kentucky.
Further, at a meeting of the Grand Council of Indiana, at Indianapolis, on June 14th last, the murder of one Coffin, a Government detective, who, as it was supposed, had betrayed the order, was deliberately discussed and fully determined upon. This fact is stated by Stidger in his report to Gen. Carrington, of June 17th last, and is more fully set forth in his testimony upon the trial of Dodd. He deposes that at the meeting in question, Dodd him-self volunteered to go to Hamilton, Ohio, where Coffin was expected to be found, and there" dispose of the latter.” He adds that prior to the meeting, he himself conveyed from Judge Bullitt, at Louisville, to Bowles and Dodd, at Indianapolis, special instructions to have Coffin "put out of the way"-“murdered”-“at all hazards.”
The opinion is expressed by Colonel Sanderson, under date of June 12 last, that" the recent numerous cold-blooded assassinations of military officers and unconditional Union men throughout the military district of North Missouri, especially along the Western border," is to be ascribed to the agency of the order. The witness, Pitman, represents that it is" a part of the obligation or understanding of the order" to kill officers and soldiers" when-ever it can be done by stealth" as well as loyal citizens when considered important or influential persons; and she adds, that while at Memphis, during the past summer, she knew that men on picket were secretly killed by members of the order approaching them in disguise.
In this connection may be recalled the wholesale assassination of Union soldiers by members of the order and their confederates at Charleston, Illinois, in March last, in regard to which, as a startling episode of the rebellion, a full report was addressed from this office to the President, under date of July 26th last. This concerted murderous assault upon a scattered body of men, mostly unarmed-apparently designed for the mere purpose of destroying as many lives of Union soldiers as possible-is a forcible illustration of the utter malignity and depravity which characterize the members of this order in their zeal to commend themselves as faithful allies to their fellow-conspirators at the South.
11. Establishment of a Northwestern Confederacy.-In concluding this review of some of the principal specific purposes of the order, it remains only to remark upon a further design of many of its leading members, the accomplishment of which they are represented as having deeply at heart. Hating New England, and jealous of her influence and resources, and claiming that the interests of the West and South, naturally connected as they are through the Mississippi valley, are identical, and actuated further by an intensely revolutionary spirit, as well as an unbridled and unprincipled ambition, these men have made the establishment of a Western or Northwestern Confederacy, in alliance with the South, the grand aim and end of all their plotting and conspiring. It is with this steadily in prospect that they are constantly seeking to produce discontent, disorganization, and civil disorder at the North. With this view, they gloat over every reverse of the armies of the Union, and desire that the rebellion shall be protracted until the resources of the Government shall be exhausted, its strength paralyzed, its currency hopelessly depreciated, and confidence everywhere destroyed. Then from the anarchy which, under their scheme, is to ensue, the new Confederacy is to arise, which is either to unite itself with that of the South, or to form therewith a close and permanent alliance. Futile and extravagant as this scheme may appear, it is yet the settled purpose of many leading spirits of the secret conspiracy, and is their favorite subject of thought and discussion. Not only is this scheme deliberated upon in the lodges of the order, but it is openly proclaimed. Members of the Indiana Legislature, even, have publicly announced it, and avowed that they will take their own State out of the Union, and recognize the independence of the South. A citizen, captured by a guerrilla band in Kentucky last summer, records the fact that the establishment of a new Confederacy as the deliberate purpose of the Western people was boastfully asserted by these outlaws, who also assured their prisoner that in the event of such establishment, there would be" a greater rebellion than ever!"
Lastly, it is claimed that the new Confederacy is already organized; that it has a" provisional government," officers, departments, bureaus, &c., in secret operation. No comment is necessary to be made upon this treason, not now contemplated for the first time in our history. Suggested by the present rebellion, it is the logical consequence of the ardent and utter sympathy therewith which is the life and inspiration of the secret order.
VIII.-THE WITNESSES AND THEIR TESTIMONY.
The facts detailed in the present report have been derived from a great variety of dissimilar sources, but all the witnesses, however different their situations, concur so pointedly in their testimony, that the evidence which has been furnished of the facts must be regarded as of the most reliable character.
The principal witnesses may be classified as follows:
1. Shrewd, intelligent men, employed as detectives, and with a peculiar talent for their calling, who have gradually gained the confidence of leading members of the order, and in some cases have been admitted to its temples, and initiated into one or more of the degrees. The most remarkable of these is Stidger, formerly a private soldier in our army, who, by the use of an uncommon address, though at great personal risk, succeeded in establishing such intimate relations with Bowles, Bullitt, Dodd, and other leaders of the order in Indiana and Kentucky, as to be appointed grand secretary for the latter State, a position the most favorable for obtaining information of the plans of these traitors, and warning the Government of their intentions. It is to the rare fidelity of this man, who has also been the principal witness upon the trial of Dodd, that the Government has been chiefly indebted for the exposure of the designs of the conspirators in the two States named.
2. Rebel officers and soldiers voluntarily or involuntarily 
making disclosures to our military authorities. The most valuable witnesses of this class are prisoners of war, who, actuated by laudable motives, have of their own accord furnished a large amount of information in regard to the order, especially as it exists in the South, and of the relations of its members with those of the Northern section. Among these, also, are soldiers at our prison camps, who, without designing it, have made known to our officials, by the use of the signs, &c., of the order, that they were members.
3. Scouts employed to travel through the interior of the border States, and also within or in the neighborhood of the enemy's lines-The fact that some of  these were left entirely ignorant of the existence of the order, upon being so employed, attaches an increased value to their discoveries in regard to its operations.
4. Citizen prisoners, to whom, while in confinement, disclosures were made relative to the existence, 
extent, and character of the order by fellow prisoners who were leading members, and who, in some instances, upon becoming intimate with the witness, initiated him into one of the degrees.
<c06>
5. Members of the order, who, upon a full acquaintance with its principles, have been applied by its infamous designs, and have voluntarily abandoned it, freely making known their experience to our military authorities-In this class may be placed the female witness, Mary Ann Pitman, who, thought in arrest at the period of her disclosures, was yet induced to make them for the reason that, as she says, "at the last meeting which I attended, they passed an order which I consider as utterly atrocious and barbarous; so I told them I would have nothing more to do with them." This woman was attached to the command of the rebel. Forrest, as an officer, under the name of "Lieutenant Rawley;” but, because her sex afforded her unusal facilities for crossing our lines, she was often employed in the execution of important commissions within our territory, and, as a member of the order, was made extensively acquainted with other members, both of the Northern and Southern sections. Her testimony is thus peculiarly valuable, and being a person of unusual intelligence and force of character, her statements are succinct, pointed, and emphatic. They are also especially useful as fully corroborating those of other witnesses regarded as most trust worthy.
6. Officers of the order of high rank, who have been prompted to present confessions, more or less detailed, in regard to the order and their connection with it. The principals of these are Hunt, Dunn, and Smith, grand commander, deputy grand commander, and grand secretary of the order in Missouri, to whose statements frequent reference has been made. These confessions, though in some degree guarded and disingenuous, have furnished to the Government much valuable information in regard to the secret operations of the order, especially in Missouri, the affiliation of its leaders with Price, &c.  It is to be noted that Dunn makes the statement in common with other witnesses that, in entering the order, he was quite ignorant of its true purposes. He says: “I did not become a member understandingly; the initiatory step was taken in the dark, without reflection and "without knowledge."
7. Deserters from our army who, upon being apprehended, confessed that they had been induced and assisted to desert by members of the order. It was, indeed, principally from these confessions that the existence of the secret treasonable organization of the K. G. C. was first discovered in Indiana in the year 1862.
8. Writers of anonymous communications, addressed to heads of departments or provost marshals, disclosing facts corroborative of other more important statements. 
9. The witnesses before the grand jury at Indian-apolis, in 1863, when the order was formally presented as a treasonable organization, and those whose testimony has been introduced upon the recent trial of Dodd.
It need only be added that a most satisfactory test of the credibility and weight of much of the evidence which has been furnished is afforded by the printed testimony in regard to the character and intention of the order, which is found in its national and State constitutions and its ritual. Indeed, the statements of the arious witnesses are but presentations of the logical and inevitable consequences and results of the principles therein set forth.
In concluding this review, it remains only to state that a constant reference has been made to the elaborate official reports, in regard to the order, of Brigadier General Carrington, commanding District of Indiana, and of Col. Sanderson, Provost Marshal General of the Department of Missouri. The great mass of the testimony  upon the subject of the secret conspiracy has been furnished by these officers, the latter acting under the orders of Major General Rosecrans, and the former co-operating, under the instructions of the Secretary of War, with Major General Burbridge, commanding District of Kentucky, as well as with Governor Morton, of Indiana, who, though at one time greatly embarrassed, by a Legislature strongly tainted with disloyalty, in his efforts to repress the domestic enemy, has at last seen his State relieved from the danger of a civil war.
But, although the treason of the order has been thoroughly exposed, and although its capacity for fatal mischief has, by means of the arrest of its leaders, the seizure of its arms, and the other vigorous means which have been pursued, been seriously impaired, it is still busied with its secret plottings against the Government, and with its perfidious designs in aid of the Southern rebellion. It is reported to have recently issued new signs and passwords, and its members assert that foul means will be used to prevent the success of the Administration at the coming election, and threaten an extended revolt in the event of the re-election of President Lincoln.
In the presence of the rebellion and this secret order-which is but its echo and faithful ally-we cannot but be amazed at the utter and wide-spread profligacy, personal and political, which these movements against the Government disclose. The guilty men engaged in them, after casting aside their allegiance, seem to have trodden under foot every sentiment of honor and every restrainst of law, human and divine. Judea produced but one Jadas <illegible> and Rome from the sinks of her demoralization produced but one Cataline; and yet, as events prove, there has arisen together in our land an entire brood of such traitors, all animated by the same parricidal spirit, and all struggling with the same relentless malignity for the dismemberment of our Union. Of this extraordinary phenomenon-not paralleled, it is believed, in the world's history-there can be but one explanation, and all these blackened and fetid streams of crimes may well be traced to the same common fountain. So fiercely intolerant and imperious was the temper engendered by slavery, that when the Southern people, after having controlled the national councils for half a centry, were <illegible>at an election, their leaders turned upon the Government with the insolent fury with which they would have drawn their revolvers on a rebellious slave in one of their negro quarters; and they have continued since to prosecute their warfare, amid all the barbarisms and atrocities naturally and necessarily inspired by the infernal institution in whose interests they are sacrificing a like themselves and their country. Many of these conspirators, as is well, known, were fed, clothed, and educated at the expense of the nation, and were loaded with its honors at the very moment they struck at its life with the horrible criminality of a son stabbing the <illegible> of his own mother while impressing kisses on his cheeks. The leaders of the traitors in the loyal States,Who so completely fraternize with these conspirators, and whose machinations are now unmasked, it is as clearly the duty of the Administration to prosecute and punish as it is its duty to subjugate the rebels who are openly in arms against the Government. In the performance of this duty, it is entitled to expect, and will doubtless receive the zealous co-operation, of true men everywhere, who in crushing the truculent foe ambushed in the haunts of this secret order, should rival in courage and faithfulness the armies which are so nobly sustaining our flag on the battle-fields of the south.
Respectfully submitted.
J. HOLT,
Judge Advocate General.
FARM FOR SALE. 
WILL BE SOLD AT PUBLIC AUCTION, on THURSDAY, the 10th day of November next, unless previously 
disposed of at private sale, the valuable Farm belonging to the undersigned, situated in WEST GLOUCESTER. Said farm contains.
SEVEN ACRES OF WOODLAND,
very thrifty hard wood, suitable for ship timber, anchor stocks, or cord wood; also, TWO OR MORE ACRES OF CLEARED LAND, with
A TWO -STORY HOUSE, TWO-STORY SHOE-SHOP,
and a good-sized Stable thereon;-A FINE ORCHARD, containing the choicest apple, pear, peach and cherry trees; also, grapes, currants and other small fruit. Said farm is known as the HOVEY FARM, and is bordered by four town and county roads, called Essex, Lincoln, Sumner and Haskell streets. A small creek runs through the farm, where salt water ebbs and flows. A stage coach, driven by the accommodating driver, WM. H. STORY, to and from Gloucester Harbor, daily, passes by the Premises. It is within speaking distance of the Haskell  Saw-Mill, where the timber can be sawed in any shape desired, by the skillful sawyer, JONATHAN RIGGS; and is within three 'minutes' walk of the BIG ROCK on Mrs RIGGS'S.  farm, and the Rocky Mountain, (so called, ) from which can be seen Essex River, Ipswich Bay, and the island where <illegible>CHOATE was born. It is in a neighborhood of kind, industrious and hospitable farmers, who mind their own business, and let other people's alone.
For terms, apply to the subscriber, who may be found at the farm. ANSEL H. HARLOW.
Gloucester, Oct.20.
E. M. BANNISTER,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
ROOM 85, STUDIO BUILDING,
TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
