THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING 
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.: —WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 16. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1732
Selections. 
<co1>
A FEMALE COPPERHEAD ON THE STUMP.
Some of the New York Copperheads, smarting under the eloquent speeches of Miss Dickinson, have brought out a lady (?) on their side—a Miss Emma Webb. One of our New York exchanges thus describes her speech at a late meeting in Brooklyn:
“Miss Webb said, in substance, that she had studied politics; that she had an equal number of friends at the North and at the South, fighting for and fighting against the Union, and which ever  triumphed would bring equal sorrow to her heart. She then spoke of the horrors of war—declared that it was depopulating the country, and that we should soon need a resurrection to save the nation from total extinction. She dwelt at great length on the new birth of the nation. She dwelt at great length on the new birth of the nation, and wondered that President Lincoln considered it his duty to violate the Constitution that the nation might be born again. Had he taken such a step in England, he would have lost his head. Miss Dickinson spoke of words for the hour; she should have said delusions of the hour. Emancipation is a delusion. She had visited the West Indies, and Emancipation had turned the islands into deserts and made heathens of the slaves, so that they now worshipped snakes (not copperheads). Wherever the negro is subordinate, he is useful and happy. Slavery is the normal condition of the negro. Negroes are in Africa what greenbacks are in the United States—a legal tender. The idea that established this Government was white, not black. The Constitution or Abolitionism must die. Abolitionism had deluged the country with blood. McClellan was not a nameless man—he was a hero, and had twice saved the capital. This country ought to be called New Africa, the moment the South is subjugated and slavery is abolished. She hoped soon to see the white flag of peace, &c., &c. Miss W. concluded by reciting Hood's Song of the Shirt. Sunset Cox then came forward and made a few remarks, indorsing the sentiments uttered by the speaker of the evening, and the meeting adjourned.”

MISS EMMA WEBB AT MOZART HALL.
The Democratic Literary Association having found the “heavy” as presented on their stage by judge Van Trump, Chas. Remelin, and Citizen Corry, not a paying institution, changed their base Monday evening, and introduced to their peace-loving friends, Miss Emma Webb, in her play of a reply to Miss Dickinson, in which she first appeared in Brooklyn, and where, we understand, she as usual did not create immense sensation.
We shall not attempt to describe her personal appearance, as the public have had ample opportunity of seeing her for themselves during the last two weeks at that temple whose doors always stand open for their accommodation—Pike's Opera House. If they did not avail themselves of the privilege, we are not to blame.
The lovers of peace, who were not present, will be pleased to learn that the lady was dressed in black, supposed to represent the intensity of her grief, as she contemplates the high-handed acts of tyranny practised by Abraham Lincoln.
It has been believed by those who have cared enough to give the matter any attention, that Miss Webb's orations (shade of Webster, forgive!) was written by some masculine Copperhead. This reporter don't believe anything of the sort, unless Sunset Cox could have done it in that tender and gushing period of his youth when he metaphorically took to his arms the Roman Abyssinian, and the sentiment of the lecture would seem to forbid. It was a woman's production, and a weak woman's at that. We mean no disrespect to woman, but, with few exceptions, we have not found those who appear on the public stage particularly strong in logic—and Miss Webb is by no means one of those exceptions.
Her manner was not particularly good, and very stagy. She began her speech in the usual Copperhead manner, by a melancholy description of the horrors of war; prefacing this, however, by stating that her relatives in the army were equally divided in number between rebel and Federal. It was easy to perceive that the speaker's sympathies were not equally divided, for we have seldom listened to more decided secession remarks. After singing the beauties of peace, she forthwith launched out into denunciations of those who had brought on the war—who, of course, were those terrible Abolitionists, headed by the tyrant of the White House—and taunted those present with their tame-spirited cowardice in so peaceably submitting to such monstrous Executive usurpations, and hinted what would have been the course of their brave ancestors under such circumstances. From which we would infer that peace men, or at least peace women, are not so terribly impressed with the horrors of a civil war, after all—always provided it does not affect our “Southern brethren.”
The lecturer, young-lady-like, was shocked at the idea of a “new birth.” Alluding to Miss Dickinson’s remarks, that the slain in battle were dying that the nation, under God, might have a new birth of freedom, she thought it strange that a nation so young should require regeneration. In her daily conning of frivolous plays, and nightly recitations before giddy audiences of the follies of social life, she has, no doubt, remained in blissful ignorance of the rapid increase of human slavery in this country which our fathers designed should be the “land of the free.” That most glaring fact in the history of nations, that the servitude and debasement of one class, and the unlimited rule and opulence of another, as the sure precursors of a country's ruin, seems not to have engaged her political observation. She could not understand why a new birth was necessary, but without giving any reason for her objection to it, except that “it would be very inconvenient,” she jumped at once into the consideration of the slavery question.
Miss Dickinson, she said, had extolled the present struggle as one for the independence of all mankind. Of course, by “all mankind” she meant the niggers of the South. This, of course, was a stroke of wit, and as such it pleased her admirers, and they cheered. A smart sprinkling of Union boys in our vicinity agreed in part with the inference, and they joined in the applause. She then spoke of emancipation in the West Indies, and roundly declared, with more of a woman’s emphasis than a statesman’s logic, that emancipation, wherever carried out, had cursed the whites and ruined the blacks.
The lecturer, of course, was as severe as she could be on poor Sambo. She pictured in rose colors his blessed condition  under the old order of things, and bewailed his pitiable fate under the new. She showed what a poor, good-for-nothing creature he is in any condition, except that of a slave. She stated that he had gone back into a state of vandalism (that is the word she used) in the West Indies, and worshipped a green snake, all on account of his having been freed through the mistaken benevolence
<c02>
of the English. From the pertinacity with which she returned to the green snake, we concluded she wished to convince the audience that that snake was a Copperhead.
The speaker then launched forth into praises of McClellan, stating with great emphasis that Miss Dickinson had sneered at him; at which the audience cheered tremendously, but some in our vicinity immediately began to look rather foolish, evidently concluding they had come in at the wrong beat.
As the lecturer went on to vindicate the peace party’s General, some impudent Abolition soldier spoke out, “Better dry up on McClellan, he’s played out."  Several others followed in, “that’s so,” “that’s a fact,” etc. The actress, however, went on with her “piece,” paying no more attention to the interruption than if she had been, parrot-like, reciting the words of another.
Ever and anon as we follow our notes, we find the fair speaker returning to the “nigger.” No Abolitionist,” said she defiantly, “can name a spot upon the civilized earth where the niggers are not subordinate to the whites, where they are either happy or useful. What are they in their native land? Born slaves, all of them. Niggers are in Africa what greenbacks' are in the United States.” The Copperheads present thinking this a damaging thrust at our currency, cheered fiercely; but when, after their noise subsided, the speaker added the explanation, “they are a legal tender,” the laugh came in from the aforesaid Union boys.
When next the young lady returned to the “nigger,” she declared that if Miss Dickinson’s new birth” should succeed, and this struggle for the independence of all mankind should be triumphant, the name of the country should be changed to New Africa. If Miss Webb were a professor of religion, she would no doubt say, If niggers are going to heaven, I want to go to some place else,” and we are sure no lover of human freedom will attempt to compel her to remain in the new-born land of-freedom that is to be the result of this war, if she cannot endure it. 
Miss Webb concluded her piece by reciting Hood's Song of the Shirt.
We think Talleyrand’s criticism on a young author's book will apply most admirably to Miss Webb's lecture: “It had some new things in it, and some good things; but the new things were not good, and the good things were not new.” The new things were her own; the good things were the extracts she made from Miss Dickinson’s address, and the Song of the Shirt before mentioned.—Cincinnati Gazette of 30th ult.

THE COLORED INHABITANTS OF VANCOUVER ISLAND.
A correspondent (colored man) of the Pacific Appeal (organ of the colored people at San Francisco) says, in Notes of a Trip to Victoria, V. I.:-
There is as much prejudice, and nearly as much isolation, in Victoria as in San Francisco. In some cases, the social and political position of the colored people is more favorable there than here; but the Americans and Jews from California, who have settled here, have formed a public opinion unfavorable to us. Happily, they have not succeeded in all cases. Churches and schools are exceptions, although our leading men had to fight hard to obtain their rights in both. Messrs. Lester, Gibbs, J. Francis and others, battled manfully to keep churches and schools free from caste; and to their exertions is due the equality which exists in those institutions. It was grudgingly and unwillingly awarded; but they claimed it as their rights as British subjects, and finally succeeded.
I went to the theatre with some ladies when the Marsh children were performing. When I said I wanted box tickets, the man hesitated, and said he believed the boxes were full; but as I insisted, he gave me them, and we found very eligible seats.
Colored men are never summoned as jurors on trials; I believe they have occasionally sat on coroners’ juries. When they were organizing fire companies, Jacob Francis endeavored to have the colored inhabitants represented, but he was voted down. In some places of public accommodation, such as barber-shops, bar-rooms, restaurants and hotels, colored persons are denied the usual privileges; but such places are invariably kept by Americans or foreigners. In many of the finest establishments, where the proprietors are Englishmen, there is no distinction; they are free from the prejudices which Americans have introduced. There are, however, many Englishmen who are as full of prejudice as the lowest secesh American among them. They all moreover, receive you with an aristocratic, patronizing air.
Among the notables of Victoria is the celebrated Archie Lee, upon whose fate once hung the destinies of the colored people of California. Archie is a sober, honest, hard-working man, a respectable citizen of Victoria, and a loyal subject of Her Majesty. It affords me much pleasure to be able to contradict the reports which have been circulated prejudicial to the character of Archie Lee; he follows the lucrative occupation of draying, and has accumulated some property, and is much respected by the community.
The colored inhabitants of Vancouver Island are in advance of the colored people of San Francisco in point of wealth. They nearly all own real estate, and are in comfortable circumstances. They went to Victoria during the Fraser river excitement of 1858—some to engage in mining, some to live under the fancied liberality of British laws, and some to engage in speculation, for which a new settlement always offers facilities to the enterprising. Fraser river proving a failure, they invested their money in real estate, which has risen rapidly, and made many of them comparatively wealthy. As regards intelligence and acquirements, they present an average of the colored people of this and Eastern cities.
Victoria is much like all cities which have grown from adventitious circumstances. The lower, or first settled part of the town, presents the same aspect which is characteristic of New York and San Francisco—a few wide streets, intersected by narrow lanes and crooked alleys—this comprises the business portion of the city. The upper part is well laid out in straight, broad streets and long avenues, extending far beyond the environs. From Beacon Hill you have a fine view of the city, which looks picturesque and interesting. The thrifty farms, the bays and estuaries, which  almost surround the peninsula on which the city is built, add to the beauty of the scene.
The lower part of the city is lighted with gas, and a company of capitalists are laying water-pipes to furnish pure and wholesome water from a small lake, a few miles distant.
Victoria, having assumed municipal proportions has a municipal government, which institution works about as well there as elsewhere. When I left, they were quarreling among themselves about lighting the upper part of the town with gas; some of the city fathers contending that gas was useless, and it was better each man should carry his lantern o’ nights, like Dogberry’s watchmen.
<c03>
I referred to the political position of the colored people. They have the elective franchise, and that is all the political privilege they do possess. The naturalized subjects are eligible to seats in the city counsel, but not in the provincial parliament, a law being passed to exclude from that body all except subjects of the British Empire by birth. This law was evidently passed to exclude colored persons, for since 1858 only 4 white persons have become naturalized; whereas, about 150 colored persons have taken the oath of allegiance. It is not very probable a colored person will ever be elected to either body. Two attempts have been made; and although, in each case, the candidates were as capable and as worthy as any in the colony, they were both defeated. Prejudice is too strong in Vancouver Island. We have brighter prospects of political elevation under our own Government, than in any British colony on this coast.

GEORGE THOMPSON IN PHILADELPHIA.
To-night George Thompson, an English Abolitionist, it is true, but none the worse for being so, will speak at the Academy of Music, and if every man in Philadelphia could hear him, it would be well. At this great meeting, Horace Binney, Jr. will preside, and the Hon. Wm. D. Kelley will speak after Mr. Thompson has concluded an address, which will, we think, be eloquent, and will, we know, be earnest and true. Mr. Thompson has the right to an enthusiastic welcome from Americans, for he has ever been the friend of America, and a better friend America has never had in England. We understand him now. Unlike others, who denounced the Union for its slavery years ago, and still denounce it, though freedom has become its creed, George Thompson has stood by us and our Government in this war.
Lord Brougham (who has more than once pronounced Mr. Thompson England's best orator) has not shown equal fidelity to principles he professed. Those who believed in the past that George Thompson, as an English Abolitionist, was necessarily the enemy of the Republic, cannot believe so now that he helps us in our trouble, and tells the world that we are right. He is more of an American than many born in America, and is naturalized by all the sympathies of friendship and the principles of freedom.—Philadelphia Press, 4th inst.
GEORGE THOMPSON'S ADDRESS. Last night we heard a prophet—it would be superfluous to say, an orator. The reception given to Mr. Thompson was worthy of his great merits, and of the moral progress of this community. The passages of his speech most denunciatory of the crime of slavery were those most vehemently applauded, and the enthusiasm of the audience rose to climax when Mr. Thompson urged again the immediate, total, and utter wiping away of the curse of slavery. When Mr. Thompson returns to his home, he will bear back with him to his liberty-loving friends in England the brave good cheer and hearty good-will of the overwhelming majority of our people. For all that such noble men as Thompson and Bright have done for us, we could afford to forgive all that Englishmen have done against us, trusting in the resurrection of the general moral sense of England.” Where liberty dwells, there is my Country,” Mr. Thompson might have declared. Can we not now claim him as an American?—Philadelphia Press, 5th inst.

GRAND OVATION TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
[From the Philadelphia Press of April 5th.]
Last evening, the people of Philadelphia did honor in no insignificant manner to the noble man George Thompson, of England, whose name has been so long and so eminently connected with all schemes, in his own as well as in this country, having for their object the alleviation of human misery and the promulgation of universal emancipation. An audience was assembled at the Academy of Music, which, for numbers and respectability, has certainly been equalled, but seldom surpassed, and the welcome which Mr. Thompson received at the hands of his American friends must certainly have been as gratifying to himself as it was honorable to them. On the platform were many of our most distinguished citizens, whose presence added weight and influence to the character of the demonstration. With these and a large number of officers of the colored regiments, every seat on the platform was occupied.
Shortly before eight o’clock, Mr. Horace Binney, Jr., stepped forward, and introduced the distinguished orator of the evening.
[From Mr. Binney's complimentary and elaborate introductory speech—a valuable one for its historical reminiscences pertaining to the early anti-slavery spirit of Pennsylvania—we can find space for only the following brief extract:]—ED.LIB.
Ladies and Gentlemen: We meet here to-night to welcome a distinguished son of our common mother country; a stranger, no stranger, whose name is associated with the history of the progress of human freedom. The gentlemen who have invited you to meet him, hoped to have given to this occasion the attractions of the presence of the Governor of the Commonwealth; but though his heart is with us here to-night Governor Curtin finds it out of his power to attend in person, and therefore, in place of the form of a more ceremonious reception, we give our honored guest the substance of a homely, but hearty, plain Pennsylvania greeting.
I wish that on such an occasion we could give him not merely a Pennsylvanian, but an American greeting. He will have it hereafter, but the time is not yet. I say that we should desire for him an American greeting, because those who have invited him, while they are not wanting in due respect for the doctrine of State rights, as properly limited, place their country—this Union of ours—above their State, however near to the hearts of us all is dear old Pennsylvania. 
It is as Pennsylvania Abolitionists, who have never swerved from the principles of their forefathers, in 1780, that we greet to-night the distinguished Abolitionist of England. In his letter of reply to the gentlemen who have invited him here to-night, Mr. Thompson says frankly that he recognizes among the signatures to our letter of invitation the names of but few with whom he is personally acquainted.
We were Pennsylvania Abolitionists, but true to the compact of the Constitution, and were willing to trust the extirpation of slavery in the Southern States to that Providence which was working out the great problems of free labor and slave labor side by side.
The solution of the Providential problem was plain as the sunlight. The world saw numbers, wealth, education, good morals, progress in arts, and in every branch of intelligent and skillful industry, making the wonderful growth of the free North; and the South saw it, too, and gnashed its teeth in madness, and vowed to disregard a fair, open, constitutional election, in which it had itself taken part. The world knows the result. The first cannon shot which was fired against Fort Sumter shattered the only ram-
<c04>
parts behind which slavery had so long cowered from the scorn and indignation of the world. 
The Pennsylvania Abolitionist now finds himself on the same platform with the Abolitionist of England, of Massachusetts, of Missouri, of Louisiana, of Arkansas—we have only to read the speeches of Winter Davis and Thomas Swann, delivered within the last few days, to add—of Maryland.
As an Englishman, who, true to his own love of justice, has helped to breast the storm of strange prejudice which has prevailed in some high quarters against us in our present struggle, we owe Mr. Thompson the sincerest gratitude; and here in this house, where we lately listened with applause to Henry Ward Beecher’s account of his own most kindly reception in England, we have double pleasure in extending the welcome.
When Mr. Thompson shall make his next visit to the United States, should he contemplate a return, we trust that he will find this great nation united as one man, and that man, like the restored demoniac in the Gospel, sitting, with the demons of slavery expelled, clothed, and in his right mind, at the feet of the world's Great Master.
[On coming forward, Mr. Thompson was received with enthusiastic applause. -The Press gives a full report of his admirable speech. Below, we give a portion of it.]
On this, my third visit to your shores, I find you in the midst of a second great revolutionary struggle —a struggle at first for the restoration of political Union, now a revolution for an impartial and universal liberty. [Applause.] In this terrible and sublime conflict between freedom and slavery—between free institutions and oligarchical despotism—I find the Keystone State of the Union occupying a position worthy of her name, worthy of her past history, worthy of the illustrious men that are to be found on the scroll of her citizens, and worthy of the great cause of which America has once again declared her self a champion—the cause of human equality and universal liberty.
Thrice happy am I, therefore, under these circumstances, and after a lapse of thirty years, to be permitted in this magnificent building, and before this still more magnificent audience, to raise my feeble and humble voice in advocacy of the cause which first brought me to your soil, and which now appears so near its final, glorious consummation. Oh that my words, or any words which I have the power to utter this night, might strengthen and intensify, inflame and confirm, the resolution you have already formed, to purge; your beloved country from the last remaining stain brought upon it by that accursed system which has been the cause of all your past political disorders, as it is the cause of your present calamities and the sanguinary war still raging amongst you! Standing where I do to night, I cannot overlook the fact that it was in this city, and not far from where we are now assembled, that the doctrine was first promulgated, and promulgated as the basis of a new and Democratic Government, “All men are created equal and the political application of that great truth declared of old by an apostle of Christianity, that “God hath made of one blood all the families of man to dwell on the face of the earth.” [Applause.] I cannot forget that even before that cardinal principle of the immortal Declaration of Independence was published to the world by the people of the Thirteen Colonies, there were in this State those who gave a special application to that great principle, and now this whole nation is about to make the application of it to the circumstances of an oppressed race on this continent.  Here in the Academy of Music, in the centre of the city of Philadelphia, and in the presence of this vast auditory, I, on the 4th of April, 1864, openly and fearlessly declare that I am the friend and advocate of the doctrine of immediate, entire, and universal emancipation. [Great applause.] Here I call aloud and say, “Loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free.” But, my friends, it was not always so. Oh! blessed be the God and Father of the human family that I have lived to see this day a day when not only in your own beloved city of Philadelphia,’ but in Boston, and in New York, and in Portland, in all of which places I have been heard by attentive, kind, and approving audiences; but in Washington, within the walls of your Capitol, aye, even in the hall of your representatives, I may stand, I the once hated and persecuted missionary of an unpopular and despised truth, I may stand even where your assembled representatives congregate, and say aloud, “Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.” [Great applause.]
It was said when I first came here that my pockets were lined with British gold; that I was the friend of the despots of Europe; that I came to disturb your Union, and to overthrow your institutions; and no professions of friendship I might have made could have materially altered that opinion. But I waited for the time when, by something better than words, I might testify how sincerely I loved this country and Its people. The hour came. It was the hour of your trial and your agony; when you were wounded in the house of your friends, when your sisters, whom you had spoiled by kindness, raised their heel against you; then, when you were in conflict among yourselves, and when all that was precious to you was endangered; when your national life was in jeopardy; when you had enemies not only at home, but abroad, and even in the free isles of Britain—that was the hour I chose to demonstrate to you that when I spoke to you the truth, it was not because I loved you less, but because I hated slavery more. (Applause.) Would to God I could defend you against the misrepresentations and calumnies of your enemies! I am not here to make any apology for such arts on the part of my countrymen as have justly pained you, perhaps deeply offended you.  Forgive them for the sake of those who have sought to aid you; but do not hate England because in that country there have been those who seek alike to clog the wheels of the car of Liberty here, and to deadlock them at home. They are of the same party with which we have been contending for thirty years. They opposed us when we were laboring for Catholic emancipation; for representative reform; for municipal reform; for the abolition of colonial slavery, and the taxes on bread.
For three years I have been going through the islands of Great Britain, with a view to correcting the misapprehensions of my countrymen on the American question, and if any man can speak of the temper and disposition of the working-classes of England towards America, I can. I received, only the day before I left Boston, on my way to Philadelphia, a circular from the Secretary of the Emancipation Society of Manchester, from which I learned that two hundred and fifty meetings have, within the last six months, been held in Manchester, all of which have been largely attended, and in only six of which has there been a vote adverse to Union and emancipation. (Applause.)
This society has, within the same period, circulated no less than 349,500 volumes, pamphlets and tracts I say, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, that in the efforts towards the emancipation of the West India slaves, then was not a greater zeal or 
<c05>
enthusiasm manifested than is now shown by the great mass of the middle and working classes of Great Britain, in the cause of Union and emancipation in this country. (Applause.) We have yet much to do; we shall do it. This very circular, and it is dated the 29th of February last, speaks of efforts Secessionists are now making in England to further the cause of rebellion. Measures the most unscrupulous have, and will be adopted to this end, namely, “the recognition by England and France of the independence of the Confederate States.” The utmost vigilance and energy must be exercised by our society to counteract these efforts. Prompt measures may enable our society to frustrate this attempt to further the “slaveholders' rebellion,” for we call it by no other name. (Applause.) Of the ministers of England, of Wales, and of Scotland, there are recorded the names of five thousand ministers of the religion of Jesus, protesting against slavery, and encouraging the North in their struggle. True, you may refer me to the language of Brougham, Lindsay, Roebuck, Carlyle, Spencer, and Gregory; but we have better men than those. We can refer you to a John Bright, (great applause,) Cobder., Mill, Newman, G. Smith, Cairnes, Nichols, Hughes, Ludlow, Rawlins, N. Hall, Noel, Guthrie, Alexander Forster, Taylor, Stansfield, and a host of others. Our best metropolitan and provincial newspapers, and the best of our ministers of religion are with you. Be encouraged, then, and let your motto be. Onward! The message you have from England is this: That if you will make short work and thorough work of this institution of slavery, so long tolerated amongst you; if you will plough it up and leave not a fibre in the ground, then will you not only have the blessing of England and the world at large, but you will give an impetus to the cause of liberty wherever that cause is acknowledged on the face of the earth.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude in a few words, not in my own language, but in that of the venerable father of the gentleman who presides over this assembly: ”I devoutly pray God to consummate the designs of those who are now nobly leagued together for the purpose of delivering their country from the curse of a slaveholding conspiracy, to the effectual suppression of rebellion and treason, and of treasonable practices and confederacies, to the perpetuity of the Union and the maintenance of the Constitution, and the restoration of peace and unity to the entire nation of people and States.”
Mr. Thompson concluded amid prolonged applause. Brief addresses were then made by Judge Kelley, Benjamin F. Brewster, Mr. Dunbar, and Daniel Dougherty.
Mr. Thompson retired amid great applause. The Rev. J. Walker Jackson then offered the following resolutions:
Resolved, That this meeting has great pleasure in welcoming to the chores of America and to the city of Philadelphia, Liberty's veteran champion, GEORGE THOMPSON of England.
Resolved, That the life long and consistent devotion of this distinguished friend of freedom, as seen in his efforts for the overthrow of British slavery in the West India Islands, his brave opposition to British abuses of power in the Indies of the East, and in his earnest labors for the deliverance of this country from the crime and curse of slavery, demand, and should receive, from us tokens of respect and honor.
Resolved, That the later labors of Mr. Thompson—those rendered by him in connection with John Bright, Richard Cobden, John, Stuart Mill and others, in defence of American nationality and democratic freedom—call not only for tokens of respect, but for expressions of sincerest gratitude from every loyal man and true hearted American.
Resolved, That we have listened with the liveliest pleasure to the address with which Mr. Thompson has this evening favored us; that we accept gladly his assurances that the great heart of the working classes of England, in due time to be among the ruling classes, beats in unison with this country in her present struggle; and that we would fain hope that ere long, through the power of truth to overcome prejudice and dissipate error, all classes in that country will be brought to acknowledge that the cause of the American Union in this great contest is the cause of justice, freedom, and well-founded government.
Each resolution as read occasioned great applause, and they were unanimously adopted.
LETTER FROM JOHN W. FORNEY, ESQ.
The following letter was sent to the chairman of the committee:
WASHINGTON, April 2d, 1864.
DEAR SIR: If I am in Philadelphia next Monday evening, I shall undoubtedly join in your greeting of George Thompson; but as Monday is always a working day in Congress, I shall probably be constrained to stay at my post. In those years when I belonged to what was then the Democratic party, and (except on the slavery question) was, in fact, the only progressive party in the United States, I repeatedly denounced George Thompson as an emissary of the foreign enemies of my country. And this I did with pen and tongue, and under the honest belief that what I said was the Gospel truth. But, if I could speak at your meeting on Monday evening, I would take occasion frankly to say, that I have unlearned contempt of George Thompson, and of all the sincere men of his school or class. When slavery broke the covenant with the old Democratic party, (which had so frequently yielded to it that at last the Democratic organization became almost the slave of slavery,) by taking up arms against the Government which had forgiven its aggressiveness and fostered its arrogance; and when, advancing upon this betrayal, slavery resolved to destroy the life of its own benefactor, I at once took the path trodden by such Democrats as Jefferson in one generation, and Leggett in another. These great Democratic apostles of intelligent freedom could not reconcile to their consciences anything like harmony between Democracy and slavery; and although their teachings were neglected in the presence of the enormous power and profit resulting from the modern workings of the institution itself, yet it was always apparent that the time must come when the manifest incongruity between two theories naturally and eternally antagonistic would be demonstrated by an open explosion. Between the period when Leggett was ostracised from the Democratic party because he refused to obey the slave edicts of Tammany Hall, and when Silas Wright, Martin Van Buren, and Marcus Morton were discarded because they were determined to adhere to the Jeffersonian example, and open assault of the slaveholders at Charleston and Baltimore upon the educated anti-slavery sentiment in the Democratic party, the efforts of the men I have named served to keep alive the flame of hatred to oppression in many minds here as well as in the old world. During that space, I was the editor for nearly ten years of the leading Democratic journal of Pennsylvania, and for three or four of the National Democratic journal in the city of Washington; and at no time did I hesitate to denounce and to oppose as well Mr. Thompson himself as the citizens of my own country, who agreed with him in regard to the peculiar institution. But, as I have said, when slavery resolved to destroy
<c06>
the Democratic party, because a portion of its leaders, and a great majority of its masses, had determined to prevent the introduction of that curse of humanity into one of the new States of the Republic. I swore that my lot should henceforth be east with the ultra anti-slavery party. And I trust no event will ever induce me to forget this solemn and conscientious determination. It is right that full credit should be awarded to the pioneers who long ago, in the midst of bigotry and party hatred, asserted and maintained their principles disinterestedly and firmly; but I have always contended that what they endured was nothing in comparison with the abuse, and the proscription, and the tyranny exercised against the Democrats who, at the beginning of James Buchanan’s Administration, saw his treason, and severed themselves, in consequence, from him, and attempted to rescue the Democratic organization from the dreadful fate which subsequently befell it and the country. It was at that moment that the disunionists of the South felt that they had secured a newer and a stronger hold upon the Federal Government, and that they might wield it for their own purposes to the destruction of that Government; and, there fore, they insisted upon the ostracism of every independent mind in the free States, who would not consent to the exactions of their instrument in the Executive chair, or who openly denounced them as the willing authors of their country's ruin. Thus, while William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, J. Miller McKim, and, of course, George Thompson, may felicitate themselves upon the realization of their own prophecy, namely, that slavery contemplated an at tack upon the liberties of the free people of this continent, let us not forget that intrepid, and, thank God, steadily and daily-increasing class of men, once of the Democratic and now of the Union party of America, who, from the time when the slave-owners sought to destroy this Republic, added their great moral and numerical strength to the Government party, and are now aiding to fight its battles in the field as well as at the ballot-box. But I think Mr. Thompson himself should be as candid in withdrawing his own distrust of the American people when he visited this country nearly a generation ago, as the independent Democrats of the United States are in recalling their judgment of him. He sees a nation of armed and resolute freemen, voluntarily rushing to the field to defend their institutions against an oligarchy worse than any that has ever existed since the beginning of the world; worse, because it is assailing the best of Governments; worse, because it is answering indulgence and pardon by insult and ingratitude; and worse, because while taking thousands of innocent lives, it is forcing other thousands, who ought to be near and dear even to itself, upon a fate more dreadful than any that has been described in the history of mankind. What this American people need, how ever, after unity among themselves, after vigor and determination in their councils, after a stem and resolute punishment of every one who, while enjoying the protection of the Government, refuses to sustain it, is a fair and generous audience for those who advocate their principles in the British domains. Our people have had much to endure from the British Government since this rebellion broke out. They have yielded much, and they have suffered much, as well in principle as in pride. Their own divisions and difficulties have impelled them to acquiesce in demands which, in the hour of their unity and strength, would have been rejected with haughty scorn; and well and keenly do they remember these things. Hence, when they hear the voice of friends like George Thompson, Richard Cobden, and John Bright, they feel that they have supporters still left in an empire which has been too long filled with their enemies; and in the glad welcome they give to such champions, they forget equally their recent humiliations and their former prejudices.
Very truly yours, J. W. FORNEY. 
J. MILLER MCKIM, ESQ,
In this connection, we give with much pleasure the letter of invitation sent to Mr. Thompson to address the citizens of Philadelphia, with his reply:—
PHILADELPHIA, March 21, 1864.
HON. GEORGE THOMPSON:
DEAR SIR—The undersigned, holding in high esteem your life-long  labors in behalf; of Impartial and universal liberty, and greatly appreciating the late signal service which, in conjuncture with the illustrious. Bright and Cobden, you have rendered in your own country to the cause of freedom and free institutions in this, respectfully ask that you will visit Philadelphia at your earliest convenience, and by addressing a public meeting, which shall be convened to bear you, afford our citizens an opportunity of testifying the high respect which they cherish for yourself and your faithful labors.
A note signifying your acceptance of this invitation. and naming a time at which it will suit you to have a meeting appointed, will be accepted as a favor by
Yours, with sincere regard,
Horace Binney, Jr., Thomas Webster,
John C. Knox Frederick Fraley
N. B. Browne, James W. Ceaghorn,
Edwin Greble, William P. Tatham,
John C. Cresson George H. Boker,
William Sellers, William M. Tilghman,
Henry Samuel William H. Ashhurst,
Cadwalader Biddle, S. V. Merrick,
Levi T. Rutter, George Trott,
Joshua Hallowell, S. S. White,
Saunders Lewis, Thomas J. Megear,
Abraham Barker, J. M. McKim,
Evan Randolph, Wm. S. Pierce,
Charles Norris, Caleb H. Needles,
Wm. H. Furness, B. F. Reimer,
John W. Forney, COLLEGAIN. Lewis Wagner,
E. M. Davis, John W. Jackson,
J. Gillingham Fell, Arad Barrows,
Samuel Field, Solomon Roberts,
 Edward Armstrong, Wm. Wister,
Wm. D. Kelley, Wm. Morris Davis,
James Graham, B. H. Brewster,
Edward C. Knight, Franklin Comly,
Samuel Canby, George T. Lewis,
Wm. C. Keemble, A. G. Cattell,
George L. Buzby, James Mott,
Edward Hopper J. A. McAllister,
Wm. Meredith. Atherton Blight,
Robert R. Corson,
Boston March 26, 1864.
GENTLEMEN —I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 21st inviting me to visit Philadelphia, and address a public meeting of its citizens. The terms in which you express yourselves of my services in the cause of impartial and universal liberty albeit quite above my merits—are, nevertheless—coming from  such a source—truly grateful to my feelings. For though I recognise among the signatures to your letter the names of but few with whom I am personally acquainted, I do not fail to observe those of others whom I know to be held in high esteem by the best people in the land, and whom, in consequence, I have myself long been accustomed to regard with respect and honor.
The estimate which you in your kindness put upon my labors in behalf of this country—were it predicated upon my intentions only—I should say does me no more than justice. I have ever been an admirer of America; American people and American institutions have had for many years my best affections and warmest approval. The language of my heart has often been: “Would to God that my own coun-
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the laws of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTEREFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” J.Q. ABAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
try were as America—except these bonds." And to break these bonds, you will bear me witness, no effort of mine has been wanting. For America's sake, as well as for humanity’s, I have labored to this end Thank God, the day of deliverance which we have all sighed for has at length dawned upon your country! In the added honors which are already clustering around your nation's name, I have a pleasure not exceeded by the most loyal of your citizens. 
It will afford me great pleasure, gentlemen, to comply with your Invitation. I shall he in Philadelphia on Monday, the 4th of April, on my way to Washington, and if it should suit your convenience to appoint the proposed meeting for that evening, I shall be happy to attend and address it. 
I have the honor to be, gentlemen, 
Yours, with great respect, 
GEORGE THOMPSON. 
To Horace Binney, Jr., Thomas Webster, John C. Knox, Esqrs. and others, Philadelphia. 

GEORGE THOMPSON IN WASHINGTON. 
It is an omen of good, and but a feeble expression of the National gratitude that is due, that GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., M. P., has been invited to a reception in the Hall of the House of Representatives at Washington. When he was here before, he was snubbed in Philadelphia, insulted and spat upon in New York, and hunted as an outlaw in Boston, because he dared to tell our nation of her great wickedness. "England brought slavery here," shouted a fellow at one of his meetings. "Yes," responded the cotemporary of CLARKSON and WILBERFORCE, "I know it; England planted your slavery, and has abolished her own. You have copied her sin—copy her repentance!"—He was driven from Julian Hall in Boston, went home full of a sorrowful friendship, and has ever since been our steadfast advocate. Throughout the last three volcanic years, we have had no such energetic champion in Great Britain as he—exposing lies, clearing up misapprehensions, defending us always. When he came before, he assailed the Union, with GARRISON, PHILLIPS, &C., because it seemed to him only a vast legal embodiment of slavery; now there is no heartier Unionist in America than he. He answers with GARRISON: "When I pronounced the Constitution ‘a league with Death and a covenant with Hell,’ I did not expect I should live to see Death and Hell secede from the Constitution!"
The spirit in which he comes is indicated by the following extract from his recent speech in New York: 
"You need have no fear of England to-night. If there had been cause to fear, I would not have been here. Infinitely rather would I have been fighting your battles at home, than receiving this welcome. If there should yet he aught of difference between the two countries that would endanger the continuance of Peace, I would go a self-Ambassador to England, to pray my countrymen in the name of whatever is sacred, not to fall out with their kinsmen on the other side of the ocean." (Long continued cheering.) 
We see no "National disgrace" in bidding such a friend welcome and good speed!—Rochester Democrat. 

GEORGE THOMPSON. 
To-night one of England’s greatest orators has possession of the hall of the House of Representatives. He is the eloquent orator of Abolition. This fact marks an epoch. A few years ago, the proposition to give him the use of the hall of the House would have been the signal for jeers, denunciation and abuse, and the representatives of the people would have indignantly scouted at it. A mob would have assailed the building in which he might have ventured to hold forth. To-night beauty will lend him the charm of its presence, and the world of fashion will pay its homage to the genius of the foreign-born champion of Freedom. Learned Senators and distinguished Representatives will gather fresh inspiration from his eloquent lips; and the people, representing all parts of a free confederacy, will be there to do justice to the noble defender of popular rights. Mr. Thompson has earned the thanks of the American people, not only by his bold denunciations of the great wrong of the nation, but by his able, brilliant, and frequent vindications of the great cause of free labor against aristocratic privilege before so many audiences of his own countrymen. To no man in England are we more indebted for a right presentation to the English public of the great issues in our present contest, and it is right that the hall of the people should be put at the service of this eloquent champion of the rights of the people in both hemispheres.—Washington Daily Chronicle, April 5. 

A SCENE AT WASHINGTON. 
WASHINGTON, April 8, 1864. 
The scene on Wednesday evening, when the English Abolitionist, George Thompson, spoke against slavery, should have been photographed by Brady. It would have made a picture worthy of being displayed in every loyal house. What Mr. Thompson said was precisely what I expected; and it was strongly and gracefully said. He is a polished, well-poised, and collected talker—not so profound and thorough, probably, as might have been anticipated, but full of his subject, and believing in his own views —capable of doing immense good. It was easy to realize bow a man, with such a voice and such a presence, could affect the working-people of England. When he entered the hall of the House, which was illuminated with that brilliant, yet soft and hazy radiance that always excites the delight of those who see it for the first time, and enables every one to observe without effort all objects within range of the individual vision, the band played "Hail to the Chief in Triumph Advancing." He was accompanied by Vice President Hamlin, who acted as chairman, and succeeded by the President, who came in unattended, and took" a seat directly in front of the speaker. There were only two members of the Cabinet present—Mr. Chase, of the Treasury, and Mr. Usher, of the Interior. Thaddeus Stevens sat near the President, surrounded with & number of the old anti-slavery chiefs. Very many of the Senators and Representatives were present. The hall was full, with the exception of the gallery on the left of the speaker. Mr. Thompson was much affected by the reception. All orators are actors, but I think his trepidation was natural. For was he not asked to speak in a Capital which, for more than thirty years, had almost re-echoed the sound of the slave-driver’s lash? And asked, too, to do this by some of the most eminent of our public men, many of whom had, in other days, bitterly bated and denounced him. He stood within hearing of the old hall, covered by the same roof in which all the great minds of the Republic, in the era which succeeded the Revolution, had contended for their respective theories. Within two minutes’ walk was the former Senate Chamber, now the Supreme Court room, in which Sumner, for words spoken in debate against human slavery, was struck down and horribly injured by one of the gladiators of that slavery. On his right was the portrait of Washington, on his left that of Lafayette; over his head floated the purified flag of our country, and directly before him was the clock, marking, with its inevitable pulsations, the doom of human servitude. Is it any wonder that he should have been overwhelmed by these reminiscences? But Mr. Thompson is an artist. After his brief introduction, he noticed the resolution of Mr. Morris, of the House, offered on Monday, which charged him with having said, in 1834, "that the dissolution of the Union was the object to be kept steadily in view." He said that he had written no such letter, and more, he never entertained any such sentiment, and he had never written to any man in a slave State: he defied the proof. He then stated that he had addressed a letter to Mr. Morris, calling his attention to his resolution, and demanding an explanation, but up to that moment had received no reply. These words were hardly uttered before a note was handed to him from the audience, signed by Mr. Morris, giving the alleged and now proved to be forged letter to John A. Murrill, of Tennessee, as his authority. It now turns oat that this Murrill was the notorious thief, murderer, and land-pirate, who was confined, for one offence alone, ten years in the Tennessee penitentiary. Out of this false charge, from which so much was expected by the Copperheads, shame has come upon them, and new honors upon Mr. Thompson. It is difficult to describe the manner of the latter, as he refuted and trampled it under foot, on Wednesday evening. Before Mr. Thompson arrived, Joseph Holt, of Kentucky, one of the purest and most conscientious statesmen of our country, and for many years a Democratic leader, quietly came in and took a seat in the audience; and in the midst of the address, Reverdy Johnson of Maryland advanced along the aisle. He listened attentively to the orator, and at the close of his address came forward and congratulated him. The greatest argument that has yet been made in favor of the amendment of the Fed-
<c02>
eral Constitution so as forever to prohibit slavery in the United States, and forever to remove the origin and feeder of the rebellion and the cause of discontent among the people, was made in the Senate by Mr. Thompson Mr. Johnson on the very day before Mr. Thompson made his plea against slavery in the ball of the House. I have read this argument of Senator Johnson with great delight and instruction. It is wholly unexceptionable. The delivery, the manner, and the matter of this noble effort recalled the Augustan era of the Republic; and the venerable statesman, who was cotemporaneous with the greatest men of the part, was heard with profound attention by a full Senate and crowded galleries. He told me, a few months ago, that be had dined with the illustrious John Marshall in the very room in which this letter is written. What a tribute to the cause for which we are now contending, that such a patriot should discard all past theories and opinions, and plant himself on the enduring basis of hostility to slavery!—Corr. Philadelphia Press. 

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY APRIL 15, 1864.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The General Agent of the Liberator would very kindly and respectfully remind delinquent subscribers, that its terms, as printed in every number, stipulate "payment in advance";—that a lapse of six months, or even three months, is not an observance of these terms; and that when a whole year has expired, and another quarter been added thereto, without payment, it is obvious that very great indulgence to delinquents has been allowed, and that they will show themselves to be utterly unreasonable if they take any offence, or make any complaint, at the immediate discontinuance of their papers. This, therefore, is to apprise all such as are owing from January 1, 1863, to the present time, that unless their bills are paid by the 1st of May ensuing, (this will be giving them a credit of sixteen months,) their names will be stricken from our subscription list And yet that list is too small not to render it quite necessary that it should be much increased, rather than curtailed of a single subscriber. The Liberator has derived no benefit whatever from the wonderful change which it (among other instrumentalities) has wrought in public sentiment, adverse to slavery; and with the constantly increasing expenses of publication, we shall deeply regret to be compelled to cut off any one who is now receiving it. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
Boston, April 6, 1864. 

THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE 
AMERIGAN ANTI-SLAVEEY SOCIETY. 
The Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever’s,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 10th, commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M. 
The Society will hold another public meeting on WEDNESDAY evening, May 11th, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7 o’clock. The names of the speakers will be announced hereafter. 
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans on Tuesday evening, at half-past 7, and on Wednesday forenoon, at 10, A. M. 
Cheering as it is to know that the Government stands irrevocably pledged to the liberation of more than three-fourths of the slave population of the United States, by the Proclamation of Emancipation of January, 1, 1863—that the remaining portion of the slave system in the Border States is rapidly dissolving by the enlistment and consequent freedom of such slaves within their limits as are capable of bearing arms in the service of the country, and by a growing conviction that it is useless to attempt any longer to resist the mighty tide of Anti-Slavery sentiment which is hourly deepening and widening in every direction, especially in the aforesaid States—and that the experiment of emancipation, under the war power and at every possible disadvantage in the midst of an unparalleled national convulsion, is thus far eminently successful—there still remains much to be done by the Abolitionists, in the way of labor and testimony to secure full and complete justice for the colored race, both at the hands of the Government and with reference to the reconstruction of society on the basis of political equality in the rebellious States. Let the approaching anniversary, therefore, be well attended by the tried men and women whose purpose it still is to continue the great moral struggle until before the Constitution and the laws all are made free, and complexional distinctions are unknown. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

SUBSCRIPTION TESTIMONIAL TO GEORGE THOMPSON. 
It will be seen by the following Circular, signed by the Governor of the State, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and other eminent citizens, that it is proposed to raise a Subscription Testimonial, to be presented to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., in grateful recognition of the eminent service he has rendered the whole country, since the rebellion broke out, by his indefatigable efforts in England to defeat the plots of rebel sympathizers and emissaries, and preserve amicable relations between the two countries. The proposition is highly creditable to all parties; and if carried out, as it should be, and we trust will be, on a handsome and generous scale, it will prove of international interest and value—increasing the number of our trans-Atlantic friends, and cheering them by a substantial proof of the liberty-loving purpose of those who are upholding the Government and its flag.
It is not intended to appropriate the money that may be raised to the buying of a service of plate, or any thing of the kind; but it is to be invested in the best possible manner for the benefit of Mr. Thompson in his advancing years, and of his family, by the responsible Trustees whose names are given—(than whom three better men cannot be found in the Commonwealth)	and who will be happy to receive whatever donations, from the smallest to the largest sums, (the more that participate, the better,) those who approve the object may feel disposed to give.
[CIRCULAR.]
At a period when the North seemed to have but few friends in England,—when the efforts of secessionists and those in their interest threatened to disturb the peace of the two countries, GEORGE THOMPSON devoted himself to the noble work of dispelling the delusion caused by misrepresentation and falsehood, and of convincing the liberal and the laboring classes of Europe that our cause is identified with their own. 
He travelled through England, addressing large and respectable audiences, placing facts before the people, and explaining the real nature of the issue between the North and the South.
Without fee or reward he has labored to prevent misunderstanding between the nations, and has thus contributed to preserve the peace of the world. 
It has been said of him that "he never turned his back on a good cause, or put his hand to a bad one." 
As a recognition of these valuable services, it is proposed that a fund be raised and placed in the hands of John M. Forbes, Samuel E. Sewall, and John H. Stephenson, as Trustees, to be by them appropriated, at their discretion, for a testimonial worthy the man and the cause. 
Subscription for the above object may be sent to JOHN M. FORBES, 36 City Exchange; SAMUEL E. SEWALL, 46 Washington Street; or JOHN H STEPHENSON, 12 Arch Street. 
JOHN A. ANDREW, F. W. BIRD. 
JOEL HAYDEN, WILLIAM B.ROGERS 
J. E. FIELD. GEORGE S.HALE, 
ALEX. H. BULLOCK. S.G.WARD, 
ERASTUS HOPKINS. 
Boston, Feb.26, 1864. 
<c03>
CHEERING OVATIONS.
The ovations recently given to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia, and at the Capitol of the Nation, under the highest and most influential auspices, give cheering and conclusive proofs of the radical change which has taken place in public sentiment in opposition to the execrable system of slavery, and in high appreciation of the long misunderstood and calumniated advocates of the cause of the oppressed. Laus Deo! A friend in Philadelphia writes tersely thus—"The first mail shall carry to thee the joyful word—George Thompson has spoken! Our Academy of Music, last night, was consecrated to the noblest objects of life—universal liberty and the rights of man! The oration—the orator-all may be named in a word—PEERLESS!" Another friend in the same city writes—"The spirit of the meeting phonographic pen could not describe. Greater enthusiasm I have rarely seen on any occasion and this enthusiasm—roused at the very opening of Mr. Thompson’s most eloquent and stirring address—rose higher and higher as long as the meeting continued. He spoke with an inspiration, a grace and power that charmed all hearts. Judge Kelly followed him in a capital speech; and he in turn was followed by B. H. Brewster, Esq. in one of the most beautiful, radical, graceful, powerful bursts of extemporaneous oratory that it has ever been my pleasure to listen to. It made a deep impression. For you know who B. is —the late advocate of the slaveholding claimant of the man Daniel Webster, whose case we have all such reason to remember. Brewster was followed by Dan Dougherty—another Philadelphia democrat and favorite—in a speech of characteristic eloquence. All these speeches were just as thoroughly radical as it was possible for them to be in consistence with truth and justice. Then followed the vote on the resolutions. Each was received with a storm of applause, and the whole were adopted by a unanimous vote. It was a great meeting. Not a few shed sweet tears of joy. All around me I saw people’s hearts running over at their eyes, out of pure joy." 
Now read the following lying, malignant, black guard articles from two copperhead, semi-seditious, pro-slavery papers, in regard to Mr. Thompson’s visit to Washington, (who is hated by them yet more intensely for his powerful support of President Lincoln's administration against their rebel sympathizers,) and then read the full report of the splendid reception given to Mr. Thompson at the Capital!
A SIGN. The House of Representatives, by a vote of sixty to forty, refused their Hall to the Radicals for the delivery of a lecture in it by Thompson, after having granted it to almost everything of this stripe. Is this a sign of better things? For the sake of our country we hope so. How Americans can meet and fete this ancient British traducer of our country, who began early the vile business, is beyond conception to us. Whoever would see his firs! libels will 2nd them reported in the Manchester Times of August 2, 1834, in a speech he made there, in which our country was vilely abused. This calumniator gravely told the people that a slaveholder, having five hundred slaves, after casting his own ballot, threw three hundred more ballots, and that female slaves were publicly sold by weight, and ridiculed and denounced our country. Yet he was bargained with by Garrison, when he was in England, to come ever here, and join him in cursing our Union. These men are now held up, forsooth, as the embodiment of the loyalty and patriotism and statesmanship of the land; the Hall of the House of Representatives is placed at their disposal; the President and Vice President attend their rantings, and the great broad common sense of this noble land has not yet offered its rebuke. Let us hope that, after a patriotic selection on the Fourth of July of a worthy LEADER, it will gather up its mighty loins, and inaugurate an administration that will stand in no need of stooping so low as to bid for the votes of the early, continuous, parricidal enemies of the American Union. It never was a time for foreigners to make or meddle with our affairs: let them keep out of the ring now.—Boston Post. 
GEORGE THOMPSON IN CONGRESS. The action of Congress in refusing the use of the Capitol for George Thompson to spout in is one of the best things of the season. How the fellow could ever have had the impudence to ask for it surprises those who do not know him. Thompson was accidentally elected to the British Parliament, some thirty years ago, and ever since then he has been engaged in trying to break up this country. Lately he came over to look at what he calls his glorious work—that is to say, the bloodshed and carnage of this civil war. The British aristocracy and Louis Napoleon ought to reward him. He has served England by crippling this republic, and he has opened the way for Napoleon’s conquest of Mexico by setting us to cutting each other’s throats. Let him go back to England, and receive the money and honors he has earned. Here he is odious to everybody, except to those fanatics, who, like himself, have been the willing tools of foreign power, and who, like himself again, were the original disunionists, and remained so just as long as disunion appeared to lead to abolitionism.—N. Y. Herald, March 30.

AMEND THE CONSTITUTION. 
The Women’s National League have just sent out, all through the States, FIFTEEN THOUSAND Petitions, with an appeal to have them filled up and returned as speedily as possible. 
The Bill to amend the Constitution so as to prohibit the holding of slaves in any part of the country has passed the Senate. Now comes the struggle in the House. If every one of the fifteen thousand persons —at least ten thousand of them ministers—will but gather up one hundred or more names, A MILLION VOICED PETITION may yet pour into the Representatives’ Hall; and such a voice from THE PEOPLE cannot but makes make sure the vote, and leave the Bill ready for the President’s signature, and Congress disposed to recommend that a special session of each State Legislature be called immediately to act upon the question; and thus the hateful thing, SLAVERY, be buried out of sight before the opening of the Presidential campaign. 
Let the Petitions be mailed to Washington, direct, to some member, or to Hon. Thos. D. Eliot, Chairman of Committee on Slavery and Freedmen. There is not a day to be lost. LET ALL WORK. 
Form of Petition now sent out by the Women's League:—
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of -believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country. 
MR. GREELEY’S HISTORY. Horace Greeley's History of the American Conflict is growing every day under the hands of its hard working author. In a room in the Bible House, inaccessible to the hosts of visitors who besiege him at the Tribune office, he writes daily through all the best hours of daylight, with the regularity and zeal of Walter Scott over the pages of Waverley. The first of the two volumes is now so far along that the manuscript is likely to receive the last stroke of the pen about the middle of April, and the book will be published as soon there-after as a Yankee publisher, like Mr. Case, of Hartford, can print and bind it. After a careful reading of two instalments of this work, already issued in a pamphlet form for specimen pages, we may justly say that the narrative is unique, original, and admirable; altogether worthy of its author, whose monument it will remain; his best piece of literary workmanship; not cast off in a hurry, like a newspaper article, but accurate, pains-taking, and minute; an encyclopedia of important facts, many of which, no other man’s mind but an editor’s would have chronicled; written without a sign of partisan bitterness, so far as we have seen; fair-minded, just, and glowing with that large sympathy for humanity, love of liberty, and fealty to Christianity which make its author (to all those who know him so intimately as to estimate him truly) not only one of the ablest, but one of the purest of public men of America. The second volume, of course, inasmuch as it is to chronicle the dose of the war, will not be written till after Richmond is taken, and Jefferson Davis shall break his sword. Meanwhile, new materials are daily heaping up; and while its author is gathering them, abused every morning and evening by all the copperhead press from here to the Rocky Mountains, why don’t somebody vary these old monotonous lies, and start some new one, as for instance that Mr. Greeley is a confirmed drone!—New York Independent. 
<c04>
ENGLAND’S ORATOR AT THE CAPITOL 
Reception of George Thompson—Great Enthusiasm—Slavery the Cause of the War—The Rebellion to be Crushed—Tribute to the President—Speeches by the Vice President and Rev. John Pierpont.
A vast audience assembled on Wednesday evening, April 6th, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, at Washington, to listen to the famous orator of England, the Hon. George Thompson. At 8 P. M. the distinguished speaker made his appearance, amid enthusiastic cheers, accompanied by Vice President Hamlin and Rev. John Pierpont, and followed by the President, whose incoming was the signal of immense and long-continued applause. Among the prominent gentlemen present were Secretaries Chase and Usher; Senators Reverdy Johnson, Foote, Wilson, Harris, Lane of Indiana, Clark, Judge Holt, Speaker Colfax, ex Governor Wright, Stevens, of Pennsylvania, Judge Kelley and others. The floor of the House was filled, and the gallery was occupied by such a crowd as rarely is attracted to its benches. It is seldom that an assembly comprising so much of the intellect, beauty and fashion of the metropolis is gathered within four walls. The passages of Mr. Thompson’s speech relating to the extermination of slavery, the final triumph over the rebellion, and the opinions and services of Abraham Lincoln, were most vociferously cheered. 
Mr. Pierpont said: Ladies and gentlemen, as Senators and members of the House of Representatives have united with the Washington Literary Association in extending their invitation to the distinguished gentleman who is to address you this evening, it seems proper to impress the meeting with a national character; the more so, as the House of Representatives have placed in the hands of this Association this Hall for the occasion. The Association, through its President, has therefore asked the Vice President the favor of presiding over the meeting, and introducing the speaker. 
The Vice President on taking the chair was heartily received. He said: 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—At the solicitation of the gentlemen under whose auspices this meeting is convened, I assume the pleasant duty of presiding over you, and introducing the distinguished gentleman who is to address you. But for its appropriate connection with the object of the meeting, I need hardly say that we are to-day witnessing, perhaps, the greatest revolution—the greatest rebellion—the world has ever witnessed. Perhaps if at any one period there has been more solicitude felt than at another during this struggle, it has been when some of us have thought that foreign governments might inappropriately seek to interfere and intervene in our affairs. If such solicitude has been entertained, it has, I trust, happily passed away. (Applause.) We live, to-day, to know that this rebellion is to be crushed to its last vestige, in spite of every aid within our own Government and out of it. (Cheers.) He who doubts that fact is a political infidel. (Applause.) It is grateful to know that while such solicitude may have existed among good and true men, we have had in other governments, between whom and ourselves there ought always to exist the best of relations, and an administration of government upon the strictest rules of neutrality, able and eminent men who have been loyal Americans, if they have been British subjects. (Cheers.) Such a one, with a reputation world-wide, and with a fame that shall live in history beside that of Clarkson and Wilberforce, is here to-night to speak to you. (Cheers.) In the name of this large audience, in the name of all loyal men in this broad land, aye, in the name of liberty herself, permit me to welcome you, sir, in this temple of our Government.(Applause.) The words of cheer that you shall speak will find a ready and willing echo in the hearts of those present. (Applause.) I have the honor and pleasure of presenting to this audience the Hon. Mr. Thompson, of England. 
Mr. Thompson said: 
If I betray some emotion on this occasion, and on rising I find myself all but unable to address you, ascribe my embarrassment to the true cause—to the fact that I stand in the Hall of the House of Representatives of the United States of America, to express my views without restriction upon a sacred theme, for the discussion of which I have been more than once banished from your shores with contumely and ignominy. I am overwhelmed with wonder and with gratitude in the presence of the facts which are daily taking place before my eyes, and in the prospect of that glorious future, which, under the blessing and guidance of Divine Providence, I hope and pray awaits this great republic. (Cheers.) 
I can, with unfeigned sincerity, affirm that I regard it as the highest honor that has been conferred upon me during my public life to be permitted, in the Hall of Representatives, in the Capitol of the United States, to address an assembly of the citizens of America. 
In availing myself of this high privilege, I beg, in the first place, to tender my heartfelt acknowledgments to the Board of Managers of the Washington Lecture Association, for their cordial invitation to speak before them, and the citizens of this District at large, upon "the great issues of the time." I also thank so many of the members of the Senate and House of Representatives as were pleased to signify their concurrence in that invitation, and to express their desire to listen to my humble voice. More especially do I offer my grateful thanks to those who occupy seats within these walls, who have done me the honor, by a vote of the House, to accord to me the distinguished favor of saying that which I have to say from the position which I now occupy. 
Ladies and gentlemen, before I proceed to make those observations which I had intended to make, permit me to notice a circumstance that occurred within these walls on Monday last. Not until a late hour last night was I aware that, during the sitting of the House of Representatives on Monday, an honorable member rose in his place, and introduced a resolution to the following effect:—
Whereas, George Thompson, of England, in March, 1834, declared that the dissolution of this Union should be steadily kept in view; therefore, 
Resolved, That the resolution, heretofore passed, granting the use of this Hall to the said George Thompson on the evening of the 6th of April, is here by rescinded.
On the perusal of that preamble and resolution, I felt it my duty instantly to address a brief note to the honorable member, the author of what I have read. Here is my note: 
"325 G STREET, WASHINGTON, TUESDAY
EVENING, April 5, 1864. 
THE HON.JAMES R.MORRIS:—
SIR,—I am just made aware by the record of proceedings in Congress, as reported in the newspapers of this day’s date, that you introduced yesterday in the House of Representatives a resolution affirming that ‘George Thompson, of England, in March, 1834, declared that the dissolution of this Union should be steadily kept in view.' 
As such a declaration was never made by me, either at the time mentioned above, or at any other period, I beg respectfully to request that you will, at your earliest convenience, favor me with the authority upon which you made so grave a statement as ground for parliamentary action. 
I have the honor to be, sir, 
Your most obedient servant, 
GEORGE THOMPSON." 
To that note Mr. Morris has, down to this moment, favored me with no reply. (Laughter.) I am, therefore, ignorant of the grounds upon which the honorable member brought against me the accusations which he uttered from his place in the House. I have speculated upon the reasons that he might assign for alleging against me that I had, at any period of my life, been unfriendly to the union of the States in this country, and I shall do all that I can to exonerate him, as a gentleman, an American citizen, and a member of the House of Representatives, from the suspicion of deliberately preferring against me a charge for which I know there is no real foundation. [The speaker here asked the audience to excuse him while he read a note, just put into his hands, which he believed was from Mr. Morris.]
<c05>
It is as I suppose. Perhaps if Mr. Morris is present, he will rather thank than blame me for calling the attention of the audience to his resolution. The note which I have just received from him is dated Washington, April 6:—
"MR. GEORGE THOMPSON:—
SIR,—Your note of the 5th inst. is just received. In answer, permit me to say, that on the 4th instant I offered the enclosed resolution, founded on a letter purporting to be written by you, which you will find in the appendix to the Congressional Globe for the second session of 86th Congress, volume 44, page 105 of the appendix.
Very respectfully. J. B.MORRIS."
The letter referred to, which I have no doubt I shall find in the Congressional Globe, as stated by Mr. Morris, is the same letter which is referred to in the first volume of the record of your rebellion, which I hold in my hand. And well may the Vice President of the United States and the President of the Senate say that this is a gigantic as well a foul and wicked rebellion, for this is but one of six volumes containing its records; and how many more are yet to come depends partially upon the persistence in evil of those misguided men who are still in arms, partially upon your resolution and courage in its suppression, but more still upon that Divine Providence who has thus far so singularly watched over you. (Hear:) In the first volume of these ponderous records, and on the twenty fourth page of that portion of it which contains public documents, I read that during the delivery of a speech, Mr. Sherard Clemens referred to an article in the Liberator newspaper and to Mr. Garrison, and then went on to say that their retiring Confederates "ought not to forget the events of 1834, when George Thompson, the English Abolitionist, was sent to enlighten the dead conscience of the American people." In this connection, he cited a letter from Thompson to Murray, of Tennessee, in which was this sentence: "The dissolution of the Union is the object to be kept steadily in view." I have an answer to that, and it is- first, that I never in my life have cherished a hostile or even an unfriendly feeling toward the Union. (Cheers.) Second, that I never in my life addressed a letter to Mr. Murray, in Tennessee, or to any man in any slave State of the United States (loud cheers); and, third, that down to March, 1834, and afterwards, I had never written a solitary line to America. And that I may speak without reserve and absolutely, I here deliberately challenge and defy the bitterest enemy to you and your Union, to find within the range of my speeches and writings anything that would justify an imputation of unfriendliness to that Union. (Cheers.) What I have said about your Union during the three years that I have been engaged unceasingly, in season and out of season, in health and out of health, (as one witness, just from England, now present, might testify if he were called on the stand,) what I have said will be found condensed in a brief extract from a speech I made in England on the breaking out of the war, which I discovered among the papers I have with me at this moment, in Washington. I observed in one of my London speeches:—
"Some leading journals have attempted to defend the right of secession from the Union, by maintaining the doctrine of State Sovereignty, arguing for the inherent right of a State to secede under the Constitution. Such a right would be an absurdity. The right to secede, as a revolutionary right, is undeniable; but it is the people, the nation, that is to recognize that right, not the sworn servants of the Constitution, which knows nothing of secession. No government provides for its own dissolution; therefore, while there is always a revolutionary right to secede, there can never be a constitutional right to do so. The Constitution prescribes the means for taking the sense of the people, in reference to any organic change. Before the present war broke out, at the suggestion of Kentucky, an offer was made the seceding States to call a National Convention to consider the question of separation; and it would have been competent for that Convention to have allowed South Carolina and her confederate States to retire from the Union, and to establish a government for themselves.
"This offer was declined; and nothing, therefore, was left for the President but to uphold the Constitution, and enforce the laws which the seceding States had violated. In this war now waging between the States of America, the North is in the right, and the South in the wrong. The South aims at the overthrow of the Government, and the universal establishment of slavery. The sham government which the South has organized has made slavery its vaunted cornerstone; it is a government founded avowedly, on the right of enslaving an inferior race. In the cause of the South are united all the elements of injustice, despotism, cruelty, and irreligion. On the part of the North, the war is one for the national existence; for the maintenance of government; for the preservation of the Constitution, devised and founded by the fathers of the Republic; for the supremacy of law, the punishment of treason, and the re-integration of the States. 
"Looking upon the war as a fact as inevitable and irrepressible; looking at the combatants with reference to their antecedents, their character, and their objects; looking to the results which would follow from a victory to the South, and those which would crown the success of the North; looking, finally, to the great interests of freedom, humanity, and the civilization involved in the struggle and its issues, the wish and; prayer of the enlightened philanthropist must be—GOD SPEED THE NORTH!" 
Gentlemen, for very many years I have been familiar with the history of your nation, and amongst the warmest admirers of your institutions. Nevertheless, my admiration of your form of government, and my exultation in your progress and prosperity, have always been chastened by a fear that your Union was unstable and insecure; and for the reason that that Union was an attempt to embrace in one voluntary political system populations radically diverse in origin and character.
The thirteen colonies, as they existed eighty-eight years ago, were, in many respects, as distinct, the one from the other, as so many European States. Their relations for ten years subsequent to their independence of the parent country appears to have been one of an almost purely international character. The articles of confederation, by which the States were held together for the purposes of mutual defense and mutual support, were rather of the nature of a treaty than a bond of perpetual Union. When the fathers of the Republic came together to frame a Constitution, the instrument which they adopted, and which the people ratified, was of the nature of a compromise between the opposing ideas of separate sovereignty and blended nationality. 
But there was another and far more serious compromise—how serious and how calamitous in its results, let the struggle which is now convulsing this entire country, and deluging its soil with blood, tell. It was a compromise between freedom at the North, and slavery at the South. Half of the States, were wedded to the antiquated, unchristian and inhuman system of slavery, an institution which identified them with the feudal and barbaric epochs of society; an institution which, none better than those whom I have the honor at this time to address know, has ever since caused the Southern Slates to remain alien to the institutions, the spirit of progress, and the advancement in civilization of the other sections of the country. (Applause.) 
Many reasons have been assigned by the rebels in the South, and by their sympathizing friends abroad, for that flagitious act by which the integrity of the Union has been for a time dissolved; but Mr. Spratt, of South Carolina, and Mr. Stephens, of Georgia, have told the truth. These gentlemen do not whimper, about the tyranny of the North, nor talk of tariffs and geographical boundaries. No; Mr. Spratt, the great expounder of the philosophy of secession, plainly tells the world that the real and the only contest between the North and the South is a contest between two forms of society; the one composed of one race, the other composed of two races; the one having no slaves, and the other wholly subsisting upon slavery; the one embodying in its structure the principle that equality is the right of man, the other that it is the right of man, the other that it is the right of equals only; the one expanding upon the horizontal plane of pure democracy, the other taking to itself the rounded form of a social aristocracy. Here is the whole secret of the bloody conflict now raging between the North and the South. 
"Slavery," says Mr. Spratt, "was within the grasp of the North, and the slaveholding oligarchy forced to the option of seeing it extinguished within the Union,
<c06>
or preserving it by independence out of the Union, chose the latter alternative; hence, Secession was the effort of the slave society to emancipate itself from the influence and control of the Northern States."
Here, gentlemen, is "the great issue of the time." Here is explained the nature of the present contest between the North and the South. (Applause.) At the very commencement of your nationality, you had amongst you an element of discord, destructive of perfect harmony, and tending to disunion and dissolution. It was not possible to secure perpetual union by the blending of two opposite and totally irreconcilable social states. Two distinct and distant stages of civilization could not exist in the same political body, and under one government. An attempt to unite the effete effect institution of slavery—the essence of which is despotism-with the free institutions of the North, was an attempt to bridge the gulf of centuries-to reconcile things in their very nature incompatible-incompatible—an attempt to secure a solid and perpetual union on principles at war with the organic and perpetual union on principles at war with the organic law which regulates the existence of human society. (Great applause).
Urged, however, by what was felt at the time to be a political necessity, the people of the thirteen States committed themselves, for better for worse, to a common destiny. But there was a fatal compromise of principle at the beginning, and only by a series of humiliating concessions on the part of the North was the bond which kept the several parts of the republic together preserved unbroken for seventy years." ("True," and applause.)
Allow me to say—it is but the expression of my any own opinion, an opinion, however, founded upon a careful and impartial study of your own history—that a real union of the North and South has never yet existed, and can only be brought into existences existence through the utter annihilation of the institution which at first presented an insuperable obstacle, if not in to a theoretic Union, at least to the consolidation of the people on this continent in a homogenous mass (Cheers.)
Constitutions and forms of government do not <illegible>government do not create, they but simply express, the true union of a people. Union, to be genuine, complete and lasting, must be the bond of a common purpose, affection, faith, loyalty, thought, culture, more or less pervading all. That there may be a real, perpetual Union, there must be a great principle held in common-a—future to be realized, towards which all shall aspire, and for which all shall labor. The real basis of national existence and permanent cohesion is a basis of sentiment and idea. It may, for a time, be a common hope of conquest; or a sentiment of loyalty to a chief, or sovereign, or dynasty; or a point of deep and earnest religious conviction; or a conscious and deliberate on cooperation to effect an object at once noble and expansive. These are all at once marked characteristics of nationality, and were never exhibited more strongly than in the past history of the States comprising, respectively, the North and the South.
They have been aforetime represented in the ages of barbarian conquest-of feudalism and monarchy-American colonization, and of constitutional States and Confederates.
In each of the periods referred to, the bond has been one or the other of those described, and prior to any statute law in virtue of which a people became a nation.
There was a time, doubtless, in the history of the United States, when something like a bond of Union, apart altogether from the letter of the Constitution, existed,. A feeling of confidence and affection towards the political institutions of the country—a common feeling of reverence for law, and a common understanding a and desire-slavery out-of view—of the objects for which the Union had been founded; in other words, a general acceptance of what is briefly but most admirably stated in the preamble to the Constitution. (Applause.) But the bonds of union had been dissolved long previous to the development of that most foul and traitorous conspiracy by which the Constitution was overthrown in various parts of the country, and rebellion raised its head, armed and defiant, and proclaimed its purpose to fond and empire based upon the prostration, debasement and slavery of a portion of the human race, along with personal slavery; and the reduction of all, black and white, who labored with their hands for their daily bread, to the condition of subordinate supporters of a social aristocracy, whose claim to rank and superiority should be that they possessed herds of human h\beasts of burden, and lived upon their toils.
The banditti of men-stealers at Richmond, calling themselves the Confederate Government, (tremendous applause,) have declared, through the lips of their Vice-President, that their social fabric was founded upon ideas exactly the reverse of those promulgated in the Declaration of Independence; and that they cannot permit themselves to doubt the ultimate success of a full recognition of their principle through principles throughout the civilized and enlightened world. They impiously state that God has, for his own purposes, made one race to differ from another in respect to their natural rights; and hence, they have rejected the glorious truth upon which your Declaration of Independence was founded-that God has created all men equal—and have made slavery the chief stone of the corner of their new edifice. One of their principle organs has told you, and told you truly, that the present bloody contest is one between two distinct and irreconcilable forms of civilization; between the of Puritan descendants of the May flower immigrants, with their own idea of universal freedom, and the descendants of those who planted slavery in Virginia and Maryland, the Carolinas and Georgia, and who are determined to die in the last ditch (great laughter) in defense of their peculiar institution. This, gentlemen, is the one " "great issue of the time." time." This is the nature of the great conflict-sublime and terrible-of which this continent and your country is at the present moment the scene. The world pauses to behold the grand struggle between the one idea of freedom and the one idea of slavery! (Applause.) Thank God, the hour of compromise is past. (Shouts and cheers.) The south-South—so much of it as is still in rebellion-can plead no constitutional guaranties, (cheers.) no pledges, no compacts. She stands with one foot upon the Constitution of the United States, and one upon the neck of the negro, brandishing the bloody weapons of treason for the destruction of the national life. (Cheers.)
The North is free! (Cheers.) She stands by the principles of '76; she is animated by the spirit that it once inflamed and guided the fathers of the Revolution. (Cheers.) Throughout her constitutional history, she has was stood by every clause which the Constitution contains. For the sake of the Constitution, she has stifled her conscience, conquered her prejudices, and sometimes shut up the bowels of her the compassion. (Cheers.) For the sake of the Constitution and the Union, she has seen here her free citizens immured in the dungeons of Charleston, ("True."), her ambassadors insulted and spurned from Southern territory; but her institutions repudiated and reviled, and her best men, when sent to this city, and when sitting even within the shelter of these sacred walls, bludgeoned by the brutal myrmidons of the Slave Power, and threatened with the revolver and the bowie-knife.
"Now thanks and joy for evermore!
The weary night, at length, is past;
The slumbers of the North are o'er,
The giant stands erect at last.”
(Great applause.) Not only is the North awake, but free!. Always a giant, she was bound by constitutional cords; but now she is free to put forth her strength. No constitutional obligations fetter her. No three-fifty clause sends members to this House to defeat justice, and gives added power to slavery. No rendition clause now prevents her from fulfilling the divine command. The only domestic insurrection the President in is now called upon to put down is that which was hatched in the bosom of the Constitution, against which it now directs it sits poisoned and malignant fangs; and, in this good work, the people of the North are with him, to sustain and aid him, until the entire
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
brood of serpents, Copperheads and all, are banished from the soil. (Great cheering.) Oh! What a glorious opportunity is that which the North now possesses to repair the errors of the past, to do justice to an injured and oppressed race, to carry out, in the fullness of its spirit and the exactness of its letter, the charter of human rights, written as by inspiration by the hand of the immortal Jefferson, and to lay the foundations, deep in principles of eternal rectitude and universal liberty, of a Union that shall be perpetual because it is just, and because it shall not within its wide, yet ever expanding limits, afford a shelter to a tyrant, or permission to hold a slave. (cheers.)
"Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, 
In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side; 
Some great cause, God’s new Messiah, offering each the bloom for blight, 
Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep upon the right;
And the choice goes by forever "twixt that darkness and that light."
The prayer of the friends of human liberty, of progress, of Christian civilization throughout the world, is, that in the present strife between slavery and freedom on these shores, the people and Government of this great nation may not halt between two opinions, but come to a decision in favor of absolute, impartial, and universal freedom, for this and all future generations. (cheers.)
I am happy to know that in the crisis of the nation’s fate, when the future has to be determined by your present, action, the people of the United States are represented, in the person of their elected Chief Magistrate, by a man so worthy of esteem and confidence as the present incumbent of the Presidential chair. (Enthusiastic and long-continued applause.) A man, not only upright and honest, but sagacious and far-seeing. A man who six years ago said,
A house divided against itself cannot stand. This Government cannot endure permanently, half free and half slave."(Applause.)
Who declared his own opinion, and that of millions of the American people, when he said, "I do not regard this matter of slavery as a ‘very little thing—this keeping of one sixth portion of our population in a state of oppression and tyranny, unequalled in the world; neither do the American people. They regard it not as a very little thing, but as a vast moral evil."(Applause.)
Who said-
"If we take exceptions to the Declaration of Independence, which says that all men are equal, where shall we stop? If that declaration is not the truth, let us get the Statute Book in which it is written, and tear it out. If it is the truth, let us stand by it. Let it be our charter."(Applause.)
Who said that-
"The representatives of the of the people, gathered within Independence Hall, when they put forth the declaration that all men are born equal, and endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, gave a majestic interpretation to the economy of the universe. That was their lefty, and wise, and noble understanding of the justice of the Creator to his creatures to all his creatures-to the whole great family of man. In their enlightened belief, no one stamped with the Divine image and likeness was sent into the world to be trodden upon, degraded, or imbruted by his fellow men. They grasped, not only the race of men then living, but they reached forward and seized upon the furthest posterity. They lighted a beacon to guide their children, and their children’s children, and the countless myriads that should inhabit the earth through all future ages."(Applause.) 
These were the words of Abraham Lincoln when he stood before the people of Illinois six years ago, seeking at their hands the honorable position of their representative in the Senate chamber of this House. To right I quote them as the words of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, whose Government is represented, and well and ably represented, at the court of every civilized nation on the face of the earth. [Cheers.]
To-day Mr. Lincoln, with the aid of a willing people, and a brave and devoted army and navy, has the power to give effect to these solemn and emphatic words; and the expectation and belief of all good men, the hope and prayer of every lover of the human race, are that he will give them effect, [cheers,] and that as his illustrious and honored predecessor, the first President, was the chief founder of American independence, he may be known hereafter as the liberator of America from slavery; that Washington and Lincoln may go down to future ages linked in blessings and in fame together, the one the deliverer, the other the regenerator of his country. [Immense applause.]
"So shall they both forever rest, 
By all their country’s wishes blest.
When Spring, with dewy fingers cold, 
Shall come to deck their hallow’d mould, 
She there shall dress a sweeter sod 
Than Fancy's feet have ever trod.
There Honor, too, a pilgrim gray, 
Shall come to bless their honor’d clay; 
And Freedom shall awhile repair 
To dwell a weeping hermit there."
Before I left England, an assembly of my fellow countrymen, composed of those who had been sharers with me in the humble efforts I had put forth to rectify public sentiment on the American question, were pleased to entertain me at a soiree, and to present me with an address.
In that address they were partial enough to say that my labors had greatly helped to set the mind and heart of England wholly and firmly on the side of the free States, fighting for freedom—on the side of Abraham Lincoln, the first President of the American republic who has ruled in the spirit of the American Declaration-"All men are by nature free and equal." The address then goes on to say:
"Tell him, we pray you, that the people of England honor him for the wisdom, the courage, and the consistency he has displayed—[cheers]—that they thank the God who has raised him up to deliver an oppressed people—[cheers]—and to purify a polluted commonwealth. [Cheers.] Tell Mr. Seward, and the statesmen of the republic, that England will honor them in proportion as they are faithful to the proclamation of freedom. [Cheers.] Tell the Summers and Greelys to preach by tongue and pen continually —that England will be the firm friend of America, through whatever misunderstanding and estrangement may arise. [Cheers.] Above all, tell Garrison and Phillips—[Cheers]-the New England Abolitionists—the old guard of the emancipation army—that the mother country holds their services in the warmest remembrance, as the very worthiest offspring of our common ancestry. [Cheers.] These messages you will be free to speak.
We shall look for your return, bearing the trophies of happy victory in a holy war—the glad tidings that the Union has been restored—slavery utterly abolished—and peace and freedom ruling securely over all the vast domain which oppression tried to wrest by civil war from the possession of the hopes of civilized mankind."[Cheers.]
This address, save those portions of it which are personal to myself, speaks, I verily believe, the feelings and the sentiments of the great mass of the English people. Within a very few days after receiving it, it was my honor to receive a similar address from a body of my fellow-countrymen, assembled in the city Hall of Manchester, the seat of the vast cotton manufacture of Great Britain. As I am anxious that my countrymen should have an opportunity of speaking for themselves in this, the Hall of Representatives of the United States; and as I am also anxious that the citizens of America should know the views and aspirations of their kinsmen across the water, I will crave permission to add to the extract I have read one from the Manchester address. It says:
Within the last three or four years, if may be said, almost literally, [with regard to the United States,] that a nation has been born again in the cause of freedom. [Great applause.]
That noble martyr of liberty, John Brown, [cheers,]
<c02>
the hero of Harper’s Ferry, [cheers,] by his magnanimous devotion and death, sent a thrill of new life to the nation’s heart of hearts. [Cheers.] The moral electricity of that grand human soul not only galvanized the dead bones of social rottenness in the South, [laughter and applause,] but awakened to new life and to new hope the drooping spirits of the North. [Cheers.] Had it not been for John Brown’s immolation on the altar of liberty and patriotism, honest Abraham Lincoln could not have been President of the Union, [cheers,] and that be enabled to become the second deliverer of the nation. [Cheers.] And had not Mr. Lincoln been elected, the cause of negro emancipation would have gone backward, probably, for half a century. ["So!" and applause.] It was the time and crisis of the nation's utmost social, political, and moral need, and the providence of God, blessing the efforts of good men, raised up a man who had a heart, a conscience, and a soul above the tricks of politicians and the subtleties of diplomacy. [Cheers.] 
George Washington, nearly eighty-three years since, gave the American nation the boon of independence. In one day Abraham Lincoln has conferred a more estimable blessing, by proclaiming the Federal nation the home of impartial and universal freedom. 
It is true that the great work of the present day is not fully and finally accomplished; but the foundation is laid, the whole edifice is rising in grandeur, and the glad day is near at hand when the top-stones shall be placed in its pinnacles and domes, amid the jubilation not only of four millions of the redeemed race, but the plaudits of every free nation throughout the world." [Cheers.] 
And now, ladies and gentlemen, that your time and my strength are alike exhausted, what can I say in the way of a very brief conclusion of the address which I have been permitted to deliver in the Hall of Representatives in the United States Capitol? that Hall in which have been heard the voices of Clay and Randolph, of Calhoun and Webster, of John Quincy Adams and Joshua R. Giddings, and a host of others who have taken part in the shining debates to which the passing topics of the day have given rise—a Hall in which have been passed, within the last three years, so many measures tending to get rid of that great evil which, while it has been the source of all your troubles at home, has lessened the respect to which this mighty nation is justly entitled abroad. In the name of the people of England, I offer you thanks and gratitude for purifying this District from slavery; for saving the vast territory of the North-West from the future curse of that baleful institution; for recognizing the independence and nationality of those black republics which have been founded by men who once were slaves; for joining with Great Britain in efforts to suppress the African slave trade; for sanctioning and seeking to give effect to the President’s Proclamation of Freedom; for calling into the field, as your auxiliaries and comrades, those who so recently were slaves or outcasts, but who are now so nobly fighting your battles and their own, for the suppression of a foul rebellion, the restoration of the Union, and the establishment of universal liberty. While I thank you for these measures, let me also express my earnest hope that you will add to them that which is at this moment under discussion in these halls, namely, an amendment of the Constitution, providing that "neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. "Do this—extirpate from the soil of this country the anti-republican, unchristian and inhuman institution of slavery;—proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof. So shall you restore a Union that shall be durable, because it is founded in justice; and be cause based in righteousness, shall be sure of the admiration and esteem of mankind, and the protection and blessing of the Almighty. 
Mr. Thompson resumed his seat amid plaudits loud and long continued. 

NATIONAL WELCOME TO GEORGE THOMPSON IN WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, April 6, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I witnessed this evening in the National Capitol a scene that marks an era in American history—a scene so grand in itself, so honorable to our beloved country, and so cheering to the friends of impartial freedom, that I cannot sleep before making an attempt to describe it for the readers of the Liberator. I allude, of course, to the welcome accorded to our beloved friend, George Thompson, the eloquent and distinguished champion of the American cause in England, by an immense assembly of people, convened in the Hall of the House of Representatives, representing every loyal State in the Union, and embracing the President and Vice President of the United States, several members of the Cabinet, the Speaker of the House, and a majority of the Senators and Representatives in Congress. It may be said with truth that our country has "conquered her prejudices" at last! The man whom, a few years since, she scorned and banished for his devotion to liberty, she last night welcomed and honored as the faithful champion of her cause, the brave defender of her national life. 
Every seat in the vast ball was filled, which is the more remarkable when it is remembered that the price of admission to the floor was $1, to the gallery 50 cents. The faces of the multitude, as revealed in the soft but brilliant light that fell from the lofty ceiling, presented a grand and imposing spectacle. Nothing is more inspiring than a sea of upturned faces" glowing with intellectual excitement, and waiting eagerly for words of truth and eloquence to stir the soul to noble action. I have witnessed many such scenes, but never one that impressed and thrilled me so much as this.
Before entering the Hall, and while waiting in the Speaker's Room, Mr. Thompson was introduced to the President of the United States, who received him with great cordiality, and bade him welcome to the country and to the Capital. 
Mr. Thompson entered the Hall from the Speaker’s Room, escorted by Vice President Hamlin, and the venerable John Pierpont, who this month completed his eightieth year, but looks as hale as a young man of sixty! Their appearance was the signal for an outburst of applause so unanimous and hearty as to leave no doubt as to the temper of the audience. President Lincoln, accompanied by the President pro tem. of the Senate, (the Hon. Solomon Foote of Vt.,) entered immediately after Mr. Thompson, and both gentlemen took seats reserved for them directly in front of the desk. When the cheers had subsided, a fine band, sent for the purpose by Gen. Benham, played a patriotic air, upon the conclusion of which Mr. Pierpont rose and said that, as Senators and members of the House of Representatives had united with the Washington Lecture Association in extending their invitation to the distinguished gentleman who was to address the meeting, it seemed proper to impress the meeting with a national character—the more so as the House of Representatives had granted the use of their Hall for the occasion. The Association had therefore asked the Vice President of the United States to preside over the meeting, and introduce the distinguished speaker. 
The Vice President, on taking the chair, was greeted with hearty applause. In a few well-chosen words he performed the duty assigned him, introducing Mr. Thompson as a man of world-wide reputation for philanthropy and eloquence, whose name would live in history with those of Clarkson and Wilberforce. In the name of the vast assembly before him, in the name of all loyal men in this broad land—aye, in the name of Liberty herself—he welcomed George Thompson— a loyal American, though a British subject—to this Temple of our Government. The words of cheer that he would speak would find a ready and a willing echo in the hearts of those present
Mr. Thompson proceeded with his address, of which, as it will be printed in your columns, I shall not attempt to give a complete synopsis. It is enough to
<c03>
say that he attributed the bloody struggle in which the nation is now engaged to slavery, and the compromises incorporated in the Constitution for its protection; and that he endeavored to impress his hearers with the great truth, that the rebellion can be pat down and the Union established only by the niter extermination of slavery. "Thank God," he exclaimed, "the hour of compromise is past." In response to this declaration, the whole audience broke forth in loud applause, and it was some time before the speaker was able to proceed. Resuming, he expressed his happiness in knowing that in this crisis of the nation’s fate the people of the United States are represented, in the person of their elected Chief Magistrate, by a man so worthy of esteem and confidence as the present incumbent of the Presidential chair. This sentiment again was loudly cheered. Mr. Thompson quoted some striking passages from the speeches delivered at different times by the President—passages containing the noblest sentiments of liberty; and now, said Mr. T., he has the power to give effect to his solemn and emphatic words; and the expectation and belief of all good men, the hope and prayer of every lover of the human race, are that he will give them effect, and that, as his illustrious predecessor, the first President, was the chief founder of American independence, he may be known hereafter as the liberator of America from slavery, that Washington and Lincoln may go down to future ages linked in blessings and in fame together, the one the deliverer, the other the regenerator of his country. At this point again the audience cheered with great enthusiasm. Mr. Thompson then proceeded to read extracts from addresses adopted by several popular meetings in England, wherein he was charged with messages of sympathy and encouragement to the President of the United States and those associated with him in administering the government. One of these extracts contained this sentence: "Above all, tell Garrison and Phillips—the New England Abolitionists—the old guard of the Emancipation army—that the mother country holds their (services in the warmest remembrance, as the very worthiest offspring of our common ancestry." The names of Garrison and Phillips had no sooner passed the speaker’s lips than the whole vast audience began to cheer with such vehemence that he was compelled to pause in the midst of the sentence, and when at length he was permitted to finish it, the applause was at once renewed, showing that these leaders of the Anti-Slavery movement are "not without honor "in the high places of the nation. The name of "that noble martyr of liberty. John Brown, the hero of Harper’s Ferry," occurring in one of the passages read by Mr. Thompson, was also applauded with a unanimity and enthusiasm such as are rarely witnessed in a popular assembly; and this in the Hall of the House of Representatives, in the presence of a majority of the members of both branches of Congress—nay, with many of them actually participating in the outburst of popular feeling! Imagine, if you can, the emotions of an old Abolitionist in witnessing such a scene! It seemed more like a dream than a reality; and yet, thank God! it was not a dream, but history! The whole assembly cheered again, with uncontrollable enthusiasm, when Mr. Thompson characterized the rebel government as "the banditti of men-stealers at Richmond." This is the very Hall where that banditti were so lately the masters!
Mr. Thompson’s address, alike in matter and manner, was admirably suited to the occasion, and made a very happy impression. When it was concluded, a large number of the most distinguished gentlemen present, including the President, the Speaker of the House, and many Senators and Representatives in Congress, pressed forward to offer him their congratulations, and bid him welcome to the country and its Capital. Among those who sought an introduction was the Hon. Reverdy Johnson of Maryland, not long since the inveterate opponent of Abolition, and one of the counsel on the pro-slavery side in the Dred Scott case, but now the advocate of an amendment to the Constitution forever prohibiting slavery! 
April 7-This morning Mr. Thompson, in company with Rev. John Pierpont and Lewis Clephane, Esq., of this city, called at the White House, in compliance with the President’s kind invitation. The interview was brief but very satisfactory. The President spoke with much feeling of the trials of his position, and declared, with evident sincerity, that he had endeavored to do his duty in this awful struggle in which the nation is involved. He invited Mr. Thompson and his friends to the room in the White House in which Mr. Carpenter, a New York artist, is at work upon an historical picture, "The First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation." Having finished his studies of the separate figures, Mr. Carpenter is now engaged in the work of grouping them upon his large canvas. As yet it is only in outline, but the design is happy, and if the artist is successful in working it out, he will make a picture creditable to American art. and worthy of the event it is intended to commemorate.
Mr. Thompson also paid his respects, successively, to the Secretary of War, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of the Treasury, by all of whom he was received with the utmost respect and cordiality. Want of time alone prevented him from visiting the other members of the Cabinet. He afterwards visited the Capitol, and was invited by Mr. Wilson of Massachusetts to the floor of the Senate, where he was introduced to many members of that body. The Vice-President left the chair to greet him. He also visited the House of Representatives, where he was introduced to many of the members, and spent some time in pleasant conversation with the Secretary of State, and in the evening attended a reception at the house of Lewis Clephane, Esq., where a large number of distinguished gentlemen came to greet him. I may add that Mr. Thompson and his travelling companion have been very hospitably entertained by Mr. Clephane and his excellent family, and that his and their polite attention have done much to make our visit agreeable.
Mr. Thompson will leave to-morrow morning for Wilmington, Del. where he is engaged to speak in the evening.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. V.
NEW YORK, April 7, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The postponement of the Baltimore Convention for two months or a full quarter is largely discussed by the loyal press. You will observe that such a proposition implies perfect confidence in a Union victory at the fall elections-a confidence which Connecticut, following New Hampshire, helps to justify-and this irrespective of the candidate selected. If Mr. Lincoln were the universal idol, and could laugh at competition, there would be no ground for the postponement, which we must suppose, therefore, to be urged by those dissatisfied with the present Administration. To my mind, the best argument in its favor is, that it must needs scatter the venom of the Copperheads, who will be at a loss to know on what public man to concentrate their attacks, till the last moment. As between Mr. Lincoln and his rival nominees, I think the chances quite as good for the former to retrieve as to damage further his reputation, in the interval proposed. Perhaps it was in view of this that he saw fit recently to restrict the scope of his Amnesty Proclamation, which is still productive of mischief,-as is shown by the case of the preacher Armstrong, of Norfolk, whom Gen. Butler sent to Battens in spite of his oath of allegiance-and rightly. The modified Amnesty applies "to those persons who, being yet at large, and free from any arrest, confinement or duress, shall voluntarily cone forward and take the said oath, with the purpose of restoring peace and establishing the national authority." There is nothing in these terms which could have hindered those impudent rebels in Florida, whose boats, prepared for running the blockade, were destroyed the other day by our forces, from coning forward, as they did, to demand first the oath, next pardon, and lastly repossession) of their property! Not every officer is a Butler, to sift
<c04>
the purposes of those who claim the benefits of the Amnesty. However, the President has tried to improve a bungling job, and shall have the credit of it, as also of dismissing Col. Woolford, of Kentucky, from the service, for pro-slavery, treasonable utterances. Gov. Bramlette, who listened approvingly to the Colonel, it is to be hoped was unable to bully Mr. Lincoln into omitting the enrollment of Kentucky slaves. The Governor learned prudence before he left his State for Washington, and has been very anxious to deny his attempt to issue a rebellious proclamation on the subject of the enrollment; but the record seems to be against him. 
I have taken the trouble to prepare the following table, which embraces that part of the election returns in Louisiana, in which the Parishes are specified. The figures in brackets denote the per cent of the slave population by the last census: 
VOTE FOR GOVERNOR, FEB. 22. 
Hahn. Fellows. Flanders.
St. Bernard. [55.8] 5 199 64 
Iberville, [73.8] 31 26 5 
Concordia, [91] 97 - - 
Lafourche,[46] 222 392 176 
Jefferson, [33.9] 574 243 49 
St.James. [70.7] 7 107 -
Total, 936 967 294
In these half-dozen Parishes, or Counties, as we style them, the average per cent of blacks was 62, and its influence on the vote of the whole is manifest, though it is impossible at this distance to say what forces affected or controlled the suffrages in each Parish. Concordia was as unanimous for Hahn as it appears to have been for slavery; its name, no doubt, precluded a difference. Hahn, by-the-bye, has exhibited some tenderness under the revolutions of his past disloyalty, and makes a weak defence of himself in the Tribune of yesterday; but the symptom is good. Thomas J. Durant, Esq., of New Orleans—a prominent leader in that genuine Free State movement which I described to you in my last—has declined to be a candidate for member of the approaching State Convention. He denies that a Major-General has a right to call such a Convention, or to fix the number of delegates, and that the Constitution of 1852, which was overthrown by the rebellion, can be resuscitated by a military order. "Such powers," he contends, "belong only to Congress and to the loyal people of Louisiana, and their assumption by others has the effect of anticipating and thwarting the expected action of Congress in fixing the status of all the citizens of Louisiana, and especially of those of African descent; and its tendency is anti-republican and dangerous to liberty." Mr. Durant is right, but the Major-General, backed by the Commander in-Chief, is able to overrule his humane objections. The election is already past, and Banks is still the deus ex machina of politics. The General's newly-ordered system of education of freedmen ought to be attended with some good results. The Commissioners whom he appoints, however, are charged to "exercise the strictest economy," and not only are they not left to imitate the example of their superior in this particular, but it is expressly provided that "each freed person in the several school districts who is above the age of attending school duty" shall be mulcted not more than $2.50 for his share in a "well selected library," case and all. This sum "shall be included in the general tax" levied on the district to defray the school expenses, "but shall be deducted from the laborer's wages by his employer when such books are furnished." Every one who knows the liberal remuneration of labor under Banks’s system of adscription glebae will be puzzled to estimate the net earnings of these enlightened laborers after this new deduction shall have been enforced. By a recent order, applicable to New Orleans, "all colored persons of either sex who are unemployed, or who have no visible means of support, will be taken in charge by Colonel G. H. Hanks, Superintendent of Negro Labor," and set to work on the economic principle. Citizens will oblige by informing that officer of all vagrom negroes. "Superfluous and insubordinate" colored employees of private persons will be converted into useful and obedient economists by Col. H. To prevent mistakes, colored servants must be provided with passes, alias certificates of residence and employment—an extravagance, surely, at the present price of paper. Well, let us be grateful that the world may still learn something! Butler economized in his day by tapping the coffers of the secessionists; Banks has changed all that, and grinds his savings from the negro. 
The Ohio House has instructed the State representatives in Congress to favor the immediate and universal abolition of slavery by an amendment of the Constitution. The West Virginians and the Marylanders are showing a decided aversion to compensating the masters of slaves already or to be emancipated. Winter Davis takes this ground. The claim of compensation, says the Baltimore American, "is like the patient asking the physician for pay," and "is simply to impose a penalty on long suffering and meek endurance." There are, in round numbers, 87,000 slaves in Maryland, owned by 14,000 masters, to pay for whom 516,000 whites must be taxed. The arrangement is naturally unpalatable to the non-slaveholding body of the people, who yesterday carried the proposed State Convention for amending the Constitution by irresistible majorities, making it sure that slavery will be abolished in Maryland, and probable that there will be no compensation. Reverdy Johnson has already trimmed his sails in the United States Senate to the popular breeze of his constituency, and has pronounced himself in favor of ridding the national charter of its complicity with slavery. Our cause makes progress. 
There have been many good speeches and some good votes in Congress, during the past fortnight. A division of the House on the issue of Constitutional amendment showed 69 pros to 38 contras. Almost as large a majority yielded the chamber to Mr. Thompson for his lecture last night. The same body was unanimous in affirming the resolution of Winter Davis, that we have no idea of acknowledging an usurping monarchy in Mexico—which is the Monroe doctrine without its menace. In the Senate, the watchfulness of Mr. Wilkinson, of Minnesota, secured equality before the law to all the inhabitants of the new territory of Montana, without regard to color. The House, I regret to add, refused to concur in the amendment, and a committee of conference has been appointed. The Declaration is still too strong meat for us, but to it we must come eventually. The people are gradually familiarizing themselves to the idea of political equality for all complexions. The Philadelphia North American anticipates calmly the not distant day of that consummation. In Florida, the children of the poor whites and of the freedmen are taught together in Jacksonville, and if unconquerable prejudice keeps away the former, it is their loss, not the blacks. Governor Andrew, in commissioning Lieut. Swails, has dealt a sturdy blow to colorphobia. To be sure, he was preceded in this course by Butler while in New Orleans; but then, who was ever known to get ahead of Butler? Senator Lane, in the Lincoln meeting at Cooper Institute, on the 30th of March, charged the radical opponents of the Executive, indiscriminately, with favoring the mixing of "niggers" and whites, and negro spelt with two g's was the best used word in his vocabulary that evening. He revived his foolish scheme of colonization in Texas. From such a supporter Mr. Lincoln may well pray to be delivered. Let me contrast with Lane's vulgarity the noble sentiments of two of our best Generals, uttered in public assembly at St Louis, March 10th:—
"Gen. McNeil responded, and in the course of his remarks said that hereafter the elective franchise should be extended to all who fight for the country, without regard to nationality or color. [Gens. Gray and Rosecrans—' That's right: that's right'. The foreigners among us who, in the hour of the country's peril, took out their exemption papers on the plea of alienage, should never be allowed to cast a vote at any election."
"Gen. Rosecrans said he fully concurred in what had been said about black soldiers. Gen. McNeil has told you that be thought that every black man who
<c05>
fought for the country should have a vote; so do I- so do I. He said he had a black man as his servant, (Samuel Marshall) who had won his freedom by fighting for the country at Fort Moultrie, in South Carolina. So we have the example of the South itself in freeing slaves who fight for the country."
Lovejoy is dead. The poet Bryant and a former slave supported the same bier on which lay the stalwart form of the heroic champion of liberty. He was to the timid representatives of the free North in Congress, like Dante among the transparent ghosts of purgatory—he cast a shadow, bold, clear, unmistakable; and the conspirators at the Capitol trembled more to see it, than did the souls who looked upon the Italian poet Alas, that to-day, we, too, must shiver for the shadow of death that has fallen amongst us!
M. DU PAYS.

DINNER TO CITIZENS OF LOUISIANA.
Several of the leading anti-slavery gentlemen of this city tendered a complimentary dinner to two colored gentlemen from New Orleans, named Jean Baptiste Roudanez and Captain Arnold Bertonneau, last evening, at the Parker House. These gentlemen are men of property in New Orleans, Mr. Roudanez being a machinist and engineer, and Captain Bertonneau a wine merchant. The latter was commissioned a Captain in the first colored regiment that was formed in Louisiana. The fathers of these gentlemen were both French, and their mothers African. Messrs. Roudanez and Bertonneau left New Orleans on a mission to the President, asking that the privilege, of voting might be given to the colored people of Louisiana.
At about six o’clock, the company repaired to the dining-room, and, alter a blessing had been asked by the Rev. James Freeman Clarke, took seats at the table. The guests of the evening were seated on either side of His Excellency Governor Andrew, who presided. After an hour or two spent at the table, the cloth was removed, and Gov.GOV. Andrew arose amid great applause.
He said that it was a pleasing task to him to act, as the occupant of the Chair, in the capacity of host on the occasion of this friendly and cordial reception to the friends from Louisiana, the guests on either hand, in whose honor they had assembled. (Applause.) We recognize, said Governor Andrew, in our guests at once the representatives of the loyalty, long-suffering, tried, undoubted and eternal, to this flag of ours, to the cause of our Union, not only of the people of Louisiana, but of four millions of the people of the entire South. What words of human speech can do justice to a scene like this? What time more appropriate than to-day which is the third anniversary of the assault on Fort Sumter? (Applause.) This is a fit memorial of the hour when the will, the heart, the interest of our own country arose at the first boom of the cannon, for its defence. We have lived many ages during the past three years. What enemies without and what foes within have we had to contend with! Three years ago such a spectacle as this would have been improbable. (Applause.) It seemed to him, he said, as he sat there conversing with the guests of the evening, and looked into the hopeful, serious, but glad countenance of the old war horse of liberty (William Lloyd Garrison), thought of the name of our friend upon the right who had achieved his liberty for himself; (Frederick Douglass,) thought of another, himself belonging to the downcast race, (Rev. L. A. Grimes,) who had blown the horn, on one of the streets on the hill, with no uncertain sound, calling at least 300 men to the defence of the country; he had thought here was the compensation of a life-time crowded into an hour. (Applause.) He congratulated himself, the company one and all, for this auspicious visit and auspicious occasion. After a few more remarks, the speaker called upon the gentlemen to greet, with friendly joy and solemn awe, our guests this evening,—with every wish of the heart for the honor, freedom and prosperity of the loyal people of Louisiana. (Applause.)
Three cheers were given for the "Loyal people of Louisiana." Governor Andrew then introduced Mr. Jean Baptiste Roudanez, who was received with prolonged cheers.
He said that he found himself quite embarrassed in attempting to address such an assembly as the one before him. He would try to express his gratitude for the compliment paid to himself and friend, by inviting them to meet around this festive board. (Applause.) Our mission with the President, said he, was to obtain the elective franchise. He listened attentively to our address, and sympathized with our object,—but said he could not aid us on moral grounds, only as a military necessity. Our petition was then presented to the Senate by your Senator, Hon. Charles Sumner, (applause,) and to the House of Representatives by Hon. George Kelley of Pennsylvania. (Applause.) We shall never forget the kindness which you have shown to as. In conclusion, we would offer a toast:—"To the true friend of the downtrodden and oppressed, His Excellency, Governor Andrew." 
The toast was received with cheers, and was drunk standing. Captain Arnold Bertonneau was then introduced by the Governor. He said:—
Before the outbreak of the rebellion, Louisiana contained about 40,000 free colored people, and 312,000 persons held in slavery. In the city of New Orleans, there were upwards of 20,000 free persons of color. Nearly all the tree persons of color read and write, many of them being highly educated and quite wealthy. (Applause.) The free people have always been on the side of law and good order, always peaceful and self-sustaining, always loyal. (Applause.) Taxed on an assessment of more than $15,000,000—among many other things, for the support of public school education —debarred the right of sending their children to the common schools which they have been and are compelled to aid in supporting; taxed on their property, and compelled to contribute towards the general expense of sustaining the State, they have always been and now are prohibited from exercising the elective franchise.
When the first fratricidal shot was fired at Sumter, and Louisiana had joined her fortunes with the other seceding States,—surrounded by enemies educated in the belief that "Africans and their descendants had no rights that white men were bound to respect," without arms and ammunition, or any means of self-defence, —the condition and position of our people were extremely perilous. When summoned to volunteer in the defence of the State and city against Northern invasion, situated as we were, could we do otherwise than heed the warning, and volunteer in the defence of New Orleans? Could we have adopted a better policy? In the city of New Orleans, under the Confederate Government, we raised one regiment of 1000 men, the line officers of which were colored.
When General Butler captured New Orleans, and drove the rebel soldiers from the State, the colored people were the most truly loyal citizens to welcome his coming. (Great applause.) Indeed, from the time that General Jackson, when Louisfana was threatened during the last war with Great Britain by an over-whelming British force, issued his famous appeal to the "noble-hearted, generous free men of color," for so he called them in his proclamation—censuring the "mistaken policy" before pursued, of exempting them from military service and calling upon them as "Americans" and "sons of freedom" for aid and support, our fathers rallied to arms, and drove the red coats from the soil. I say. from that time to the present, the free colored people of Louisiana have always been loyal, and ready and willing to defend the "Stars and Stripes."(Applause.) General Butler understood this. He knew instinctively who were loyal and who were not, (renewed applause,) on whom he could implicitly rely, in whose fidelity he could safely trust,—and adopting the policy of that noble, brave and clear-sighted General who dared to take the responsibility, he received into the ranks of the Union army the colored volunteer soldiers of New Orleans. (Applause.)
Under General Butler, we had a foretaste of freedom. The colored people of Louisiana venerate his name; with us it is a household word. We bless his memory, and shall always hold it in grateful remembrance. (Enthusiastic applause.) We felt that we were men and citizens, and were to be treated as such; we were animated by new hopes and new desires; we felt that there was a new life opened before us; so we gave our imagination fall scope and play. The tyrant who was cruel to his slave was summoned before that General, and received proper punishment. (Applause.) The sympathizers with the rebellion, who wantonly insulted Union troops, were reminded that they could not do so with safety. (Renewed applause.) Gentlemen and ladies of color were allowed to ride in public conveyances, and were respectfully treated. Soon, however, the scene changed. General Butler was removed, and again a portentous cloud darkened the bright horizon of our future prospects. Our hope gave place to oar fears; and with ail true and loyal citizens of our State and city, we regretted the removal of a General who was determined to bring Louisiana back into the Union, free as is the State of Massachusetts. (Great applause.)
While General Banks was at the siege of Port Hudson, again the city of New Orleans was threatened by the enemy, and fears were entertained that the rebel troops would take the city. At the call of Gen. Shepley, the colored people again rallied under the banner of the Union, and in forty-eight hours raised the first regiment, and were read for duty. (Applause.) They were promised the same pay and rations as other soldiers. At the expiration of forty days’ service, we were discharged; and when the time for payment went arrived, each man being charged for his uniform, and his wages cat down to $7 per month, it was ascertained that each soldier was indebted to the Government $6.97. ("Shame! Shame!") The soldiers composing this regiment are men of business and culture mostly engaged in commercial and industrial pursuits, while some are artisans; and notwithstanding they closed their places of business, quit their various occupations, and joined in the defence of New Orleans;
<c06>
this sum stands charged against these soldiers in the books of the General Government this day.
Some months ago, Gen. Shepley, the military Governor of Louisiana, issued an order, directing all Union male citizens over 21 years to register their names, that it might be ascertained who had a right to vote in the reorganization of Civil Government in the States of Louisiana. The free colored citizens applied for leave to register their names, but were refused the right to do so. They applied to the military Governor and to General Banks, without success. An election took place, and no colored citizens were permitted to vote. In our struggle to gain the right to vote, we were aided and assisted by many of our most influential and truly loyal Union citizens. Their noble efforts in our behalf we shall never forget. To influence the action of those men in Louisiana who now control that State, and to obtain the elective franchise for our people, we, as delegates of the free colored population of Louisiana, visited Washington to lay the matter before President Lincoln and the Congress of our country. We ask that, in the reconstruction of the States Government there, the right to vote shall not depend on the color of the citizen; that the colored citizen shall have and enjoy every civil, political and religious right that while citizens enjoy; in a word, that every man shall stand equal before the law. (Applause.) To secure these rights, which belong to every free citizen, we ask the aid and influence of every true loyal man all over the country. Slavery, the curse of our country, cannot exist in Louisiana again. (Great applause.)
In order to make our Stale blossom and bloom as the rose, the character of the whole people must be changed. As slavery is abolished, with, it must vanish every vestige of oppression. The right to vote must be secured; the doors of our public schools must be opened, that our children, side by side, may study from the same books, and imbibe the same principles and precepts from the Book of Books—learn the great truth that God "created of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all the face of toe earth"—so will caste, founded on prejudice against color, disappear.
Massachusetts has always been foremost in every good work. She, first of all the States, by positive law, struck the shackles from the limbs of every bondman within her limits. It was Massachusetts who first acknowledged the colored man as a citizen, and gave him political equality; (applause) —and today, by your enlightened legislation, no prescriptive laws remain on your Statute Book. In your State color is no legal disqualification for any office of trust or power.
Mr. President, when we return to New Orleans, we shall tell our friends that, in Massachusetts, we could ride in every public vehicle; that the colored children not only were allowed to attend public schools with white children, but they were compelled by law to attend such schools;(applause)—that we visited your courts of justice, and saw colored lawyers defending their clients; and we shall tell them, too, of this most generous welcome extended to us by you. It will prove most grateful to their feeling, animate them with new hopes and desires, and, will prove a grand stimulus to renewed efforts fur the acquisition of every right that can be guaranteed to them by law. (Prolonged applause.)
He closed by offering the following sentiment:—
"To the noble and gallant soldier, Benjamin F. Butler."
This toast, also, was received with cheers, and drunk standing by the company.
The Chairman then appropriately introduced Hon. John G. Palfrey, who made a every short but eloquent speech, which was received with much applause. At the conclusion of his remarks, William Lloyd Garrison was announced, and greeted with cheers.
He said that he found himself in a very novel place and situation. (Laughter) He felt in his heart, nevertheless, to say "it was good to be here." It was a stormy day without, but it was a red letter day within; a day, that would long be remembered by the gentlemen present. He was glad to see, the Governor presiding, and he would say that it was just like him; nothing better could be expected of him! (Laughter.) Mr. Garrison then followed with some remarks of great praise of his Excellency, speaking warmly of the part he had taken in regard to colored troops. In the interviews which he had had with the guests, Mr. Garrison said that he had noticed their self-respect, their dignity, and the noble regard which they feel for their oppressed brethren. We mean, said the speaker, to have justice done, we mean to have slavery exterminated, we mean to recognize every man as man according to his moral worth and character, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. (Applause.) The changes which have taken place during the past three years may well be called miraculous. Mr. Garrison spoke of the manner in which slavery was gradually being crushed, and took a very hopeful view of national affairs.
The "John Brown Song" was sung, Mr. S. B. Noyes, of Canton, leading, and all the gentlemen joining in the chorus. His Excellency introduced Fred. Douglass as the "distinguished representative of almost emancipated Maryland." Mr. Douglass’s address was quite long and full of deep thought. He argued that the prospect was not so sanguine until the Government would recognize the colored soldier on the same footing as the white soldier. His remarks were frequently interrupted by applause.
Speeches were subsequently made by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Major Bart, George S. Hale, Esq., Collector Goodrich, Edward S. Atkinson, Esq., Hon. Francis W. Bird, and Charles W. Storey.—Boston Daily Advertiser of Wednesday.

ANNIVERSARY
OF THE 
WOMEN'S LOYAL NATIONAL LEAGUE.
The Anniversary of the Women's National League will be hold in New York, Thursday, May 12th, at the Church of the Puritans, at 10 o'clock, A.M.
Representatives from auxiliary Leagues, and all women who believe in a democratic form of government, are invited to attend.
The work of the hour is not alone to put down the rebels in arms, but TO EDUCATE THIRTY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE INTO THE IDEA OF A TRUE REPUBLIC. Hence, every influence and power that both men and women can bring to bear will be needed in the reconstruction of the nation on the basic or justice and equality.
As the educators of future statesmen, heroes and martyrs, it is the duty of women to inform themselves on all questions of national life, that th y m infuse into the politics of the nation a purer morality and religion.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, Secretaries.
Editors, please copy.
UNION AND EMANCIPATION.-WILLIAM A. JACKSON, (late Jeff. Davis’s coachman,) will speak on the above subject at the following places placed in the State of Maine:
Millbridge, Saturday, April 16
Cherryfield, Sunday, April 17.
Blue Hill, Tuesday, April 19.
Castine, Wednesday, April 20.
Rockland, Friday, April 22.
Thomaston, Saturday, April 23.
West Thomaston, Sunday, April 24.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Portsmouth, N. H., on Sunday evening, the 17th, at half-past 7 o’clock. Subject: The Mystery of the War; and in New market, N. H., on Monday evening next, 18th inst., at half-part 7 o’clock.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture before the Loyal League in Rutland, Vermont, Friday evening, April 15th; and on Sunday, 17th, in the same place, all day and evening.
AARON M. POWELL will address meetings at Auburn, N. Y., Sunday, April 17th; Union Springs, Tuesday, day, 19th; Aurora, Wednesday, 20th; Sherwood, Thursday, 21st; Poplar Ridge, Friday, 22nd22d; Canastota, Sunday, 24th; Oneida, Monday, 25th.

SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of "Woman’s" Labor," "Woman under the law," &c. 16mo; paper, 35 cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR. BARTOL’S SERMON COMMEMORATIVE OF REV.
T. STARR KING. 15 cents.
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER. A Rational Method of Teaching Reading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By Rev. J. C. ZACHOS. 38 cents.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
BOSTON.
April 8—lw
THE RED SEA FREEDMEN,
STIRRING Sermon for the times<illegible> untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK ,<illegible> Editor of "Clark’s" School Visitor ,"and Junior Pastor of the Church of the <illegible>, Philadelphia.
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents. $1 a <illegible>. Buy it, read it, and send it to a <illegible> Address
J. W. DAUGHADAY,
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
April 15. 34
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SHOUT!
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
Shout for a nation renewed!
That moults the old garment that bound her,
That rises with evil eschewed,
With the gold of God’s morning around her!
Shout that she caught enough light,
Through the chinks in political cells,
To vitalize will into Might!
That she heard the Eternity bells.
Freedom tongued!—that she leaped with a shiver
Of joy, for this gift of the Giver—
A chance for a nobler existence!
That her passiveness turned to resistance!
That, bursting all dwarfish dimension,
She moves in untrammelled extension,
With purpose of Justice imbued!
Shout for a nation renewed!
Shout for the Merlins that rise!
The charm of the harlot is broken;
Our fair Southern Vivien's cries
Can wring not a word or a token,
To use on the ears and the eyes.
Unavailing her wily address;
Their dead passions waken no more
At the touch of her wanton caress,
To burn out their strength as before.
Where they laid impotent, stricken,
The issue of witcheries tragic,
Slowly but surely they quicken,
Loosed from her ravenous magic.
Their numb fingers feel for a sword;
Their silent lips move with a word,
And a tone that she never has heard;
Their sightless eyes kindle space.
And pour their fall blaze in her face;
And they hurl at her vain incantation
The war-cry of "EMANCIPATION!"
She shrivels and shudders in fear,
And reels with that word in her ear;
And all the world cheers as she dics:—
Shout for the Merlins that rise!
Shout that a creature of God,
Long known as our national ban,
And reckoned a thing, as a beast,
Is counted and titled a man!
That he fronts with unfaltering step
The enemy's brass-throated guns,
With a courage as high and serene
As any of Liberty's sons!
That he moves not at Tyranny's nod,
A subject of fetter and rod:—
Shout for this creature of God!
Shout for the States coming back!
Grasp the warm hand of communion!
Draw them so near, it will seem
One heart only throbs in the Union!
Let not our faces be altered
Because for a time they have faltered:
Or let us but brighten the more
That feet, turning from us before,—
Dear feet!—sound again at the door.
For we must be one! E’en the winds,
With icicle dagger and snows,
Throw them off with a smile, to slip down,
And play with the sweet Southern rose;
Our summer clouds, darkened with tears,
O’er gray crag and mountain-top clamber,
And flash with joy's impulse at sight
Of the beautiful Southern sky-amber.
New stars are in Liberty's track!—
Shout for the States coming back!
Shout for a banner, symbolic
Of all that is great in Humanity!
Vestment no longer for drapery,
The lie of our past Christianity!
Red for the hearts of our braves;
White for the soul of a nation,
Cleansed into fitness at last,
For holiest deed and oblation;
Blue for the people's new heaven,
Into which purity frees us,
Lighted with Bethlehem stars,
As guides evermore unto Jesus.
Emblem of truth apostolic!
Shout for this banner symbolic!
Shout! or dumb Nature will speak,
And mountains be seized with a spasm!
Shout! or a thunder of joy
Will belch from the cavern and chasm!
Shout! or the old sea will rise
Heaven high, in an extatic madness,
And bones of the patriots stir,
To give an expression to gladness!
Or portraits that hang in the hall
Will start in procession and file,
And pictured saints fixed on the wall
Will move their pure lips into smile!
Shout! for the Earth looks alive,
Like a joy-flush that burns on a cheek,
When Love’s swooning pulses revive!
On baldness of boulder and peak
Heaven's glory drops as a chrism!
Hintings of hylozoism:
Shout! or dumb Nature will speak!

For the Liberator.
THE SUBMERGED SHRINE.
In the. old Hindu legends there is wealth of bardic lore;
Of pagan faith and wisdom, there is found abundant store;
And though, for eighteen centuries, our race has had the light
Of Christian truth to guide it to a knowledge of the Right,
Yet, in these ancient annals, so early laid away,
Are found condemned the follies prevailing in our day.
In an old musty volume, with the dust of ages filled,
The work of grave old Rahmud,—Truth-teller he was styled,—
It is related that there came from a far-distant land,
In the early dawn of history, a migratory band.
They came from beyond the. sources of the Ganges,—sacred stream,—
From beyond the Belur’s lofty range, where snows eternal gleam;
They came with their wives and children—their flocks and herds—likewise,
They brought with them their household gods, their idol deities;
Their ancient laws and customs of traditionary force—
Among them human bondage;—Rahmud calls a direful curse.
Thus came they, from their mountain haunts, down to the gray old sea,
And by its side they fondly hoped their future homes would be;
They built their towns and temples with the labor of their slaves—
And, first, a fane to Slavery’s god, close down beside the waves;
Unmindful that the land was slowly sinking, year by year,
That slow the sea was creeping up, nearer and still more near;
That a tide was rising on that coast, along its whole extent,
Just like,—the annals say,—the tide of public sentiment.
For when the thoughts of men go out, on a peculiar course,
They’re neither checked nor turned aside, save by superior force.
Some generations passed away, and now the temple stood,
<c02>
Not as of old, upon the shore, but in th’ engulphing flood;
For, though its firm foundations were moved not from their place,
Encircling waves now held it, closely clasped in their embrace;
And if the people would go down to offer worship there,
Not as their fathers could they go, over dry sands and bare,
But through the dark, opposing flood must ever make their way;
So that the numbers at that shrine were lessening day by day,
Until, by madness driven, they made complaint unto the god
Who had the storms in charge, and prayed that he would send abroad
A tempest, with embattled winds, that should drive back the sea
Within its limits, and a set their beleaguered idol free.
Briefly the conflict is described, and briefly the event-
How ‘gainst the mighty ocean tide the mountain storms were sent;
What elemental strife ensued, and raged along that coast;
Which party proved victorious,—to which the day was lost.
Here need I but transcribe that when the warfare was all o'er,
The temple,—even its faintest trace,—was to be found no more;
But, in the bright, succeeding calm, the waters on that shore
Ran rippling higher up the sands than e’er they had before.
Thus, in these ancient annals, so early laid away,
Are found depicted follies prevailing in our day.
Gorham, (Me.) 1864.
ISAAC B. CHOATE.

The Liberator.
MEETING AT WORCESTER.
The annual meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held in Washburn Hall at Worcester, on Sunday, March 27, forenoon, afternoon and evening.
The sessions were usually well attended, and the discussions were spirited and interesting.
Committees on Business, Finance and Nominations were duly chosen.
Parker Pillsbury and Samuel May, Jr., from the Business Committee, reported resolutions, which, after discussion, were adopted, as follows:—
Resolved, That the two most alarming considerations of the present hour are, first, the feeling of security among the people that their armies and their cause are soon to succeed, if they have not already; and, secondly, the almost total absence of that conscientious regard for justice and righteousness which, alone, deserve or can achieve a triumph.
Resolved, That there is good reason to believe, notwithstanding all our hopes and boastings, that the South is still powerful in her resources, and never more determined and defiant in her spirit than now; while it must be admitted that the operations of the Spring, thus far, have been such as greatly to elevate her courage and hope.
Resolved, That the idea that slavery is already dead is a delusion, which, it not speedily dispelled, will fatally mislead us; for, with all its crimes, cruelties and abominations, it still exists, approved by the government, and protected by its arms; and whatever good step may have been taken towards its destruction, all of them are yet incomplete, and others have not even been commenced; and that we are in danger of losing our past labor for want of enduring to the end; and therefore we regard it the bounden duty of every anti-slavery man (while not forgetting other benevolent measures) to direct his chief attention and labor to the work of utterly uprooting slavery, and securing its eternal prohibition.
Resolved, That while the government seizes the defenceless black man, and forces him into the army, on half pay, and then allows his wife and children to be sold, or returned into hopeless and interminable slavery, it is downright atheism to even expect or hope for success to our cause either in the council or the field. 
Resolved, That, as members and supporters of this County Anti-Slavery Society, we renew our solemn purpose and pledge to support no Presidential candidate, or administration, that does not openly and unequivocally hold and avow, first, the equal, inalienable rights of all men before the law, without distinction of color or race; second, the right and duty of Congress to immediately and utterly exterminate slavery from the land; and, thirdly, to provide for such Constitutional amendments as shall forever prevent and prohibit its reestablishment.
The last resolution was objected to on account of the form of language in “renewing a solemn pledge," on the ground that we have heretofore made no pledge as to specific forms of political action; our previous record containing only advisory or declarative testimonies thereupon, as we made no test save of principles, leaving each member free to judge of and decide his own specific action under our pledged principles.
Joseph A. Howland moved to amend by striking out the "form of a pledge," and inserting words that would declare it “inconsistent” for any member to support other than such a candidate or administration as the resolution specified.
The amendment was rejected by a small majority, and the resolution was adopted without altering Mr. Pillsbury's language.
The following resolution of Mr. May was, after some discussion, on motion of S. S. Foster, indefinitely postponed by a small majority:—
Resolved, That, while maintaining the right and duty of every American citizen to express, in the freest manner consistent with truth, his opinions of all public officers and measures, we yet regard it highly inexpedient for Anti-Slavery Societies, journals or lecturers, to engage as partisans in the Presidential contest, or make themselves the advocates of any particular candidates,—a course tending, in our judgment, to weaken the effect of their criticisms, by depriving them of that impartiality and manifest allegiance to truth only, which have ever been the glory and the might of the Anti-Slavery enterprise. 
The afternoon session was mainly occupied by Parker Pillsbury in reading his lecture, “The Mysteries of the War,” recently delivered in Dr. Cheever’s Church, in New York.
The Nominating Committee reported for reelection the entire board of officers that had held their respective positions for the past year, which report was accepted, and the old board reelected.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
REMARKS. There is a tone of exaggeration pervading the resolutions adopted by the Society, which adds nothing to their strength. If it be true that the South was "never more determined and defiant in her spirit than now,"—though we think she is far less so than formerly,—we believe it is an unwarranted concession to say that she is "still powerful in her resources"; for those "resources" are universal bankruptcy, destitution, discontent, wretchedness in every form, and a constant weakening of her army by flight to the Federal lines. We neither read nor hear of any special “boastings” on our side, nor perceive any undue "feeling of security among the people "as to the result of this gigantic struggle. The enrolment of a slave as a soldier, and thereby making him free, is no personal outrage but a gain to him, even though his wife and children still remain in slavery. That they ought also to be, and ere long will be set free by the government, we have no doubt.
<c03>
N0TI0NS.
BY NELL CLIFFORD.
A glorious morning of last winter found me at the depot in one of the back towns of the "Granite State,” ready to take the train for Boston. There was a world of sunshine without, and a world of sweeter sunshine within my heart, as I bade good-bye to my black-eyed "Don,” and took my seat in the cars on that, to me, eventful day. Here I beg leave to digress long enough to tell you that no single lady, with streaks of romance in her nature, ever travels without Don. She will see him in various forms and faces, sometimes old, sometimes young and handsome, grave and gay, but always with some distinguishing mark about him. Maidens with any constructiveness of imagination can build up a very fine ideal of a husband out of the real qualities of the different specimens of manhood they meet. Especially is this true in our own dear country. Don is every where present, and proffers his services just at the opportune moment. All honor to kind Don Americus! Courteous and affable, he ranks highest in the order of gentlemen. I would fling this fact to the eyes of John Bull and bowing Johnny Capet, not in contempt, but that they may profit by the knowledge. I supposed my trip would be a silent one, and I therefore resolved to use my perceptive faculties to the best advantage I could under the circumstances. I had gone only a few miles, when Don Americus, in the guise of a blue-orbed man, came to my aid, and pointed out to me every object of interest on the route. For five years it had been the witching day-dream of life to visit the metropolis of New England. No artist ever longed more for the sunny skies of Italy, no Mohammedan devotee ever desired to go to Mecca more than I longed to see the "Athens of America." Bayard Taylor and Livingstone would smile at the enthusiasm and exhilaration of mind produced by a tour of a hundred and fifty miles; and it would possibly be a smile as much of pity as amusement. With Individuality at seven, it is a deprivation, indeed, to be shut up in a radius of a few miles; yet thousands are placed in such positions, hedged in by the concerns and duties of life to that extent that it is the next thing to an impossibility for them to get outside even for a few days. The country through which runs the Boston and Montreal railroad is exceedingly rugged, and, at that season of the year, was looking its worst, yet the true lover of nature, ever on the watch for beauties, cannot fail to find them, even in the dreariest season. As the charitable person will find some bud or blossom of good in the souls of those that the majority of mankind regard as irreclaimably bad, so will he find some charm in the roughest aspect of nature, over which others blindly pass. The mountains wore a solemn, grim expression that they do not have in the brightness of spring and summer. They had buried their joys away under the snow that enveloped them. Their singing children, the babbling brooks, were cold and still, except where they broke away in sudden glee from the icy hand that grasped them, and dashed and sparkled over obstructing rocks. Their glad gushes, spasmodic gleams of liberty, would teach a docile pupil something of its value. The Granite Hills should confirm and make it emphatic. Who can live beneath their shadows, and not love freedom and his country?
Lake Winnipisseogee, in its robe of white, is a very pearl among these mountains; yet I cannot call it quite as beautiful as my own silvery Champlain. Some allowance ought to be made, perhaps, on account of partiality. If the former had sung my cradle-songs, I should love her better. Our mothers are always lovely to us; so are the lakes and rivers along whose banks we have pattered in childhood, whose waters have mirrored our childish forms. I admire the white villages of New England. Modest and pleasant as newly I made brides, they nestle down in the valleys, and teach passers by the lesson of contentment. They are more thriving and stylish as you go southward, but not much more than a glance can be had from the cars. Glimpses of the Merrimac occasionally gratify the eye, and whet the desire for a distinct and continued view of it. A few moments longer, and I was in Manchester, clean, regular, roomy Manchester. I want to say here, for the information of lady travellers, that there is a gentleman residing there who knows how to assist a lady in and out of a carriage. I have never happened to know only two who did understand this delicate and dangerous operation. Some give the tip ends of their fingers; and if ladies are expert dancers on the tight rope, or good circus performers, they may succeed in reaching terra firma without becoming entangled in crinoline and long skirts, or falling into the arms of their assistants. Woe to them if otherwise! Encumbered with I muff, reticule and an extra shawl, it requires considerable dexterity to reach the ground without the occurrence of some ludicrous catastrophe of the kind. Gentlemen of another stamp, in their anxiety to be of service, seize hold of one with that familiarity of grasp that is only allowable in a husband, father or brother; and so, through kind intentions, render themselves disagreeable. Gentlemen ought to go to school in this matter. Let them practice upon their sisters; or, if they are not blessed and plagued with these, upon some nice, obliging little cousin; and then there will be less bungling, and their help will be help indeed. I was happily surprised to find I could like Manchester so well. The pleasure accruing from a short trip there was unexpected, an angel that came to me unawares. I half expected to undergo a metamorphosis as I passed the boundary line into Massachusetts, and supposed the shock of the change would inform me of the crossing; but I have so long sucked in the inspiration and sentiments of the State, that I had already become assimilated to its spirit, and I was obliged to ask a gray-haired Don to inform me when the wished-for period had arrived. I came near hurrahing, but a glance at flowing drapery warned me that I was denied that escape-valve to my admiration. I could not even raise my hat as an expression of it, and the only way it could find vent was in the louder and faster beating of the heart. An attempt at the description of the country and its ‘numerous manufacturing villages would only cloy the appetite of the public, which already has too much of this diet, and be of no interest to the thousands who pass through that section of country. One characteristic I noticed in Massachusetts and Southern New Hampshire,—the people have an exceedingly wide awake air, that seems to say, "I would like to have anybody catch me napping, either in politics, religion, or the ordinary routine of business." As I neared Boston, I was on the mountain-top of expectation, and in a quiver of excitement. The remains of the old Ursuline Convent, and the Mystic and Charles rivers, were named to me. The former is a dirty, insignificant stream, and the Charles is but little better, excepting where it opens into the harbor. If there were a river with the majestic sweep of the Hudson, or the easy flow of the Connecticut, Boston would be a prouder city than she is. New York prides herself upon her greatness and commerce, Philadelphia on the regularity of her streets and morals, and Boston on her intellect, her organ, and her Public Library. This trio of rival belles are not satisfied with the praise bestowed upon them by others, and boldly praise themselves, if the quantity administered is given in too small doses. The Monument, as it came into range of vision, made my eyes moist, and I thought of the hallowed associations connected with it. A few days afterwards, I stood upon the consecrated spot where Warren fell, and upon the summit of the rebel breast-work, and tried to place myself back to that other time of trial. I asked if the liberties for which our fathers struggled and died should now be compromised and bartered away as the price of an ignoble peace. The blood of Warren and his compatriots speaks against oppression, now as then, in clarion tones that are echoed fearlessly by the orators of the new Athenas. The orators! these were the great attraction that drew me on—the fanatics, (?) as they are called, of New England. They are the most reasona-
<c04>
ble ones of every age. Noah, Moses and Aaron, Luther, Calvin and Robert Fulton, have all been classed in the list of fanatics, as well as Garrison and Wendell Phillips.
I was in time to attend the anniversary festival of the Anti-Slavery Society, and I must say I never saw so intelligent a congregation of ladies and gentlemen. Phillips and Garrison were the centres of interest. I had no note of time when the former was speaking, but was borne along a helpless speck by the tide of his, resistless eloquence. I thank God that I have lived to see and hear this higher than a Roman, a pure American patriot. God preserve him to us many years! It was with that kind of awe that one feels on entering cathedrals, that I ventured into the office of the Liberator, one morning. I found myself among a group of heroes, who dare to stand for absolute Right, no matter who is President. An enthusiast has cried, "See Naples, and die!” I beg leave to ring a change, and say, See Boston, and live! Its solid block of buildings, its irregular alleys, its black and sticky mud, we must forgive. It is the Bunker Hill idea, the intelligence and liberality that constitute Boston. Take it in detail, and we must find fault with it; but as the expression and out-growth of great thoughts, among which freedom and love of country are chief, we must forever love and glory in it.

RESISTANCE OF THE CHURCH TO REFORM.
About the year 1844, the Rowe street Baptist church in Boston inserted in their pew-deed deeds a provision, which probably still remains there, forbidding the sale of their pews to any but a “respectable white person.” It is not known that either their present pastor (Rev. Baron Stow) or any of his predecessors have ever made protest against this manifestation of a mean and vulgar prejudice.
At a church meeting of the members of Park street church, opened and closed with prayer, on the evening of March 24th, 1830, it was moved and seconded that the Prudential Committee be requested to consider the expediency of so altering the deeds of pews as to prevent colored persons procuring deeds of the same.
Apparently, the directness of this form of expression was found unsatisfactory, since no action was taken on it. But at a subsequent meeting, opened and closed with prayer, it was voted that a new form of deeds of pews be prepared for the examination of the church. At a still later meeting, opened and closed with prayer, the following was reported as the amended form, with accompanying “explanatory remarks."
“ART.—No sale, transfer, or assignment of a pew shall be valid, unless by and with the approbation of a majority of the Prudential Committee, certified in writing on the back of the deed; and no pew, or part of a pew, shall be let to any person or persons without the consent of two of that Committee, certified in writing.
“Explanatory Remarks.
“The principal object of the above provision was that the church might secure the control of the pews, and be able to prevent a person who might from any cause be obnoxious to them from becoming the proprietor or occupant of a pew.”
On the 11thllth of October in the same year, in another church meeting opened and closed with prayer, it was “Voted, that the new form of deed be adopted, and printed fur for use."
These transactions are old, though their force still remains, and keeps the saints of Park street and Rowe street churches pure from the contact of colored people, as far as “the Sabbath” and “the house of God” are concerned. I am reminded of them by the recent adoption of a similar provision in another orthodox body, “The Shawmut Congregational Society,” who have just built a new church in Tremont street, (corner of Brookline street,) under the pastoral charge of Rev. Edwin B. Webb.
Their pew-deed has this note, marked for particular attention by three asterisks:—
“It is understood by the parties to this deed, that the owner of this pew is under an honorary obligation not to sell the same to any individual who shall not be approved of in writing by a majority of the Standing Committee of the Shawmut Congregational Society.”
Having thus secured the exclusion of colored people from the ownership of seats in their house of worship, the Shawmut church have taken care to stop the current of reform in another direction by the insertion of the following article in their “Plan of Organization”:
“ART. V. By the word ‘Church,' hereinbefore used, is meant male members of the Church, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards.”
The Public Schools, the Public Library, and the omnibuses and rail-cars running in the city, have long since abandoned the attempt to stigmatize colored people as an inferior caste. The formal perpetuation of this stigma is continued by the orthodox churches and the Theatres. It remains to be seen which of these will be last in clinging to so cruel and unchristian a prejudice.—C. K. W.

THE DEATH OF STARR KING 
AN AFFECTING ACCOUNT OF HIS LAST ILLNESS AND DEATH.
Thomas Starr King is dead, and the city is in mourning, lie. He died at a quarter past 8 o'clock this morning, after an illness of about one week's duration. When the news was first bruited about the streets, people received it with incredulity; they could not believe that one who so lately moved around among them, stirring by his own generous impulses and eloquent advocacy all worthy enterprises, foremost in the cause of country and the interests of humanity, encouraging the willing, and urging on the lagging by the magnetic influence of his own large-hearted and strong-handed zeal—people could not believe that such an one had been cut off in the meridian of his career, in the very high noon of his usefulness, and then lay in the silence and immutability of death, the light faded front from his eloquent eyes, and the deep bass of his wonderful voice hushed forever. It seemed impossible that one so useful should die at a period when the sway of his influence was so much needed, and so many worthless existences be prolonged. But confirmation of the sad intelligence came all too soon; men whispered it to each other in the subdued tones in which some great public calamity is imparted; and now the flags, which at halt-mist float throughout the city from all the public buildings and among the shipping, testify how deeply the calamity is publicly felt, bow sincerely this death of all others" is mourned.
Of his labors among us, it is almost unnecessary to speak, for his record is written on the State. He identified himself at once with California and its people, urging their interests on all occasions with a zeal and persistence which could not have been exceeded bad had he been one of the first settlers of the country. He looked beyond the pulpit, and mingled much with men—touching life at nearly all points. The agricultural and mineral resources of our State claimed a large share of his attention, and his lectures, illustrated by quaint humor as well as by deep and practical knowledge of his texts, are fresh as the sounds of words spoken yesterday in the ears of our people. His was one of those lovable natures, which warm to all men, and in consequence his circle of friends was only bounded by his acquaintance—it is questionable if be he ever had an enemy among all who knew him, even those who differed from him in theological views yielding to the magnetic sway of his voice and manner. He did not think that the pulpit, the prow of the world, should be shot out from pointing the way war in politics when great principles are involved, and early in the war be pronounced against the rebellion and the issues upon which it was conducted. In this respect he has wielded a powerful influence, lending his aid to the preservation of harmony in a State which, at the outset, seemed likely to be divided, carrying the masses with him by that energy and eloquence which were given him as a birthright, and of which only the hand of Death could rob him. Mr. Kings energy has bas an eminent illustration in the history of bit his pastoral labors here. He found the Unitarian Society some $20,000 in debt, small in numbers and feeble in strength. In less than a year the whole debt was paid, and the society was to in a flourishing condition; before four years had bad expired, a new church was built fix-for him, costing $90,000— to which
<c05>
he himself was the largest contributor, giving from his own pocket $7000 to the church and its furniture. Barely bad the building been completed when the pastor was taken away. This seems irreconcilable with faith, but the ways of Providence ire are often inscrutable. His physical health, never very robust, suffered much from his arduous labors, and particularly from the exertions' which he put forth to insure the completion of this church and its freedom from debt. For two or three months before his death, it was evident that he was not so well as usual, and he had frequently spoken of the necessity of giving tip all literary labor. He thought it would be impossible for him to endure another year of work, and they were already agitating the question of who should fill his pulpit while be took a year’s respite from labor in travel. It may not b« e unworthy. of mention, in this connection, that Mr. King always had a strong and strange presentiment that he should not live beyond the age forty—and one of his friends in this city now has a letter written by him some four years since, giving his reasons for this belief. It is curious, too, that just before his sickness, he had a dream which be narrated to a friend at the time, remarking that it made more impression upon him than he cared to confess. In his dream, he thought he was shaving himself, and the razor slipping, gashed his throat. Physicians who were called told him he could not live ten minutes. He argued the case with them—holding the edges of the wound together with his hand—telling them that the windpipe nor any of the arteries were severed, and that be could recover if they would only stop the bleeding. They said it was useless, however, and that he must prepare to die. The dream was probably induced by the pain which had already begun to settle in his throat. About two weeks before his death, he first complained of not feeling well, and of some-trouble with his throat. His friends urged him to be more careful, and not expose himself to the air; but be thought it was only an ordinary case of sore throat, and declined to confine himself or call in the aid of a physician until Friday last. In the evening he had his regular reception, and between 10 and 11 o’clock went down to a social gathering at the church, though still suffering. On Saturday evening, be he had invited a number of friends to supper, but when evening came, he was unable to appear at table. While supper was going on, however, a bridal party came to be married. Mr. King had received no previous intimation of such a visit, and sent down asking to be excused, saying that he was sick, and confined to his bed. The party replied that they bad had net their hearts on being married by Mr. King, and would come up to his bedside, sooner than be defeated in their desire. With that spirit of self-sacrifice for which he was so remarkable, he then said he would get up and go down into the parlor. He did so, and went through the ceremony, but though it was performed in a very few minutes, he was so weak at its conclusion that be had to be assisted up to his room. On Sunday morning, his congregation were alarmed by the announcement that he was unable to preach. The attending physician pronounced it a serious case of diphtheria, and said he should have been called at least a week sooner—it had been too long neglected. The disease gained strength, and the patient’s prostration increased. On Wednesday, however, the complaint seemed under medical control, but so prostrated was the patient that for two days it bad had been difficult to keep up his vital energies. Yesterday he was visited by an attack of pneumonia, and experienced great difficulty of respiration. At 6 o’clock last evening, the attack was very severe, and Dr. Eckel feared that it might prove fatal, but the patient possessed wonderful recuperative power, and seemed to revive, passing a very comfortable night. [It was always a peculiarity of Mr. King that be possessed a remarkable degree of vitality, and that not withstanding his feeble frame, he would endure a vast deal of fatigue, being sustained by the sheer force of indomitable will. It was remarked, also, that his, constitution yielded to medical treatment with remarkable ease, a half grain of quinine producing more effect on him than two grains would on an ordinary man—so sensitive and delicate was his physical organization that he could drink neither coffee nor strong tea.] A consultation of physicians yesterday had pronounced the disease checked, though they feared the system might not be able to recover from in its prostration. During last night, light stimulants were administered him to keep up the vital forces, and he seemed getting along remarkably well until about half past five in the morning, when a second attack of pneumonia set in—the doctor having previously stated that he feared his patient could not survive another attack.
This second attack was not more violent than the first, but the patient’s strength was so expended that there was little or nothing for medicine to build upon. When taken with the first attack, Mr. King had remarked to some one standing by— “I know what this is—it is a severe attack of pneumonia.” When the second occurred, be he said to the doctor,— “What is this? Is this pneumonia, too?” The doctor replied that it was. Mr. King then asked— “Can I survive it?” “The doctor told him no; he thought he could not. “How long can 1 live?” he asked. “Not half an hour.” “Are you sure I can-not live longer than that?” The doctor told him be he feared he could not. Friends then asked him if be had he bad anything to say. He replied, “Yes, a great deal to say; I want first to make my will.” Up to this time, for two or three days be bad not been able to speak above a whisper; but responding to the power of his will, his voice now resumed its old power and tone, and he spoke nearly as loud as ever. A friend sat by his bedside, and he dictated the will. It was read to him afterwards, and he assented to its correctness by saying “all right” at the end of each paragraph, exclaiming at the close, “It is just as I want it.” He then hesitated a moment, and dictated an important correction. A pen was given him, and he signed it in a band-writing as firm and bold as he ever wrote in his life, even punctuating the abbreviation of his name, and putting an accustomed flourish beneath the signature. Then came the sad task of bidding his friends who were present good bye. One by one they came up to his bedside; in every instance he greeted them with a cheerful smile, as though he were only going on a journey of a day or two, grasping their hands, and saying in that sweet, pleasant voice of his, Good-bye! Some one asking how he felt, he said, “Happy, resigned, trustful“; then repeated the 23d Psalm in a clear, well-modulated voice. At the verse, “Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort he raised his finger and his eyes as calmly as though in his pulpit, his voice as firm and strong as ever. After this exertion his strength seemed to fail him. Sinking back in bed he said “It is all right for me, but she will feel it,” pointing to his wife. Friends again gathered around his bedside, and he bade and smiled them good-bye. His little son being brought in, he said, “Dear little fellow she a beautiful boy!” kissing his hand to the child as the nurse carried it away in her arms. This was his last act en on earth. Calmly closing his eyes, he seemed to go to sleep. A great, and good, and generous man was dead.—San Francisco Bulletin, of March 4th.
WILL OF THE REV. THOS. STARR KING. 
Feeling that the time has come for me to be summoned into the presence of the Most High God, and believing in the salvation of my soul, I hereby make this my last will and testament: I hereby will and bequeath to my dear wife Julia, all my real and personal estate of which I am possessed, and all property of every description which belongs to me after my just debts arc. paid, with the exception of the proceeds of the policies of insurance upon my life, which I wish shall be equally divided among my mother and the mother of my dear wife, to revert to my wife after the death of either, unless it should be the will of my wife that it should revert directly for the benefit of either or both of her children. The proceeds of this policy of insurance I wish to be invested by my executors for the benefit of the above heirs thereto. And I hereby name as my executors to this my last will and testament Chas. L. Low, Wm. Norris, and Robert B. Swain. My desire is that they shall give no bonds for the performance of their duty.
All other wills are hereby revoked, and in the presence of these witnesses I desire this to be my last will and testament.
THOMAS STARR KLNG.
San Francisco, March 4th, 1864.
F. F. BEALE, Witnesses.
J. N. ECKEL, Witnesses.
The Judiciary Committee of the House has instructed its it Chairman to report, with the recommendation that it pass, Senator Wilson’s resolution proposing to the several State Legislatures an amendment to the Constitution abolishing slavery as incompatible with a republican government.
<c06>
IMPORTANT EDUCATIONAL ORDER
A BUREAU FOR THE INSTRUCTION OF FREEDMEN.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, MARCH 22, 1864.
GENERAL ORDERS No. 38. In pursuance of the provisions of General Orders No. 23, current series, for the rudimental instruction of the Freedmen of this Department, placing within their reach the elements of knowledge which give intelligence and greater value to labor, and reducing the provisions necessary therefore to an economical and efficient school system; it is ordered that a Board of Education, consisting of three persons, be hereby constituted, with the following duties and powers:—
First To establish one or more Common Schools in each and every school district that has been or may be defined by the Parish Provost Marshal, under orders of the Provost Marshal General.
Second. To acquire by purchase, or otherwise, tracts of land which shall be judged by the Board necessary and suitable for school sites, in plantation districts, to be no less than one-half acre in extent:’ to hold the same in trust to themselves until such schools shall have been established, when they shall transfer all the right and title thereto that may have vested in them to the Superintendent of Public Institutions, or other competent State authority.
Third. To erect upon said plots of land such school houses as they may judge necessary and proportional to the wants of the population of the district, when there are no buildings available and proper for school purposes. And in this, as in all other duties, they shall exercise the strictest economy.
Fourth. To select and employ proper teachers for said schools, as far as practicable from the loyal inhabitants of Louisiana, with power to require their attendance for the purpose of instruction in their duties, one week at least to a Normal School conducted by the Board.
Fifth. To purchase and provide the necessary books, stationery and apparatus for the use of such schools, and in addition thereto to purchase and furnish an outfit of a well-selected library, etc., for each freed person in the several school districts who is above the age of attending school duty, at a cost to each, including a case to contain the same, not exceeding $2.50, which sum shall be included in the general tax hereinafter provided, but shall be deducted from the laborer’s wages by his employer when such books are furnished.
Sixth. To regulate the course of study, discipline, and hours of instruction for children on week days, and adults on Sundays, to require such conformity to their regulations, and such return and reports from their teachers, as they may deem necessary to secure uniformity, thoroughness, and efficiency in said schools.
Seventh. To have generally the same authority, and perform the same duties, that Assessors, Supervisors, and Trustees have in the Northern States, in the matter of establishing and conducting Common Schools.
And for the full accomplishment of these purpose and the performance of the duties enjoined upon them, the Board shall have full power and authority to as assess and levy a school tax upon real and personal property, including crops of plantations, in each and every before mentioned school district The said taxes so levied shall be sufficient in among to defray the cost and expense of establishing, furnishing and conducting, for the period of one year, the school or schools so established in each and every of the said districts; and said taxes shall be collected from the person or persons in the occupation of the property assessed.
Eighth. The taxes so assessed and levied in and for each district shall be collected and paid over to the Board by the Parish Provost Marshal, within thirty days after the tax list and schedule shall have been placed in his hands; and he shall forthwith report to the Board whether there are in the districts! of his Parish any buildings available and suitable for school houses, and shall at all times, when required, assist by his authority the Board in carrying out the spirit of this order. The taxes, when collected shall be forth with deposited in the first National. Bank of New Orleans, subject only to the order of the whole Board, which shall make a monthly exhibit of accounts and report of their doings to the Commanding General.
Ninth. In the performance of all their duties the Board shall cooperate, as far as practicable, with the Superintendent of Public Education, recently elected.
Tenth. The current school year shall be estimated from February 1, 1864, to February 1, 1865.
Eleventh. The following officers and citizens are appointed upon this Board, and will be obeyed and respected accordingly.
Colonel H. N. FRISBILE, 22D Infantry, 22d Infantry, Corps d’Afrique.
Lieut. E. M. WHEELOCK, 4th Infantry, Corps d’Afrique
ISAAC G. HUBBSHUBBS, New Orleans.
By command of Major-General BANKS.
RICHABD B. IRWIN, Assistant Adjutant-General.
REBEL OPINION OF MCCLELLAN. The Richmond Dispatch angrily disputes several statements in Gen. McClellan’s report, and says:-
“To cover one of the most shameful m as well as complete defeats, recorded in history, McClellan’s vanity prompted him to indulge in a system of deliberate falsehood which justly brought upon him the derision of the civilized world. But it did him no manner of service. His employers saw through his devices, as his opponents had already done from the beginning, No man—least of all McClellan himself-believes a word of what he writes. He has found his proper level, and all the lying reports, which he can manufacture between this and dooms-day cannot raise him above it. He came here to take the city of Richmond. He had, first and—from Fortress Monroe to Meghaicsville as documents furnished to the committee of inquiry by the war office, substantiated by the assistant Secretary of War, prove beyond all doubt—158,.000 men. He was beaten in every battle from Williamsburg to Malvern. Lincoln found him at West over or Shirely with but 80,000 men. What had become of all the rest? Had they sunk or melted into the air? They had sunk into the earth, victims to the bayonets and shots of the confederate troops, or to the disease of the climate, aggravated by incessant exposure and unremitting toil in ditching his way to Richmond. At last, only because it was necessary to withdraw our troops to repel invasion from another quarter, he was permitted to slink away with the miserable remnant of his troops, cowed, broken-spirited, and effectually brought down from the lofty tone of braggadocio with which they commenced the siege of Richmond. A more entire failure is nowhere recorded and a more thorough charlatan never lived.”
A NARROW ESCAPE. Sylvester Deeds, a Quarter master’s Sergeant at Jefferson City, Me, was recently tried for murder, before a Court Martial at that place, and found not guilty as charged, but guilty of murder in the second degree. The Judge Advocate of the district, Capt. Conklin, has set aside the finding, and has been sustained in so doing by Major Dunn, Judge Advocate of the department. The ground for this is, that a negro witness for the defense was excluded on the ground of in competency on account of her color. It is admitted that the laws of Missouri declare negroes incompetent witnesses for or against whites, but it was held that “the Court Martial is a Federal Court, the practice of which recognizes them as competent. The exclusion of the testimony of this witness, to the benefit of which doubts the prisoner is entitled, and he is therefore released from confinement and arrest, and restored to duty."
SAD ACCIDENT. A young man by the name of Roper, a photographist, fell from the highest rock of Lookout Mountain, and was instantly killed. He had been engaged there for some time taking pictures, and, in adjusting his apparatus, inadvertently stepped too near the edge, and went over.
It is remarkable with what persistence the army photographer follows up his profession. We saw the tent of one of the them the other day with our advance at Morristown, and other day with our advance at Morristown, and another with the forward brigade at Ringgold. They do a good business; for if the soldier has one great weakness, it is to have his likeness taken. A good portion of his pay goes in this way, and the mails are loaded with the shadowy mementoes he sends to those at home.
THE REBELS have no liking for our foreign-born citizens, however much the Copperhead party of the city of New York is composed of that element". “Twenty millions of mongrels,” says the Richmond Enquirer, “have undertaken to whip us. The Yankees soon got sick of the flight, and levied on the Dutch and Irish. The resident Irish and Dutch began to fly, and seventy-five thousand Paddies were recruited in Ireland.” And it may be interesting to know that the rebels desire a certain kind of peace." “Yes,” says the Examiner, “peace on any terms which General LEE, standing in Faneuil Hall, may choose to dictate to the base=-born wretches who have sought to enslave us."
The Ohio Democratic State Convention met in Columbus on the 23d ult. The Vallandigham men were in a minority of 7 votes. George E. Pugh and Thomas W. Bartley were chosen Senatorial Election on the Presidential ticket. Resolutions were adopted opposing the prosecution of the war for subjugation; declaring that the mob spirit which is now abroad is the result of the violation of the Constitution by the party in power; that the tyranny of the present administration has sown the seed, and we are now <illegible>reaping the harvest of crime.
