<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per <illegible> in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters <illegible> to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square in <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, <illegible>, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery <illegible> are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance Committee, but are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDWARD QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 41. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1555.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
THE DUTY OF NORTHERN CHURCHES.
MR. EDITOR,-Will you be so kind, if you can find <illegible> and space, as to answer the following questions in your editorial columns?
1. Ought Northern churches to withhold fellowship from churches that practice and uphold the sin of slaveholding?
2. Ought Northern churches to give to their members who go to the South, letters of recommendation to churches involved in the sin of slaveholding? 
3. If a church has adopted, as a rule of action, resolutions not to commune with slaveholding churches, <illegible> to give letters of recommendation to such churches, and one of its members joins a slaveholding church without asking for a letter, or in any way becoming free from his connection with the church to which he belonged, what action should this church take in reference to him? 
4. If a member of such a church asks a letter, and failing to receive it, joins a slaveholding church, what should the church do with him?
INQUIRER.
The difficulty of answering such questions as these consists, to our apprehension, almost wholly is the ambiguity of language. If all really Christian people could understand each others hearts, without any perversion of their real feelings by the imperfection of the language in which discussion on this subject must needs be carried on, we cannot help thinking that they would be found to be essentially agreed. But, to answer the questions as well as we can, we say-
1. It is impossible to answer yes or no the first question, until it be explained what is meant by ‘churches that practice and uphold the sin of slaveholding.’ We suppose very few, if any, churches at the South, own slaves as church property, or even take any church action about slavery at all. Individual members of them may be slaveholders, and may ‘uphold’ the practice; but still, the church, as a body, may have taken no action that could be said rightly to ‘uphold’ it; unless it be held, that in the mere fact of admitting a member who is a slaveholder, or continuing the membership of one who should become a slaveholder, the church ‘upholds’ that system. To this it might be replied, that no church can fairly be held to ‘uphold’ avarice, because some of its members are avaricious; of to’uphold’ worldliness, because some of its members being worldly, still retain a’good and regular standing’ within its ranks. The church on earth is always composed of unworthy members, but it cannot rightly be said that therefore every church on earth ‘upholds’ unworthiness in its membership. So, also, there is a technical and legal holding of slaves, that we do not believe is, in the sight of God, a guilty slaveholding; and therefore, if a church did favor that, we should not hold it guilty before God therefore. But if there be any church, or many churches, that, by church action -or in any manner, fairly involving the co-operation of their membership-do ‘uphold’ the system of American slavery, as a system intended to rob the back man of his body, and his soul, and his family, and all that is his, for the pecuniary emolument of the white man, we should say, that it would be a self-evident proposition that those churches-’Northern’ or otherwise-who believe in the Golden Rule, ‘ought to withhold fellowship’ from such a church.
2. Not to such a church.
3. The same as should be taken if he had (nominally)’joined’ any other church in violation of his covenant vows. As every member of a church must remain a member of it, until his membership is terminated by death, or by some church action of release, and as no man can be a member of two churches at once, it necessarily follows that any attempted or apparent ‘joining’ of another church, while unreleased from the first, is merely nominal act, and amounts to nothing except an insult to the church to which he really does belong. Of course, the church to which he does belong are called upon to deal with him for his offence, but not as if he were a member of any other church, for this he cannot he, until first released from them. 
4. Follow the directions of the 18th of Matthew.-Ed. Congregationalist. 

From The Methodist.
THE SLAVERY DISCUSSION.
The slavery discussion, one of the most important ever presented in this country, is in the same predicament as the temperance reform-overdone. It has for some time, been tending surely to this result by its mismanagement. The Garrison party exists, but is nine-tenths dead. The people, by their instinctive good sense, have condemned it to death. Its leaders, eloquent and energetic, can no longer get up their ‘hundred conventions’ a season. Their paper in Boston is sustained by the charity of a few individual rich men. Their eloquence is heard as a recreation, if at all, and is fast losing its popular interest.
The political anti-slavery party is hostile to this old ultra party. It may be predicted that should the former come into power, at the next election, it will give us one of the most conservative administrations we have had for many years. Its professions and its necessities show this result. Should any other party triumph, we believe about the same result will follow. Its success, in power, depends upon its policy on this question, for it is obvious that the people have resolved that it shall be put at rest. It will spontaneously go into abeyance. Whatever political doctrines practically prevail, the rights of the Southern States and the provisions of the Constitution will be cautiously observed hereafter by any dominant party.
And this result we affirm to be most beneficent. It is one of the many providential proofs that our country has yet a grand mission before it, and shall not be confounded. It will be especially salutary not be confounded. It will be especially salutary for the question of slavery itself. What we now need is, to bring the hearts of North and South together again, that they may best in sympathy. This is the only way to secure real influence on the subject. It will take time to bring about such an improvement, but changes move rapidly in this age, and that good time will come.
Men locally troubled, in Church or State, by this controversy should learn an encouraging lesson from these indications. They need patience, chiefly; violent retaliatory measures are supremely unwise for them. Time will bring them sure guidance and relief. Men of good sense and good temper, on both sides, will yet see eye to eye, and be recognized by the people as the legitimate public guides on the question. We doubt no that, by the end of the next presidential administration, this prediction will be found to be a national and an ecclesiastical fact among us.

SLAVERY DIVINELY INSTITUTED. If anything has ever been proved and demonstrated again and again, it is THE LAWFULNESS OF SLAVERY, whether judged by the Devine Word of Holy Scripture, or tested by the conclusions of human reason.-Southern Presbyterian Review.
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
MEANS OF RESTORING PROSPERITY IN JAMAICA.
No. III.
To the Editors of the Leeds Mercury:
GENTLEMEN,-In my two former letters, which you did me the honor to insert in your valuable journal, I almost entirely confined myself to the statement of a few facts relating to the island of Jamaica, [fee] great diffidence in leaving the domain of simple observation to enter on that of opinion; and in expressing my views on the future prospects of that colony, I am fully conscious that a more complete and accurate knowledge of all the difficulties which surround the question might materially modify some of them.
Several of the leading minds who have lately given their attention to this subject have come to the conclusion that nothing is required to bring back prosperity to the ruined estates of Jamaica, but an adequate supply of regular labor.
I am very far from denying that 50,000 coolies would greatly increase the production of sugar, though I have very great doubts whether a much smaller number would have a proportionate result. Under the present ‘regime,’ unless you can overstock the labor market, I believe the effect of a partial immigration scheme would be very unsuccessful. Mr. Stephen Cave, in the able paper which he read before the National Association at Bradford, dwelt upon the effect which the example of industrious coolies would produce on the negroes; but I think that effect was over estimated. They might find a better example in some of their own race on several of the still flourishing estates. But granting that it would greatly tend to the prosperity of the colony, or rather would in no small degree assist the proprietors of the soil, we must examine the mode by which such a desirable result is to be obtained, 
Immigration from India and China on such a scale as in any way to meet the wants of the colony would be very costly, and two questions immediately arise-How is this expense to be met? and who is to be thereby benefitted? The proprietors of Jamaica are both unwilling and unable to furnish the means for a large immigration. Some of the best informed amongst them very much doubt whether the colony would be permanently benefitted. No doubt much more sugar would be grown, but it is doubted whether the profits would, in the course of years, more than cover the annual drain on the resources of the country by this continual importation and exportation of laborers. 
If the expense is to be borne by the community at large, it must be shown that the main body of the tax-payers will receive a corresponding advantage. I fear, whatever may be the truth, you will never persuade a laboring population to believe that they will be gainers by the introduction of a competing race.
If the planters are willing to bear the whole expense of the immigrants, both from and to India or China, the colony can have no cause to complain, and no difficulties ought to be placed in their way. 
But another grave questions arises:-What power is the planter to have over the immigrant, and for how long? A man of great experience in the island gave it me as his opinion, on a careful study of the question, that unless the labor of the immigrant was at least guaranteed for six years, it would not repay the proprietor the expense of the two voyages, and then only under favoring circumstances. But I should trespass too long on your space, if I were to enter on the delicate question as to the amount of coercion that it is wise and lawful to place in the hands of an employer of labor.
I candidly confess, that whilst I should rejoice to see the deserted valleys of Jamaica once more waving with canes, I have not the slightest hope of seeing this accomplished by the plan of immigration that has been proposed; and if the only hope for the slaves in America rests on the regeneration of the West Indies through coolie labor, I fear that their bondage must be perpetual. Can nothing, then, be done for Jamaica?
I may be mistaken, but I firmly believe that the matter rests entirely in the hands of individual owners and cultivators of the soil.
I believe, with perhaps but one exception, legislation can do exceedingly little to remedy the evil.
To return to protective duties is impossible, but perhaps something may he done towards preventing the terrible tide of slave immigration that still flows freely into Cuba. I fear there is now but little doubt that at least a very appreciable portion of the prosperity of that island is sustained by the fresh importation of slaves, and of free Chinese, whose condition is even more deplorable.
I feel that it is almost presumption in one who, though honestly and diligently, yet so hastily, has studied the subject, to venture to propose any mode by which the fallen fortunes of the colony may be restored.
The following suggestions are chiefly gathered from conversations with several managers of estates and owners of property in the island. Each one alone, no doubt, would effect but little, but all combined would. I think, change the aspect of many parts of the country.
I would first suggest that managers of estates should co-operate with missionaries, or the zealous clergy, instead of thwarting them in their arduous labors.
Notwithstanding Mr. Trollope’s remarks, I venture to say that the negro can and does become as intelligent a Christian as an Englishman with similar advantages; and I would even advance farther, and assert that, when well instructed, he is more easily led by religions motives than others. I received the most remarkable testimony from two gentlemen, both long residents in the West Indies, and both actively employed during the trying season which followed emancipation, that they were bound to admit, that but for the missionaries, in the first joy of freedom, the people would have entirely left work, and have generally fallen into the most terrible degradation, and that labor for the fields would have been impossible to have been obtained.
This degradation baa taken place in some parts, and labor is very scarce, though a considerable population is within a short distance of the cane field.
2. Education should be more regarded as an economical arrangement. The school and half-timers should be a regular supplement to the mill. I gathered some striking facts on this point.
3. Comfortable cottages should be built, with garden land attached, and the elevation of the laborer in every way promoted. It should never be forgot, in discussing this subject, that it is not yet thirty years since the negro race was delivered from the degrading and corrupting influences of slavery. These cottages should, where possible, be near the cane fields, and be let at a fair rental. This is the case in Santa-Creux, and on a few flourishing estates in Jamaica.
4. Marriage should be encouraged and promoted, and I need not say that the licentiousness of bookkeepers (instead of being, as in times gone by, connived at,) should be carefully prevented.
I believe by attending both to the morality and 
<c03>
health of the people, by encouraging marriage, securing medical advice, and improving the dwellings, a very large increase to the population might be confidently looked for in the course of a very few years.
Regular wages, and above all, kind and judicious treatment, would, I think, very generally secure a regular supply of labor, and in conjunction with the ordinary skilful management of the sugar cultivation and manufacture, furnish ample returns to the owner of the soil. In some parts of the island, Governor Hinks’s proposal might be adopted with success, but I do not think it could be, to any very large extent, applied to a scattered population. There is one system of immigration, which, if it could be carried out, would materially benefit proprietors in those localities where there is a real and irremediable scarcity of native labor, and where at the same time a rich soil, a perfect climate, suitable to the growth of either sugar or cotton, would amply repay the cultivator, or if he could secure (what his predecessors have driven away) an industrious population.
The system of coolie immigration, as so successfully carried on in the Mauritius from its proximity to India, is too costly for Jamaica; but if coolies, Chinese, or free negroes, from the Southern States of America, could be induced (not to come to the island for a few years, but) to settle with their wives and children in villages built for them in convenient situations, not only would the planters save the heavy expenses of the return voyage, (at the same time losing his beat hands,) but the natural increase of such families would greatly tend to keep him supplied with a permanent and well-trained body of laborers.
I have not taken into consideration the many other productions of the island, since I regard sugar as the most important. No investigation, however, into the future prospects of the colony would be complete without mentioning that many other staples may be produced, especially cotton, which we may hope will before long considerably advance the prosperity of this most beautiful but unfortunate dependency of the British Crown.
I remain, Gentlemen, yours obediently,
ERNEST NOEL. December l7th, 1859.

MR. NOEL’S REPLY TO AN APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION TO PRINT HIS LETTERS.
WARLEY HOUSE, March 12th, 1860.
As you inform me that it is the intention of the Ladies’ Negro’s Friend Society to republish three letters, which a short time ago I addressed to the Editors of the Leeds Mercury, perhaps you will kindly ask the committee to print also the few following remarks, which will supply an omission I regret having made in my former letters; and to explain some charges made against me by the Press of Jamaica, of having willfully withheld facts I was acquainted with, and having been imposed upon by interested parties in the island. I am charged with having omitted to mention the dreadful ravages of the small pox and cholera, and the diminution of labor arising from this cause. As no census has been made in the island since the terrible visitation of the cholera, when it is computed nearly 50,000 were carried off, it is impossible to say how far the number of laborers has been permanently diminished; but it is certainly only fair to mention a fact, (which I much regret having previously omitted,) that on a few estates they have been much injured through this cause; one estate particularly, in St. Johns, having never been able since that time to obtain a full complement of labor. But I think I am not wrong in stating that this is an exceptional case, and that the great numbers who fell victims to that visitation were chiefly composed of persons who were not previously working in the cane fields.
With this solitary exception, I have not seen a single new cause mentioned, nor a single fact which I affirmed, either contradicted or disproved. And I very carefully guarded myself in stating any cause of the present ruin, that we must not suppose that any one cause would be found generally to hold  throughout the island.
It has also been objected that I have raked up disputes that occurred more than twenty years ago, and that these can have no bearing on the present state of the question. This is certainly a new standard for investigating the present causes of decline, to ignore the past, and confine your attention to the present. It is the very reverse of the acknowledged methods of studying history, when in searching into the causes of the progress or decline of any nation,the events of the preceding centuries even, are considered to have a most important relation to its present condition.
I also wish to be understood in no way to desire to give any monopoly of labor to idle negroes, but only to deny the justice of taxing a laborer for the introduction of a competing race: as it would be manifestly ludicrous to tax the working population of Yorkshire for an immigration scheme, because some of the mills are now greatly in want of additional hands.
The strangest charge I have men brought in answer to the conclusions I have arrived at, is, that I suppressed the fact, ‘that thousands of the native peasantry have been rendered unfit by old age and bodily infirmities to toil in the estates of the Proprietary body.’ Such charges need no reply. In England we have always been acquainted with the fact that men grow old, and become disabled for active employment. If I have made any’ unfounded assertions,’ I shall most willingly confess my error. But I believe that whatever may be the worth of my conclusions, not one statement in my first two letters can be shown to be either untrue or exaggerated.
 I remain, dear sir, yours faithfully,
ERNEST NOEL.

SPEECH OF WM. H. SEWARD TO THE PEOPLE OF KANSAS.
DELIVERED AT LAWRENCE, ON THURSDAY, SEPT. 27.
FELLOW-CITIZENS,-A long-cherished desire of mine is fulfilled; at last, a long-deferred duty is about to be paid-the desire of my heart to see the people of Kansas-the duty that I felt I owed to the people of Kansas, to see them in theis own homes. I have visited your chief cities, Leaven- worth and Lawrence-where the army of mercenarise sent by the slave States battered down the hotel, under an indictment and conviction ia a Court of the United States as a nuisance, because it sheltered the freemen who had come here to see freedom established in Kansas. And I have looked, also, upon the Constitutional Hall, in Topeka, where the army of the United States, for the first time in the history of our nation, dispersed a lawful and peaceable assembly of citizens of the United States, convened to hold counsel upon the best means of protecting their lives, their property, and their sacred honor. You, people of Kansas, whom I have not been able to see in your homes, have come up here to greet me, from the valleys of the Kansas, the Big Blue, and the Neosho, and from all your prairies and valleys.
I seem not to have journeyed hither, but to have floated across the sea-the prairie sea-under bright autumnal skies, waited by genial breezes into the
<c04>

free havens ‘where I would be’I am not sorry that my visit has occurred at this particular time, so sad in its influence, when nature, that sends its rains upon the unjust as well as the just, has for a year withdrawn its genial showers from the soil of Kansas. It is wall to see one’s friends in darkness and sadness, as welt as in the hour of joy. 
I have beheld the scenes of your former conflicts. I have also looked upon that beautiful eminence on the banks of the Kansas River, where Lecompton sits a lonely widow, (cheers and laughter,) desolate and mourning, her ambitious but unfinished structures showing how high is the ambition of slavery, and their desolation showing how easy. after all, is its downfall. I would have seen more of Kansas, if I had not been interrupted and impeded in my course hither by the hospitality and kindness of the people, which I could not turn aside.
I have been excessively retentive at Leavenworth and Topeka, refusing to open my lips, unless my jaws were pried open, because I do not like to do things by piece-meal. I desire to speak openly to you, in the broad day-light, in the hearing of the women as well as men of Kansas; and hero, where I have renewed the memories of the contest wagged upon this soil, while I revolt at the implements with which that contest was waged by the aggressors under the plea of Popular Sovereignty, which left the people perfectly free to do just as they pleased, subject to the Constitution of the United States, which they were left perfectly free to interpret as they pleased, while the authorities at Washington have never been able to interpret it to their own satisfaction, or that of the American people.
When I look at field after field, and cabin after cabin, and church after church, and school-house after school-house, where but six years ago was the unbroken land of savages, I am prepared here-not expecting to escape being heard on the Pacific as well as the Atlantic coast-I am prepared to declare, and do declare you people of Kansas the most intelligent, and the bravest and most virtuous people of the United States, or of the whole earth. (Applause.) That is the most intelligent, and bravest, and most virtuous people which can take the banner of Human Freedom when it is trailed in the dust by the Government of its choice, and can and will lift it aloft, and protect it, and bear it to success and honor-and that without bloodshed and violence.
People of Kansas! you are at once the youngest, the newest people-the newest State, as well as the youngest of all the thirty-four American States. You are the poorest and the least favored with political power, for you are nearly disfranchised; and yet you are the most inflexible and the most constant. The two richest States in the Union are Massachusetts and New Turk, though they are so merely because they are the freest, the wisest, and the most liberty-loving States of the Union. I apprehend that you scarcely understand, yourselves, the importance of the position which you hold in this Republic. You will perhaps be surprised when I tell you that the secret of all the interest I have felt in you has been merely this: that you occupy a pivotal position in the Republic of the United States, with regard to Slavery and Freedom. There is no contest, no difference on this subject, along the line of the North-Eastern States, for they are all in favor of Freedom; there is no difference on the line of the Southern States, for they are all in favor of Slavery. But there is an eternal strife between Freedom and Slavery, for the establishment of Freedom or Slavery in all the rest of the United States -that is, all the United States reaching from the Missouri to the Pacific. If Freedom was to triumph, there was no point where she could expect to meet the enemy, except on the very place she has met it-here. And if you had been false, Slavery would have swept along through the Indian Territory, New Mexico, and the whole of the country, including the Rocky Mountains, to the Pacific Ocean. 
California was imperfectly secured to Freedom, and with a compromise. You opened a new campaign here, and crowned it with a complete victory, Henceforth, the battle is ended; henceforth, the emigrant from the Eastern States, from Germany, and Ireland, the free laborer, in short, from every and on earth, when he reaches the Missouri River, can safely pursue his onward path, and, under the banner of Freedom, reach the foot of the Rocky Mountains; and there the hosts of freemen from the western coast will unite, and join him under the same banner. And everywhere, except on the Missouri, is a land of Freedom. Missouri stands an island of Slavery in the midst of a broad ocean of Liberty. You occupy not only the pivotal position, but it was your fortune to attempt this great enterprise in behalf of Freedom at a critical period for mankind. Slavery was then just two hundred years old in the United States. In the year 1776, our fathers gave battle to Slavery; they declared war against it, and pledged their lives and sacred honor in the service against it. Practically, it was to be destroyed peaceably, under the Constitution of the United States. Those good men believed it would reach its end long before this period; bat the people became demoralized. The war went back, back, BACK, until 1854, when all guaranties of Freedom, in every part of the United States, were abandoned, and Kansas, that had for forty years been perfectly free from the footsteps of the slave, was pronounced by the highest power of the Government as much a Slave State as South Carolina. The flag of the United States was made the harbinger, not of Freedom, but of Human Bondage.
It was at this crisis that the people of Kansas appeared on the stage, reviled, despised and bated, and lifted the banner of Liberty on high, and bore it manfully forward, defied all force, and yet counteracted peaceably all the efforts made to subdue them. In three years they not only secured Freedom in Kansas, but in all the territory of the United States.
Freedom made Kansas as free as Massachusetts, and made the Federal Government, on and after the 4th of March next, the patron of Freedom-as it was at the beginning. You have made Freedom national, and Slavery sectional. Had you receded, after your first conditional or provisional Government was dispersed at Topeka, by cannon and bayonet; had you surrendered, and accepted the Lecompton Constitution; bad you even abandoned the Wyandotte Constitution, at any stage of the battle, it would have destroyed the cause of Freedom, not only in Kansas, but also throughout the whole Union.
I know I shall be justified in history; shall I not be justified by cotemporaries? Wise, beat, bravest of citizens: no other hundred thousand people in the United States have contributed so much for the cause of Freedom as Kansas. Before this people, then, appearing for the first time, I bow myself, as I have never done before to any other people is profound reverence. (Sensation.) I salute you with gratitude and affection.
Fellow-citizens, my time here, as well as yours, is brief. It is but few of many subjects upon which we can even touch. As to the least important subject of all, myself, (laughter,) I give yon, in one word, my sincere and heartfelt thanks. I had formed my opinion of you from your past conduct and history, and I am not surprised by your 
<c05>
ness. Henceforth, take no further thought about me. I will not affect to doubt that my poor name will find a place in the history of California and Kansas. All the ambition I have ever cherished is, then, more than abundantly satisfied.
The second consideration to which I would advert for a moment, is the sadness which ilea like a pall over a large part of the Territory of Kansas-the result of the withdrawal of the rain for a period so long as to exits apprehensions of a famine.
I have carefully examined the condition of Kansas-the river-bottoms and the prairies, and my conclusion is-not alone from the condition of the crops, but also from the character of the people-that there will be no famine in Kansas, because there is wealth and credit enough in Kansas to carry you through more than one year like this. You will take care of this credit, and retain it so far as possible. If this will not do, then appeal to your friends in the East, and they will not see you suffer. I myself will do what I can for you. Be of good cheer. Suffer yourselves not to be discouraged. There are cattle enough on your thousand hills-although it is a fearful sacrifice-to carry you through and sustain you during the winter, and still come out in the spring with mulch cows and working oxen. And we who are here-coming from States whence emigration flows, and from the Atlantic States, where emigration is received and sent onward-will do our share to direct emigrants to Kansas, assuring them from our own observation that it is a climate as salubrious as any in the world, and a soil as rich as any the sun ever shone upon. This is a smiling and fair domain, and we think, were wse set back twenty or thirty years, the place of all others that we should seek in the United States would be the plains of Kansas.
One other consideration. The transactions of this day, do they not illustrate the subject of the ‘irrepressible conflict’? (Cheers and laughter.) Did not our forefathers, in 1787, settle this whole subject, and, by an ordinance, put at rest forever the question of Freedom and Slavery in the United States? Certainly they did. Did we not, in 1820, settle this conflict forever? Did we not declare that all north of 36 deg. 30 min., and west of the Missouri River, should be given up to Freedom? Certainly we did. Was it not settled finally a third time, in 1850, when Kansas and Nebraska were still saved to Freedom, and all west of them? Was it not settled a fourth time in 1854, when it was ordained that the people of Kansas were free to choose Freedom or Slavery for themselves, subject to the Constitution of the United States? Was it not settled for the fifth time, when the Lecompton Constitution was adopted by one scratch of the pen of the United States and the Supreme Court-and this fair Territory became a land of Slavery? 
A VOICE-We did not take that Government. Mr. SEWARD-Yon didn’t take it-that is just what I was going to say.
Why was not Slavery settled by all these final settlements? For no other reason than because the conflict was irrepressible. But you determined, in your struggle for Kansas, that she should be forever free-and that settles the question.
A VOICE-It is not settled yet-there’s New Mexico.
Mr. SEWARD-My friend tells me it is not settled yet; but it is settled in Kansas and for Kansas. In New Mexico, they tried to settle it in favor of Slavery, but they now find out it is irrepressible. I think you will find that the whole battle was ended in the deliverance of Kansas, and that henceforth Freedom is triumphant in all the Territories of the United States.
And yet, while this is clear to these intelligent, practical and sensible men who have gone through the problem, what a contrast is shown here to what is occurring in other parts of the United States, where they suppose, because they are older, they are so much wiser; where they believe me still as false a prophet as Mohammed! In Pennsylvania they have not yet made up their minds that there is any conflict at all. In the Southern States they are actually organizing a militia against the freemen who are establishing Freedom in Kansas and New Mexico, as if the settlers in Kansas were no wiser than they are, and knew no better way to propagate Freedom than by the sword. When freemen want to make a Territory free, they give it ballot-boxes, and school-houses, and churches; and Slavery will never triumph where these are first established.
But to go a little deeper into the subject. In 1787, there were wise men administering the Government of the United States; and if you look into their sayings, you will see they had all found out that the Republic was to be the home of an ever-increasing people, so free, so proud, so wise, so vigorous, that they could not be confined in the old thirteen States; they saw this was to be the home of free men, of free labor, and not slave labor. So, they set apart all the territory within their reach-i.e., all they then had control over-for Freedom and for free emigration. Now, contrast that which was thought wise in 1787 with what actually happened in 1850! In 1820, it was found that the population of the United States had reached the Mississippi. Then, what was necessary was, to provide exactly the same kind of government for the territory west of the Mississippi, as had been provided for the country east of it; so that, when the Government should be extended to the Pacific, all should be free. Could anything have been wiser than for the Government of 1850 to have given freedom to these Territories? But Congress aid not do it. They had previously given Missouri to Slavery, and said Freedom might take the rest; but now they wished to block op free labor by the barrier of Slave Missouri. Could anything have been more absurd than this attempt to stay the course of freemen? They determined that free labor must go out of the United States, or go round Missouri to Kansas and New Mexico; but it broke their barriers, and passed through the heart of the Slave Power.
There were, long ago, good and brave men who foretold this result.
There were Henry W. Taylor, and Tallmadge, and Rufus King, peerless among them all, who declared, in toe Senate of the United States, that the Slave Power in Missouri would prove a mockery; that this land was for Liberty, and that the Slave Power would repent in sackcloth and ashes. But these good men were overruled. Missouri and Arkansas came into the Union with Slavery. And for what reason? It was because the slaveholders had property-capital which mast not bo confiscated, even to prevent Slavery from being established over as large a domain as half of Europe. That was the reason the Federal Government determined to secure their slaves to the capitalists of Missouri. What capital had Missouri in slaves that was saved at that time? All the slaves in Missouri, at that time, were exactly 10,220 in number, which were worth-and I was born a slaveholder, and know something of the value of slaves-at that tine $300 a head, including the old and young, the sick and decrepid, which made the total value of slaves in Missouri in 1820, $3,066,000. Arkansas then had 1,600 slaves, worth $480,000. The whole capital ot slaves in Missouri and Arkansas was about $3,500,000; but, to save that capital in negroes, the
<c06>
great Compromise of 1820 was made, and Kansas given up to Slavery. $3,500,000 was a large sum, but nobody, then or ever, proposed to confiscate it. They were to be left free to sell their slaves; they were at liberty to keep them, so only that they should import and make no more. There was no need of confiscating the slaves in Missouri, any more than there was in Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York. New Jersey, and Pennsylvania; so this $3,500,000 was neter in jeopardy.
Now, fellow-citizens, even if it had been confiscated, how small a sacrifice of property it was, weighed against the incalculable blessings of Freedom over the American continent! Look now at the advantages resulting from their success, and see how un availing are the contrivances of politicians, and even of nations, to counteract and control the great moving principle of the age. Who would have thought that, by making Missouri a Slave State in 1820, forty years afterward, when the canals of New York and Pennsylvania were burdened with commerce, when steamers floated on all our lakes and rivers, when teachers and preachers were abroad through the land, they could make a Slave State of Kansas? They tried it, and what have they got? They have got Slavery in Missouri and Arkansas; Freedom in Kansas, and practically in Texas, in Utah and California. This is what comes from attempting to bind up the decrees of Providence in flaxen bands by human skill. (Applause.) Why did their attempt fail? It failed because society has its rights and its necessities. It was just as necessary that men should move out of Massachusetts and New York and the Western States, and Missouri even, into the Territories, as it was necessary that Kansas and other Territories should receive them when they have come. It was just as necessary that the exile of Europe should have an asylum where he would be perfectly free to have no slaves. This movement of the age is quickened by the agency of invention; all the operations of trade, the arts and manufactures, are accelerated by mechanical skill. Who thinks now of drawing himself to town with a pair of mules? The steam, engine carries him there with less cost than he could walk, or go on wheels driven by animal power. All the implements with which work and husbandry are done, are the product of mechanical skill. Every farmer sees that by the improvements made in the implements for cultivating the soil, every year he is able to dispense with the services of one more laborer, who becomes himself an independent farmer.
Europe has been in a state of commotion for more than sixty years, and still is. Ireland was bound to seek relief, Germany was over-populated, and must have an outlet for her energy and labor. What madness and folly, then, that the statesmen of 1820 should open this country to Slavery, and instead of securing it to Freedom, teeming with wealth and abundant cultivation, abandon it to negroes at $1,500 a head! (Laughter.) It is because of my speaking so plainly of these things that some believe me not a very conservative man.
I think that you are wiser than your fathers, wherever yon may have come from. I had a father who was a very wise man, but I think I should be unworthy of him had I not endeavored to improve my better opportunities to have become a wiser man than he. It would have been much better for Missouri and Arkansas could they have foreseen the consequences of their action. The consequence of their embracing Slavery is, that the tide of emigration in 1820, which would naturally have come up the Mississippi River, was driven round into other regions. Instead of entering at New Orleans, it sought the ports of New York and Quebec, and peopled the Provinces of Canada and the line of the Northern Lakes. There are three millions of settlers in the Provinces which Slavery in Missouri sent round there. This same tide of emigration peopled Northern Ohio, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and thence passed west to Iowa, Nebraska, and Kansas. Missouri has thus lost from her soil all, or a large port of, this population. Well, then the mass of emigration got to be so dense that it could not divide and spread itself; so, making a great rush, it swept through the very strongholds of Slavery. There is not within the longitude of my voice probably one man, if Missouri had been wise, and had not driven emigration from its natural course, that would ever have set foot on the soil of Kansas. There is population enough in Kansas now to make Missouri a great State. But Missouri does not want to be a great State. She prefers to wait, and be a Slave State. (Laughter.) She has no affection for the people of the North, but a great affection for the people of the South. She has no affection tor free labor, but a great affection for slave labor. She has no free speech; she is satisfied to have what she may say, or may not, controlled by the Slave Power. This is a sad case for Missouri, but not hopeless. She must look for deliverance to Kansas, which Missouri effused to let come into the Union, but which is drawing emigration through Missouri, and opening the way and marking out the very course, and inviting Missouri on, and calling upon Eastern capitalists to open a national highway to Pike’s Peak and California. Missouri to-day is richer by millions on millions by the settlement of Kansas by freemen. All her hopes of competition with the Free Northern States are based upon what yon an doing, and can do, and will do to make a Pacific railroad.
Never was policy of any State more suicidal; for either she is to be for ever a Slave State as she desires to be, or she had better been free from the 
beginning. If she is to remain a Slave State, she must be a planting State merely, and the value of her land would be nearly worthless-for every Slave State becomes impoverished, and every Free State enriched. Then, if Missouri wants to be a Slave State, the wisest thing she can do is to do on the west what she has done on the east-i.e., to be surrounded with free, prosperous States.
These Free States which yon are building in Kansas and Nebraska are showing and opening the true national highway to the Pacific Ocean. Yon are producing around Missouri the influences which her people unwisely dread, and call Abolitionism. I don’t know any way in which such an operation can be done with so much quietness as to go round her, and leave her to Abolitionze herself. She will do it, too; because Missouri has got capital, and she will find out that If the is a Slave State and Kansas Free, Kansas, in twenty yean, will send more representatives to Congress than Missouri-and slaveholder! don’t like to give up political power.
Another lesson which this occasion teaches us, is instructive in an eminent degree. When Missouri, in 1820, compelled Congress to admit her as a Slave State, and in 1850 to abrogate the Missouri Compromise, and in 1856 drive all freemen from Kansas in order to have Slavery in Kansas, she did not see how futile would be her efforts. Missouri obtained these concessions for Slavery from the General Government, not because the people of the United States love Slavery, but because they love the Union.
But all the efforts of the Slave Power when defeated by bands of emigrants from New England, from New York, from Germany and Ireland-who came up the Missouri River, fearless of cannons, and found the slaveholders here armed; and they drove them out of the Territory, and established here

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is’a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’ 
The free States are the guardians and essential essential rapports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse. they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITIUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for locking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow- creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this convicting the free States are tending.’ -WILLIAM ELLRRY CHANNING.
 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
what is called an 'Abolition' Territory-making it a place for connection by the 'Underground Railroad' with every Slave State! Who would have believed that this could have been done, and that we should have met here to-day to celebrate it with all kinds of demonstrations-by the firing of cannon, by dinners and balls-and the Union be just as safe now as it was before? (Cheers.)
Another consideration. It is not our choice, fellow-citizens, that our lot as a people is cast upon a continent, and that we are so constituted that, in spite of ourselves, we must become, sooner or later, the possessors of the whole Continent of North America, from Hudson's Bay to the Gulf of Mexico, from the Pacific to the Atlantic coast. France, and Spain, and Great Britain, who formerly occupied vast possessions on this continent, have been gradually giving way, retiring. Every year they are weaker; and it is only a question of fifty or a hundred years before we shall be masters of the American Confederacy or Republic.
Now, a Government which is to be extended over a continent needs wealth; it needs riches. A great Government needs wealth in proportion to its extent; its people must have wealth as an element of their happiness and prosperity. It is utterly contemptible and ridiculous to suppose that the Continent of North America, instead of being peopled by free men, who are willing to take it at forty acres apiece and enrich it-instead of this, we ought to turn off all these free laborers, and get slaves from Africa at $200 a head. What wealth have they in the Slave States? I much mistake if the people of Kansas would, ten years hence, exchange their wealth for that of the Old Dominion-slaves included.
Great nations require something more than wealth; they need intelligence, vigor and energy among the people. You are to-day planted here, where, if, as they apprehend, the slaves become discontented, and the people of the Slave States are to be protected, you are the very men upon whom they must rely for that protection; you are the men to defend them; you must also raise the means to defend the national flag upon every sea, and over all this continent. Give men freedom; then every freeman will give you a return-an equivalent for it; deny them that, and every man becomes an alien, an enemy, under the Government. You remember how feeble and defenceless we Free State men were ten years ago; you see now that we are established in Kansas, upon the Pacific Ocean, in the centre of the continent; and we might almost say that-
'We are monarchs of all we survey.'
And this success, this power, has been obtained-how? It has been obtained amid reproach, invective, and by resisting force, fraud, and the power of the Federal Government. The success will soon be made still more apparent by the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency. (Cheers.) And this victory has been built upon nothing, except those smooth, round pebbles with which we laid the foundation-and the storms of earth and hell shall not prevail against it.
It reminds me of that beautiful island of Capri, on which the rocks are piled in native deformity but in massive strength, and upon whose summits I found the ruins of the palaces of Nero and Domitian, yet when I entered a cavern on the rock-bound shore, I found that this majestic island rested on a foundation of mere coral.
These are the considerations which present themselves to me on coming among you. I have told all. I have kept nothing back. Henceforth, if my confidence in the ability of the American Union wavers, I shall come here to learn that the Union is stronger than human ambition, because it is founded in the affection of the American people. If ever I shall waver in my devotion to Liberty, I shall come here and renew it-here under the sympathy of one hundred thousand freemen, saved from Slavery. Henceforth, these shall not be my sentiments alone, but the sentiments of ALL MANKIND. Men will come up to Kansas as they go up to Jerusalem. This shall be a sacred city.
Peace, therefore, be within your walls, and plenteousness in all your cottages and cabins, so soon to be converted into palaces. Once more, people of Kansas, hail! HAIL! and at the same time-FAREWELL! 
Three most enthusiastic cheers were then given by all the assembled multitude for Gov. Seward.
Mr. Seward, arriving at St. Louis on Saturday, made from the balcony of Barnum's Hotel the following remarks:-
'He said that he had not come to see St. Louis or the people of Missouri, but to see Kansas, which was entitled to his gratitude and respect. Missouri could take care of herself; she did not care for Republican principles, but warred with them altogether. If forty years ago, Missouri had chosen to be a free State, she would now have four millions of people instead of one million. He was a plainspoken man, and here was talking treason in the streets of St. Louis. He could not talk anything else, if he talked as an honest man; but he found himself out of place here. (A Voice-'You're at home.') Here, said he, are the people of Missouri, who ask me to make a speech, and at the same time there are laws as to what kind of speech I may make. The first duty that you owe to your city and yourselves is to repeal and abrogate every law on your statute book that prohibits a man from saying what his honest judgment, and sentiment, and heart tell him is the truth. (Mingled surprise and approbation on the part of the crowd.) Though I have said these hard things about the State of Missouri, I have no hard sentiments about it or St. Louis, for I have great faith and hope-nay, absolute trust-in Providence. What Missouri wants is courage, resolution, spirit, manhood-not consenting to take only that privilege of speech that slaveholders allow, but insisting on complete freedom of speech. But I have full trust that it will all come right in the end-that in ten years you will double your population, and that in fifteen or twenty years you will have four millions of people. To secure that, you have but to let every man who comes here, from whatever State or nation, speak out what he believes will promote the welfare and interest of mankind. What surprised me in Kansas was to see the vast improvements made there within six years, with so little wealth or strength among her people; and what surprised me in Missouri was that, with such a vast territory and such great resources, there was so little of population, improvement and strength to be found. (Faint manifestations of approval.) I ought not, perhaps, to talk these things to you. I should have begun at the other end of the story, though a citizen of any other State has as much liberty here as the citizens of Missouri; but he has less liberty than I like. I want more than you have. I want to speak what I think, instead of what a Missourian thinks. I think you are in a fair way of shaming your Government into an enlightened position. You are in the way of being Germanized into it. I would much rather you had got into it by being Americanized instead of Germanized; but it is better to come to it through that way than not to come to it at all. It was through the Germans Germanizing Great Britain that Magna Charta was obtained, and that that great charter of English liberty came to be the charter of the liberties of the sons of England throughout the whole world. Whatever lies in my power to do to bring into successful and practical operation the great principle that this Government is a Government for free men and not for slavers or slaveholders, and that this country is to be the home of the exile from every land, I shall do as you are going to do, by supporting Abraham Lincoln for President, and Hannibal Hamlin for Vice-President.' (Cheers.)
ROBT. C. WINTHROP AND JOHN BROWN.
Mr. Robert C. Winthrop heard of the John Brown affair when he was at Vienna, and the news made him feel bad. We all felt badly about it. When Mr. Winthrop heard of men and women being sold in America, did that disturb his digestion, or did he bear the evil with that Christian resignation and that philosophic fortitude with which we all bear the misfortunes of others? There are some persons who are never disturbed by an evil that is happening all the time, but their sensitive souls are terribly shocked when any new form of evil presents itself to their eyes. They are conservative in everything. The reader may have noticed, that the persons of his acquaintance who are most ready to cry out against the horrors of the French Revolution, are precisely the same persons who are never disturbed by thoughts on the horrors that rendered that Revolution necessary and inevitable- Boston Traveller.
An overseer in Alabama, named Davis, was stabbed to death by a slave whom he attempted to whip, on the 22d ult. The slave escaped.
<c02>
SLAVERY AND THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
We make the following extracts from the Eighteenth Annual Report of the Executive Committee of the Western (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Society:-
The workings of the governmental machinery the past year has been in character the same as formerly. The fatal compromises engrafted upon the Federal Government are maturing their fruit, and the people continue to reap the harvest. With a Constitution that provides for the rendition of fugitive slaves, with Congressional laws for the enforcement of its provisions, and with political demagogues continually insisting that we 'respect the Constitution and all constitutional obligations,' it is no marvel that fugitives continue to be hunted down upon Northern soil, and that legal kidnappers, emboldened by their success, have become illegal kidnappers, and taken those whom the laws recognize as free.
Within a short time, a citizen of Ohio-Charles Waggoner-was arrested under pretence of being a fugitive slave, carried to Newport, Ky., and thrown into jail; and no owner appearing, he was sold for jail fees. By the efforts of George P. Webster who was moved with compassion for the captive, legal proceedings were stayed, his right to freedom established to the satisfaction of a Kentucky Court, and his discharge ordered. We do not mention this case as being one of peculiar hardship, nor very unusual in character, save in its termination. The kidnapping of free colored men is carried on extensively in the States bordering upon the Ohio river; and in southern Illinois the law, in most cases, has been utterly powerless to reclaim the captives or punish the villains. These facts forcibly illustrate the insecurity of personal liberty in this free, model Republic. The case of the Jew boy, Mortara, who was forcibly abducted from his parents, not that he should be made a slave, but that he might be educated a Catholic, stirred to its very centre the heart of Christendom. But here, upon our own free soil, a free man, known to many of our citizens, a native of Ohio, was seized and dragged away from home and friends, to a Kentucky prison, and at length sold into slavery; and the Sovereignty under whose rule he was born had no remonstrance to urge, no protest to make, no deliverance to achieve. It was a terrible outrage for despotic and Catholic Italy to take a child from its parents, to educate him; but when Democratic and Protestant Kentucky takes a parent from his children to degrade and to dehumanize him, the offence is so trifling that neither Church nor State regard it with any interest, but pass coldly by and address themselves to the conversion of the heathen abroad, and to political gambling at home. What better could be expected of a people who consent to regard as valid a law which places the liberty of every man alleged to be a fugitive from labor, at the mercy of a single Commissioner, whose judgment must invariably be influenced by the testimony of the slave-hounds who have an interest in the rendition of the man?
Ohio, under Republican rule, ostracises the colored man, refuses his ballot, denies him equal educational rights, and shuts him out of the jury-box, and even out of the county poor-house; and to give further proof to the South, of the strength of the bond of political union between the two, we were presented last winter with the humiliating spectacle of the General Assembly of Ohio inviting to a grand carousal the Legislatures of Kentucky and Tennessee, and spending more than $5000 of the people's funds in gluttony and wine-bibbing and senseless parade. And this was done, too, at a time when more than a score of Kentucky's best citizens had been driven by mob-law to seek a shelter upon Ohio soil-the Executive of the State from which they fled being either powerless or unwilling to protect them. In connection with the expulsion of John G. Fee and his Berean associates from their homes in Kentucky, we might, if the limits of this report would permit, dwell upon the wide-spread 'Reign of Terror' at the South-the end of which is not yet-of which this incident is but one of its numerous manifestations, and which has written its history in indiscriminate mobbings, and scourgings, and burnings, and hangings, and expulsions, perpetrated in consequence of a maddened and senseless panic. But little heed may be given to this now, except by its victims, and it is doubtful whether we are able to comprehend all its enormity; but when this 'Reign of Terror' shall be recorded by the graphic pen of some future historian, it will bear the traces of a spirit so fierce and relentless, so cruel and bloody, that humanity will stand aghast at the record.
A year ago we had strong hopes that Wisconsin would be able to vindicate the doctrine of State Sovereignty, not only up to the point where resistance to Federal usurpation becomes a necessity, but carry it triumphantly beyond. The people indignantly trampled the Fugitive Slave Law under foot, her Judiciary declared it a nullity, her Legislature came to the rescue with her bold enactments, and her Executive stood prepared to defend the rights and honor of the State. The game was skillfully played; but just at that point, when Wisconsin could have checkmated her opponent and closed the contest, she yielded all she had gained-thus adding another to the many forcible illustrations of the impossibility of State Sovereignty and individual rights being successfully vindicated and protected under a government constituted of the most discordant elements, like the Federal Union of this country.
Though Wisconsin in her corporate capacity utterly failed, a portion of the people did what the State ought to have done. With a writ of habeas corpus issued by Popular Sovereignty, they opened the doors of the United States prison, and released the captive. And to-day, disregarding all constitutions and laws, judgments and writs, processes and decisions which sustain the Fugitive Slave Law, they bid defiance to the Federal Government, and unequivocally tell its officials that S. M. Booth shall not be re-arrested. Whether they will be able to maintain this position, or be forced to succumb, or by some device evade the direct issue and consent to have it called a drawn game, time only can demonstrate.
The Federal authorities may deem it the part of wisdom to be less exacting than they have been in several cases within the last twelve months; for, although they may stand a good chance of success when dealing with contumacious States, the people are beginning to show signs of insubordination. If the Government won a triumph, in the imprisonment of Thaddeus Hyatt at Washington, the victory was at best a most barren one, and his release by the Senate was a virtual acknowledgment of the fact. The defeat, for it really was one, was as palpable, though different in its character, as when its deputized deputies, by the arrest of Frank Sanborn in Massachusetts, caused an uprising of the people, who released the prisoner and drove the officials from their presence. It was a defeat as palpable as when John Brown, Jr., backed by the people of 'benighted Ashtabula,' disregarded the authority and defied the power of the Senate, and refused either to go, or to be taken before the Mason Committee. All honor to these princely rebels! There is hope in the future. When a government becomes oppressive, when it disregards the rights of its citizens, when it relies in fancied security upon the strength of its organization, it is time to evoke the inherent, undelegated power of the people, which, while vindicating the right, will recall to the memory of the ruler the forgotten fact, that there is a power behind the throne greater than the throne itself.
In connection with these instances of successful popular resistance to the demands of slavery, we rejoice to be able to refer to at least two cases, in which the Executives of Western States have used their official power to retard and check the operations and designs of the agents of the Slave Power. The associates of John Brown who escaped from Harper's Ferry to Ohio and Iowa, were pursued by men armed with Executive requisitions from Virginia, who demanded their surrender severally of the Governors of these two States. We are glad to be able to say, that Gov. Dennison and Gov. Kirkwood both refused to comply with the demand. Their refusal, it is true, was based upon technicalities, the existence of which might not have been discovered, had the offence charged been a crime against humanity, instead of a praiseworthy, though unlawful deed. Be that, however, as it may, whether the requisitions were virtually defective in technical points, or whether the humanity of the Governors led them to magnify these objections, and thus avoid conquering their prejudices and performing a disagreeable duty, or whether they believed that the delivering up of such fugitives would be an unpopular measure, suffice it to say that the requisitions were not complied with; and Virginia, baffled in her attempt, with no means of redress, was left to digest at her leisure this mortilying failure 
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 12, 1860.
THE INDEPENDENT IN DEFENCE OF SLAVEHOLDING.
In last week's Anti-Slavery Standard there appeared, in parallel columns, a passage from one of Rev. Dr. Lord's pro-slavery publications, and a passage from the Independent, of similar purport. The first represented the chief question in regard to slavery to be-'Whether it is prohibited in Scripture'; the second -taken from an article designed to represent slaveholding as not necessarily sinful or evil-points out to its renders as an important consideration that, in the New Testament, 'this particular term, slaveholding, does not appear in any phrase or form of condemnation.'
By a curious coincidence, the number of the Independent which was printed on the same day with the Standard contained an exculpatory reference to Dr. Lord, as follows:-
'Much forbearance may be due to a man like President Lord, who is said to "approve the system" without having had any opportunity of observing, with his own eyes, what the system is which includes the internal slave trade-much forbearance may be due to a mind of morbid tendencies, speculating and dreaming a thousand miles away from the reality, and hiding the gross horrors of slavery as it exists, behind an ideal picture of some patriarchal constitution of society, with love and justice for its basis-but when a professed Christian goes South to live, and, having seen with his own eyes the sale of human beings, under process of law, to the highest bidder, approves the system, he betrays a hideous and most unchristian deficiency of moral sense.'
Very likely, Dr. Lord also might be willing to say, in return for the charity thus exercised towards him-'Much forbearance may be due to a man who, like Dr. Thompson, is said to oppose the extension of slavery without having had an opportunity of observing what would be its operation in Kansas, if it had supreme and undisturbed authority there-much forbearance may be due to a man of morbid tendencies, speculating and dreaming a thousand miles away from the reality.'
And this supposed implication by Dr. Lord, that we are not authorized to assume that evil or injury would arise from the supremacy of slavery in Kansas until the experiment of such supremacy shall be fully tried there, undisturbed by struggles for freedom, is no whit more unreasonable than the actual implication, by the Independent, that the sight of slavery is needful to the formation of a just judgment of its iniquity. Far juster was the decision of an intelligent Englishman, Mr. William Robson, of Warrington, that slavery is sufficiently condemned, without particular inquiry into its details, by the monstrous and utterly abominable nature of its assumptions. In answer to the question why he had not gone to the South, to see slavery before he condemned it, he well said that such a journey was entirely unnecessary, since no mitigated form of the administration of slavery could take away the inherent viciousness of the system; that lashes more or less bloody, labor more or less wasting, and pork more or less liberally doled out, were matters of so comparatively small concern, that to him it was utterly inexplicable how men could place the issue of this great question upon such facts only, and that long persistence in slaveholding seemed to have demented the master as well as brutified his victim. The following is the close of Mr. Robson's answer to the above question:-
'What truth can be clearer than that the man who accumulates his wealth by taking forcibly or fraudulently from others the daily produce of their labor, and only gives them, in return, such food and shelter as he gives to his horses and cattle, and for the same motive, that they may work more efficiently for his gain-I ask, what truth can be clearer than that such a man is a thief and robber in the sight of God? If he is not a thief, who is? Bring the black hired slave into court: "I earned five dollars last week, and this white man took three, and only left me two to provide food and lodging and clothes for myself." The American nation justifies this theft; and it is their crime and their shame that they do so; but their doing so cannot alter the everlasting principles of right and truth, or make the armed power which sustains the white thief in his crime other than one of brute force and oppression. Such national crime does all it can do to pervert and pollute the national conscience. The American nation makes physical strength the arbiter and judge of all moral principle, and, by so doing, dethrones God, and becomes an agent of hell.
But it is a comparatively small matter that the slave-owner is a thief. If this was his only crime, he might still be a being of comparative purity and holiness. He is a murderer of the souls as well as the bodies of men. He declares the slave is not fit for freedom. And yet he bred him, kept him from infancy to manhood, but took special care that no faculty should be developed that did not serve his lust for gain! Laws are passed, making it a crime to teach him to read. The intellect that God has given, and by the gift revealed the duty of cultivation, is stultified by enforced neglect. The spirit that was made for progress is enfeebled and chained down, and kept in the swaddling-bands of infancy; and all that he can do to destroy the ever-living soul of his brother man he does, to gratify his lust for gain! And I am to go into the South, to see the institution, before I condemn it! And if I go, they will try to show me a man so brutified that he shall rejoice before me in his degradation! And because they have succeeded in making him a non-rebellious slave, I am to join them in exulting over the moral ruin! And because they still have doubts of their own ability to keep the man in chains by their own power, I am to help them in adding mine to aid in such hellish work! And the North does it-gives them the aid they need, and covers it up, all over, with the Bible! And I am to go into the South specially to see whether I cannot be brought over to their side! I am not to go to teach the black man his rights and duties before God, but to become the auxiliary of the slave-owner; for if I do not become that, I can do nothing. Except that, if I act as a Christian. I have, as the certain result, legal imprisonment, or illegal lynch law. I will not go to the South.'
Such is the verdict of a Christian layman in regard to slaveholding. But the clerical editor of the Independent excuses a brother clergyman of the North for actively upholding slavery, on the ground that he has not seen 'with his own eyes' the details of its administration! And this in spite of the fact that-apart from the inherent wickedness of one man's claiming such supremacy over another-the reading-rooms and libraries of Dr. Lord's own college contain unexceptionable demonstration of the cruelty with which this claim is carried out! And the Independent goes on further to claim that the details of cruelty and injustice must be individually 'proved' against a church consisting partly or wholly of slaveholders, before it can be regarded and treated as guilty of the sin of oppression. Here is its language:-
'In disposing of this question, much depends upon what is meant by the phrase 'slaveholding church.' If a church having a fund for the support of its ministry has invested that fund in slaves, and thus supports its pastor by the coerced and unrequited labor of some of the poorest among his parishioners,-that is literally a slaveholding church; and the sentence of non-communion' might properly be pronounced against it. If a church permits its members, without rebuke, to buy and sell the needy, to rob parents of their children, to divorce husbands and wives at their convenience, to live on the compulsory and unpaid labor of their helpless neighbors whom the law does not protect, and to bring up the children of their servants, being wholly under their control, in an absolute incapacity of reading the Word of God,-that church is what we suppose our correspondent means by a 'slaveholding church'; and, such things being proved against it, the only 'communion' which any other church can rightfully have with it is ' by way of admonition.' If the phrase 'slaveholding church' is used as denoting any and every church that has a slaveholder among its members, the case is not so clear. We confess ourselves not quite prepared to pronounce a universal 'sentence of non-communion' against 'slaveholding churches,' till we know exactly the meaning of the phrase. Doubtless it would be very convenient to assume that all churches south of a certain line are like that in which the memorable Col. Netherland was a ruling elder; and
<c04>
that they all maintain in word and deed the divine right of white men to buy and sell black men, and to flog them without mercy if they undertake to have and maintain a private judgment of their own on that point. But might it not be a wiser course, more consonant with justice, and more useful as a testimony for righteousness, to decide each particular case upon its particular merits? The inquiry in what particular respects, and to what extent, the church with which the applicant proposes to connect himself has neglected or refused to rebuke in its members the sin of oppression, might be difficult; but would it not do good?' 
Let it be remembered that the editor of the Independent knows perfectly well that the particular facts which he thus demands to be proved could not possibly be had without inquiry of the slaves-and that the clergy and church members of the South forbid the slaves to be questioned, or their testimony to be taken, even in the church, and upon church matters -and that the life of no Northern man would be safe who should go to the South avowedly to make such investigation-and then think of the monstrous folly, as well as wickedness, of assuming that church-members at the South practise slaveholding innocently and rightfully, until the contrary is proved by examination of the details of each particular case!
But the treachery of the Independent to truth and righteousness does not end here. When (urged by the questions of some correspondent whose inquiries cannot safely be treated with contemptuous disregard) it makes the above quoted plea for Dr. Lord, it feels obliged to admit that there may be such a thing as an utterly unjustifiable position in defence of slavery, and it states that position as follows:-
'But when a professed Christian goes South to live, and-having seen, with his own eyes, the sale of human beings, under process of law, to the highest bidder-approves the system, he betrays a hideous and most unchristian deficiency of moral sense.'
So says the Independent! Now how does that paper, how do its clerical editors, treat Dr. South-Side Adams, the Northern minister who, after a deliberate examination of slavery at the South, came back justifying and eulogizing it? They have constantly, ever since that time as much as before, praised and commended him as a Christian, and as a true minister of the Gospel. Dr. Thompson, not long after the publication of the infamous 'South-Side View,' declared in public that he entertained a high respect for Dr. Nehemiah Adams as a Christian minister; and Dr. Bacon assisted in the vote by which he was unanimously re-elected on the Prudential Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, at their annual meeting just closed.
The American church is thoroughly given over to the support of slavery. Read the article on our first page from the Congregationalist, defending the membership of slaveholders in the church! And remember that both the Congregationalist and the Independent, and the clergymen who edit them, (even while covering with the cloak of Christianity those slaveholders who will answer, when privately questioned, that they do not hold their slaves as property, and thus giving unlimited license to the continuance of slaveholding among church-members,) are commonly reputed, by the churches, to be anti-slavery. In what depths of iniquitous concession, then, must the majority of churches, who refuse that name, be sunk!-C. K. W.
AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS.
A passage altogether in keeping with the uniformly pro-slavery character of the American Board occurred at its (mock) Jubilee meeting in this city last week. At the opening of the session on the third day of the meeting, (Thursday A. M.) Rev. Henry T. Cheever of Connecticut, seeming to have watched his opportunity, rose the moment the reading of the minutes and notices was completed, before any one else had obtained the floor, and addressed the President, saying that he held in his hand a brief paper of inquiry, in behalf of some of the churches and ministers who wanted the information, and could get it in no other way, which he would accordingly read.
At this moment, he was interrupted, and declared out of order, by a rule of the body, seldom enforced, which prescribes that all matters for the consideration of the body shall go through the Business Committee.
Choked off from obtaining the ear of the meeting in this manner, Mr. Cheever had recourse with his paper to the Business Committee, and by them it was submitted to the Committee on the Gaboon mission.
When the Committee reported in the evening without noticing the point of inquiry raised by the paper submitted to them, Mr. Cheever immediately rose and offered as an amendment to the matter of their report the following recommendation:
That the Secretaries be requested to inform this Board in regard to the disposal made of the Memorial to Congress upon the subject of the African slave-trade, which was referred to the Prudential Committee at the last meeting in Philadelphia, with instructions to take such action as, in their judgment, its relations to their work, as a Board of Missions, shall seem to demand; and that a Special Committee of three be appointed by the Chair to consider and report to this meeting what further action is necessary, on the part of this Board, to vindicate the honor of Christianity scandalized by the revival of the execrable slave-trade as a feeder of slavery.
The speaker was proceeding with a few remarks on this recommendation, but had uttered only a few sentences, when he was again interrupted by Chancellor Walworth, Mr. Hubbard, and others, as out of order, and, in deference to them, he was so pronounced by the Chair, who seemed to evince a little hesitancy upon the question.
Mr. Cheever has given our Reporter both what he said and what he was shut off from saying, as follows:
I see, Sir, that some faces gather blackness at such a proposition as this; and I am aware that many are thinking in their hearts, why will you incontinently mar the general joy of this jubilee, by thrusting in as a fire-brand such an inquiry as this? or why, as was said last year at Philadelphia, ' why come up here fussing upon the foreign slave-trade?'
Well, Sir, in reply to that, I have it to say, first, that our senior Secretary has admitted that the slave-trade is legitimately before us as a Board of Missions, and that it constitutes the most formidable obstacle to the evangelization of Africa which we have to encounter-and, in the second place, two of our missionaries, Rev. Messrs. Bushnell and Walker, of the Gaboon Mission, have testified that all the missionaries on the coast of Africa from the whole Christian world are not equal in numbers to the slave ships from the port of New York alone, that yearly visit the coast for slaves. That is, Sir, one city, the metropolis of Christianized America, furnishes more slave ships to rob Africa, than all Christendom furnishes missionaries to Christianize it; although I do not forget that it is gravely argued in some quarters that the slave-trade is God's true missionary agency for evangelizing Africa.
Here, then, Sir, is my reason and my justification for what some will call intruding the slave's black hand and ebony brow into the solemnities of this meeting.
Sir, it should not have been left to the third day of this meeting, and to a country pastor,-and for him only by springing at an opportunity like a panther, and hugging it like a bear,-to introduce this immensely important matter to this vast Christian assembly. Surely, Sir, it became our sagacious Secretary, and those venerable Fathers in the Churches, to have presented early a carefully considered paper upon this grave subject, and to have given a voice, loud as the sound of many waters, to the indignant Christianity of the nation against the revival of that piratical traffic, by a Christian people, which used to be the very opprobrium and blot of the powers called infidel.
<c05>
Sir, you may remember it as a fact in the history of Freedom, that when Thomas Clarkson was riding up to London on horse-back with a prize essay in his pocket on the miseries of the African slave-trade, the thought suddenly darted into his mind, that if the contents of his essay were true, it was high time that some person should see these calamities to an end; and the thought so impressed and wrought in his mind like an inspiration from God, as indeed it was, that he fairly trembled under it, and he had to get off his horse, and pray an hour over it under the shadow of a great tree by the road-side. And in that practical way-side thought,-then first agitating the mind of the unconscious reformer,-began the mighty moral warfare which resulted first in the suppression of the slave-trade by Great Britain, and next culminated in the abolition of slavery throughout the British empire,-up to that time the noblest triumph of Christianity achieved in our world.
Sir, it is high time that this great American Board, which the Christian statesman who so long honored that chair before you once pronounced the most potent assembly convened in our world-it is high time that this great American Board should see the calamities of the African slave-trade to their end: and we could see them to an and, if we would. There is moral power enough in this assembly, if honestly put forth, to bring the calamities of the African slave-trade to a perpetual end, and not that only, but soon to extinguish and bury out of sight forever the responsible MAGNA PARENS of the African slave-trade-AMERICAN SLAVERY.
Sir, let us now address ourselves as a Board of Missions to this truly Christian work of the great primal Missionary who came to preach deliverance to the captives, and the future historian of this Board will write there was a proud significancy in the words, which otherwise, I confess, fall on my ear with the hollow ring of hypocrisy - eighteen hundred and sixty, the GLORIOUS JUBILEE YEAR OF THE AMERICAN BOARD. God forbid, sir, that I should make an unchristian diversion of the holy tide of emotion which has risen so naturally under the review of what God has done through us in the last fifty years, from the lips of those honored fathers who were present at the baptism of the American Board. I only want to keep pace with God's Providence, and to let the gentle foot-fall and the silent, majestic tread of this Board, which Father Keep has so eloquently touched, go onward with God, and not without Him. And, therefore, I want the wise men from the East in this Board, and the wise men from the West, calmly to inquire, as set forth in this Resolution, whether any further action be necessary, on the part of this Board, to vindicate the honor of Christianity now scandalized by the revival of the execrable Slave Trade, as a feeder to American Slavery.
Mr. Cheever's resolution was refused entertainment on the alleged ground that it was out of order, although offered in the order that all such matters are before deliberative bodies, when the question was upon the adoption of the Report of the Special Committee upon so much of the Prudential Committee's Annual Report as appertained to the Gaboon Mission. But being ruled out of order, and not sustained by any helpers, nothing remained for him but to yield.
The next day, however, Friday, A. M., when the reading of certain resolutions from the Elgin Association of Illinois was called for, in connection with the Report on the Cherokee Mission, Mr. Cheever rose to a point of order and to a personal explanation, which, he said, was always in order, and reviewed the ruling of the previous day, showing how, under such ruling, it would be impossible for any member of the Board not on the Prudential Committee, or not intrusted with something by the Prudential Committee, to be ever so in order as to be able to submit any proposition to the consideration of the Board.
He was arguing the case in the way of personal explanation, and a new decision on the point of order seemed inevitable, when he was again called to order from an unexpected quarter, on what ground it was not made clear. But being thus interrupted, he was unable again to get the floor, although not without having submitted the resolution of the day before so modified as to read thus:-
Resolved, That a Special Committee of three be appointed by the Chair to consider and report at the next annual meeting of this Board, whether any further action be necessary on the part of this Board to vindicate the honor of Christianity, now scandalized by the revival of the execrable slave trade, as a feeder to American slavery.
Thus ended the last attempt, it is likely, to procure anything in the shape of an anti-slavery pronunciation from the inveterately Pro-Slavery American Board.
EXPLANATORY LETTER FROM DR. T. P. KNOX.
BOSTON, Oct. 9, 1860.
DEAR GARRISON,-Having been grossly misrepresented by the reporters of the Journal, Traveler and Bee of the 5th inst., in their pandering to the pro-slavery policy of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and having no confidence of obtaining a hearing in either of those papers, I ask one in your world-wide, untrammeled Liberator.
Self-respect compels me to state what I did say, and the cause thereof.
Mr. Selden, of Lynn Common, in speaking of the failure of the Gaboon Mission in Africa, drew the following degrading and impious comparisons of the African: First, the impossibility of their conversion, by asking, 'Can the leopard change his spots?' Second, to the chaff and tares, whilst the wheat represented the white race. Third, to the thistles and cockles in a field of wheat. 'Who,' said he, 'would think of gathering in cockles and thistles, when reaping?' Fourth, and last, this professor of discipleship with Jesus Christ compared them to a lump of coal that leaven would not affect.
When this lower depth of degradation was reached, my blood boiled with indignation, and as Mr. Selden concluded his remarks I arose, and, addressing the, President, said, 'I desire to meet and condemn all such reflections upon the colored man, come from whatever source they may. The cause of your failing to reach them was probably owing to the fact that this association is slaveholding in principle, and they know it-therefore their ears are hard that they cannot hear. This Board supports the anti-Christian, barbarous and infernal system of American slavery.'
By this time the President and a host of D. D.'s were rising-the President calling me to order, and demanding my name, and asking, 'Are you a member?' I replied, 'My name is Thomas Parker Knox.' They then said I was not a member. I replied, 'I am a member of myself, and will, under all circumstances, rebuke with contempt such anti-Christian reflections upon my brother man.' I then resumed my seat, having said all that I desired to say at that time.
Now, Mr. Garrison, in regard to my becoming 'a member' of that society. Before that is possible, the Board must wash its hands of the innocent blood of the slave. They must teach a better principle to the Cherokee than slaveholding. They must have the spirit of Christ sufficient to send even one small cheap Bible to one of the four millions of heathen chattel slaves in this country, where it is a crime punishable with imprisonment to teach any one of these four million American heathen even the letters that spell the name of God.
Your true friend for breaking this iniquitous Union, and thereby every bond, THOS. P. KNOX.
The New York correspondent of the Charleston Mercury gives a malignant thrust at those 'dirty demagogue dogs, Wilson, and Sumner, and Burlingame, and Douglas, et id omne genus.'
<c06>
ANTI-SLAVERY LABORS ON THE CAPE.
PROVINCETOWN, Sept. 20, 1860.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
With to-morrow will close a month's travel and anti-slavery work on this curious and interesting portion of Massachusetts territory, known as The Cape. Monday, we take our share of 'perils by sea' in the little steamer Acorn, for Boston, and shall carry off many pleasurable recollections of kindness and hospitality for ourselves personally, and furtherance of the great cause, by the good friends, whose names and past services are not strangers to you. Miss Holley's lectures will have been given in Barnstable, North and East Dennis, Harwich, Harwichport, Hyannis, Centreville, Osterville, Cotuit and Provincetown, and many and kind are the assurances by the long-tried and faithful abolitionists of the value of these meetings in their respective communities. Last week, we had warm welcome, sympathy and generous cheer, at the handsome home of Mr. Russell Marston, in Centreville.
To Captain and Mrs. Z. Small we are indebted for very kind favors. On their farm, one becomes initiated in the mysteries of cranberry culture, now so prominent a feature of Cape agriculture, Capt. Small having fourteen acres devoted to the produce of this everywhere demanded table luxury. By association of things, we were carried off to the eastern shores of Maine, where grows wild a cousin of the cranberry, a tiny evergreen shrub, now yielding its dark red berries for the tables of those dearly remembered friends, who regaled us with this nice, native fruit, last fall. It seemed a great skip of this little 'vine of Mt. Ida' when it appeared to us again in April on Monadnock, making a charming wreath for the brow of 'Cheshire's haughty hill.'
To keep to The Cape: At Hyannis, we had the cordial support of Mr. and Mrs. Francis Hinckley, and felt a fresh sense of gratitude to Mr. Hinckley as Mr. John A. Andrew wrote him he deserved from every lover of freedom, for his prompt effort to hold up for public execration, through legal process, the enormous crime of kidnapping poor Columbus Jones, the hapless fugitive who was ruthlessly thrust back by Hyannis men to Southern bondage and torture. It was dreadful to hear over the cruel story-how he struggled and broke off the iron manacles, and tried to come on shore in a boat, and how perfidiously the captain got him back to the vessel, only to await a fate worse than death.
There is an out-spoken little sheet, the Atlantic Messenger, published in Hyannis by Mr. Coombs, Editor, who makes honorable quotations from the Liberator. This end of the Cape is balanced by another beacon of the press, the Provincetown Banner, whose Editor is as bold and liberal-minded to quote from Mr. Theodore Parker, as the other from Mr. Garrison.
The Cape people in general seem accessible to wide views of humanity, and all-embracing principles, from their larger intercourse with foreign peoples; they have less of the American conceit and self-complacency.
The most striking peculiarity of the Cape, to a new visitor, are the numerous windmills that are employed to pump up the sea-water for salt-manufacture, and for corn-grinding.
They make us think of Jeannie Deans' letter to Reuben Butler, written at York on her memorable journey from Edinburgh up to London: 'All around the city are mills whilk have na muckle wheels nor milldams, but gang by the wind, strange to behold.'
A writer of old Pilgrim times makes quaint allusion to the astonishment of the Indians at the first of these queer machines set up on the Cape:-'They do much extol and wonder at the English for their strange inventions, especially for a windmill, which, in their esteem, was little less than the world's wonder, for the strangeness of his whisking motion, and the sharp teeth "biting" the corn into such little pieces.'
In many other things, as roads, architecture, vegetation, occupation of the people, the Cape is <illegible>. Its very form is something like a fish-hook with this Long Point for the barbed tip; suggesting not so much that gentle kind of angling, characterized by old Isaac Walton as 'the contemplative man's recreation,' as that bold, adventurous life-pursuit, for which hundreds of these men summon up all their energy, skill and activity, and too often, alas! their unavailing heroism.
These surrounding waters do not look to all eyes as to ours, blue, bright, peaceful, beautiful, but hungry devouring monsters that have swallowed up forever darling sons, loving husbands, dear brothers. A lady who was sending us in her carriage for a drive on the beach said she could not go with us, she never could bear to go since her son was lost at sea.
This (Sunday) evening, an immense assembly met in the capacious Universalist Church, kindly opened by its pastor, Rev. Mr. Bruce, for Miss Holley's piea for the slave. It was a somewhat hazardous experiment for the minister, for there were the 'solid men, Democrats, who did not want the old landmarks removed. A lady and 'politics' in the pulpit!-they would not be consenting. But he was firm in his belief that his people needed the lecture, and was glad Miss Holley had come-and invited her to address the Sunday school after his sermon in the morning, which she did with a persuasion that had the effect he hoped, for the evening meeting brought out his Democratic members, and one of the stanchest, to his surprise and delight, was so won upon as to take up a collection for the Massachusetts A. S. Society.
This is an odd looking town, with its one long street, following the curved shore line of the harbor for more than two miles, having great spaces between the buildings covered with 'fish flakes,' now spread with innumerable codfish to dry. A month ago, we had a pleasant day by the sea-side among the windmills at Dennis, and then made out in the clear atmosphere, beyond the camp-meeting grove in Eastham, a church in Wellfleet, and the meeting-house in Truro, where Theodore Parker once preached, the Provincetown town-house, twenty miles over the Bay. No wonder it is seen so far for it is perched on a bluff, high over all the other houses and steeples. It bears a tablet commemorative of the first landing of the Pilgrims made here on the eleventh of November, in 1620. Here they refreshed themselves, and looked about with a view to plant their little colony. But the prospects for agriculture looked too doubtful, and the Mayflower the next month bore them to their final landing on Forefathers' rock.
C. F. P.
'SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.'
NEW YORK, Oct. 6. 1860.
DEAR GARRISON,-In reply to 'C. K. W.,' who suggests the inserting, in future editions of 'Self-Contradictions of the Bible,' of a prefatory explanation of the compiler's views in regard to the merits of the Bible, I have only to say, that I concur substantially in those expressed by that correspondent. But as the pamphlet is 'without comment,' I deemed it more consistent not to give any views of my own in the way of preface. I could not, however, in the third edition, resist the temptation to insert a few commendatory notices by the Press. Some of these contain expressions which I could hardly endorsecertainly not without modification. The Bible is not all 'a stupendous compound of contradiction and error,' nor can it be said to 'subvert itself,' only so far as the claim of infallibility and plenary inspiration is concerned. The notice that appeared in the Liberator is so just and fair, that I have ordered it to be inserted in the next edition; and that, I think, will answer all the purposes of a preface, such as 'C. K. W.' suggests. THE COMPILER.
Several book notices, designed for our present number, are unavoidably deferred.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ETTER FROM MR. PILLSBURY.
TO THE EDITOR:—The work in hand is too important, as well as too constant, to admit of much report from those who have it to do. The Cummington Convention, and also one held in Ellenville, New York, were worthy the hour and the cause, and I am glad you gave the account of them a place in your columns.
Since coming into the West, I have been almost constantly engaged-a part of the time both night and day. A meeting at Jefferson, Ohio, on the first evening of my arrival in the State, was well attended; and the presence of Hon. J. R. Giddings, and the part he bore in the proceedings, gave an interest which kept a full audience till after eleven o'clock. Nor did the spirit of the occasion cease with that night; for, on my return three days afterwards, another meeting was extemporized, much larger than the first. The Superior Court was in session, with four Judges on the bench, and a pressure of business that compelled them to hold evening sessions. On the evening of my last lecture, the court adjourned, as soon as organized, and came to the Town Hall nearly in a body. It was, however, too late to admit them, (as we were crowded,) so the Judges proposed that we occupy the spacious court-room they had just left.
The change of place delayed us but a few moments, and we very soon filled the court-house. It was one of the finest audiences I ever had the honor to address; and the fact that we held, with unabated interest, until almost midnight, indicates somewhat the tone of the discussions. Indeed, none seemed in haste to leave when we adjourned at between eleven and twelve. Mr. Giddings was again present, and very active and persistent in contending for the anti-slavery integrity of the Republican party-though admitting that the published declarations of Abraham Lincoln, the whole tone of the New York Tribune, the action of the National Central Committee in circulating Tribune and other Campaign Tracts and Documents, (the Life of Lincoln among them,) and the general voice of the Republican press and politicians, was in favor of keeping faith with all the constitutional compromises for slavery ever claimed by Calhoun or conceded by Webster. 
If the party was not successfully and triumphantly defended, it was the fault of a bad cause, and not any want of zeal or ability in the champion.
The subject of my first lecture at Jefferson was, 'The Loss of Heroism in the American Character'; the second, 'Failure of American Culture to Develop a True Manhood.' Slavery, of course, furnished largely my illustrations—including its influence on our trade, politics, education and religion.
On the last evening, Mrs. Griffin of Salem was present, and added much to the interest of the occasion.
Besides the Jefferson meetings, my labors have extended into several other towns on the Reserve, and have been of a most encouraging character. Of the Western Anniversary I need say nothing, as you will probably see an official report of the proceedings. I think it will compare favorably with any that have gone before. Our new friend and coadjutor, Douglass, made a decidedly happy impression, and Mrs. Foster was never more highly appreciated.
PARKER PILLSBURY.
Adrian, Mich., Oct. 3, 1860.

MR. PILLSBURY IN OHIO.
SALEM,(Ohio,)Sept. 23, 1860.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
Mr. Pillsbury arrived in this State about the middle of September, apparently in improved health, and with abiding hope in the success of the Anti-Slavery cause.
His visit to Ohio one year ago, when his strength seemed failing, from nervous exhaustion, and from uncontrollable causes, we were unable to respond propitiously to his faithful effort, left us to fear that his heart would fail him of another such undertaking. We were, therefore, full of gladness as we again listened to his earnest eloquence in behalf of freedom, and heard his Macedonian cry to the men and women of Ohio for help.
Appointments had been made for him in the principal towns in Ashtabula county, the point at which he entered the State, and he held his first meeting at Jefferson, the home of Joshua R. Giddings.
It is scarcely necessary to say, that his presence among his old friends called out a large number of people, of those who were interested in his subject, and of those who sought an entertainment, both classes of whom fully realized their anticipations. Mr. Pilisbury has spoken in Jefferson several times before, but this effort is said to have surpassed all others, in point of elegance, force, and fact.
At Cherry Valley, on Sunday, 16th, he went out of his common method of anti-slavery speaking—criticising the demoralized condition of the American people by delineating a type of manhood corresponding with the march of intellect and the growth of States. He relieved the College, the Church and the Government of ponderous responsibilities, and threw upon the Individual the burden of true culture. He rescued the languishing faith of the dying century, by erecting the noble structure of a man and a hero. He sang a requiem to the poets of Greece and Rome, and spoke into being a new order, crowned with laurels of Freedom, as well as wreaths of Fame. He drew the outlines of a Republic, with God as its summit, and the People as its base, which was welcomed with general applause, and a hearty well done.
By invitation, Mr. Pillsbury held a second meeting at Jefferson. The town hall, which was opened for the first meeting, was at an early hour filled, and crowds were yet unseated. The District Court, in session there, adjourned for the evening, and invited the anti-slavery meeting to the court-house, which was soon packed with an appreciative audience, including a full bench of judges, lawyers, jurors, citizens, and friends from abroad. I can perhaps do the meeting no better justice than to give you an extract received from one of the auditors, a resident of the neighborhood:-
'While memory lasts, that meeting in the court-house will not be forgotten by us, and I presume not by Mr. Giddings. We have not yet had time for the full effect of that statement of his,-Mr. Giddings's,-that in case the slaves should rise, and assert their own rights, a Republican administration would be bound to go to the relief of the master, by giving freedom to the slaves.
Did you ever see an audience retire from an anti-slavery lecture as that did, scarcely speaking above a whisper? It seemed as though there had been some one left dead in the room. Was it that Mr. Giddings that evening politically yielded up the ghost?’
Further reports of the campaign and of our annual meeting you will receive through the Anti-Slavery Bugle.
 J. S. G.

WHO RULES.—A writer in the Pittsfield Sun, alluding to the present political condition of Massachusetts, as being that of complete subjection to Abolitionism, asks who has reduced the State to such a humiliating condition, and who to-day really rules the Republican party. We give his question and answer:-
'But who is the Great Magician that has effected this result? Not Charles Sumner; for he is only the big, stout Ariel of the concealed Prospero; and does the bidding of his master "fiatly." Well may that master exclaim, " My tricksy spirit!" That Great Magician, that Prospero-whose magic wand controls the destinies of the Republican party in Massachusetts; drives out the Caliban, Wilson, when he attempts with feeble ambition to govern the Isle, to the pains and cramps of a mortifying defeat in his candidate,—that Prospero is-William Lloyd Garrison! Yes! He is the Ruler of Massachusetts at this moment!'
Whatever may be the animus of the writer of this paragraph, by substituting THE GROWING SPIRIT OF LIBERTY (whose cause we unfalteringly advocate) for our humble name, 'the Great Magician' who is shaping the destiny of Massachusetts by his wand will stand revealed in all his grandeur and potency.
<CO2>
CORRECTION.
WORCESTER, Oct. 1. 1860.
MR. GARRISON: I make haste to correct an almost inexcusable mistake made in reporting T. W. Higginson at the Foster Convention in this city.
After reporting him as expressing his pleasure at, and commendation of the Republican nominations of Lincoln for President and Andrew for Governor, he is reported as saying that he intended to go for them. This, it seems, is a mistake, as he says that he did not avow his intention of going for them, and thinks he did not express himself as intending to go for either of them; yet, as some of his auditors think that he did commit himself to going for Mr. Andrew, he is willing to concede that he might have gone thus far.
The mistake of the report occurred in this way: I heard the larger part of his remarks or speech, and heard him say, in effect, that, before we could have Stephen Foster for President, however desirable that might be, we must have Mr. Lincoln, and he was glad that so large a party had got so far advanced that they could nominate, with such hope of success, so good a man as Abraham Lincoln; and thence he went on to commend the nomination of Mr. Andrew, and seemed to be going altogether, and heartily, too, for them both, in the remarks he made, so far as I heard them. But, being called out of the meeting before he had concluded, I inquired of those who remained as to his conclusion, and was not surprised at all to understand that he did avow his intention to go for them, or to be told that he said he preferred to go for Mr. Andrew on the Republican platform than for John Pierpont on Mr. Foster's platform; and, with this acquired information, I reported him as I did, not intending any mistake or injury thereby. And, in the light of the fact that he did go so strongly for these candidates in the meeting, and without any qualification, or disclaimer of intention to continue to support them; and being understood to be hereunto a voter in the Republican party, how it could work any injury to him to report him as intending to support both these men elsewhere, as every person in the meeting with whom I have been able to converse, understood from what he did say that he intended to do, although in the light of his denial, no one is sure that he said in words that he should do it, is past my limited comprehension. Or, how with the admission of the possibility of such an avowal in behalf of Mr. Andrew, he should feel hurt at the misreport that he was also going for Lincoln, is also a wonder; for did not Andrew prominently help create Lincoln, the Republican nominee, and also the platform on which he was nominated, and does he not now go heartily and entirely for him? Where, then, is the distinction? As executive officers, wherein would they differ in administration as towards the slave? Are not their political positions identical?
It was a little startling to hear Mr. Higginson commend the surprising goodness of the Presidential nominee, for wherein is Mr. Lincoln better than Mr. Seward, who might have been the nominee, or Fremont, or Slade, or Van Buren, even, who have been nominees? Where is the wonderful advance evinced by this nomination?
I am very glad to correct any blunder or mistake that I have made, and would on no account do Mr. Higginson or any one else any injustice; and I should take much more pleasure in making this correction, could I also correct the whole matter, and now affirm not only that Mr. Higginson did not say that he should go for these candidates, but also that he was not in fact going for them at all. But, alas! I am grieved to say that I have no authority to make such a disclaimer in his behalf, or ground of supposition that so complete a correction is called for by the aspect of the facts.
I am at a loss to understand how this misreport, in the light of the understood actual position of Mr. Higginson, could have so injured his sensitiveness, except upon the hypothesis that his intention, in this regard, is held by him to be one of those good deeds that he does not intend or liketo sound a trumpet before, and so felt hurt to find me the trumpeter that was notifying the right hand what the left was about to do. I most sincerely regret invading, by an error, the modesty of his supposed intentions.
 J. A. H

HENRY C. WRIGHT IN EASTON, ME.
WEST GOULDSBORO', Sept. 25, 1860.
DEAR GARRISON,—Sometimes we, who live 'down East,' have seasons in which the earnest few are strengthened and encouraged to fight on in the good faith, and the hearts of many indifferent ones are touched, and at least partially awakened to a sense of the justice and truth of earnest and uncompromising Anti-Slavery. Such a season has been ours, by the recent visit of Henry C. Wright, who has spoken five times in the adjoining town of Steuben, and twice here in this little neighborhood. You may depend upon it, dear Garrison, that a bountiful amount of true and uncompromising anti-slavery was earnestly emptied into a pro-slavery religion of forms and creeds; and, as a natural consequence, there was quite an effervescence amongst us.
Those who know our friend Wright are well aware that he has a method of dealing out doses of anti-slavery peculiar to himself; and though many are disposed to question the wisdom of his manner of practice, still we can all take it for what it is worth. And we can all be sure, also, that, let Henry C. Wright talk upon what subject, rebuke what social sins, or advance what heresies or immoralities (as many term them) he may, he never forgets the claims of the American Slave-never. And it seems to me that the great source of his power, as an anti-slavery speaker, is, that he starts from the very foundation of pro-slavery sin-man's reverence for human authority-and then consistently follows out that idea, applying it to all civil, religious and social human institutions, out of which grow our civil, religious and social sins.
But I did not take up my pen to defend Henry C. Wright, or his peculiar manner of procedure, but to say that here, and in Steuben, he has spoken with great power and effect. Why is it that he has so effectually waked up our people, and not only set them to thinking about and discussing slavery as they have never done before, but to discussing other great wrongs which have their source in the same corrupt fountain of human authority? It seems to me it is because he is simply consistent. He does not tread with defiant footsteps upon just so much human authority as sanctions the wrongs to the slave, and then stop all farther application of the same principle to other sins; but he goes deeper-into the church, the family, the business relations of life, and applies the same rigid tests to religious, social and business morality which is based merely upon human sanction and approval. If he finds there wrong and suffering existing by virtue of human authority, he does not hesitate to proclaim it as boldly and fearlessly as when this authority seeks to hide our national sin of slavery. This consistency, though it frightens a few radical abolitionists, who want to make the anti-slavery cause as respectable as possible, and is, also, the cause, of Mr. Wright being called hard names, did not, here, amongst us, take away one jot from his worth as an anti-slavery laborer. He will always be sure of a welcome here, and he has left many who, through him, have got a start truthward. May we have another refreshing season with him, to tell us 'what we shall do to be saved' from all civil, religious and social oppression, with all their wrong and immorality!

 C. L. H.
'AMELIA' evinces some talent and a freedom-loving spirit, but her poetical effusions are defective. 'Remember' and 'ever,' repeated verse after verse, do not make rhyme. One of her pieces we will publish, by way of encouragement. We are compelled to reject much 'original poetry'(?)
<CO3>
ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURE. Miss Sallie Holley, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, lectured in the Universalist Church in this place on Sunday evening last, before a very full audience of attentive listeners. Miss H. is one of those large-hearted, intellectual women, who have only to make an appeal to be effectual. Women's appeals are always touching, but when joined with large intellectual power and graceful manners, are irresistible. The mission of such apostles is to sublimate the ideas and arouse the conscience, so that men and women will clearly see that their duties are something more than mere trading, fishing and commerce. Miss Holley is entirely unaffected in her style and speech, and her thrilling anecdotes and natural extemporization are well adapted to captivate an audience. Her lecture could hardly be called a 'political sermon,' as she never mentioned either the Democratic or Republican parties at all. She only illustrated the horrors and the national shame of Slavery, and quickened the impulses that are ever rising and striving for its extinction.
Miss Holley is a native of New York State, and has labored in the Anti-Slavery cause a dozen years, travelling over a large portion of the Northern and Eastern States. Travelling with her is a friend, Miss Putnam, whose generous culture and genial disposition render an hour's conversation with the couple a feast of no ordinary finding. They will both find warm and appreciative friends in this odd corner of the Bay State, and we hope they will visit us again.— Provincetown Banner.

COMMERCE OF LIBERIA.—The Custom House returns from the port of Monrovia for the year ending September 30th, 1859, show imports, total, $143,854 00; exports, $190,369 22; excess of exports, $46,515 22.
Of the imports. $86,651 00 was from the United States; $31,908 00 from Great Britain; $24,634 00 from Hamburg; $439 from Amsterdam; and $222 from Italy.
Of the exports, $60,493 37 was to the United States; $62,996 to Great Britain; $65,565 to Hamburg; and $1,314 95 to Sierra Leone.
The exports were 495,194 gallons of palm oils, 333 tons of camwood, 2,335 pounds of ivory, 19,474 pounds of sugar, 10,707 gallons of molasses, 1,007 pounds of coffee, and 775 bushels of palm kernels.
There were imported 17,248 pounds of sugar, or 2,226 pounds less than was exported,—and no molasses. The production of these articles is rapidly increasing.
The 1007 pounds of coffee all came to the United States. A quantity, we know not how much, went to Holland from another port.
The palm kernels are a new article of commerce. The palm fruit grows like a peach, or a plum, having a pulp, from which the common palm oil is extracted, and a stone, like a peach stone, which has formerly been of no value. It is now found that the kernel or 'meat,' inside of the stone, yields a superior oil. Of the 775 bushels exported, 175 went to England and 600 to Hamburg.
There are in Liberia five other ports of entry, the returns from which are not before us.
The principal region for the production of palm oil and coffee is Bassa County, which has its own port of entry.—Boston Traveller.

AN ABOLITIONIST ASKS TO BE EXCUSED FROM SERVING ON THE JURY.—In the Supreme Court, New York, on Thursday, Mr. Oliver Johnson, the editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, having been summoned as a juror in this Court, presented the following reasons for being excused from service, endorsed on the back of the summons:-
'The within named party asks to be excused from the service to which he is herein summoned, on the ground that he is held by public opinion to be crazy, forasmuch as he is editor, of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, a paper which advocates the immediate abolition of slavery and dissolution of the American Union as a covenant with death and an agreement with hell. OLIVER JOHNSON.
Sept. 18th, 1860.'
Judge Leonard passed an order that Johnson should appear the next day.
Upon his appearance, said Johnson was fined the sum of $25, for contempt of Court!

ARREST OF A JOHN BROWNITE. A few days since, we copied from a Texas paper a letter addressed by one Wm. H. Bailey to a confederate, disclosing the operations of a gang of incendiaries in Texas, the letter having been discovered by accident. The Fort Smith (Ark.) Times contains the following announcement of Bailey's arrest:—'On Sunday last, Rev. W. H. Bailey arrived in the overland, under charge of Mr. Johnson, an officer from Texas. The reverend gentleman, it appears, is one of the disciples of the John Brown school, and has been engaged in the burning, stealing, &c., in our sister State. A reward of $3,000 had been offered for his delivery at Fort Worth.'

HOW THE SLAVER STORM KING ESCAPED THE NEW YORK OFFICERS.—It is stated that Lockhart, the captain of the Storm King, which was lately captured as a slaver by the San Jacinto frigate, told the officer who seized him that he got to sea from New York by bribing the Deputy Marshal-giving him a thousand dollars for the privilege of slipping away.
Theodore Rynders, the Marshal's nephew, was one of the parties accused of receiving the bribe, the offer of which is here confessed. Rynders has since become insane.

SNOW IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, VERMONT AND CANADA. The men at work on the White Mountain road were driven off on Friday, Sept. 28th, by about six inches of snow, and have closed their labors for the season. Snow fell in considerable quantities on that day on the line of the Grand Trunk railway, between Island Pond, Vt., and Acton, Canada-places more than a hundred miles distant from each other. There was a fall of snow at Presque Isle on the 27th of September.
SLAVERY TO BE ABOLISHED IN THE DUTCH WEST INDIES.—It is announced that the Legislature of Holland, which has just assembled, will take measures immediately to altogether abolish slavery in the Dutch West Indies.
LARGE LAND SALE.—The 'Moss Neck' farm, 2,207 acres, in Caroline County, Va., was sold on Tuesday last for $68,000, to R. Corbin, J. Gouldin and W. H. Dickinson. 'Farley Vale,' of 1,567 acres, was sold for $35,000, to W. Corbin. The negroes, numbering 149, were sold for $106,500, being chiefly purchased in the neighborhood.
Louisa, a slave woman of Gen. Miles, of New Orleans, has not only stolen herself, but carried off $7,000 worth of her mistress's jewelry.

VERMONT STATE ANTI-SLAVEKY CONVENTION. We call the special attention of the friends of universal freedom in Vermont to the State Convention to be held at Bradford, on Wednesday and Thursday next, 17th and 18th inst., but trust they need neither admonition nor entreaty to secure a full and spirited attendance on their part. These are more solemn times, and pregnant with more momentous consequences, than 'the days of '76,' and every true man and woman must be at their post, ready for the emergency. A strong array of eloquent speakers will be present.
The friends of freedom in other States are invited to attend, and join in the deliberations of the Convention.

GREAT REPUBLICAN VICTORIES. The annual State Elections, which foreshadow and almost invariably determine the Presidential vote, took place in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana on Tuesday last, and resulted in an overwhelming victory for the Republican candidates-thus making the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States settled almost beyond a peradventure. Curtin, the Republican candidate for Governor in Pennsylvania, is elected by a majority of 25,000!! The Legislature is strongly Republican, and nearly all the Republican members of Congress are elected. Will the South be so obliging as to secede from the Union?

FRATERNITY LECTURES. The second lecture of the course was delivered on Tuesday evening last by Rev. James Freeman Clarke. The spacious Temple was completely filled, and the speaker was warmly received as he came forward. He announced as his subject, 'A true theology is the basis of all true reform.' By this he intended to convey the idea of a theology of love—that love which God extended to man, and which man should give to God; that love which taught as tolerance and freedom. The larger portion of the lecture was devoted to the anti-slavery phase of this theology. The speaker reviewed the history of the progress of this question from its earliest to its latest development, and spoke hopefully of the forces in opposition to the Slave Power. The next lecture of the course will be by Rev. T. W. Higginson.
<C04>
A SLAVE WHIPPED TO DEATH.—The Tobacco Plant, a paper published at Clarksville, Va., says, that on the 4th of July, Charles Hudson whipped his negro woman Jane to death, upon his plantation in Mecklenburg County, He tied her to a tree at eight o'clock in the morning, and flogged her at intervals till eleven o'clock. Then she was untied, but before she could go forty yards from the tree to which she had been bound, she fell and died. The paper alluded to says that for the honor of humanity,' it is to be hoped that the case will appear less shocking and barbarous when the facts are fully known, from which we infer that a man may murder his slave in rather a delicate and kind manner in Virginia.

SENTENCE TOR THE MURDER OF A SLAVE OH THE FOURTH OF JULY.—The Petersburg (Va.) Express announces that Charles Hudson, upwards of sixty years of age, has been convicted of murder in the second degree, he having killed his slave woman Jane, on the Fourth of July last. The Jury fixed his sentence at eighteen years in the Penitentiary. The Express says:
'The evidence in the case was that on the morning of the 4th of July last, at 8 o'clock, one of the hottest days of the past summer, Hudson stripped the woman naked as when she came into the world, tied her to a persimmon tree, and whipped her for three consecutive hours, with occasional intermissions of a few minutes, until he had worn out to stumps fifty-two switches, and that the bark on the body of the tree was rubbed smooth and greasy by the attrition of the body of the victim. The ground around the tree for seven or eight feet, though it had been freshly plowed, was trodden hard. One witness testified that he heard distinctly, at the distance of six hundred yards, both the noise of the switch and the screams and entreaties of the woman. The poor creature was buried the same afternoon only some ten inches beneath the ground, in a rough box, without any shroud.'
The following is an extract from the remarks of Judge Gholson, on passing sentence:-
'CHARLES HUDSON,—You have been regularly tried for the murder of your own slave. You have been defended with great ability, and a jury of your own country have found you guilty of murder in the second degree, and fixed the term of your confinement in the Penitentiary at eighteen years. In this verdict this court entirely concurs. I will not go into the details of the shocking deed. You tied and stripped a female, who dared not raise her hand against you-whose only protector in this world you should have been. For three hours did you, in one of the hottest days of the summer, cruelly whip and torture this helpless woman, until, in the language of counsel, “the angel of death delivered her from the hands of her tormentor."

A CITIZEN OP ILLINOIS WHIPPED TO DEATH IX TEXAS.—The Chicago Press and Tribune has a letter from Mr. Frederick Amthar, who was recently driven out of Texas on some frivolous pretence. He gives the following account of the horrible whipping which a young man received at Henderson, in that State, which resulted in death. He says:-
'A young man from Illinois, by the name of Evans, came to Henderson, and while there was incautious enough to say that he thought free States were preferable to slave States, and that he thought slavery was wrong. These statements, as far as I heard them, he made in the mildest manner, and that only when pressed into the subject by the young men about town. I am satisfied that he never said or thought of saying anything, except when conversation on the subject was forced upon him. I had but a slight acquaintance with the young man, but I told him that he ought not to allow himself to be dragged into talking on the topic. But he was not careful. In December last, this young man was taken out by a mob, without a trial of any kind, and whipped to death. The Henderson New Era, a paper published in Henderson, justified the infamous murder, on the ground that Evans was a common thief, an Abolitionist, &c. I was shown the whip which I was informed had been the instrument of his death. It was covered with blood. I also saw what I was informed was the dead body of Evans, about three-quarters of a mile from town. It was so decayed and swollen that I did not recognize it. The hogs and buzzards were eating it. It had never been buried!'

PERSECUTION OF A NORTHERN BOOKSELLER IN ARKANSAS.—Henry A. Marsh, who lately escaped hanging by an Arkansas mob, has published an account of his adventures. He was located at Camden in that State as a dealer in books and periodicals. After the Texas excitement commenced in August, the authorities at Camden forbade his selling any Northern publications, except the New York Herald and Day Book. Finding himself an object of suspicion and his business ruined, he resolved to sell out his stuck and remove, but the people saved him the trouble by burning the balance of his stock, school books and all, and advised him to leave at once. He went with his wife and children to Memphis, Tenn. He had been there about three weeks, when Dr. Hughey and two other men from Camden visited him, and on some false pretence got him on board a steamer, when they made him their prisoner, and took him back to Camden, where he was examined by a Vigilance Committee on a charge of being an Abolitionist from Texas, where he had formerly resided.
Finding no evidence against him, the committee put him in a canoe on the Wachita river at night, and told him to escape if he could. They refused to go before the people, and declare that no evidence had been found against him. Mr. Marsh rowed across the river, and for the next twenty-eight hours travelled constantly, without rest, food or sleep, being pursued by men who were enraged at his unexplained escape. Four times he swam the Saline river to throw the men and dogs off his track, and three nights he slept without covering on the cold, wet ground. Finally, on the fourth day, with blistered feet, he reached a steamboat landing on the Arkansas river, and made the best of his way to a land of safety.

ARREST OF A FEMALE ABOLITIONIST IN SOUTH CAROLINA.—At Charleston, S. C., on Friday morning, an examination was held by Mayor Macbeth of one Mrs. Catherine Bottsford, charged by several respectable citizens with uttering and disseminating among the slave population seditious sentiments. During the investigation, she admitted entertaining the Abolition sentiments attributed to her, and of being an admirer of John Brown. She denied, however, any attempt to circulate her opinions. The evidence and affidavits submitted showed to the contrary, and she was required to give bail in the sum of $300 for her good behavior. Failing in this, she was committed to jail. The accused stated that she had resided in the city about nine months, during which time she had followed the occupation of a seamstress. She also stated that she had hoped to obtain the situation of a teacher. The case will probably undergo investigation at the January term of the Court of General Sessions.

'ORDERED OFF.'—On Saturday night, 1st instant, three white men were compelled to leave Orange Court-House, Va., by a Vigilance Committee. They were charged with unlawfully trafficking with slaves. A letter to the Richmond Dispatch says:-
'On Saturday night, they were waited on by a company of armed citizens, and marched at the point of the bayonet to the depot, while the " Rogue's March " was played as befitting the occasion. Here they were compelled to get on the cars and leave. One of the party, formerly a hotel keeper at Orange Court-House, stopped at Charlotteville.

NEW YORK, Oct. 9, 1860.
EXCITEMENT IN VIRGINIA-PLOT FOR NEGRO INSURRBOTION DISCOVERED. The Norfolk (Va.) papers contain accounts of a prospective negro insurrection. Several negroes have been arrested in Princess Anne and Norfolk counties, and two arrests have been made in Norfolk city. Several negroes have confessed, implicating whites and free negroes. The rising was contemplated for Sunday night last. Patrols have been organized, and suspected parties are under strict surveillance. A patrol party shot a man named Flynn dead at a suspected camp, a negro at the same time escaping. A free negro named Smith was also shot. A free negro, who is under arrest, stated that the plan of operations had been maturing since last spring, and a negro named Dick Ryan had written to the North, and engaged a vessel with arms and men, which were to arrive to the assistance of the slaves on Sunday night. Steps have been taken to arrest any such vessel. There is considerable excitement.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 9. The Norfolk Herald says that sufficient testimony has been elicited to fully justify a strict police surveillance. A number of arrests of negroes have been made. Nearly all of the negroes on a few plantations have fled to the woods from fright. A patrol force has gone in search of them.

MlLWAUKIE, Oct. 9.
RE-ARREST OF BOOTH. Sherman Booth was rearrested by Marshal Taylor last night, for a violation of the Fugitive Slave Law, and brought to this city.

A meeting was held in Galveston, Texas, on the 15th of September, to rid the State of A. P. Delano, suspected of Abolitionism. It took decided action. In case the suspected man is found in the State after thirty days, the meeting is to reassemble to take more decided action.
<C05>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary.
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the beat part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted, the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress.
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready.
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country-new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise. 
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without.
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time-—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING, 
L. MARIA CHILD, 
HENRIETTA SARGENT, 
ANNE WARREN WESTON, 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, 
SUSAN C. CABOT, 
SARAH P. ATKINSON, 
ELIZA ANDREW, 
LYDIA D. PARKER, 
ELIZA F. EDDY, 
SARAH P. REMOND, 
ABBY FRANCIS, 
SARAH RUSSELL MAY, 
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, 
EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING, 
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM, 
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP, 
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT, 
MATTIE GRIFFITH, 
ANNE LANGDON ALGER, 
MARY E. STEARNS.

STATE CONVENTION.
The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Vermont Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at BRADFORD, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 17th and 18th of October.
The enslavement of four millions in our land, the indescribable wrongs done to the oppressed, the continued refusal of political parties and of many religious sects to demand the abolition of slavery, the increase of the slave trade, the strength and daring attempts of the Slave Power in the Federal Government, and the new reign of terror in the South, as well as the persecuting spirit manifested in the North, all call for a large and enthusiastic assemblage of the friends of freedom without distinction.
Seeking the emancipation of the enslaved, and the highest good of our common country, let the earnest friends, of human rights, in obedience to the voice of  God, of humanity and of patriotism, come together for a full and free discussion of the great questions now before the people.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND of Salem, Mass., E. H. HEYWOOD of Boston, and H. FORD DOUGLASS of Chicago, III., eloquent champions of freedom, besides others in our own State, will address the meeting.
The sessions of the Convention will open on Wednesday, at 10 o'clock, and continue through the two days and evenings.
In behalf of the State Committee, 
J. M. COBURN, 
JEHIEL CLAFLIN, 
JAS. HUTCHINSON, JR.,
N. R. JOHNSTON.

CHARLES L. REMOND and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Vermont as follows:-
Newbury, Friday, Oct. 19.
McIndoes Falls, Saturday, (11/2 P.M.)  Oct. 20.
St. Johnsbury, Monday, Oct. 22.
Peacham, Tuesday,  Oct. 23.
Ryegate, Wednesday, Oct. 24.
Topsham, Thursday, Oct. 25.
Washington, Friday, Oct. 26.
West Brookfield, Saturday, Sat. and Sun., 27, 28.
The friends in the several towns where Messrs. Remond and Douglass will speak are requested to make the requisite arrangements for the meetings.

MARLBORO'.—WM. WELLS BROWN will deliver an address commemorative of the First Anniversary of the surrender of Harper's Ferry to Capt. John Brown, at the Town Hall, in Marlboro', on Tuesday evening, Oct. 16th, to commence at 7 o'clock. Subject—The Heroes of Insurrection.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at 
Milford, Mass., Sunday afternoon and evening,  Oct. 14.
C. L. REMOND and E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Topsham, Vt., Tuesday evening, Oct. 16.
CHARLES L. REMOND will speak at Barton, Vt., Saturday evening and Sunday, Oct. 20 and 21.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at McIndoes Falls, VL., Saturday evening and Sunday, Oct. 20 and 21.
FELTONVILLE.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak in Feltonville, on Sunday next, Oct. 14, during the day and in the evening.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.—A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker's sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. I Newland (out of Dedham) street, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR.
<C06>
WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
Manufacturers of and Dealers in 
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS,
184 WASHINGTON STREET. 184. 
CORNER OF FRANKLIN ST., BOSTON.
E. ZUEBISCH will pav particular attention to Altering and Repairing old Furs.
FACTORY, 6 CENTRAL STREET.
DR. E. A. KITTREDGE 
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. 
Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street.
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12,

SERMONS AND OTHER DISCOURSES.
WITH BRIEF BIOGRAPHICAL HINTS. By BERIAH GREEN. Pages 556 12mo. With Portrait engraved by Ritchie.
'In spite of the modest, and to most readers, perhaps, unpromising title of this volume, it will be found to bear the impress of a vigorous and original mind, and to contain a fund of. earnest thought, profound feeling, and eloquent expression. The topics mostly relate to the great practical interests of life, the application of the highest principle to daily affairs, and the influence of Christianity on politics, business, education, and the general relations of society. With a strong faith in the vitality of justice, Mr. Green contends strenuously against every form of oppression, insisting on the exact adjustment ofef social duties by the standard of ideal right. His powerful reasoning is always accompanied with novel and suggestive illustrations, showing no less felicity of statement than sincerity of conviction. No one can peruse the volume without respecting the zeal and integrity of the author, and receiving a new impression of the worth of the principles to which his labors have been devoted.—N. Y. Tribune, 29th Sept.
'One thought pervades throughout-that of the absolute supremacy, the all-sovereign authority of the Throne of the Eternal, of great Truth and Justice. They are the life of the world, the soul and substance of whatever has vitality, worth, permanence among men. Here are wisdom and strength, the secret spring of all accomplishment and success. Fidelity is achievement, and unfaithfulness is failure and defeat. The ideal is the standard, to which everything must be carefully adjusted. All usages and institutions are tried in this light, and each to be accepted as good and worthy only as it may conform to and symbolize the inner Verities. There is warm appreciation of heroism in life, and especially high adoration of Jesus as 'the Hero of all heroes,' realization utmost of the perfections of wisdom, virtue, and nobleness in history. And there is correspondingly deep disgust and abhorrence of all baseness. He has indignant loathing and abomination for those wretched idols before whom the multitudes bow down and worship-those cunning, soulless quacks and jugglers who, vaulting up perpetually into the high places of society, busy themselves but to bewitch and bewilder, to befool and destroy.'-Review in National A. S. Standard, Sept. 22d.
Price, $1.25. When prepaid by mail, $1.46 
S. W. GREEN, 
16 Jacob St., or Bex 3159, New York.

THAYER & ELDRIDGE
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 &  116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A. TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, 'At Home,' &c. 
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety. 
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles. 
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18. eop6m.
HENRY C. WRIGHT'S BOOKS.
MARRIAGE AND PARENTAGE: Fifth Edition. Price $1.00 per copy.
THE UNWELCOME CHILD; or,. the crime of an undesired and unwelcome Maternity: Third Edition. Price 25 cents.
A KISS FOR A BLOW: A valuable work for children. Price 38 cents. The same work, handsomely Illustrated by Billings. Price 62 cents.
Published and for sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Brom field street. 
August 24. 3teop.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plays, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING,
All WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit., 
Sept 16 tf

LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY. 
274 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
THE Second Annual Course of Lectures will commence on Thursday, Nov. 8, 1860.
LECTURERS.
WALTER BURNHAM, M. D., on Practice of Medicine and Surgery. 
SUSAN R. CAPEN, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women.
WM, Symington Brown, M. D., Surgical Anatomy, Physiology, and Materia Medica.
SARAH W. SALISBURY, M. D., Anatomy and Hygiene.
Intending students will apply to Dr. W. S. BROWN, 15 Congress Street, Boston.
Oct.5. 4wis

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. 
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5—6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
AMERICA SLEEPING.
Yes, sleep! but know that Freedom not the more
Will fold her pinions till thy trance be o'er;
Her wings have swept the Western world-her shrill
Trumpet —alarms-what earthly power may still?
Those mighty realms, from Erie's northern lake,
Even to far Magellan, are awake. 
The night is past-there mind has reached its birth;
Men cast with scorn their fetters to the earth. 
From Hayti's neighboring State, what kindred cries 
Call to thy captives,-' Ho! Arise! Arise!’ 
They will arise! At thine, or at their call,
Mercy will melt, or vengeance burst their thrall 
And then must fly thy spirit-frozen dream 
At a world's plaudits, or at scorn's extreme.
The Savior land!-the loved!-almost adored!-
For crimes stoned, and human rights restored;
Or agonized spectatress of the chain
Shivered by hands long stretched to thee in vain.
Clapton, Eng. WILLIAM HOWITT.

TO AMERICA.
BY MRS. HAWKSHAW.
Queen of the Western world, upon thy brow 
There is a spot of blood, a crimson stain,
That dims thy greatness,-and it is in vain
Thy snowy sail on every sea to show;
Or thro' thy streets that streams of commerce flow,
Or that thy cities rise on every plain:
Though thou art loud when freedom is the strain,
Yet thou to heaven prefer'st a faithless vow;
Think not thy brightest deeds will weave a veil
To hide from God or man thy one great crime;
Wrongs that will turn the cheek of pity pale 
History shall write of thee in after time;
And future ages on one page shall see
The slave's unheeded prayer-the song of liberty!

ASPIRATION FOR THE JUBILEE.
[Composed by one of the pupils of the Bristol Asylum for the Blind, to accompany some basket-work, made by the pupils for the Boston Anti-Slavery Bazaar.]
May the glorious time with speed arrive,
When the slave his right shall gain,
When the world, with all her powers, shall strive,
And freedom throughout maintain:
When Slavery's debasing powers shall cease,
And Oppression's chain be broke;
When no help shall be wanting to release
The slave from his galling yoke.
Then freedom shall flow without control,
Like the vast and mighty sea;
And the African dwell from pole to pole,
In peace and security.
Then let not the land which boasts aloud
Of freedom, from sea to sea,
Be last to disperse the direful cloud 
Of a cursed Slavery.
Bristol, Eng.

THE DYING SLAVE.
A pro-slavery Minister of Religion offering him Spiritual Aid.
Away, away! leave me to die alone!
Bring no deep shadows of your wrongs around me!
I hear sweet voices, which, in angel tone,
Give promise, tho' man's hand hath fiercely bound me,
That, when my spirit leaves this toil-worn frame,
I shall not near corruption darkly hover,
But shall, in that bright land from which they came,
New powers within, new joys without discover.
I see fair visions dawning on my sight
Of glory, beauty, majesty excelling, 
Still op'ning as my dim eyes close in night,
And shut out all this weary, tear-fraught dwelling 
I feel my soul uprising from the earth,
Oppress'd no longer by your sordid woes.
Away!-there is a new and holier birth
Struggling with death and sin, my earthly foes.
Come not between me and that sacred ray
Which shews me I am man, though marr'd and broken;-
Nay, darken not the everlasting day
Which breaks upon my soul, but leave-unspoken
Your juggling prayers, nor waft false sighs in vain.
Call me not brother now-you bade me toil
With brute-like patience, in sharp want and pain, 
Till this last hour, upon your blood-stained soil.
Brother! doth brother rear the infant soul
'Mid the loud tumults of unceasing strife,
Where vengeful passions rage without control,
And taint the well-springs of its hapless life?
Doth brother teach e'en childhood's hand to wield,
In mimic war, the blunted spear and sword,
Then lead fresh manhood to the savage field
Where death or bonds await the conquered horde?
Doth brother crowd the victims in the hold,
Deny them food and drink, and light and air;
Awe down the timid, and chastise the bold,
Till numbers perish in their filthy lair?
Doth brother buy and sell a brother's blood,
Make him a chattel, mock his human love,
Crush out his manhood, poison ev'ry good,
Fearing not hell beneath, nor heaven above?
Doth brother seal of knowledge the clear fount, 
Lest the wrong'd sufferer should drink, and know
That he hath pinions strong on which to mount,
And spurn the baseness of his state below?
Doth brother bid the pious heart beware,
Nor light bestow upon the living slave,
Preserving all its tender Christian care
For the dark borders of the silent grave?
Away, away!-profane not Heaven nor me
With mutt'rings told-I am my Father's child!
His gracious presence I rejoicing see,
I hear his welcome through the Savior mild;-
I soon shall be at rest: and Thou, O God!
Teach him to see, who doth uphold the crime
Of grinding tyranny, with its iron rod,
Is guilty of its sins throughout all time.
Bristol, Eag. EDWIN CHAPMAN.

REBUKE OF COLORPHOBIA.
BY HANNAH MORE. 
Perish the illiberal thought which would debase
The native genius of the sable race!
Perish the proud philosophy, which sought
To rob them of the powers of equal thought!
Does then the immortal principle within
Change with the casual color of the skin?
Does matter govern spirit? or is mind
Degraded by the form to which ’tis joined?
No; they have heads to think, and hearts to feel,
And souls to act, with firm though erring seal;
For they have keen affections, kind desires,
Love strong as death, and active patriot fires;
All the rude energy, the fervid flame, 
Of high-souled passion and ingenuous shame; 
Strong but luxuriant virtues boldly shoot
From the wild vigor of a savage root.
What page of human annals can record
A deed so bright as human rights restored?
O may that godlike deed, that shining, page,
Redeem our fame, and consecrate our age!
And let this glory mark our favored shore,
To curb false freedom, and the true restore!

WHO IS MY NEIGHBOR 
Thy neighbor? Yonder toiling slave,
Fettered in thought and limb,
Whose hopes are all beyond the grave,-
Go, thou, and ransom him.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR 
'SOUND BASIS OF CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP.'
Under the above title, the Edinburgh Ladies’ Emancipation Society have printed on a letter sheet, for more extensive distribution, an excellent, brief address, delivered by Rev. Jonathan Watson to a meeting (of which he was chairman) of the Edinburgh Branch of the Evangelical Alliance. 
Referring to the fact that the Alliance has done some good service to the interests of humanity and religion by strongly asserting the rights of conscience, where they have been trampled down, and by stepping forward to throw a shield over persecuted brethren, Mr. Watson suggests, and strongly urges, that this body should bestir itself in good earnest for the emancipation of the oppressed slaves of the United States, many of them (he says) our brethren in Christ, yet held in cruel bondage by so-called American Christians. He represents that the continued neglect of this work shows want of faithfulness as well as of zeal on their part; that the ineffectual result of so much ’sectional remonstrance’ as has heretofore issued from portions of the British church should not deter, but rather stimulate an Association so extensive as the Alliance, to use its greater influence for the same end; that British Christians should repeat these remonstrances as long as they shall be needed, determining no more to be silent until slaveholders are either reasoned out or shamed out of the audacious assumption of proprietorship in the souls and bodies of their brethren; and, above all, that a practical effect be given to this course of action by ceasing to admit pro-slavery Americans to Christian and ministerial fellowship when they go to Great Britain; by no longer welcoming such persons to their religious assemblies and pulpits, their platforms and communion tables. He says-' Let the Alliance send forth the key-note of No Fellowship with Slaveholders over all the Churches of Great Britain, and let it be no dead letter, but find a living embodiment everywhere, and I am greatly mistaken if a course like this does not awaken attention, throughout the United States, to their anomalous position among, the nations, by putting them beyond the pale of fraternal intercourse till such time as they are healed of their leprosy.' 
Unquestionably, Mr. Watson has touched the very point where immediate, energetic and persistent action on the part of British Christians is demanded. The frankest and most direct expression of Christian; truth on this subject, to individuals as well as to ecclesiastical bodies, is the wise policy, no less than the obvious duty, of those Englishmen to whom pro-slavery Americans present themselves as Christian brethren. 
A slaveholder, in a public debate, indignant at finding some statement of his questioned, once asked Stephen S. Foster-' Do you think I would lie? '-To which that plain speaker replied-'I don't know whether you would lie, but I know you steal!'-And the man was silenced. 
The danger, in these cases, is not of too strong language, but of pusillanimity and evasion. The manifest robber, who is impudent enough to demand admission to the communion table, and even to the pulpit, needs the directest rebuke that words and actions can give.-C. K. W. 

WILL THE GOSPEL ABOLISH SLAVERY?
A LETTER 
To REV. MR. ANGIER, Pastor of the Third Orthodox Church, Port Norfolk, Dorchester.
PORT NORFOLK, Sept. 1st, 1860.
Several weeks since, I attended a monthly concert of prayer for the heathen, held in your Chapel. Two of your brethren who were called upon to open the meeting with prayer made allusion to slavery in this country; after which, you arose, and in a few words defined your position on the slavery question. You appeared to differ somewhat from the late Hon. Rufus Choate, and said, ’You believed the Declaration of Independence would apply to the colored man as well as to the white, and the time was coming when it would be considered so, and this would be brought about by the preaching of the gospel.' We have reason to believe that you think the doctrines of the Orthodox Church are gospel truths, and that the preachers she acknowledges do preach the gospel if not so, you would have chosen some other denomination to labor with; therefore, in this letter, I shall confine my remarks principally to the Orthodox Congregational Church. The writer of this, for more than twenty years, felt it his aim of life (after attending to common duties) to build up Orthodoxy and its institutions, and for more than ten years was a somewhat active member of the Church, in his humble sphere; and nothing but his experience and knowledge of facts that he cannot gainsay or resist could have made him believe that this Church would be found at this time where she is now, on the great moral question of the age. 
Some years since, Rev. Justin Perkins, a distinguished missionary from the United States, preached a sermon at the Missionary Station in Oroomiah, Persia, on Sunday, the 3d day of July, entitled’ Our Country's Sin,' in which he says, 
‘1st, I hold that American slavery is the crowning abomination of the present age. 
2d, I hold that American slavery is the greatest human obstacle to the spread and triumph of Christianity that exists at the present period. 
3d, I hold that Northern influence-and, primarily, the influence of Northern Christians-is the strongest and most responsible support of American slavery at this time.' 
From the sermon, I make the following extracts:-'Is not our entire country-the whole American Church-in a sickly, morbid state, certainly on that subject?’ Alluding to a prominent religious paper in this country, he says, ’If anti-slavery influences were only such as come from that paper, the slave will clank his chains until the millennium. A Sabbath silence on the crowning abomination of the day! How startling the idea! Whenever the pulpit dares to utter a note in condemnation of it, must the hue-and-cry be raised that politics are desecrating God's house and God's day?' I think the American Board made no exertions to circulate this sermon. A few years previous, some of the missionaries at the Sandwich Islands sent to our country some printed circulars, urging the churches to use their influence against this evil; after which, a Committee of the Board passed a resolution, that the printing presses in foreign lands should not be used for the purpose of sending home printed circulars. Probably not one in five hundred of the contributors to the Board ever knew why the resolution was passed. Dr. Lafon, formerly of the Sandwich Island-mission, said,’ Oppression is the greatest obstacle to the spread of the gospe throughout the world.' Rev. Mr. Perkins, in his sermon, says, ’Have we not reason to fear that our country thus does as much to hinder as to promote the progress of the gospel beyond its border?’ 
At a meeting of the American Board at Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1845, Rev. A. A. Phelps introduced an amendment to a report, declaring that the Board could not appoint or sustain slaveholders as missionaries, and called upon the missionaries to treat slavery as they do other sins. A well-known clergyman opposed that amendment, declaring that 'the Church could not stand such, nonsense.'
About twenty years ago, a number of ministers in Boston and its vicinity took active part in the Anti-Slavery cause, but the influence against them was too powerful. Some have left the ministry for other occupations or professions; others have long ago settled quietly down over country parishes, and are not now known to take any active part in the Anti-Slavery cause. One of their number, Rev. Charles T. Torrey, 
<c03>
died In Baltimore jail, where he has was incarcerated for helping (at their request) some colored persons to escape from bondage. The churches of New England manifested but little interest in the case. It was reported that his friends requested the use of Park Street Church, in which to hold the funeral ceremonies. It was refused, and he was buried from Tremont Temple. Rev. Mr. Lovejoy, an Orthodox minister, was murdered in Alton, I'll., in the most, outrageous manner, in defence of the press, and of his right to print and publish anti-slavery articles. It created deep sympathy among the friends of freedom at the North; some of our prominent men in the Anti-Slavery cause were first aroused by this terrible outrage. But the Church, as such, seemed to take but little interest in the matter. A distinguished clergy man, of the same denomination, who was settled over a large society a few miles from Boston, preached a sermon on Thanksgiving-day, a few weeks, after the event occurred, in which he said, ’No unusual event has occurred during the past year worthy of our particular notice'! 
From what has past, and from the tone of the religious press, we have reason to believe that Rev. Henry Ward Beecher and Dr. Cheever would, are this, have been crushed, were they not men of uncommon ability and energy. 
The American Tract Society has published tracts in condemnation of Sabbath-breaking, profanity, intemperance, gambling, attendance on the theatre, dancing, extravagance in dress, novel reading, sleeping in church, and neglected and refused to publish any thing against American slavery—-has suppressed anti-a slavery sentiments, of authors whose works it has re-published. Rev. Dr. Nehemiah Adams was chosen one of the committee to revise’ the publications of the American Tract Society. 
Dr. Lord, of Dartmouth College, has written two pamphlets in favor of slavery. It is well known that the Rev. Dr. Blagden has been on the pro-slavery side for years. He opened with prayer the celebrated Union Meeting in Faneuil Hall, called to counteract the influence of the anti-slavery sentiment sweeping over the North, in consequence of the execution of John Brown. This same Reverend gentleman was called to assist in the formation of the Third Orthodox Church in Dorchester in 1859, and was. Moderator of the Council that examined the candidate for Pastor of said Church, to see if he was a suitable man to be en-trusted with the ’preaching of the gospel'!
Dr. Adams, in 1854, published a book, called ’A South-Side View of Slavery,' apologizing for and defending slavery. But has it affected his standing as a popular preacher? He has since preached a sermon before the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. He. presided at the opening session of that prayer-meeting, formed by Evangelical Churches of Boston, Anniversary week of 1855, which filled Winter Street Church every morning that week. He was chosen to preach an installation sermon in Providence, R. I., and to make a prayer at the opening, of the rooms of the Mercantile Library Association in Boston, and to open with prayer the May term of the U.S. Circuit Court in Boston, 1855. And on the anniversary of the twenty-fifth year of his settlement over Essex Street Church, the Boston Courier tells us, that among the crowd assembled on that evening were nearly one hundred clergymen! Hon., Rufus Choate, who, in his latter days, gave his influence to sustain the great political pro-slavery party of this country, and who called the sublime truths of the Declaration of Independence mere ’glittering generalities,' said that he had attended his meeting twenty-five years, and he went there to his pew, Sundays, without any fear of being disturbed! Contrast the treatment that Dr. Adams and clergymen of his stamp have received with that of Dr. Cheever, for whose society funds and sympathy are sought from churches in Europe, to prevent an anti-slavery church from being crushed out in New York city; while the churches in this country are raising three hundred thousand dollars a year to send the gospel to the heathen! 
Now see what defenders of the Fugitive Slave Law the Church has furnished. Professor Stuart, the most prominent in learning and station of the Orthodox clergy, took the lead in a pamphlet, entitled ’Conscience and the Constitution.' Dr. Adams, in his book, says While it (the Constitution) remains, all our appeals to the higher law are fanaticism.' One writer says, many sermons on the lower law-have been printed-perhaps one hundred and fifty. I think Whittier had read some of these sermons when he penned the following lines:-
My brain took fire. ’Is this,' I cried,’ 
The end of prayer and preaching? 
Then, down with pulpit, down with priest, 
And give us nature's teaching! 
Than garbled text, or parchment law, 
I own a statute higher; 
For God is true, though every book 
And every man's a liar!' 
Rev. Wm. M. Rogers (late of Winter Street Church in Boston) preached his celebrated sermon in Boston, and in the first Orthodox Church in Dorchester, from which I make the following extracts:—
'The fugitive asks us to interpose. When he does so, he asks us to do what the people of the United States, or a majority of them, has said we shall not do: he asks us to do what we have agreed with the millions in this country shall not be done.; He asks us to do precisely what we have agreed not to do. When a slave asks me to stand between him- and his master, what does he ask? He asks me to murder a nation's life. I will not do it, because I ’have a conscience—because there is a God. Then I say unto you, as a minister of the Lord Jesus Christ, the conviction of my conscience is, that, on the ground of reason, there is no safety for us, no better hope for the slave, than (for the time) the carrying out of the Constitution and the laws of the country; and as a question of conscience, that God requires it at our hands. But if the spirit of sedition and rebellion becomes rampant in the land, if the ordinary strength of the Magistracy cannot countervail it, if there be treason, if there be rebellion, if needful to defend the. Constitution of the fathers, the Magistracy call you to arms, if they call you to the field of battle, stand in your ranks as your fathers stood, shoulder.to shoulder; if to take human life, in the name of God, take it; and if you fall, your memory shall be hallowed with those, whose bones molder on the slope of Bunker Hill.’ 
This in defence of the Fugitive Slave Law! Let us look at some of the results of that law. Rev. Mr. Grimes came to Boston; he found many slaves there; they requested him, to preach to them ’A church was now organized; the upper room became too strait for them. Through the zeal and energy of Mr. Grimes, a commodious structure began to rise from its foundations. Then came the Fugitive Slave Act, pouring ruin on this thriving exotic from the South. The church was arrested midway towards its completion, and the members scattered in wild dismay. More than forty fled to, Canada.' From the papers of that day, we gather the following:—
'One hundred members of the Baptist Colored Church in Buffalo have fled to Canada, and a large number of the Methodists of the same place. Out of the one hundred and fourteen members of the Baptist Colored Church in Rochester, one hundred and twelve, including the pastor, have crossed the line. The church in Detroit has lost eighty-four of its members from the same cause. Father Henson, the well-known preacher of the Methodist denomination in escaping from -slavery (some years before) in this boosted land of liberty, fled with his little ones by night, and hid them in the forest by day; and took his shoes from his feet with which to bring water for his little children to quench their burning thirst. How sad!; In June, 1854, Anthony Burns was carried out of the city of Boston back into Southern slavery; marched through the same street in which the blood of Crisps Attucks, a colored man, was shed by British soldiers at the commencement of the Revolutionary war, where he went, not as an idle spectator, but with a strong arm and a brave heart to resist British oppression, and was buried with honors from Faneuil Hall by citizens of Boston.
The Fugitive Slave Law has scattered churches, driven the believers in Jesus out of the country, away from their homes, because they would not be slaves. A preacher of the gospel was sent out of the city o.
<c04>
Boston into slavery: the citizens of Massachusetts as-sister in the work, and took thirteen thousand dollars for their services: and Mr. Grimes found it very difficult to raise twelve hundred dollars to purchase Anthony Burns from slavery. 
It is a lamentable fact that, among the large number which assisted in returning Burns, from the commander-in-chief, with his sword and epaulet, (who, it is said, was a member of the same denomination of Christians with Burns down to the more humble citizen with his billet of wood, only one man, Joseph. K. Hayes, resigned his office, rather than engage in this wicked work. 
We are told that the Mohammedans dare not enslave one of their own religion. They are a part of the heathen for whom we raise such vast sums of money to convert them. We are told to arm ’ourselves, and stand by as our fathers stood, shoulder to shoulder, and if necessary to take life, in the name of God.' What for? To sustain the accursed Fugitive Slave Law, which drives the believers in Jesus Christ from their homes, because they would not be slaves! This doctrine was preached in Boston, and repeated in the first Orthodox Church in Dorchester; and the church (as such) made no protest against the ’damnable heresy. Why should they? Some years previous, application was made, by church-members, for the use of the vestry for a minister of their own denomination to deliver an anti-slavery discourse; but it was refused. A member of the church was not allowed the simple privilege of reading a mild anti-slavery resolution in a business church-meeting, and was insulted in presence of members of the church, by one of their members, for simply requesting the church to call a meeting some time to take into consideration the subject of slavery. A notice of an anti-slavery lectue, by an Evangelical minister, was not allowed to be read from the pulpit, and the one posted in the porch was torn down. Prominent men of a political party that had just elevated to a high office in the nation, John Tyler, the man who had the audacity to bring with him a slave to a celebration at Bunker Hill, wanted the meeting-house for a layman to deliver a eulogy on a dead warrior. It was granted; and notice given from the same pulpit that was thought too sacred for John W. Hawkins to speak on the subject of temperance! It is no wonder that the super intendent and teachers of the Sabbath School of the! _ Society came to the conclusion, that Mrs. Child's Biography of that Christian Philanthropist, Isaac T. Hopper, was an unsuitable book for the Sunday School library. Better, far better would it be, if the believers in Jesus would meet in upper chambers, in barns, in groves, and in some cases dispense with. educated ministers, and do their own preaching, than, to build up fashionable churches, and be under the control of wealthy persons who manifest little or no religious interest, except in outward appearances. There are many honest men and women in the churches, who, if they could see things as they are, would not rest for a moment with the church in such a position; but who believe they belong to an anti-slavery church, because they contribute to the Boston Tract Society, and their ministers sometimes pray that the time may come when the oppressed may go free; and are told by their ministers that the ’gospel will abolish slavery.' I believe the gospel will establish slavery; but, in so doing, I must come to the conclusion that the religion of a pro-slavery church is not the gospel. 
I trust I have not written this letter in a spirit of unkindness, but to put you in possession of some facts, in reference to the churches and ministers in this vicinity, which possibly you might not know of. I wish to see the Church take the lead in this great moral and religious movement, and not come creeping behind any political party, or persons she has called infidels, from Thomas Jefferson to Theodore Parker, or any Railway Corporation that has abolished the negro pew system, which, if I am rightly informed, is still continued in two or more of the large churches in Boston. But I must bring this letter to a close, hoping that you may be found among the faithful few who preach deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the prison doors to them that are bound. 
H. W. BLANCHARD. 

FROM WHENCE COME OUR MARAL OBLIGATIONS? 
MR.GARRISON: 
DEAR FRIEND-In your paper of the 14th inst., is a letter from T. W. Higginson on the above subject, animadverting upon a resolution of H. C. Wright's, previously reported in the Liberator from a Rhode Island meeting. 
In said resolution, Mr. Wright says, that ’man; has no power to create or annul a moral obligation, and that therefore whatever it is right to do with a license from a human government, it is right to do without it; and whatever it is wrong to do without such a sanction, it is wrong to do with it. 
In such an averment, which Mr. Higginson has, rend’ with amazement and regret, I can see nothing but another way of saying that God our Maker is also our Lawgiver and our Ruler; nothing but what reformers have been saying in effect ever since reforms began; and which they must continue to say, till the kingdoms of this world become the kingdom of God, and His will is done on earth as it is in heaven. 
Mr. Higginson says,’ Every man creates a moral obligation for himself every time he promises to do a certain act.' Indeed! If I promise you that I will knock Mr. Higginson down the fist time I fall in with him, or if I promise a slaveholder that, for a hundred dollars, I will betray his fugitive slave into his hands, do I by such promises create any moral obligation to fulfill them? Did Judas, by his bargain to betray Christ, create for himself any moral obligation to fulfill his bargain? In making such promises, we transgress our moral obligations, and in fulfilling them, we add sin to sin. 
But Mr. Higginson qualifies by adding, ’This obligation may yield to a higher one, if the act turns out to be wrong.' How can a moral obligation engage us to do that which is wrong? If the act was wrong, neither our promising nor our swearing to do it could make it right to -do it, or, in other words, could mske make it a moral obligation. 
Mr. Higginson admits that ’man has no power to create the principles of moral obligation,' but adds, that’ he has the power, to create the applications'; by which I understand him to mean, that man has power to authorize the application of those principles. But they would not be principles of moral obligation at all, if they were not binding till some human tribunal endorsed them. If God has made them obligatory, can man add to their authority? If they are not binding without the signature of some James Buchanan, James Buchanan can veto them, as is his wont with the whole decalogue. 
Mr. Higginson cites the cases of laws for seizing diseased cattle, for searching the house of a suspected thief, and the laws of marriage, as instances of men originating moral obligations.
If the moral obligation to seize cattle suspected of pleuro-pneumonia originates with government, and if government should refuse or neglect to appoint officers for the work, what then? Are people thereby released from moral obligation to do what they can to arrest the disease? 
But this forcible seizure of cattle implies the killing of the owners of. the cattle, should they resist the seizing process; that is, rather than government should be defeated in its object So with the right of searching the house of a suspected thief. People contemplating killing their neighbors, in order to stop contagion among cattle, or for recovering stolen property, shrink from doing it on their own responsibility, and therefore enlist confederates, and than call it ’moral obligation created by mutual consent for the common safety.' The presence and the force of those moral obligations which God imposes, and which 
<c05>
man can neither annul nor make, is perhaps nowhere more strikingly illustrated than in the conduct of the slaveholders. If an abolitionist is to be expelled from among them, or tarred and feathered, or hung on a tree, it is usually done by a committee of citizens with this authority created by mutual consent, for the common safety. It is significant to find Mr. Higginson in effect confessing, that God has not provided moral obligations for such work as this, but that they have to be got up by human invention and manufacture.
However, admitting that it may be right in some cases to kill our fellow-men, if we waited, Quaker-like, for divine assurance by the revelation of the Holy Spirit that we were called to such work, instead of taking it for granted that it was right be cause some human authority ordered it, I submit that the killing method of operating upon our fellow-men would be immeasurably reduced, and the method of brotherly enlightenment and persuasion correspondingly increased, which I, think is much in favor of the doctrine that our moral obligations are all imposed by God, and that those imposed by man are spurious.
This exclusion of human authority in the matter of marriage gives Mr. Higginson the most concern. Whoso dispenses with it, or calls it in question, forfeits his’ influence' among high moral-toned American radicals. Of mighty importance it is to take care of one's influence,' verily! Taking all grades of marriages, from the most happy ones to the most miserable, it will be found that the happiness is in exact proportion to the attention paid to those obligations which man can neither create nor annul, and that the misery is in proportion to the reliance placed on the fulfillment of those obligations which man imposes. Are the happy marriages in the United States in any degree owing to the deference paid by the parties to that authority which legalizes, according to its pleasure, marriage, concubine, polygamy, prostitution, and rape. A band of ruffians, drunkards and blasphemers, armed with bowie-knives and revolvers, met together notoriously for the purpose of robbing the poor and oppressing the weak, but, duly appointed a legislature, does it signify whether this sort of authority says yes or no to a marriage? 
Supposing a man and woman, contemplating marriage, whose religion is not a Sunday entertainment, but the every-day and all-engrossing business of their lives; whose marriage and every step towards it is as much a part of their religion as their private prayers; being Protestants, feel bound to judge for themselves in all matters of their religion, because they have to give an account of themselves unto God; being dissenters from all established churches, repudiate all secular authority over their religion; being ’American radicals,' acknowledge no authority that interferes with the ’higher law'; and finding this higher law written by divine Inspiration in their hearts, cannot excuse themselves from obedience unto it, can have no motive for subjecting themselves to any outward authority, but to get license for sin, and to escape the searching requirements of this ’inward, spiritual, living law. Is a marriage thus consummated,-entered into under such influences,-a crime, because unauthorized by human law; So far from such narrowly escaping personal demoralization, the law to which they subject themselves is the only security against it; and to say that such are the cause of terrible demo ralization in others is as far from the truth as to charge the friends of the slave with being the abettors of pick-pockets and shop-lifters, because the trample the Fugitive Slave Law under their feet.
Yours, truly, 
GEORGE SUNTER,JR. 
Brantford, (Canada West,) Sept. 28, 1860. 

From the. Springfield Republican. 
THE ESCAPE OF THE ARABIA. 
Dr. Smith of this city writes home the following graphic account of the narrow escape of the steam ship Arabia from sudden and terrible wreck on Fasnet Rock, Cape Clear, of which a brief account has been given: 
STEAMSHIP ARABIA.11 a. m.,
Friday, Aug. 3, 1860. 
In the midst of life, we are in death. Just half an hour ago, while standing on the bows, the ship running 14 knots an hour under steam and sails, in a thick fog, I head a loud shout, land ahead!’ I turned toward the captain, or rather had my eye on him that moment. His face could not have expressed more horror if he had seen hell's gates opened. He sprung to the engine bell, at the same time shouting, ’hard-a-port your helm.' A counter order of’ starboard’ was given. The captain leaped, from his footing, shouting so that his voice was heard above the escaping steam,’ hard-a-port, in God's name!’ His order was obeyed. Then, turning forward among a hubbub of voices, shouting we are lost, ‘God have mercy on us,' &c., &c., I saw the rocks not twenty feet from the ship's bows. On their top was a light-house. As we swung around, it seemed as if we should every moment feel the shock of striking. The huge swell of; the Atlantic was reverberating, and the spray flying all around us. The sails took aback, heeling us over so that the. deck, stood up like the roof of a house. Women ware screaming, seamen running to and fro, and above all the captain and lieutenants shouting so as to be heard above the shrill escaping steam, hard-a-port, hard, hard! ‘Brace around the foreyard! ‘Let fly the halyards and sheets fore and aft!' I stepped abaft the foremast, to be out of the way of its fall, and waited for the shock. But— 
There's a sweet little cherub who sits up aloft,
And looks, after the life of poor Jack.' 
We approached, as all agree, within ten feet of the rock, and then began to recede. Just realize that there was only ten feet between us and eternity. It is the opinion of seafaring men on board that the ship, if she had struck, would have sunk in five minutes, for it is a sharp ledge of rocks, six or seven miles from any shore, and deep water all around. The boats could not have been got ready, and, if they could, they never could have lived in the heavy surf. No; if she had gone ten feet further, we should have been almost instantly precipitated into a raging are where, six or seven miles from land, in a dense fog, few of us would have escaped. We should have all perished as miserably as did those in the Hungarian. Three seconds more would have tolled! the death-knell of most, if not all of us; for we were so enveloped in fog, and far from land, and also no boat at the light-house, that if we had seized fragments of the wreck, they would have been torn from our grasp by the sea boiling as in a could dron over the sunken reefs, hours before our fate could have been known. I knew there was no time to run below for life preservers-which are hung up by each berth-and so contented myself with just stringing up my nerves for a buffet with the waves. For three minutes, I can assure you, man showed what he is when expecting the’ King of Terrors.' Two or three ladies took it heroically, and seemed to draw in strength from the scene around them. It was a terrible moment for the captain—Capt. Stone of the Royal Navy-for as we swung around, the sails taking aback and heeling us over, everybody expected to feel the grinding crash beneath our feet. I felt for him, for all his great rashness, and gladly say that to his decision in our hour of need we owe our lives. The rock is called Fasnet Rock, and upon if is the Cape Clear light-house. A subscription is now being taken up among the passengers for the seaman who first shouted’ breakers ahead.' I shall never forget to my dying. day the face of the captain when he heard that wild shout. I have seen distress and pain in all their forms, but never a face like that, so full of horror, perfect agony, and crushing responsibility. The cry ’breakers ahead,' the stopping of the engines, the escape of the steam, and the shifting the helm, all occurred in one second. It seemed at the instant as if it was utterly impossible to stop the ship's way in time to save us. But God rules: He put forth His handle, and the vessel, trembling as if with mortal fear, yielded to her powerful engines, receded from the rock, and we were saved. 
Among the passengers on board of the Arabia at this perilous exigency, was Mrs. CHARLES F. HOVERY, of Boston, with all her children, except the eldest. What a hair-breadth escape! 
<co6>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE., BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. I.. EATON, LL. PD., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'madam-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of ’Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks. which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial., but, from what I have seen of its effects, in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz,. PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIE ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor’ Ladies' Repository,' incinnati, Ohio. 
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor’chiristian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y.
‘Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,’ &c. 
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. Col. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City. 
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleaure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ’Christian Era,Boston Mass. 
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. ’Guide to Holiness,' Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restore has been to change the’ crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y. 
‘My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP., AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN. 
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England. 
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me. 
(The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States) 
HAYTI. 
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many year, missionarys to Hayti,).Martinshurgh, N. Y. 
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Alen's, she writes to the ’American Baptist,'—-' I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but: never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.' 
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.' 
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed.’ Presbyterian Witness,.' Cincinnati,. Ohio. 
It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair 'Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert adversisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres, Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway,. N.Y., and New Baltimore, Greene County, N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c.., for the use of a, relative; and I am happy to say., that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black. 
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county,N. Y. 
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.' 
Rev. B. C. SMITH. Prattsbury, N.Y. 
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev M. C. KLING., Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair,, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.' 
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N.H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicimity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convience, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe. 
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1.50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle 
Address all letters for information, &c., to ’Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has ’Mrs. S.A. Allen.' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers and in Black Ink to direction passed on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence. 
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
Oct. 1859. 1yeop.
