THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
321 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO: 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per <illegible> in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN <illegible>, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters <illegible> to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed.(POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents—-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, <illegible>, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz: -FRANCIS JACKSON, EDWARD QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
<co1>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind. 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXX. NO. 31. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 3,1860.WHOLE NUMBER, 1545.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
SPEECH OF A DOUGLAS MAN. 
Mr. Gaulden, of Georgia, who assisted to place is domination Stephen A. Douglas, made the following interesting speech in the Baltimore Convention, which we commend to the consideration of the Douglas men in Bucks county. He is a’nigger man.' and goes in for’niggers':—
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Convention: I come here from the State of Georgia, endorsed by that State Convention and by the Convention at Charleston. This ought surely to give me a right to be heard before you: and though I have not joined my fortune in the State of Georgia, either to the House of York or to the House of Lancaster, I <illegible> that I have a right here to speak to the great Democratic party of the United States. I have been pained, as a citizen of these United States, to see the elements of disruption and disorganization which seem to prevail in the midst of this most intelligent assembly. I have felt that the experiment of the capability of man for self-government was about to prove a failure here, and that the genius of Liberty was about shrieking to leave the world. But I trust that this may be the darkest hour just before the day; and that from these elements of discord, the representatives of the intelligent American people here assembled may be able to devise a plan upon which the great Democratic party of the United States may be united, and that we will yet add another victory to the many we have already achieved.
I am an advocate for maintaining the integrity of the National Democratic party; I belong to the extreme South; I am a Pro-Slavery man in every sense of the word, aye, and an African slave-trade man. (Applause and laughter.) The institution of Slavery, as I have said elsewhere, has done more to advance the prosperity and intelligence of the white <illegible>, and of the human race, than all else together. I believe it to be founded upon the law of Nature, and upon the law of God; I believe it to be a blessing to all races. I believe that liberty would not truly exist in this Western World except by maintaining the integrity of the great National Democratic party. (Applause.) As for this’Irrepressible Conflict' party, with their serried ranks now ready to march down  upon us, I have no faith in it, because it is founded in anarchy, in everything anti-republican, in everything that is opposed to human progress; while I understand the idea of the great National Democratic party to be non-intervention in its broadest sense. (Applause.) Now, my Northern friends., I do not know that I can do anything in Georgia to reconcile these matters; but whatever I can do I will do. (Applause.) 
I say that our friends in Georgia, who are crying out for protection to Slavery in the Territories, are advocating a mere theory, a mere abstraction, a thing that is not and cannot be. They would do much better if they would demand protection from the General Government, and have a line of police established along the border of the Slave States, to catch and hang the thieving Abolitionists who are stealing our niggers. (Laughter and applause.) This is a means of protection. Why? Because it is practical. (Renewed laughter and applause.) Here is my old native State of Virginia-the slave-trading and slave-breeding State of Virginia.-(Laughter.)
Delegate from Virginia. I call the gentleman to order, He casts an imputation to order,. He casts an imputation upon Virginia, by calling her the ’slave-breeding State of Virginia. 
Mr. Gaulden. Well, I will say the slave-breeding State of Georgia, then. I glory in being a slave-breeder myself. (Loud laughter.) I will face the music myself, and I have got as many negroes as any man from the State of Virginia. And as I invited the gentlemen of this convention at Charleston to visit my plantation, I will say again that, if they will come to me, plantation, I will say again that, if they will come to me, I will show them as fine a lot of negroes, and the pure African, too, as they can find anywhere. And I will show them as handsome a set of little children there as can be seen, (Laughter.) and any quantity of them, too. (Renewed laughter.) And I wish that Virginia may be as good a slave-trading and slave-breeding State as Georgia; and in saying that I do not mean to be disrespectful to Virginia, but I do not mean to dodge the question at all. 
And now, while I am up,. I want to put my veto upon one thing. I know that I am not going to be applauded in what I say; but seed sown in good time will bring forth fruit; and though you may say now that I am Wrong, yet I think I shall live to see the day when the doctrines which I advocate to-night will be the doctrines of Massachusetts and of the North; for  
Truth crushed to earth will rise again; 
The eternal years of God are hers;
While error, wounded, writhes in pain,
And dies amid her worshippers.’ 
I say I go for non-intervention in the broadest sense of the term. I say that this whole thing should be taken out of the hands of the General Government. I say it is all wrong to be spending two or three millions of dollars annually from our pockets, and sacrificing thousands of lives upon the coast of Africa, in that terrible clime, to prevent our going there to get a few negroes. If it is right for us to got to Virginia and buy a negro and pay $2,000 for him, it is legally right for us to go to Africa, where we can get them for $50. (Applause and laughter.) Here is the condition we are placed in, and you may as well come to your senses and face the music. 
There are 2000 of our negroes now down at Key West begging and pleading not to be sent back. If they should be sent back, what would be the result? One-half of them would die before they got there, and the other half would be turned upon the coast of Liberia, among strangers, to be eaten up by cannibals, or be caught and sold again, or die of a starvation; and this you call humanity. I say it is piracy. I say that our Government is acting against right and reason in this matter. And if the Southern men had the spunk and spirit to come right up and face the North, I believe the Northern Democracy, at least, would come to the true doctrine of popular sovereignty and non-intervention. (Applause and Laughter.)
Think of it, too! Two thousand of these poor barbarians from Africa, caught within the last four weeks, and kept upon that miserable Island of Key West, dying there from disease and starvation, and what do not die are to be sent back by our Government at an expense of one or two millions, though they are pleading and begging not to be sent back and landed upon the coast of Africa. It is cruel, inhuman, wrong, and I appeal to the good sense of the American nation against it. Look at John Bull. He has bound us to catch all we can and send them back at an expense of $25 per head. We send them back. But what does John Bull do? When the gets them, he apprentices them out again and makes slaves out of them. That is the hypocritical treaty that you are bound by. And yet I hear no Southern voice or Northern voice raised against this aggression upon the law of nature and
<c02>
of nature's God. But I intend to raise my voice against it, humble as it is. 
Now, this may be a secondary question before us to-night. The great point is harmony and union in the great Democratic party. Let us whip the Black Republicans: let us win the fight; and when we have settled these things, let us act together, and all will be right.—Buck's. County (Pa.) Intelligencer.

SELECTIONS.
From the Principia. 
IS WISCONSIN A SOVEREIGN STATE?
The world is likely to get ample evidence that a people who cannot demand a National Abolition of Slavery for fear of infringing the’ State Rights’ of slaveholders to enslave their fellow-citizens, will not have the manhood to maintain their own.’State Rights,' to protect freedom. The dread of ‘consolidation’ for freedom begets ’consolidation’ fordespotism. Read and see:—
From the Wisconsin Free Democrat. 
Letter of Mr. Booth-Despotism over the Soul. 
To the Editors of the Free Democrat:
I learn that it is reported, that it is my own fault that I am now in prison, and that I could be released, at any time, for the asking; and that there are not wanting Republicans who say, that if I am not willing to ask for pardon, I ought not to be released. Let me state the matter fairly. 
The Supreme Court of this State has decided that the Act under which I was convicted was unconstitutional, was no law—not voidable, but void-and discharged me from the sentence of the United States District Court. By this decision, it pledged the power, authority and sovereignty of the State for the protection of my liberty against any attempted enforcement of the original sentence. That decision of our Supreme Court stands unreversed as the law of this State, for it refused obedience to the mandate of the United States Supreme Court, requiring it to reverse its decision, and denied its appellate jurisdiction.
The State, then, by its highest tribunal, has declared me innocent, and fully entitled to its protection from arrest and imprisonment. Its Executive, Gov. Randall, in his Annual Message, referring approvingly to the decision of the Supreme Court, declared it to be the law of Wisconsin, and voluntarily pledged all the power of the State to see it enforced. 
I have, then, the judicial decree, and the Executive pledge-the word and oath of the State-guaranteeing my liberty. I have also the declaration of every Republican paper in the State, at the time of my discharge, and the resolutions of more than a hundred public meetings, in favor of the decision. of the Supreme Court, and of sustaining me in the position I had taken. 
I have also the Legislative action of the State in my favor, declaring slave judgments void, and punishing, with fine and imprisonment, all who recommit and re-imprison for the same cause, one who has been discharged on a writ of habeas corpus. I have, then, the Judicial, the Executive, and the Legislative authority of the State for saying that I am now illegally imprisoned, that I was kidnapped, and those who now hold me a prisoner have no more right to hold me thus, than they have to imprison, Judge Cole or Gov. Randall, without the pretense of authority of law.
Now, what am I asked to do, to entitle me to a release? 
1. To deny the faith of Wisconsin, by acknowledging that the writ of Habeas Corpus and the Right of Trial by Jury may be constitutionally abolished, and that an unconstitutional Act-a nullity-may be a valid law, strong enough to over-ride the rights and sovereignty of the State, its Courts, its Executive, its Legislature, and the liberties of the people. 
2. To become a hypocrite. For every one knows that if I should ask pardon for violating the Fugitive Act, and promise to obey it hereafter, I would be lying.
FOR I DO NOT RECOGNIZE IT AS A LAW.  It is a bold usurpation, striking directly at the liberties of the people and the authority of Jehovah. What God commands, it forbids! What He forbids, it commands. It is cruel, bloody, wicked, despotic, damnable! Those who uphold it, if they profess Republicanism, deserve the scorn of despots; if they profess Christianity, deserve the scorn of infidels and atheists, and richly merit the damnation they assign to unbelievers. And I am asked to swear fealty to such a law, before I can be released-before the question of my release can even be considered.  The petitions of leading Democrats in this city, asking for my release, could not even be considered, till I asked for pardon, under oath, wrote Attorney General Black in answer to the prayer of these petitioners. 
A. F. Pratt, on his way to the Charleston Convention, called on the President, as did other delegates who felt a deep interest in my case, and after his is interview with that ’old public functionary,’ wrote back to the News, speaking by authority, with great apparent satisfaction:-’You may say to Mr. Booth that the President will remit his fine when he will own up that he did if wrong in breaking the laws, and promise to do better hereafter, and not till then.'
And the News, immediately after its editor’s return from Washington, declared:-S.M. Booth will continue to suffer the penalties of violated laws, unless he GETS DOWN ON HIS KNEES AND BEGS FOR MERCY. Let him do this, and we doubt not his prison bars would open.’ 
This is the debasement required of me, as the condition precedent of my release! Nor is there any certainty of my release, should I thus humiliate myself. Does any honorable man-any Republican-say I ought to comply with such a requisition? If so, I would like to know his name. 
This whole proceeding shows, in a striking light, the despotic character of slavery, and of our Federal Government under its present administration. Here is a statute which the moral sense of the people of the Free States regard as a usurpation in violation of the Constitution, and dangerous to liberty. And of those who hold it to be constitutional, most regard it as inhuman and oppressive, and when put to the practical test, would themselves; disregard it by giving aid and comfort to the fugitive. This statute, so offensive to the moral sense, and so opposed to the sober judgment of the people, is attempted to be enforced, in my case, with a pertinacity, a rigor, and a vindictiveness characteristic only of the despotism of slavery.
For the sentence of Judge Miller, against me, can only be fulfilled by perpetual imprisonment, or be remitted by my acknowledging the justice of the Fugitive Act, and ’getting down on my knees' before the President, and ’begging for mercy!’
I have now been four months in prison. My business has been interrupted and broken up, my plans all frustrated, my pecuniary interests injured, and how much damage this imprisonment has been and is likely to be to me, any business man would
<c03>
readily perceive, if he had been suddenly arrested and confined as I have been. I have a family needing my care and efforts to provide for them. There is every inducement to lead me to wish to be at liberty, and it is no light sacrifice I am compelled to make, in remaining here. But I have no other alternative. I cannot do what is required for my release, without dishonor, without sacrificing the most cherished conviction of my life, and without a complete surrender, on my part, of the glorious position in behalf of Freedom assumed and maintained for five years by the State of Wisconsin. I hold her honor now in my keeping, and if her courts and authorities and people all deny the faith they have professed, and succumb, like trembling slaves, to the one-man power, and permit Judge Miller to ride rough-shod over the constitution and laws, over the sovereignty and rights and liberties of the people of Wisconsin, and set at defiance and treat with contempt her courts, that he may imprison her citizens and work his despotic will for the establishment of slavery on our soil, and play the part of blood-hound for the slave-catchers of the South, I trust that while life and reason remain to me, I shall not be found among the recreants to liberty, and that I shall be able to oppose to the despotism of the Slave Power that now holds me, a will as strong, a patience as enduring, a faith as firm, a courage as unflinching, and a hope as cheerful in the service of Freedom, as my kidnappers and jailers show in the service of Slavery. 
If liberty is a crime, and the love of it a felony, then am I justly imprisoned. But if it be the foundation and corner-stone of our Republican edifice, and the permeating spirit of all our Republican institutions, then is my continued imprisonment a monstrous anomaly and wrong, and a disgrace to the State of Wisconsin, which should redden with the blush of shame the cheeks of every honest liberty-loving citizen. 
In a postscript to a business letter, written me not long ago, Senator Darker says:’ How strange’ it is, that you have to lie in jail, contrary to the law of our State! Is there not virtue enough in the people to maintain their own honor and vindicate the decision of their own Courts?’ 
I leave this question for the people to answer. 
S. M. BOOTH. 
U. S. Custom House, June 28, 1860.
The following is an editorial of the Wisconsin Free Democral, a Republican paper, in relation to the preceding.  We earnestly commend it to the attention of our readers:- 

The Case of S. M. Booth.
We yesterday published a communication from Mr. Booth, on which we had not time to comment, stating the conditions on which he is held as a prisoner in the U. S. Custom House, the rejection, of the petition of leading Democrats in his behalf, the reasons why he cannot comply with the requirements demanded of him by the powers at Washington, as a pre-requisite to his release, and the position the State sustains to him, in this case, by virtue of the official acts of its Judiciary, Executive and Legislature, and the declarations and pledges of the press and people of Wisconsin. His statement is clear, truthful, explicit, and is a full vindication of the course he has pursued since his imprisonment, and must meet the hearty approval of all who have a spark of manhood remaining in their souls. The diabolical Fugitive Slave Act he refuses to recognize as a law, and he declines to ask pardon for an act which his conscience approves, and which the good and liberty-loving of all countries must honor. And he is right. 
But no outsider, who has done nothing to relieve him, could blame him had he yielded the point in controversy, and acknowledged the righteousness of the Fugitive Act, and the justice of his imprisonment, by asking the President to pardon him,. True, the Slave Power would have triumphed, in such a case, not only over him but over the State of Wisconsin, and no thanks are due to the Republican party of this State that it has not done so. For, with the exception of the abortive efforts to procure a writ of habeas corpus during the first weeks of his imprisonment, so far as any aid and comfort have been given him, or efforts made for his release, he might as well have been imprisoned in South Carolina as in Wisconsin. And notwithstanding we have a Republican ascendency in all branches of the government, he has received no protection from the State Government whatever, which had been so freely pledged to him. 
Look at it. Here is a man kidnapped and held in prison, in the midst of three-fourths of a million of free people, in defiance of their laws, the decisions of their highest Court and their own resolutions, pledges and declarations a hundred times repeated. They have declared, over and over again, that, for the praiseworthy act for which he is now imprisoned, he should not suffer, either in his person or in his purse; that he should be protected from injury, either to his liberty or property; and yet he has been allowed to lie four months-one-third of a year-in prison, his business neglected, his pecuniary interests sacrificed, not permitted the liberty of a chattel on a Southern plantation, but shut up like a refractory slave, and no earnest efforts have been made for his release! 
When the Supreme Court adjourned, it was understood that an application would be made to Judge Cole for a writ of habeas corpus; but as legal proceedings cost money, and as none was raised for that purpose, nothing was done, and all hope and expectation failed in that quarter. Then it was Mr. Booth’s plan to prosecute the U. S. officers, by whom he is now held, for false imprisonment, and repeat the suit once a week, as long as his imprisonment continued. And in the present constitution of the Courts of the State, there is no doubt he would recover heavy damages. But clerks and sheriffs, and travelling expenses and lawyers, must be paid, and without money nothing could be done, and Mr. Booth’s application to lawyers, to conduct civil suits against those who hold him in illegal confinement, was as useless as the application for a writ of habeas corpus.
Now, it is perfectly idle for Republicans to find fault with the U. S. officers, or with the Federal Government, for keeping Mr. Booth in prison, as long as they do nothing for his release themselves. The present administration will say, that by imprisoning Mr. Booth they but execute a law they found on the statute book, when they took the reins of government. The Marshal will say, that he is but an executive officer, and is only carrying out the orders of his superiors, and that he does not wish to hold him in prison a single day. The District Attorney will say, that in moving the Court to reimprison Mr. Booth, he has but obeyed orders from Washington, and that he had to do it or resign. Judge Miller-well, if he told the truth, he would say that he was so eager to convict Mr. Booth, that he trampled on law and justice to accomplish it, and that he considers it his duty to follow the teachings of the Dred Scott Judiciary. All these officials understand that slavery is the vital and controlling element of the national government, and that the behests of the Slave Power must be obeyed, or their places will be filled by more subservient men.
<c04>
But Republicans have no such excuse. Mr. Booth is imprisoned in violation of the laws, judicial decrees, executive declarations, authority, rights and sovereignty of the State. 
He is kept in prison now, solely because the State has failed to vindicate its authority and honor, and redeem the pledges it has made to protect his liberty. That he is held in prison now, is as much the fault of the Republican party, as it was the fault of the slaveholding government in committing him to prison. And it is as justly blamable in doing nothing for his release, as the U. S. government is in not opening his prison doors. And in one respect far more so. For the U. S. government, is acting up to its professions, while Republicans are beheing theirs. And every hour that he remains in prison, while no steps are taken for his release, is a reproach to the Republican party of Wisconsin. 
Mr. Booth, we understand, has given up all expectation of relief, till the inauguration of a new President. Four months imprisonment may well have taught him not to put trust in the Republican party of this State for help. Wisconsin, the first State in the Union to reject the Fugitive Slave Act, and pledge her authority and sovereignty to protect her citizens against the invasion of slave-catchers and kidnappers; hailed by the liberty-loving in her sister States at the first-born of Freedom, as the only practically free State, as the pioneer in a legal vindication of the Constitution from slaveholding perversions and interpretations, which made the Declaration of  Independence a reality, and gave assurance that liberty dwelt in the organic law and inspired her judges to do justice—-Wisconsin, brave and honored and glorious for her fealty to Freedom, up to the first day of March, 1860, where stands she now? Judge Miller drew his pen across the judgment of her Supreme Court, and it is annulled. He orders a citizen imprisoned whom the State has released, the State yields and acknowledges his dictatorship. No serf ever obeyed his master, no slave ever submitted to his owner, with more quietness, docility and readiness, than the great State of Wisconsin has submitted to the autocracy of Judge Miller. Its courts, its authority, its sovereignty, its liberties have all been’ whistled down the wind,’ as the playthings of a despot, and if this usurpation is permitted to stand, the Slave Power is henceforth the supreme authority, and the will of Judge Miller the supreme law in Wisconsin. Well may Senator Durkee ask, in surprise,’ Is there not virtue enough in the people to maintain their own honor, and vindicate the decisions of their own Courts?’ We believe there is, and that all the people need is to have the way pointed out to them in which they can act. We shall have something further to suggest hereafter.

From the N. Y. Tribune. 
TIMES CHANGE. 
The deputies, of the Russian nobility convocated at St. Petersburg to take the final measures for the emancipation of their serfs, after having finished their task, commemorated by a great public dinner the happy issue of their labors. Among the numerous high officials invited on that occasion was Mr. Bulgakoff, Under-Secretary of State and assistant of Count Panin, the President of the Board of Emancipation and Minister of Justice. 
Mr. Bulgakoff offered four toasts. The first was of course to Alexander II., the benevolent sovereign and liberator; two others were addressed to the cause itself and to the nobility; and a fourth to the memory of Emilian Pugatsheff, the first emancipator of Russian serfs. 
In 1774, Emilian Pugatsheff, a Cossack serf of one of the nobles, ran away from his master, called to arms the Cossacks of the Ural, the convicts in the mines of the Ural Mountains and in the regions of Oren burg, and the serfs of the neighboring districts. The insurrection spread like lightning. The insurgents seized or destroyed several forts constructed in the steppes, and they beseiged the city of Oren burg, but were repulsed. When they afterwards crossed the Volga, the serfs rose, increasing in numbers at every step, from the peasantry of the interior, and dragged their masters in chains to the feet of the liberator. Soldiers sent against him joined his revolutionary standard, and several Generals of Catharine II. were routed. Pugatsheff took various cities, and burned Saratoff and Kasan. More than thirteen hundred nobles, civil and military, officials and priests, were hanged or shot. The nobility every where fled to the city of Moscow, whose very walls quaked with terror. This insurrection was the only event which ever shook the throne of Catharine II., and many evidences of her uneasiness are found in her correspondence with Voltaire, and in the advice she afterward gave, in 1775, to George III. of England. 
At last, by the united efforts of Suwaroff and Michelson, Pugatsheff s army was destroyed, and be himself, betrayed by his immediate followers, was delivered to Count Panin, the alter ego of the Empress, and brought to Moscow. Count Panin struck the chained prisoner in the face, and tore his beard in public before the assembled multitude,. Pugatsheff was beheaded. The head was preserved, but the body was quartered and exposed at the various gates of the capital. After a few days, the remains were burnt, and the ashes fired in the air from a cannon. 
The name of Pugatsheff has been till now yearly anathematized in all the churches of Russia. But not a century has passed away when the above-mentioned toast is given to his memory, not by some Red Republican, but by a high and confidentia official of the great-grandson of the imperial  Catharine. Pogatsheff is toasted by the most ancient nobles, and in the face of Count Panin, Minister and President, and the direct descendant of him who struck the great liberator and plucked his beard. 
We commend these historical incidents to the attention of our Southern brethren.

RUSSIAN EMANCIPATION-ITS EFFECTS. 
The Tribune translates from the correspondence of Le Nord as follows:— 
‘ST. PETERSBURG, June 27. 
‘Since the great problem of the emancipation of the serfs has been definitely resolved upon, the noble cause of national civilization, so intimately connected with emancipation and its indispensable complement, has been making notable progress day by day.
‘Our Papers are filled with news, which comes to them from all parts of the country, of the establishment of free schools and of Sunday-schools., Every day sees new schools opened of a character to attract and to educate the lower classes of the population.  They are already very numerous and scattered over the whole extent of the country. Not to speak of the two capitals, where they are no longer a new thing, we see them starting up in remote hamlets and villages, under the patronage of the landholders, or some other public-spirited persons.
‘We need not say that these free schools, established in the interest of the people, and multiplied on the eve of their emancipation, are called to exercise an influence on the future of the working clams which must be most salutary. By correcting the
<c05>
deeply-rooted prejudices and by dissipating the ignorance of the Russian people, these schools will render them worthy of the independence which is soon to be conferred upon them, in giving them those ideas of responsibility and of labor, which are the first and the essential conditions of liberty.
‘The preparation for the Emancipation of the serfs may henceforth be considered as complete. The Commissioners are at present engaged upon the actual drafting of the laws which are to embody the results at which they have arrived through so much labor and deliberation. The Imperial manifesto decreeing the abolition of slavery will appear, as I have said before, during the autumn, after the field labor is finished, at the end of October or the beginning of November. The Government has adopted the necessary financial measures in order to act as a mediator in the settlement of relations between the landholders and the emancipated serfs.'

The Liberator.
FOURTH OF JULY ORATION,
Delivered from the Rock above the Grave of Capt. JOHN BROWN, at North Elba, N. Y., by the Rev. LUTHER LEE, of Chagrin Falls, Cuyahoga Co., Ohio.
[The extreme length of Dr. Lee’s address prevents the publication of it entire. It is a very eloquent statement of the principles of the Declaration of Independence, and a logical deduction of those principles, applied to the crime of slavery-the heroic attempt of John Brown to let the captive go free-the subsequent execution of that noble man by the organized piracy of Virginia—-the right of the slaves to obtain their liberty by the same means as, did the Revolutionary Fathers; and the right and duty of those who believe in liberty for themselves to aid the enslaved by such means as conscience dictates, and the opportunities demand. The latter half of the oration, being more especially appropriate to the occasion which had caused the convening of the assembly, is here given. With this is fitly closed the account of the North Elba celebration, certainly, when the circumstances are considered, one of the most remarkable gatherings that this day has ever seen.-H.]
I have now vindicated the Declaration of our fathers, which has rendered this day glorious among the days of the year, rallying the people, kindling liberty fires, waking the booming cannon, and filling a nations's heart with joy at its annual return. What now remains to finish my discourse is to make an application of the principles that have been established to current events, and present and prospective duties. I will proceed to announce certain deductions which certainly and irresistibly follow from the premises.
1. All governments that suppress liberty and rob men of their rights are without binding force, having no sanction from God, no foundation in the law of nature, and no claim upon the people for reverence, obedience, or support. If such a government be permitted to exist, it does not exist of right, but by mere sufferance,. Whether or not men will submit to such a government for any time, and how long they will submit, if at all, is a matter of expediency and policy, to be decided by their own judgements, in the light of certain fundamental principles, which must not be infracted, and in view of all the circumstances that affect the case. There is the magnitude of the evil to be borne, and the prospect of effecting a reform with-out blood and violent revolution.
Men are bound to maintain their liberty at all hazards, but they are bound to do it in the cheapest manner, at the least expense of human suffering, life and blood. Our fathers, for a time, bore the wrong, and petitioned for a redress of the wrongs they suffered; but when, in their judgement, all hope of obtaining redress by the use of such peaceable means was lost, they kindled the fires of the Revolution, and, waked the booming cannon-they petitioned in the voice of war-thunder. Could our fathers have seen, that by enduring one or two years, they would secure all their rights without blood, they would not have been justified in kindling the fires of a seven years’ war.
The same principle holds good now in regard to the great question of human rights in this land. The government of these United States has proved destructive to the rights with which our fathers declared all men to be endowed by their Creator, and which they supported with their fortunes, their lives, and their more sacred honor. This government has employed all its influence and power to crush out liberty and extend human bondage, and consequently is without morally binding force, and exists by mere sufferance. No man is bound to submit to it, or obey it, upon principle; and how long it shall be endured is a matter of expediency and policy, to be settled in the light of the principles of action already explained above. If there is rational ground yet left upon which to base an honest hope of being able to take the government out of the hands of oppressors and slavery propagandists, and put it into the hands of liberty- loving men, and turn it to the support of human rights and universal freedom by means legitimate to the Constitution, and without blood, there is the point to rally, and there are all bound to rally, by the highest obligation of duty to God and man. But if it cannot be done in this way, if the government has become so depraved, and the nation so devoted to slavery, that no legal, constitutional, peaceable means can redeem the land from the rule of oppression, revolution must come, and war and blood must do it.
If forbearance is a duty, to-day, it is not because this thievish, robbing, oppressive, slavery-propagandist government has any right to exist, but because there is a better way to redress our wrongs than to take the sword; and this is an open question, about which honest men may differ, as did our fathers, some being ready for war before others. No man may obey the behests of government when it commands disobedience to God; but what and how much infraction of our rights we will bear, and how long we will bear it before revolution, we must decide for ourselves.
These views will be  regarded by some as too ultra, but they are the legitimate consequences of the Declaration of American Independence, which has given to this national day all its interest and glory;
<c06>
and to deny these positions would be to brand the Revolution as a rebellion, and our fathers as traitors.
2. Another deduction is, the slaves of this land have a right, at any time, to take their liberty, in any way in which they can get it. I say, the slave has a right to take his liberty in any way, provided he does not inflict more evil upon his oppressors than is necessary to secure his freedom. 
It has been shown that a right to liberty necessarily implies that every thing is wrong which conflicts with that right to liberty, for rights never can conflict with each other. Every thing which stands in the way of the slave’s liberty stands in its own wrong, and may be rightfully put out of the way. An inalienable right to liberty includes a right to every thing else, and to do every thing which is essential to the maintenance of that right to liberty. If money, a horse, or a boat, will enable a slave to secure his liberty, and he cannot secure it without, he has a right to take them, because his right to liberty is inalienable, and greater than another man’s right to property, which is not inalienable, and the smaller right is lost in the greater, as rights cannot conflict. I place this on the ground of necessity, and the law of necessity knows no higher law; it is the law of nature, of which God is the author,. It is not theft for a starving man to take so much bread as will preserve his life, because his right to live is greater than a man’s right to a piece of bread which is not essential to his life. But liberty is before life, and if a man may take bread, a boat or a horse to save his life, which all admit., much more can he rightfully take them to preserve his liberty. If life may be taken to save life, much more may it be taken to preserve liberty, without which life is not worth preserving. As liberty is before life in importance, and as our right to liberty is inalienable, we have a right to strike through and strike down whatever rises between us and our liberty. This was the foundation principle of the Revolution, and is emphatically the American idea. If the slaves could rise to-day, and by force and arms take and hold their liberty, the Declaration of Independence, with the practical comment upon the same, would justify them in so doing. The slaves in this land are now nearly twice as many as the entire population of the country when the fires of the Revolution were kindled; and if we may believe Mr. Jefferson, ’one hour of their bondage is fraught with more misery than ages of that our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose,’ More, he affirms that in case they strike for freedom, ’the Almighty has no attribute that can take sides with us in such a contest.' Come’ that contest must, and come it will, if slavery is not peaceably abolished, before the crushed and groaning and heaving mass of humanity shall burst out and blaze with the fires of vengeance, which may not take long. When we consider that the slaves are now increasing at the rate of one hundred thousand per annum, and that the increase will be greater and greater as the whole number swells, no one can believe that the swelling millions can long be held in such cruel bondage.
It is a settled question, that we have got to go to work in earnest and abolish slavery in the use of peaceable means, or it will abolish itself in a few years, in revolution and blood. That will be a day of terror. When those long-crushed spirits shall lift up their heads for a last struggle, and those fettered limbs shall, with the convulsive power of desperation, shake off their chains, when the long pent-up volcanic fires of wrath shall break out, and the dark, deep, accumulating reservoir of vengeance shall unbosom itself, and belch forth its unrestrained billows, a scene will be presented in view of which the brave will tremble and the strong will fly or fall.
3. Another undeniable consequence of the principles established is that all honest, earnest lovers of human rights and human liberty have a part to play in the great national drama, the curtain of which is already being drawn a side for action. We cannot be neutral if we would. There is an irrepressible conflict’ between liberty and slavery, and the slaves must be made free, or free laboring men and women must be made slaves. But were it not so, if we could, as some fossil divines and politicians profess to do, ignore the question, and look on with cold indifference, and only whisper,’ Be still-be still!-don’t get excited!-don’t agitate the question!’-God and humanity forbid that we should do so. God commands,’ Remember those in bonds as bound with them’; and our natural love of liberty, and the living spirit of Christianity, and the stirring energy of this progressive age, must and will wake all but the fossilized to the conflict. If it be right for a slave to escape from his bondage, it must be right, and a duty,. to help him in his flight, as his necessity may demand and our opportunity may allow. If it would be right for the flying slave to strike down his pursuer as a last resort, it would be right for as to strike for him as a last resort. When she time shall come that the oppressed shall feel prepared to strike for freedom, it will be the right and duty of freeman to strike with and for them. If this is not true, why did our fathers invoke and receive the aid of France? and why has the nation embalmed the name of La-Fayette, who came at his own charges and joined in the strife, and bared his youthful besom to the storm? So sure as the name of La-Fayette is held sacred by this nation, so sure does the nation believe it right to help the oppressed in their struggle for liberty.
These views may be regarded as too radical and revolutionary. If they are revolutionary, they are suited to the necessities of these times, for what is wrong needs revolutionizing. Some may pronounce them wrong, for no other reason than that they are too cowardly to own that they believe them to be true. But they are the sentiments of mankind, they are the sentiments of this nation. Radical and revolutionary as they are, they represent the only true American idea on the subject. The American idea is, to live free, or die in a glorious battle for liberty. The language of Patrick Henry represents the American idea; it represents the universal heart of humanity, when it speaks out, unsophisticated and unterrified-’ Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery?? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take'; but for me, give me liberty or give me death!’ There words would be just as appropriate, and just as

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is’a covenant with covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution,... There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States ion binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our fathers, in framing the constitution, swerved from the right. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at if fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to the perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’ 
-WILLIAM ELLRRY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
patriotic, and represent just as glorious a sentiment, bursting from the soul of every slave to-day, as when they were uttered by the immortal Henry. Deny the doctrine I have maintained, and you deny all that has been regarded as glorious in the history of the world, and disgrace the memory of the men whose names the world has been pleased to adorn with her most gorgeous wreath of fame. Deny the conclusions I have deduced from the Declaration of Independence, and you rob this glorious Fourth of all its honor, and turn it into darkness, as the night in which treason was conceived, and a horrible rebellion was born and baptized in blood; you turn the revolutionary battle-fields of glory into shame and disgrace, where our fathers committed wholesale murder, and gloated over scenes of human slaughter and blood, and stained themselves with human gore. Deny these conclusions, and you turn Bunker Hill monument into a criminating witness, testifying to a nation's guilt, lifting its granite column high in the light of heaven, publishing, in the flash of every sunbeam it reflects, the treason, the rebellion and bloody crimes of our fathers. Deny these conclusions, and you at once recall the world-wide fame of Washington and his compatriots, and hand over to future generations those heretofore honored names, disgraced and branded as traitors and rebels. Will you do it? Will you do it to justify the present position of the nation in its guilty support of slavery! To justify and perpetuate the most horrible system of human bondage under which humanity ever groaned, will you, by one blind dash of pro-slavery logic, blot out the glorious principles of the Declaration of American Independence, and all the glory our fathers won in their heroic and triumphant vindication of those principles, amid the toil, and danger, and blood, and fire, and thunder, and storm of the revolutionary battle-fields? 
It cannot be. Truth yet has power to sway honest hearts; honor yet survives the degeneracy of the times, and the love of liberty yet glows in the hearts of those who dwell amid these rock-bound hills and in these mountain homes. 
'Freedom's spirit has not fled, 
It walks in noon's broad light; 
And it watches the bed of the glorious dead 
With the holy stars at night.ï¿½
4. One other conclusion from the premises, which is clear and undeniable, is that the war waged against slavery, and in defence of human freedom, by John Brown, whose mortal part has found its place of last repose beneath the shadow of this rock, may be justified upon principle. Standing as I do on this national day, upon the rock that overhangs the grave of the first martyr to human freedom, executed according to the forms of American law, it is proper that I should embalm his memory with a few eulogistic remarks. 
On this subject, I shall speak freely and fearlessly, for I can afford so to speak. An expensive warfare in support of what I have believed to be right, against popular prejudice, from early manhood to hoary age, places me before you poor, hence with but few wants, with little of worldly popularity to save, and with but few friends to lose or preserve. In such circumstances, I can afford to be honest in the expression of my sentiments. I am no slave; I never was and never will be a slave: 
ï¿½They are slaves who fear to speak 
For the fallen and the weak; 
They are slaves who will not choose 
Hatred, scoffing and abuse, 
Rather than in silence shrink 
From the truth they needs must think; 
They are slaves who dare not be 
In the right with two or three.ï¿½
John Brown was a noble son, descended from noble sires. Peter Brown was one of the Pilgrim Fathers, who came in the Mayflower, and found an asylum from oppression in this then new wild world, in 1620, of whom John Brown was a descendant of the sixth generation.
In regard to Capt. Brown as a private man, a good citizen, a warm and true friend, and an exemplary Christian, so far as I know, no one has ever heard or breathed harm of him. The only charges that have been filed against him in the Court of Public Opinion relate to his public life, commencing in Kansas, and ending at Harper's Ferry, and to this period of his life I shall confine my remarks. 
In regard to his brief career in Kansas, I have no doubt a development of all the facts would not only fully justify him, but place him on the roll of the most brave and noble of heroes. Kansas had been consecrated to liberty by a solemn national act. That decree was revoked, and Kansas was thrown open to the polluting tread and the soil-cursing toil of bondmen, at the behest of slavery propagandists. But freemen settled there, as they had a right to do, and the noble sons of noble John Brown settled there, as they had a right to do, and slavery was likely to be out-voted; for votes are the first weapons of freemenï¿½
ï¿½A weapon that comes down as still 
As snow flakes fall upon the sod, 
Yet executes a freeman's will 
As lightning does the will of God.ï¿½
Slavery then flew to arms, and undertook to kill or drive out all lovers of liberty, and to plant itself there by the power of the sword. Border ruffians, in armed bands, stimulated by bad whiskey and a desire for plunder and outrage, invaded the Territory, stealing  horses, burning houses, plundering villages, shooting peaceable citizens, and ravishing defenceless women. The United States government afforded no protection, but rather supported the invaders. It was in such circumstances that John Brown drew the sword in defence of liberty in Kansas, and I thank God to-day that he drew it not in vain. Before him many a craven heart quailed and many of freedom's foes licked the dust, and Kansas became free. I have no doubt that Kansas owes her freedom more to his firm, self-sacrificing, daring courage, than to any other agency; and Liberty and John Brown should be inscribed upon the banner of Kansas, so long as it shall wave over free men and free soil. 
My only remaining point is, Mr. Brown's invasion of Virginia, which is the only ground upon which anything like a reasonable charge can be urged against him. 
Whether or not Capt. Brown intended to invade Virginia I have not the means of knowing, but the matter wears that aspect as the facts have been presented to the public, and I feel bound to meet it in this form. I do not take it upon myself to justify the invasion on the ground of expediency, policy or economy; for want of a knowledge of his designs, plans, expected means, and expectations, I am unable to judge in regard to this view of the question. What I undertake to do, and all I undertake to do, is to vindicate his conduct upon principle. He may have erred in regard to time and manner and circumstances, but the principle involved I defend, upon the ground of the Declaration of Americanï¿½ Independence. All men have an inalienable right to liberty; slaves are men, and therefore slaves have an inalienable right to liberty. The slaves having a right to liberty, it is right for them to assert and maintain their right to liberty, and when they assert and maintain their liberty, they stand in their own right, and all who oppose or resist them stand in their own wrong. The slaves having a right to assert and maintain their liberty, others must have a right to excite and encourage them to assert their right to liberty, and to help them seize upon and maintain it; therefore John Brown had a right to invade Virginia for the purpose of helping the slaves to obtain their liberty. 
As slavery is wrong, has no rights to assert, and is entitled to no protection, and as the slaves have an inalienable right to be free, the only fundamental question, on which the whole turns, is, have men a right to defend liberty by the sword? If any men have a right to defend liberty by the
<c02>
sword, the slaves have. And if the slaves have a right to defend liberty by the sword, then had John Brown a right to take the sword on their behalf. Some indeed deny that it is right to use the sword for any purpose, and in any circumstances, but such is not the sentiment of mankind; it is not the sentiment of this nation. No man who believes that all men have an inalienable right to liberty, and that it is right to defend liberty with the sword, can condemn John Brown, upon principle, for having taken the sword in behalf of the slaves. John Brown had just as good a right to go to Virginia, with the heaven-granted bill of human rights in his hand, and demand the surrender of the bondmen, as Ethan Allen had to go to Ticonderoga and demand the surrender of the fort in the name of the great Jehovah and the Continental Congress; and if the former deserved to be hung for his act, the latter should have been hung for his.
Should it be claimed that Mr. Brown's wrong lay, not in drawing his sword in defence of liberty, but in drawing it against the laws of the State of Virginia, the reply is two-fold. First, the two things are identical. To draw the sword in defence of liberty was to draw it against the laws of Virginia. Virginia laws were against liberty, against man's inalienable rights; hence, when Mr. Brown drew his sword in violation of the laws of Virginia, his sword struck for the right, and the sword of Virginia struck for the wrong. The wrong, then, was not on the part of Mr. Brown, but on the part of Virginia. Secondly, the government of Virginia, being a slaveholding government, is destructive to human rights, and hence is wrong, and is without vitality, without binding force, and has no claim for support, and has no right to exist. If the slaves of Virginia could to-day overthrow the government, it would be in them patriotic, heroic, and virtuous; hence, for Capt. Brown to attempt it for them, was no less patriotic, heroic and virtuous. 
But Capt. Brown did not succeed. True, and there are at least a few who deeply regret his failure. But success or defeat does not determine or change the right or the wrong of the cause. Had Washington and his compatriots failed, they would have been hung as high as John Brown was, and their names would have been sent down to posterity disgraced as traitors and rebels; but it would not have changed their real character, nor altered the justice of their cause. But a better future awaits the name of John Brown; his name goes down as that of a patriot, a hero, a martyr and a saint. John Brown was an honest and brave man, who dared to do and to die for the right. No selfish considerations could have moved him; he had nothing to gain but a good conscience and the approbation of heaven; while he perilled all of earth for the good of the crushed and bleeding slave. For the benefit of the despised and outraged of earth he labored, suffered and died; and such a life, crowned with such a death, is a greater blessing to the world, and more precious in the sight of God, than brilliant talents, high-sounding titles, ruling power over wide-spread dominions, flashing domes, lofty thrones, crowned heads and mitred brows. These are all nothing in the eye of God, compared with honest, brave John Brown, dying in the cause of human rights. As in his life, so in his death, he combined the elements of a Christian and a hero. None but a Christian and a hero could pass through the scenes that he did, as he did, and die as he did. His dying testimony for the truth will yet do more for the slave than a living advocate can do. From the time he was overpowered and taken, he asserted the justice of his course, the injustice of slavery, and the right of the slave to his freedom; and this testimony he firmly uttered in the face of his capturers, in the face of his judges, and in the face of death. He neither denied nor sought to evade a single pinion he heldo, or a single act he had performed; his transparent soul was unveiled before those who sought occasion to take his life, who quailed before his firm integrity and open honesty. 
As when the Redeemer trod the walks of life, devils witnessed to his incarnate divinity, crying out, ï¿½Thou art the Son of God,ï¿½ so Governor Wise, the very embodiment of the devilish spirit of slavery, when he looked upon the face of John Brown, cried out, ï¿½He is the most honest, truthful and brave man I ever saw.ï¿½ His letters from prison to his family and his friends were the breathings of the most pure Christianity, the most devoted patriotism, and the most elevated heroism, and they deserve to be embalmed with his name. The calm and unruffled manner in which he met death, though it was upon the gallows, gives the clearest proof of the genuineness of his Christianity, and of the unyielding character of his heroism; they were both triumphant in death, and held the monster in chains while he breathed his soul out to God. He was carried to the place of execution, and ascended the steps and stood upon the fatal platform, with a soul as calm as a summer's vesper hour. In prospect of death, St. Paul wrote, ï¿½I am ready to be offered'; but when John Brown was asked to give a signal when he should be ready, his reply was, ï¿½I am always ready.ï¿½
John Brown is dead, and his dust has found its place of calm and last repose beneath the shadow of this rock; but his work is not done, and will not be done, until the fetter is rent from human limbs, until the slave is free, and the nation is redeemed. ï¿½He, being dead, yet speaketh': his death speaks, his blood speaks, and there goes forth a voice from his grave and from this rock that overhangs it; and that voice, from year to year, shall 
ï¿½Go forth with a trumpet's sound, 
And tell to the nations round,ï¿½
On the hills which our heroes trod, 
In the shrines of the saints of God, 
In the ruler's hall and the captive's prison, 
That the slumber is broken, the sleepers are risen; 
That the day of the scourge and the fetter is o'er, 
And earth feels the tread of her freemen once more.
The execution of John Brown and his compatriots has sent an awakening thrill to the heart of this nation, and is likely to do more than any other one event that has yet transpired to overthrow slavery. It has exposed the weakness and dangerous character of slavery. If Virginians understand themselves and their own system, and if their conduct is an index to what they think of their own condition, we must regard them as dwelling upon the bosom of a volcano, ready at any moment to break out and sweep them away with a deluge of fire. 
Twenty-one men, officers and privates, with John Brown for commander-in-chief, made a stand at Harper's Ferry, and that town of brave Virginians, containing three thousand souls, submitted at discretion without a struggle, and the whole Commonwealth was seized with terror, and shook from centre to circumference as with an earthquake. Nor did the arrest of the brave leader, the fall of a portion and flight of the remainder, restore tranquillity and a sense of security. Their terror increased as imagination had time to work upon their fears. Alarm after alarm spread as on the wings of the wind; the moan of every breeze sounded like the breathing of an unseen foe; the song of the bird of night was, to their excited imaginations, a battle-cry, and the footsteps of harmless domestic animals became, in the ears of brave sentinels, the fearful tread of an invading army. They were too conscious of their weakness to dare to hang one man without an army. Plain, honest John Brown was led to the place of execution, calm and without fear, while two thousand soldiers were employed to execute him, clad in the equipments of war; and there, marshaled in battle array, with shining epaulets, waving plumes, flashing side-arms, bristling bayonets, frowning cannon, burning matches, ready for the work of death and human carnage, should the poor old pinioned man refuse to be hung. It is not possible to work out a more clear and terrible exhibition of their own consciousness of the 
<c03>
weakness and danger of slavery. The matter also exposes the corrupt and corrupting influence of slavery, and its eternal hostility to truth, honesty, justice and virtue.
Virginia has put to death an honest man, a hero and a Christian, whom her own Executive pronounced the most honest, truthful and brave man he ever saw. 
If such an execution was not necessary, it is a fearful revelation of the malignant spirit which the slave system engenders. If such an execution was necessary to restore tranquillity, and to render life and property safe under the slave system, it is an awful comment upon the danger and crime of slavery. Then must it follow, that slavery is so at war with reason, honesty, justice and Christianity, that where it is maintained, it is unsafe to allow honest, brave Christian men to live and walk abroad, and talk and act out the convictions of their own honest hearts. This is slavery's own comment upon itself, uttered by the execution of John Brown, in the ear of the nation and in the ear of the world; and its voice of condemnation, as time rolls along and reflection deepens, shall swell louder and louder, until it shall rouse the nation, and the slumbering spirit of Seventy-Six shall be waked up and burn in the hearts of the millions, as it burned on the fields of Concord and Bunker Hill, and Monmouth, Saratoga, Cowpens and Yorktown; when the rallying cry shall again be, ï¿½Give me liberty, or give me death!ï¿½ The people are waking, and the day of liberty is at hand.
ï¿½Thy hill-tops, New England, shall leap at the cry,
And the prairie and far-distant South shall reply; 
It shall roll o'er the land till the farthermost glen 
Gives back the glad summons again and again.
Oppression shall hear in its temple of blood, 
And read on its wall the hand-writing of God;
Niagara's torrent shall thunder it forth, 
It shall burn in the sentinel-star of the North 
It shall blaze in the lightning and speak in the thunder,
Till slavery's fetters are riven asunder,
And freedom her rights has triumphantly won,  
And our country her garments of beauty put on.
The forests shall know it, and lift up their voice, 
To bid the green prairies and valleys rejoice; 
And the Father of Waters join Mexico's sea, 
In the anthem of nature for millions set free.ï¿½
When that day shall comeï¿½when the Declaration of Independence shall become a practical reality in the nation;ï¿½yes, I must insist upon the Declaration, to maintain which my own father watched the campfires of the Revolution for seven years, and fought through many a battle where brave companions around him licked the dust;ï¿½when the Declaration of Independence shall be carried out in the landï¿½when the bondman's chains shall be broken, and liberty shall be proclaimed through all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof,ï¿½then, if this mortal that stands before you shall still be above the sod, and this heart still beat and this head still think, then send for me again, and I will come and once more stand upon this rock; and then let freemen rally, and let the freed slave come and wave his unmanacled hands here, and we will raise one long loud hallelujah over the grave of Freedom's first martyr, and the nation shall respond in a loud Amen. 
From the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
THE INDEPENDENT AGAINST DR. CHEEVER. 
'A man's foes shall be they of his own household.ï¿½-
JESUS CHRIST.
The hostility of The Independent to Dr. Cheever was exhibited, immediately before his departure for Great Britain, in an editorial article which, though abounding in professions of regard for him personally, was deliberately intended to turn away from him the sympathies of his Christian brethren on the other side of the Atlantic, and to defeat his hopes of procuring from them the pecuniary aid which he and his friends believe is desirable, if not absolutely necessary, to carry them successfully through their struggle in behalf of a Free Pulpit and an Anti-Slavery Church in this corrupt city, where the popular religion is so degenerate that it offers no effectual resistance even to the revival of the foreign slave trade. The apology for this assault upon one of its own 'Special Contributors' was found in an extract of a letter from ï¿½a merchant in Glasgow,ï¿½ asking to be informed ï¿½if Dr. Cheever's Church was really in such a destitute state that a begging box had to be sent around England and Scotland to get funds to sustain it.ï¿½ There is good reason to believe that the interrogatory thus set forth as a pretext for striking at Dr. Cheever, at the very moment when he was on the point of leaving the country, and when the cares and excitements incident to preparation for a foreign voyage left him neither time nor opportunity for adequate self-defence, was prompted, indirectly at least, by enemies of Dr. Cheever in this countryï¿½perhaps by the very writer who parades it as an excuse for a cowardly assault upon a distinguished member of his own ï¿½household of faith.ï¿½ It cannot be supposed that ï¿½an Abolitionist' in Glasgow, ï¿½of the strongest school,ï¿½ would be ready to suspect that Dr. Cheever and his friends were seeking to raise money upon false pretences, if his mind had not been poisoned by misrepresentations from some quarter; and we have good reason to believe that at least one of the editors of The Independent has sought, through private channels, to awaken in Great Britain the very sentiment of distrust and hostility toward Dr. Cheever which its correspondent reveals as existing in his own mind. 
The Independent's answer to its Glasgow correspondent has been fitly characterized by Dr. Cheever himself (see his reply to Mr. Gilbert's farewell address, in behalf of the Church of the Puritans, published by us last week) as ï¿½a singular ebullition of ill-feeling and false and injurious remark,ï¿½ and as ï¿½a compound of bitterness and falsehood.ï¿½ These are strong words, but, having been at pains to inform ourselves respecting the question at issue, and having observed the course of The Independent from the beginning, we are constrained to say that they do not exceed the truth. Indeed, we lack words to express our sense of the baseness of that paper, as exhibited in the article under review, and in the circumstances attending its publication. It is nothing less, in fact, than a deliberate, though insidious, attempt to convince the Orthodox Churches and ministers of Great Britain that Dr. Cheever and his friends are asking for money upon false pretences. And while this purpose is palpable upon the very face of the article, the writer has the effrontery to offer a tribute of praise to Dr. Cheever for his fidelity in ï¿½preaching against the great sin of our land,ï¿½ and to advise his friends in England and Scotland to ï¿½express their zeal for anti-slavery in the form of a direct testimonial' to him! Very considerate, to be sure, after warning the Orthodox Churches of Great Britain, against Dr. Cheever as about to solicit their aid upon fraudulent grounds, to recommend them to put money in his private purse, as a testimonial to him ï¿½as a man'! If anything could add to the matchless impudence of such a recommendation, from such a source, surely it would be this sentence following from the same pen: 'Of course it is without his (Dr. Cheever's) knowledge that we make a suggestion which his modesty would refuse'!! ï¿½Art thou in health, my brother?ï¿½ affectionately inquired Joab while thrusting his sword into the heart of Amasa; and Judas, when he would betray the Son of God to his murderers, said, ï¿½Hail, Master, and kissed him.ï¿½ The Christian Abolitionists of Great Britain will doubtless appreciate the friendly advice of The Independent. 
The baseness of The independent in this whole matter is revealed in its assumption to speak as an unprejudiced observer, and as a candid and honest journalist, while, in reality, it is lending itself with a will to the partisan service of Dr. Cheever's enemies. The version of the difficulties in the Church of the Puritans which it puts forth, with an affectation of judicial candor not unworthy of a disciple of Ignatius Loyola, it knows to be the partisan version of those who are seeking to drive Dr. Cheever from his pulpit. It knows that Dr. Cheever and his friends, embracing a very large majority of the Church and Society of the Puritans, regard its story as a tissue of misrepresentation and falsehood. We do not deny the right of that paper to take whichever side it may choose in this controversy, but we do object to its attempt to mask its hostility to Dr. Cheever by a pretence of judicial fairness as between him and his enemies, and by simulating the voice and attitude of a friend. It does not become the man who, when the enemies of Dr. Cheever in the Board of Trustees of the Church of the
<c04>
Puritans, as formerly constituted, denounced the application for foreign aid to sustain an anti-slavery pulpit, expressed his exultation by exclaiming, ï¿½Thank God, Dr. Cheever is floored at last,ï¿½ or words to the same effect, to offer himself now as the unprejudiced and non-partisan counsellor, in this matter, of British Abolitionists. The attempt displays an obtuseness of the moral sense, and a want of manly sensibility and honor, that would be lamentable in anybody, and which, in a man professing to be a minister of the gospel, and having control of a religious journal, is calculated to provoke the application of the severest epithets known to the English tongue.
It is neither our province nor our purpose to answer in detail The Independent's ï¿½compound of bitterness and falsehood'; but some of its points demand notice from a paper set, as this is, for the defence of the anti-slavery cause and the protection of its true-hearted friends. If Dr. Cheever were on the ground to defend himself, we should still feel called upon, for the cause's sake, to lift up our voice in his behalf; how much more, in his absence, is it our duty to vindicate so faithful and devoted a champion of the cause we serve against assaults so unjust and malign? 
1. The pretence of The Independent that the 'present distractions' in the Church of the Puritans ï¿½have no connection whatever with the subject of slavery,' is evidence either of gross ignorance on its part or an equally gross recklessness of assertion. Having listened to nearly all the recent discussions in the Society, and given careful attention to the statements on all sides, we are prepared to affirm, of our own knowledge, that the 'distractions' alluded to, so far from relating to ï¿½personal grounds and side issues,ï¿½ are all connected with the slavery question. They all turn upon the single issue, whether Dr. Cheever shall be sustained in the pulpit on Union Square, or be starved out, or compelled to resign his place to some minister who, while professing to be anti-slavery, will not preach on the subject in such a way as essentially to disturb the feelings and prejudices of pro-slavery merchants, or rebuke the indifference or open complicity with slavery of the neighboring Churches and Pulpits. The secret of this sort of anti-slavery preaching is well understood by Dr. Bacon of New Haven and Dr. Thompson of New York, the two principal editors of The Independent, in whose ears the ï¿½fire and hammer of God's Word,ï¿½ as proclaimed from the pulpit on Union Square, make an exceedingly unpleasant noise. It is true that some of Dr. Cheever's sincere friends did, at first, doubt the necessity and expediency of sending abroad for aid; but when his enemies made an issue before the Society and the Church on that question, the whole matter was sifted to the bottom, in a discussion protracted through seven or eight evenings, and resulting in the complete vindication of those who originated the plan. It was not only affirmed but proved, in the course of that discussion, that there had been a plot to starve out Dr. Cheever, to get the Church and Society into pecuniary embarrassments, and then plead those embarrassments as a proof of his unpopularity and of the necessity that he should resign the pulpit to another. It was a knowledge of this artfully-laid plot that led a few of Dr. Cheever's more intimate friends to make a private application for aid in England and Scotland; and we do not hesitate to say, after a careful investigation of the facts, that it was their sagacity which defeated the plot in question, by opening the eyes of some too trusting friends, and bringing into hearty accord all those who really desired and were determined that the Doctor should be sustained. The discussion which his enemies began in the hope of defeating him upon what they called a ï¿½side issue,ï¿½ ensured their own discomfiture by compelling them to reveal their real object. There is now no division, either in the Church or Society, except that between the great majority, who are heartily united in support of the pastor, and a small, factious, and constantly diminishing minority, who wish to drive him from the pulpit. Dr. Cheever has gone abroad with the hearty sympathy and support of all but a fraction of his congregation, Society and Church; and his Orthodox brethren on the other side of the water may rest assured that any contributions that they may make in response to his appeals will be sacredly devoted to the support of a faithful but imperilled anti-slavery pulpit in New York. The ï¿½expensive litigation' to which The Independent refers, if fully explained to Dr. Cheever's British friends, so far from offering any inducement for withholding their aid, could not fail to be regarded by them as a convincing proof of the unscrupulous and malignant character of the opposition waged against him, and of his need of sympathy and support. That litigation, moreover, is, we believe, on its very last legs, the main question having been already decided. The baseness of The Independent's intimation, that the money to be collected by Dr. Cheever is likely to be ï¿½used to pay lawyer's fees,ï¿½ is too palpable to need exposure. 
2. The Independent is particularly anxious to convince Orthodox Abolitionists in England and Scotland that Dr. Cheever is not by any means a pre-eminent example among American ministers of fidelity in preaching against slavery. Oh, no! he is quite an ordinary product and representative of Christian anti-slavery sentiment in the American Church! Read The Independent's language:ï¿½ 
'Dr. Cheever's tone of anti-slavery sentiment will be found as clear, strong, high and full as any ever uttered in the land of Wilberforce and Cowper. Yet Dr. Cheever himself is only a product and a representative of the genuine Christian anti-slavery sentiment in the United States. He was not an originator of that sentiment, and he has made no discovery of principles in advance of those laid down by the Phelpses, the Leavitts, the Tappans, who were its pioneers and early confessors. His manner is his own; his modes of action and expression are his own; individuality in these respects is the prerogative of geniusï¿½and, often, as in his case, must assert itself against jealousy and opposition. But original and forcible as Dr. Cheever is in modes of expression, yet when words are carefully defined, and earnestness of rhetoric and vehemence of denunciation give place to the naked philosophical statement of principles, Dr. Cheever does not go one whit beyond Dr. Hopkins and the second Edwards, and the great body of the Congregational ministry and Churches, in asserting the absolute sinfulness of holding human beings as chattels, and the unmitigated wickedness of the whole system of American slavery. We have searched his writings in vain for any new principle upon this subject. New forms of expression and illustration he has, new interpretations and applications of Scripture ï¿½ some vigorous and impressive, some forced and doubtfulï¿½but he has made no advance in the discovery of fundamental principles touching the infulness of slavery. Other men, some of whom were before him in the distinct and earnest enunciation of these same principles, and who have had their share of public abuse for this fidelity, now maintain undisturbed possession of their pulpits, with the freest utterance of God's truth against the iniquity of the doctrine of property in man, and against the whole system of American slavery and its abettors. 
When terms are defined with philosophical precision, and the rubbish of mere logomachy is swept away, we find no principle in Dr. Cheever's writings which is not held and preached with equal fidelity by hundreds of Congregational pastors.ï¿½
And then, after quoting the statement of the Glasgow Examiner, that Dr. Cheever's persecutions originated in the fact that he had denounced slavery unequivocally as A SIN, The Independent proceeds:-
ï¿½We ask the Glasgow Examiner to publish the following action:-ï¿½Resolved, That the holding of human beings as property is an immorality, the renunciation of which ought to be made a condition of membership in the Christian Church, and that this SIN is one against which the law of God and the gospel of Christ ought to be proclaimed, in preaching, persistently, until the iniquity be overthrown.ï¿½ This resolution was passed at a full meeting of the General Association of the State of New York, held in the Broadway Tabernacle Church in this city, in September last. The resolution, in the above shape, was presented by the pastor of that Church, and was adopted without a dissenting voice. This is no new doctrine in the Congregational Churches of New York and New England.
It is high time that our English brethren understood that the above resolution expresses the principles and feelings of multitudes of American Christians on the subject of slavery; and that ministers can and do preach that doctrine in New York without any trouble. Personal or local reasons may exist in Dr. Cheever's Church for his difficulty in maintaining his position; but since it is the avowed position of the body of Congregational ministers in this State, his clear and earnest advocacy of this doctrine may serve to enlighten the ignorance and to tone down the arrogance of that class of British philanthropists who feel it to be their vocation to hector their American brethren upon this subject.ï¿½
The very ï¿½deceivableness of unrighteousness' is in the above paragraphs; indeed, they are saturated, through and through, with Jesuitical duplicity. The
<c05>
difference between Dr. Cheever and the class of ministers represented by The Independent to be equally faithful with him in preaching against slavery is as great as the difference between fire and water. It is a difference, moreover, both of principle and practice, and is illustrated by the history and terms of the very resolution which The Independent, with such an air of triumph, parades as evidence of the anti-slavery soundness of the New York (State) Congregational Association. Dr. Cheever believes, and unequivocally declares, that slaveholding is a sin, and he is for applying the doctrine to the expulsion of slaveholders from the Church. Accordingly, at the last meeting of the New York Association, he introduced the following resolution:-
ï¿½Resolved, That slaveholding is an immorality, the renunciation of which ought to be made a condition of membership in the Christian Church, and that this sin is one against which the law of God and the gospel of Christ ought to be proclaimed, in preaching, persistently, until the iniquity be overthrown.ï¿½
There is not the slightest reason, in the history and practice of Congregational Associations, for believing that the subject of slavery would have been brought forward for action at all, but for the fidelity of Dr. Cheever in introducing this resolution. But for of him, the question would no doubt have been entirely ignored, or overridden as a small matter, as it was in all the more recent meetings of the Congregational bodies of New England, and as it is, systematically, in nearly all the ecclesiastical assemblies in the land. Dr. Cheever's resolution put the leaders of the New York Association in a dilemma. To pass the resolution, and thereby declare unequivocally that slaveholding was a sin, would be to condemn their own principle (or want or principle) and practice; to vote it squarely down would expose them to imputations, both at home and abroad, which they were most anxious to avoid: and so it was referred to a committee, to be tinkered into a shape which, while it might appear to those not familiar with the jugglery of ecclesiastical bodies to be a hearty denunciation of slavery, it should, after all, involve only an abstraction, and leave untouched and undisturbed the consciences of a large class of ï¿½evangelically pious slaveholders,ï¿½ who deny the justice of the definition of slavery which describes it as the holding of man as property, and claim that the institution, as illustrated in their practice, is quite patriarchal and beneficent, and, in itself, no more an offence against morality than the marriage or parental relation; that their claim of property in their slaves is only such, substantially, as the Northern employer has in the labor of those whom be hires, or as the parent has in the services of his child, and does not necessarily involve the infringement of any rights which an inferior and subject class are qualified to exercise in a manner consistent with their own good and the welfare of the community. This is the last covert of slavery, to which it flies when hard pressed by the irrefragible logic of the Abolitionists; and just here the tricksters of The Independent and their fraternity always interpose to cover its retreatï¿½to shield from condemnation, in fact, the very class of slaveholders whose example, as men of reputed piety, does more than all things else to shield the system in its mortal extremity, and reconcile the conscience of the civilized world to its continuance. Thus, in the very case under consideration, when Dr. Cheever would speed an arrow from the quiver of God's Word directly at the sin of slaveholding, your Thompsons, Daggetts and Buddingtons, (who, while hob nobbing with pious slaveholders and apologists for slavery at home, and indulging their hatred of Abolitionists in a hundred mean ways, are yet most anxious to escape the reputation of being pro-slavery among their Orthodox brethren in England and Scotland,) make haste to set up their target so as to cover the sin from reprobation. The Committee having failed to set the target just right, that ï¿½Artful Dodger,ï¿½ the pastor of the Tabernacle Church, and manager-in-chief of the Independent, moved such amendments as brought the resolution into the shape in which it was finally adopted. What next? Why, the same Dr. Thompson, with an effrontery positively inimitable, cites in The Independent that very resolution as a proof of his own spontaneous zeal in the Anti-Slavery cause, and to convince Abolitionists on the other side of the Atlantic that Dr. Cheever is by no means pre-eminent for hostility to slaveryï¿½that he only stands where the whole New York Association and ï¿½the great body of Congregational ministers and churchesï¿½ stand! The difference between him and them is, that whereas he preaches against slavery in such a way as to arouse the hostility of slaveholders and their apologists, impelling them to burn him in effigy, and denounce him as a fanatic and an incendiary, they are able, by their greater skill and prudence, to do it ï¿½without any trouble' whatever! ï¿½WITHOUT ANY TROUBLE'! What better evidence do we need than the admission, involved in these words, that the anti-slavery preaching of such men as Dr. Thompson, if of any value whatever, is not such by any means as the present crisis in our country requires? To preach earnestly and effectively against slavery in this great commercial capital of the land, at the present day, 'without any trouble,ï¿½ is as impossible as it was for Jesus of Nazareth to rebuke the Scribes and Pharisees of Judea without exciting their wrathful hostility, or as it was for the apostles to confront the pagan civilization of their day by the proclamation of Christianity in such a way as to endanger neither their lives nor their popularity, nor create any unpleasant excitement. Dr. Cheever's anti-slavery is bold, earnest, aggressive. He does not attempt, like Dr. Thompson and others, to satisfy his conscience by a merely technical and formal testimony against slavery on a Thanksgiving or Fast day, when even proslavery cotton-merchants are willing to indulge their pastors in a little anti-slavery rhetoric, merely for the purpose of keeping the anti-slavery members of their congregation quiet; but he sets in array against it the whole artillery of God's Word, on the Sabbath day, and faithfully applies the principles of Christianity, as related to this iniquity, to every department of society, and especially to the American Church and Ministry. This he does persistently, and with the avowed purpose of stimulating his hearers to aggressive efforts against slavery. His blows are felt, too, by the supporters of slavery, who accredit his fidelity by the seal of their malignant denunciation and hostility.
The radical difference between Dr. Cheever and the pretenders to anti-slavery represented by The Independent finds another and a very significant illustration in the history of the conflict in the American Tract Society. Dr. Cheever and those agreeing with him were for demanding of that Society the publication of tracts denouncing slave-holding, unequivocally, as a sin, precisely an it had long denounced gambling, intemperance, Sabbath breaking and profanity. But the pretenders said this was sheer ultraism and fanaticism; and when the famous Committee of Fifteen presented their report, excusing the Society from its duty of dealing with slavery as an immorality, and only proposing that it should discuss' (!) ï¿½in a fraternal and Christian spirit.ï¿½ ï¿½those moral duties which grow out of the existence of slavery,ï¿½ and 'those moral evils and vices which it is known to promote, Dr. Thompson of The Independent, as the leader of the ï¿½so-called anti-slavery-party, made haste to accept the treacherous compromise; whereupon a venerable and conspicuous pro-slavery minister was called to offer a prayer of thanksgiving to God that the slavery question in that Tract Society had been settled in such a way as to satisfy all parties. What followed? Why, the pro-slavery party in the Society, having thus enticed their opponents from the only impregnable fortress of anti-slavery truth into the morass of expediency, rallied against and thoroughly routed them a year afterwards. If, instead of consenting to such a compromise, the so called anti-slavery men had, like Dr. Cheever, demanded that the Society should treat slavery as a sin, the pro-slavery party would, most unquestionably, have been compelled, as a measure of safety to themselves, to adopt some such expedient as that proposed by the Committee of Fifteen. So much for the wisdom which teaches that there is a way to serve God without offending the devil; and so much for The Independent's type of anti-slavery, as compared with that represented by Dr. Cheever. We think the Orthodox Abolitionists of Great Britain will not find it difficult to discriminate, in this case, between the true and the false. Wisdom, now as of old, is justified of her children. 
If further illustration were needed of the difference between Dr. Cheever's anti-slavery principles and measures and those of the Congregational ministers and churches represented by The Independent, it might be found in the hostility manifested by that paper, in common, we believe, with every other Congregational journal in the land, to the Church Anti-Slavery Societyï¿½an association aiming, in good faith, to arouse the ministry and the churches of this country to an earnest war 
<c06>
against slavery as a sin, and formed by Orthodox ministers and laymen to meet the alleged scruples of those who, claiming to be sound abolitionist, said they could not join the American Anti-Slavery Society on account of the heretical religious views popularly attributed to some of its leading members. The experiment made by the Church Anti-Slavery Society has proved incontestably that genuine, earnest, aggressive anti-slavery is no more acceptable to these pretenders when spoken by immaculately orthodox lips, than when uttered by Garrison himself. If there had been any sincerity in their professions, they would have rallied eagerly to the support of that Society, against which they could not urge the objections that they pretended had so long kept them from co-operation with the associations represented by The Standard. Dr. Cheever has acted with that Society from the start, and, for a time, he and a few others hoped that it would prove a rallying point for the Evangelical Churches; but we venture to say that, at this hour. The Independent and the Congregational press of New England, in spite of their professions of anti-slavery, regard the Church Anti-Slavery Society with a hatred as unrelenting as that they bear toward the American Anti-Slavery Society itself. The feeling toward both organizations is accounted for by the fact that both alike deal with slavery as a sin, and will not tolerate any compromise with it or its supporters in the Church. The Church Anti-Slavery Society does not, in our judgment, come quite up, in practice, in this last particular, to its own mark and ours; but it goes quite far enough to incur the deadly hostility of the great body of Orthodox churches and ministers. The Orthodox Abolitionists of Great Britain may rest assured that there is no sincerity in the pretence that the American Anti-Slavery Society fails to secure the co-operation of the churches and ministers, not on account of its uncompromising position in regard to slavery, but in consequences of the religions heresies of its members. The Church Anti-Slavery Society, if it has done little else, has at least worked out this demonstration in such a way as to leave no farther ground for subterfuge.
3. The animus of The Independent toward Dr. Cheever is clearly manifest in its adroit repetition of the story, originating in the New York Observer, that a slaveholder was received and retained for years in the Church of the Puritans, with his knowledge and approbation, and finally dismissed as in good standing. Dr. Cheever long ago branded this story as a falsehood, and yet The Independent, while in one breath claiming to be his friend, rakes it out of the columns of the pro-slavery Observer, and parades it before the public as entitled to credit.ï¿½ The person on whose authority the tale is related is a malignant personal enemy of the Doctor, who left the Church of the Puritans as long ago as 1856, because he could no longer abide his anti-slavery preaching. The Independent would seem inclined, in this conflict of testimony, to credit the word of an acknowldged man-stealer, rather than that of Dr. Cheever.
-We have pursued this subject at greater length than we intended, but we have done no more than our duty, as the organ of the anti-slavery cause in the United States, in defending Dr. Cheever from the assaults of a journal which has power to do him injury only because its character and designs are not well understood. 
From the N. Y. Tribune.
INTERESTING FROM THE WEST INDIES.
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SOLICITED TO EMBARK IN THE SLAVE-TRADE.
ST. THOMAS, W. I., July 8, 1860.
There is indeed so little going on in this and our neighboring islands that could be of interest to the people of the metropolis and the citizens of the United States, that I had nothing worthy of communicating for a long time. Business is languid, if not dull-the trade of St. Thomas going down more and more since our old Spanish customers have found the way to New York. The sugar product of St. Croix sinks from year to year from want of laborers-one plantation after another being turned out-so that in the course of a few years there will not be many sugar estates left on this once so wealthy and productive island. The impending calamity of the island, and the steps Government is about to take against the approaching ruin, are the topics of my present communication. 
About a week ago a Commissioner of the Danish Government, who is possessed of five plantations on the Island of St. Croix, left here en route for Washington, with a special mission to the United States Government. The object of this mission is to make a treaty with the United States executive power for the purpose of getting a new stock of-(free or slave?) laborers for the cane-fields of St. Croix. The Commissioner is to propose to your Government a treaty by which the latter, in order to save a large portion of the expense which falls on the United States treasury by sending captured Africans to their homes, should take the shorter way of sending such Africans to St. Croix, where they would be taken in apprenticeship, a la Francaise. This is, in short, what I was able to learn about the proposed treaty. How do you like the plan? If it were new and original, your New England and New York slavers might say that it was a good idea of a cunning head, and might base upon it a new plan of operations-if not so profitable as direct importation to Cuba, still worth considering-so as to smuggle slaves into St. Croix under the colors of the United States. Such a treaty would undoubtedly increase their activity; they would not fail to spend quite a nice amount of money for its promotion; and, instead of about 500 slave-vessels, you would have 1,000 leave your ports every year, who would practice their traffic in comparative security under the provisions of the proposed treaty. It even captured, they would easily find ways to gain the price for the ï¿½apprentices;' and the whole activity of your navy in this respect would prove a big humbug.
The strangest feature in the whole matter is that the Commissioner-a Danish Chamberlain and Counsellor of the Supreme Court of the Danish West India Islands-is the very same person who once advocated the emancipation of slaves in St. Croix by every means in his reach, and who, after the emancipation had taken place, was among the first to draw the indemnification for the slaves he had lost.
This is what I could learn in a hurry, as I wished to give you early notice of the matter in question. I hope it will suffice to have your Washington correspondents on the alert. I can now only hint at the thing, which is here kept as secret as possible; but these hints, as scanty as they are, will be enough for you to make something of them. 
LATE FROM THE SLAVING FLEET. By a recent arrival from the coast of Africa, we learn that there were seven American vessels in the Congo river, June 4, trading, of course, but the names of which were not reported. English cruisers had been alongside of them all; found that they were not to be boarded with impunity, and prudently hauled off, as several officers had recently been reprimanded by the Admiralty for going on board American vessels without permission. Incidentally we have been informed that a regular fleet of vessels clear from different ports of the United States at the same time, and that, distributed among them, are stores and water to fit out two or three of them for slavers, and that when the coast is clear, they all combine to aid the selected vessels in receiving stores and slaves with the greatest possible dispatch. By these means, seven or eight vessels may all be engaged in the slave trade, without having on board sufficient slave materials to convict any one of them. 
This system might be termed the 'mutual aid dodge.' We understand that it works successfully. It rarely happens that there is more than one cruiser near a noted slave mart, and if she should succeed in making a prize, she generally leaves the place with it, and proceeds to St. Helena or Sierra Leone. Aware of her absence, the 'mutual aid' slavers dispatch as many of their number as possible, and generally run clear. We have also been informed that two or three swift steam slavers were fitting out on the coast, from ports in Cuba, and that great gains were expected from them. As we have not any steam vessels of the class required for such a trade, we suppose they have been built in England, and are of iron. 
If these statements are correct, the slave trade, in the language of the markets, may be stated as ï¿½active, with an increased demand.ï¿½-Traveller.
The latest news from New Orleans, dated July 30th, is that two Abolitionists have been hung in Texas for distributing arms and inciting slaves to rebellion.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, AUGUST 3, 1860.
NATURAL FRUITS OF SLAVERY.
A few months ago, twenty-two men, by the simple declaration that they had come to Virginia to help the slavers to attain their freedom, and the display of pikes and muskets intended for that purpose, caused a paroxysm of terror to run through that State, and shook the neighboring slave regions with contagious sympathy. This panic seemed not only to unsettle the reason of the Virginians, but to affect their senses, including their common sense; for one of their citizens, who had been admitted to the presence of the twenty-two men, went back and reported them to be at lealest five hundred Negroes and three hundred while men; and another, whose perilous duty it was to stand as sentinel a few nights after, shot a cow for neglecting, when challenged, to advance and give the countersign.
A similar panic seems now to be prevailing in Texas, some of whose atrocious laws in support of slavery may be seen in another part of this paper. The newspapers generally seem to regard the whole story of turnings, plots and insurrections as a hoax. Even if some parts of it are true, others are absurdly improbable. But here is the manifestation of excessive sirs, shouted from two newspaper offices in Texas, and copied as authentic by the Journal of Commerce, from the Bonham Era of the 17th ult.,:-
Fearful Abolition Raid-Insurrection of Negroes-<illegible> Brown among us-Northern Texas to be Land Waste-The Work already Commenced.
The destructive and mysterious fire that occurred throughout our portion of the State on the 8th inst., were a theme for speculation until to-day; some impacted their origin to the ï¿½spontaneous combustion" of prairie matches, caused by the excessive heat of that day, but the conviction seemed to prevail that they were the result of reconverted arrangements set on foot by Abolition emissaries, who had heretofore been expelled from the country. That this latter position was correct, is verified by the subjoined letter from Dr. Pryor, editor of the Dallas Herald:-
DALLAS, July 15, 1860.
CAPT. DELISLE: Dear Sir,-I write in haste that you may prepare your people for the most alarming state of affairs that has ever occurred in Texas. On the 8th of July, the town of Dallas was fired and the whole business portion entirely consumed. Every state in town was destroyed. The next day, the dwelling-house of J. J. Eakins was burned. After that, the dwelling-house of E. P. Nicholson was fired, but discovered in time to arrest the flames. On Thursday, the premises of Crill Miller, with a large amount of oats, j grain, &c., were totally consumed. This led to the arrest of some Negroes and white men. A most diabolical plan was then discovered to devastate this entire portion of Northern Texas, extending even to the Red River counties.
White men, friends of the abolition preachers Blunt and McKinney, who were expelled from the country last year, are the instigators of the plot. The whole plan is systematically conceived and most ingeniously contrived. It makes the blood run cold to hear the details. This whole country was to be laid waste with fire, destroying all the ammunition, provisions, arms, &c., to get the country in a state of helplessness, and then, on election day in August, to make a general insurrection, aided and assisted by emissaries from the North, and persons friendly to them in our midst. This sphere of operations is districted and sub-districted, giving to each division a close supervision by one energetic white man who controls the Negroes as his subordinates. A regular invasion, and a real intestine war. You all at Bonham are in as much danger as we are. Be on your guard, and make these facts known by issuing extras to be sent in every direction. All business has ceased, and the country is terribly excited.
In. haste, yours truly, CHAS. R. PRYOR.
Comment on the above would be superfluous; everybody will see the necessity of immediate, energetic action, and a thorough organization throughout the country; and to this end it in proposed that a meeting of the citizens of Fanning county be held in the court-house at ten o'clock on Saturday next, when the subject will he fully discussed and measures adopted for suture safety.
The fires that occurred on the 8th inst., as far as we are yet able to learn, are as follows:-
Dallas. The entire business portion of the town, including every mercantile house in the place. Loss estimated at $400.000.
Belknap. Eight large store-houses were destroyed. The buildings owned by Drs. Foote and Thogmorten, of McKinney. Loss not given.
Milford, Ellis county. Totally destroyed.
Black Jack Grove. One large mercantile house.
Loss $300.000.
Waxahatchie. One house.
Denton. The store-house of J. M. Smoot, with the house of Jacobs, and that of Baines and Turner. Total loss estimated at $100.000.
Pilot Point. One store-house owned by J. M. Smoot, of Denton. Total loss, $10,000.
Fort Worth. A mercantile house. Loss not given.
Ladonia, Fannin county. The store-house of Mr. E. Dupre totally destroyed. Low about $25,000.
It is also reported that two houses were burned in Jefferson; and at Honey Grove in this county, one house was fired, but put out before much damage was done. A steam flouring mill was burned at Millwood Collin county, Texas.
The Austin Intelligencer of the 18th ult. repeats the substance of the above, and adds the following:-
'Since we issued our extra containing intelligence of the terrible fire at Dallas, news has been received in confirmation of it, and giving the particulars of many other fires in Northern Texas which have destroyed was amounts of property, and beggared many families. By letters, and by an extra from the McKinney Messenger, we have information which leaves no doubt of there being an organized band of villains in the country, who have regularly laid their plans of arson and robberies, and by a reconverted and simultaneous effort attempted to put their diabolical plans into execution.
And here we may also remark that the same day and about the same hour, a fire was discovered back of the rooms of the Intelligencer, in the rear of the Swenson building, which was fortunately put out before it succeeded, beyond charring the door and sills of the building. We thought but little of this last fire at the time, but since learning of the others, it really looks as though there might have been something further meant by it than was at first supposed. In view of all these fires, and in consideration of the facts presented, who can doubt of the fact that there is a regular organized band of hell-hounds who have secretly plotted the destruction of property and of life: Who can they be, and what motive can they have: These questions occur at once to the mind. We have no room to pursue the subject further; but we will not close without calling the attention of the citizens of Austin, and of our patrons everywhere, to the necessity of guarding well their property, and of scrutinizing closely every stranger and every loafer who may be found among them. Let a strict watch be kept over all. You cannot be too strict in guarding against thieves, robbers, assassins and incendiaries.'
The Houston Telegraph of the 19th ult., makes similar statements, with a conjecture as to the cause, and a mild suggestion that abolition insanity ï¿½is of a nature that burning alive will cure.' 
These Texas editors seem to take it for granted that the fires in question were set in revenge for the violent and illegal expulsion of travelers or residents, at various times, from that State, because they exercised their Constitutional right of free speech in relation to slavery. But, instead of taking warning from the natural tendency of illegal violence to beget retaliatory violence, they think only of practicing it more extensively, and more outrageously, and seem to take for granted that the burning alive of a few abolitionists will insure the quiet continuance and perpetuity of slavery.
Whether the reports in the present case have, or have not, a measure of solid foundation, one thing is certain; slaveholders, like other tyrants, are always in danger. Men who are robbed at once of liberty and all other rights, and who are familiarized with violence by the example of their oppressors, may, at any moment, retort that violence; men who are constantly treated like brutes will be likely, when rendered desperate, to show themselves brutal in revenge; and men who are constantly confined, restrained, and kept down by the exercise of brute force, without the chance of even consulting together to
<c02>
inquire how their unfortunate condition may be remedied, may, at any moment, desperately seize a casual opportunity, in the hope that the destruction of their particular tyrants may open the way for their escape.
No doubt, as the name, the story and the plans of John Brown come to the ears of more and more of the slaves, and as exaggerated reports and panic terrors like the above reach their otherwise hopeless cabins-more and more of them will be led to look to wards insurrection for their safety. The peril from this source, always great and fearful, is undoubtedly growing greater. The slaveholders have yet a chance of averting this peril by heeding the lesson read to them by the great anniversary of the first of August, and giving their slaves immediate and unconditional emancipation. The non-slaveholding whites of the South, who share the perils of insurrection, have yet the chance of avoiding it, by taking the counsel of their fellow-citizen Mr. Helper, and using their undoubted majority to vote the abolition of slavery in their respective States. If these remedies are much longer disregarded and unused, the signs of the times seem to indicate a bloody solution to our great national problem.-C. K. w.
HOT, COLD OR LUKEWARM? 
In answer to the inquiries-What is the present position of the Boston Tract Society on the subject of slavery?-and-Has it published any tracts on that subject?-I reply:
When, in 1859, the Boston Society separated from the National Society, it passed this Resolution, which may be considered in Northern boundary:
'Resolved, That the political aspects of slavery lie entirely without the proper sphere of this Society, and cannot be discussed in its publications; but that those moral duties which grow out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils which it is known to promote, and which are condemned in Scripture, and so much deplored by evangelical Christians, do undoubtedly fall within the province of this Society, and can and ought to be discussed in a fraternal and, Christian spirit.'
About the same time, it published these declarations on the other side, which may be considered its Southern boundary:-
'We are not an Anti-Slavery Society.' Our purpose is-'Not to be an Abolition Society.'
The Boston Society, carefully keeping itself within these boundaries, has issued nine publications making direct mention of slavery, during the fourteen months since it ceased to be auxiliary to the National Society. One of these is directly, and strongly, pro-slavery, having been written by a slaveholder, for the use o' slaveholders, (intending to continue such,) and printed originally at their request. Another strongly opposes immediate emancipation, and advocates a very gradual amelioration of slavery. Six others, in accordance with the Resolution above quoted, discuss, fraternally towards the slaveholder, and in a manner which may properly be calledï¿½ daubing with intemperate mortar,' some of the evils growing out of slavery. And one, the only unexceptionably good one, written by Isaac Allen, of Oberlin, shows (in direct opposition to several of the others) that the Scriptures give no manner of countenance to the practice of slaveholding.
The character of these publications, and all the movements, for two years past, of the Society that has issued them, show that only its course of policy is changed, while its character remains the same as from 1825 to 1855, when it was heartily and thoroughly cooperating with the openly pro-slavery National Society. That this change of policy goes so for and no farther-goes only to fraternal discussion about slavery, and expressly disclaims and avoids anti-slavery-shows that its object is not the extirpation of slavery, but something else. And that something else clearly is, firstly, to gather up the contributions that are dropping away from the National Society; and next, to avert from the Church the reproach (not the sin)-the appearance (not the disgraceful fact)-of being the main bulwark of slavery.-c. k. w.
A letter from Mr. Garrison, dated Northumberland, July 24th, reports his arrival at that place, about forty miles beyond the White Mountains, and the good health of himself and family, all of whom except one accompanied him. They propose to remain there a week or two longer. Mr. Garrison writes-
'It is possible we may have a meeting at Lancaster on the 1st of August. I am sorry to be absent from the Abington gathering-it is such a pleasure to see such a collection of the truest of the true" in the cause of the oppressed.'
The Principia, after quoting Wendell Phillips's original charge against Abraham Lincoln, and giving an abstract of the Tribune's reply and of Mr. Phillips's rejoinder, adds, in conclusion-
ï¿½The Tribune's response to this throws no additional light on the main question, and adds nothing to the argument.
'We think Mr. Phillips has altogether the winning side of the controversy. In nothing essential to the main question has the Tribune furnished any correction to his statements. The Tribune would have shown its discretion by silence.'
A letter from Philadelphia, received too late for insertion this week, (the Liberator being issued one day earlier than usual, on account of the celebration of the First of August at Abington,) informs us of the brutal and violent arrest, in that city, of James Valentine, a highly respectable colored man, born free, and resident there for more than thirty years, with the purpose of carrying him off as a fugitive slave. This assault was made by U. S. Marshals Jenkins and Sharkey, assisted by three slave-hunters from the South. Inquirers, at the time, were lyingly told that the man had committed a robbery. The amount of evidence of his freedom, with the publicity of the affair, rendered it impossible to hold him, and he was discharged.
Telegraphic news, in advance of the arrival of the steamer Bohemia, mention that-
'The fourth session of the International Statistical Congress was opened in London on the 16th. Delegates from all parts of the world were present. Judge Longest and Mr. Lawrence represented the United States. Mr. Dallas, the American Minister, was also present, in the midst of numerous distinguished guests.
At a preliminary meeting, Mr. Milnor Gibson welcomed the Congress in the name of the British Government.
Prince Albert, President of the Congress, delivered an appropriate inaugural address. After the address the following little incident occurred: Lord Brougham, seeing the American Minister was present, said he hoped Mr. Dallas would forgive him for reminding him that there was a negro present as a member of the Congress. This gave rise to loud laughter and cheering. Mr. Dallas made no sign in response; but the negro in question, Dr. M. R. Delany, arose and returned his thanks for the kind allusion which had been made to him, and assured all present that he too was a man. This was greeted with renewed cheering from all parts of the hall.
An important meeting with reference to the encouragement of the growth of cotton in India was held in Manchester. Lord Stanley occupied the chair.
In the House of Lords on the 17th, Lord Brougham called attention to the case of the negro lady recently refused a first-class passage on a Cunard steamer on the ground of color, and said these was no doubt damages could have been recovered if the matter had not been compromised.'
The last paragraph no doubt refers to the case of Mr. Putnam, known and highly esteemed by many of our readers. The incivility in question occurred in relation to her passage hence to England. The return passage was made without objection or difficulty.
CORRECTION. In Mr. Phillips's note, printed last week, the remark about the insolent mode of spelling negro should be credited to seward, not to Benton.
<c03>
INFLUENCE OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
Were it not that society is by nature immortal, and its death ever a new birth, the most clear-sighted among us (seeing that the Philosophy of Reform is ever so gradual, sometimes imperceptible) would in this unhappy day believe it to be in its last agonies. All woodmen tell us that rich manure is the rain of the oak, and that the thinner and wilder the soil, the tougher and more iron-textured the timber, though, unhappily, the smaller. So it is said that the spirits of men become purer from their errors, by suffering for them; that he who does battle fiercely will be found stronger than he who can stay away from the battle, or even not un watchfully ï¿½abide by the stuff. 'A hard saying is this, but if true, it throws light on the picture for us.
You have undoubtedly observed of late the paralyzing influence of the Chicago platform upon the anti -slavery sentiment of the country; most sad and disastrous upon the young men among us, on whom are built the hopes of the future, and who have not yet learned, from their own experience and research, or from their religious teaching, that bound up within themselves an the oracles of truth, and that their highest authority for action and safest monitor of duty are found in their impressible sympathy and their stern sense of justice. In this pliant condition, the creed of this platform appeals to the ardor and real of these young men, in behalf of freedom in the Territories of the United States, and of the maintenance, ï¿½inviolate,' of ï¿½the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions, according to its own judgment exclusively'; which ï¿½institution' is understood to mean slavery, as essential to the balance of power and the preservation of the Union. The Republican platform denounces ï¿½the lawless invasion, by armed force, of the soil of any State or Territory,'-thereby pronouncing the Free State men, in the invasion of the soil of Kansas, as well as John Brown of the soil of Virginia, guilty of ï¿½he greatest of crimes,' and equally deserving the dungeon and gallows.
I happened, a few days since, to attend a meeting where the question was discussed ï¿½Whether or not the Republican party is the greatest political obstacle to the abolition of slavery?' I was not a little surprised at the intelligible and vigorous defence of Republicanism, and the heartless and even malignant attack upon Abolitionism, made by those young men-the best of the neighborhood-with enough of the spirit and genius of freedom to dare all law in defence of the fugitive, and, under favorable circumstances, to defy the Constitution in defence of John Brown. I question whether such proficiency in discipline and deference to the demands of party can be exampled by the pulpit or the play-house; and certain it is, that with all the appliances of the schools for improving the mind and elevating the morals, the relation of man to his fellow-man remains an inquiry, a doubt, in the creed of the Republican party.
To compare this demoralization of public sentiment in the North with the extra-judicial procedure of the Democratic party, in the extension of slavery into the Territories, as an obstacle to the abolition of slavery, is an absurdity.
Those who labored in the cause of Abolition in 1850-54, remember how the hatred of slavery created by the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, the legitimate result of which would have repealed that law, was woefully perverted and compromised by the Free Soil party, for private ends and ignoble purposes. When Margaret Garner had escaped from Slavery and Democracy in Kentucky, and asked protection from the Free State of Ohio' and the Free Soil party, (then the dominant power,) the spirit of our Stats Constitution and the sentiment of the people welcomed her upon the soil, and, with the glorious unction of Samuel Adams, of Revolutionary fame, declared that no alive should cross the threshold of Ohio-Margaret Garner and her little ones were free! But when the master demanded his victim, and she appealed to the Governor to save her from a fate more dreadful than death, the manhood of the party begged to be excused. She only asked the simple right to her person and the babes that God had given her. Governor Chase said that the violation of the Fugitive Slave Law was revolutionary-a vindication of the Higher Law, not necessary to his own or his party's success; and he sacrificed that heroic woman and her posterity for ever, together with the sacred right of the State against invasion on her own soil, to save the party and the emoluments of office. Go see! there lies the bloody holocaust upon the altar of a barbarous faith! It was a hangman's work, and well might tempt the sword of a Christian from its scabbard to see a brave woman and all her lineage murdered thus, like sheep in butcher's shambles. Miserable cowards were we all, and well deserved just what we got-the sum total of the problem-the Dred Scott decision.
'Alas! alas!
This hurts most-this-that, after all, we are paid
The worth of our work.'
No sooner had the indignation for the Fugitive Slave Law been allayed, than the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the attempt to force upon an unwilling people a pro-slavery Constitution, kindled again the fires of freedom, and lashed the public sentiment into frenzy. In this aggression on the soil of Kansas, constitutional rights were violated, and might be constitutionally opposed; and therefore when John Bown led out his boats to battle against slavery there, the unrestrained support and sympathy of all the North went with him, and the Higher Law was there appropriated, with the relish of a famished tiger for his prey. There was no party to be saved, no office lost. But when John Brown crossed over into Virginia to defend the black man's right to leave the soil, the Republican party shut their eyes and ears, and said, ï¿½Let him be hung, but give us Garibaldi!' So they have smothered the deep sympathy of living hearts to gain the poor ï¿½half loaf,' which, to the four millions now enslaved is, after all, ï¿½a stone.'
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFING.
Salem, (Ohio,) July 24th, 1860.
Extract of a letter from an intelligent gentleman in Illinois:-
'We are having a fiery campaign here in Illinois. Lincoln is evidently on the ï¿½inside track,' although the Douglaston are making a tremendous noise.
'Many Republicans in Northern Illinois find it very hard to support Lincoln, on account of his position on the Fugitive Slave Law, slavery in the District of Columbia, the admission of slave States, &c. They think he is not so good as the Chicago platform, and too much like his political progenitor, Henry Clay, who, every body knows, was the most successful advocate and defender of slavery; although, since Seward's speech on the first of February last, they are quite as willing to sustain Lincoln as they would have been to support Seward. On the whole, if Lincoln cannot be elected because of his anti-slavery principles, God help the nation!'
COLORED SCHOLARS IN THE BOSTON SCHOOLS, -Since the advent of the colored children into the Boston public schools, several have had diplomas awarded them; but the honor of being the first recipient of a City Medal has been achieved this year by Miss Mary Louisa Lockleys, of the Bowdon School. Her composition, (subject-'Conversation,') penmanship, diagrams, and other exercises, were highly meritorious.
Untoward circumstances have checked the march of some others, boys and girls, whose ambition was excited to reach the highest standard of excellence. Our thoughts now recur to one boy who was unrivaled for punctuality and assiduity, and whose rapid progress in studies and growing favor with teachers and fellow pupils seemed to mark him not only as a candidate a Franklin Medal, but also for a suc-
<c04>
cessful career through the High School department; but in consequence of a complicated illness, he was Compelled to leave school, and to forego, very reluctantly, all those aspirations so long and ardently cherished by himself and friends.
Parents cannot too highly appreciate the advantages afforded to their children in the Boston school houses, those temples of learning, so justly a theme of pride and honor to every citizen. They should be willing to make sacrifices, many and often, that the rising generation may thus acquire that knowledge which is power. W. C. N.

Correspondence of the New Yorker Demokrat.
SUPPRESSING THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT IN TEXAS-ATROCIOUS LAW.
NEW-BRAUNFELS, Texas, July 1, 1860. 
I send you a copy of an act passed by our last Legislature, and sanctioned by the great Sam (Houston)-an act the like of which is scarcely found in China, certainly not in France, Austria or Russia. The history of this interesting legislative enactment is veiled with great and intentional obscurity. At the opening of the session, there was come talk about a bill of that kind, but public opinion declared decidedly against it, and it was understood that the bill would be dropped. Till within four days, nothing additional could be learned of the matter. Now, it appears in fall view among the laws passed by the late Legislature, and approved by the Governor. As far as we can learn, Senator Duggan, of Sequin-chosen chiefly by the German vote-offered the bill; nobody dared to resist it, and it was passed without any discussion, without even moving a call of the roll. Many of the Representatives are said to have avoided voting by absenting themselves, among them the few Germans. Since then, a cry of indignation has been raised among the Germans; but nothing will be done to test the legality of the act, because no 1awyer can be found to defend us. VINDEX.
ARTICLE 653 shall hereafter read as follows: Any Person who shall, in the presence or hearing of any slave, utter words calculated and with the intent to render such slave discontented with his state of slavery, or who shall, by words or speech addressed to a slave, endeavor to render said slave discontented with his state of slavery, shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary not less than two nor more than five years.
ART. 653. A. Any free person who shall publicly maintain that masters have no right of property in their slaves, either by speaking, writing or printing, shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary not less than two nor more than four years.
ART. 653. B. Any free person who shall privately or otherwise than publicly maintain that masters have no right of property in their slaves, with purpose to bring the institution of slavery into disrepute in the mind of any free inhabitant in this State, or of any resident for the time being therein, shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary not less than two nor more than five years.
ART. 653. C. If any free person shall write, print, publish, or cause to be written, printed, or published, any printing, picture, book, or other writing inculcating resistance to the right of property of masters in their slaves, or calculated to produce in slaves a spirit of insubordination, with the intent to advise or incite negroes in this State to rebel or to make insurrection; or if he shall, with the intent to give effect to the tendency or to aid the purpose of any such book, writing, or publication, knowingly circulate the same, he shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary not less than two nor more than seven years.
ART. 653. D. If any postmaster or deputy-post-master, who knows that any such book, writing, or publication as described in the preceding article, has been received at his office through the mail, and shall have reason to believe that the same is intended to be used in violation of the provisions of said preceding article, it shall be his duty to give notice thereof, before the same is delivered, to some justice of the peace or magistrate, whose duty it shall be to examine into the character and tendencies of said book, writing, or publication, and the purpose for which the same is intended to be used by the persons to whom it is directed, and if upon such examination he shall conclude that said writing, book or publication is such as is described in the preceding article, and intended to be used in violation of the provisions of said article, it shall be his duty to cause said book, writing or publication to be burned in his presence.
ART. 653. E. If any free person shall subscribe for any book, writing, or publication, such as is described in Art. 653, C., of this chapter, and with the intent to use the same in violation of the provisions of said article, he shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, or imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding six months, or both, at the discretion of the jury.
ART. 653. F. If any postmaster or deputy-postmaster shall violate his duty as prescribed in Art. 653, D., he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined in any sum not exceeding two hundred dollars.

VIOLENCE IN LEXINGTON, MO.
Suppression of the ï¿½Citizens' Public Advertiser, for putting up the names of Lincoln and Hamlin.
STATEMENT OF THE EDITOR OF THE PAPER.
KINGï¿½S HOTEL, Monday, July 8th. 
To the Editors of the Missouri Democrat:
GENTLEMEN,-I arrived here last night from Lexington, Mo., where I was publishing the Citizens' Public Advertiser, and whence I was driven, on Friday afternoon, by a mob of infuriate individuals, for the following cause:
On Friday morning, I inserted the names of the Republican candidates for President and Vice President, and underneath remarked, as well as I can remember, these words: ï¿½We hoist the names of our candidates for President and Vice President this morning, and will give our reasons for this step tomorrow.'
In about one hour after the edition of the paper was printed, and immediately after the city circulation had been distributed, E. Winser, Insurance Agent, sent his little boy to my office with a copy of the paper, and directions not to send any more to his office; and shortly after, Mr. Winser himself appeared, and brought with him a notice that my policy, of insurance on my office, in the Etna Company, would be cancelled that day (Friday) at noon. I said to him, ï¿½I am sorry to have given you cause of offence, Mr. W., but will explain to-morrow the reason for the course I took this morning.' He replied, ï¿½There will never be another paper issued out of your office,' and departed. Shortly after, about fifteen of the strongest and most violent pro-slavery men in Lafayette county made their appearance in my office, with this same Winser and an employee of Wm. Limrick, of the name of Shields, heading them, and Winser and Shields (for they both spoke at once) acting as spokesmen. They denounced me as publishing a paper that injured and endangered their slave property, and declared their determination that the paper should never appear again in Lexington, either as neutral or Republican; that I should send away my office before night, or they would throw it in the river, and that I would have to leave the city, under penalty of personal violence. They than seized on the edition of my paper, jut ready for mailing, declaring that such a paper should never be sent from Lexington. This man Winser is a member of the M. E. Church South, a Free Mason, and any man would have taken him to be an order-loving and law-abiding citizen; and yet he was foremost in inciting the mob, and thus endangering the property which, as agent for the Etna, he had insured, and after having done so, cancelled the policy! Shields was half drunk, and so was another one of the crowd.
I closed my office and went down among the crowd who were assembled in front of it on the sidewalk, when some of them wanted me to tell them there what I would have published on Saturday morning, and elevated me in their midst for that purpose, and was about to proceed, when they fell to quarrelling among themselves, and the most violent among them succeeded in preventing me from explaining my views and sentiments. I then asked them if they were going to permit the Republicans of Lafayette county to vote their ticket in November. Several voices in the crowd-'We will die before those names go on the poll books.'
I do not know what was done with my office. I incline to the opinion that they destroyed it, because most of them are drinking men, and when they would raise their courage, resort to the bottle; and most of them professed some notoriety, gained in one way and another, by their brave forays into Kansas during the troubles in the Territory. A great, double-fisted fellow, by the name of Brooks, was very anxious that I should give them credit for not having injured me personally.
Such is the manner in which free speech is treated in Lafayette county. They dare not let truth be spoken in soberness.
There were some noble exceptions to the ruffians who acted such a disagreeable pert on Friday, and my heart warms to them for the sympathy expressed in such decided terms.
I have been in Lexington over three years, and had been publishing a neutral paper up to Friday morning last. S. HARBAUGH.
<C05>
RECEIPTS
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, July, 1860.
Contributions at Framingham, $84 20
Wm. S. and Abbie B. Haywood, to redeem pledge, May, 1859, 25 00
Alden Sampeon, to redeem pledge, May, 1859, 5 00
H. H. Hagar, redeem pledge, May, 1860, 2 00
T. C. Severance, redeem pledge, May 1859, 10 00
J. H. Stephenson, redeem pledge, May 1860, 10 00
Caroline E. Forten, redeem pledge, May 1860, 2 00
Lyman Coolidge, redeem pledge, July 4, 1859, 5 00
Mrs. Mary May, redeem pledge, 50 00
Mrs. Chapman, redeem pledge, 14 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, July 30, 1860.
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Legacy of the late Mrs. Lucretia Hotchkiss, of New Haven, Conn., by Charles Bradley, Executor, $25 00
John H. Stephenson, Newton, Mass., (donation,) 10 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.

NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.
The new Series now consists of Six Tracts, to which we would again call the attention of our readers and of all friends of Anti-Slavery Reform, as just the publications which the times and the cause now require. Call for them-send for them-circulate them:
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections
during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 5 cents.
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slave holding States, for 1859-60. 10 cents.
No. 5. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L. MARIA CHILD. 10 cents.
No. 6. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. 5 cents.
The prices will be one third less where a dozen or more copies are taken.
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beckman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 221 Washington street, Boston.
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.-The next quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at NEWBURYPORT, Sunday, August 26, day and evening.
PARKER PILLSBURY, CHAS. L. REMOND, H. ford DOUGLASS and others will address the meeting.
CHAS. LENOX REMOND, President.
LYDIA M. TENNEY, Sec'y.
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.-The next quarterly meeting of the Worcester South A. S. Society will be held at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, Sunday, Aug. 12th, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY, H. ford DOUGLASS, E. H. HEYWOOD, and other speakers, will be present.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.-The next quarterly meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society will be held at LEOM INSTER, Sunday, August 19, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY and H. ford DOUGLASS will speak.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President. MOSES H. MERRICK, Sec'y.
ASHBURNHAM. WM. wells brown will lecture at Ashburnham, Mass., on Saturday evening, Aug. 11, and Sunday, the 12th.
GHENT, N. Y.-AARON M. POWELL will give a discourse in commemoration of the West India Emancipation, at Ghent, N. Y., on Sunday afternoon, Aug. 5, at 3 o'clock.
ANDOVER.-PARKER PILLSBURY will speak at Andover, Sunday, August 5.
NATICK.-H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Natick. Sunday, August 6.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON. M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity. 
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark. M. D., Portland. Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets, Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
A CARD-The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same-as Nature intended it should be-soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage).  JAS. S. MARSHALL, 
Practical Chemist, 
No. 32 City Buildings, New York.
New York, June 6. 3m

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 5, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals. 
WM. S. HAYWOOD, ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
WANTED,
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to have the superintendence of the Domestic Department. An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or
J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward. 
Hopedale, Milford. Mass., July 23, 1860.
A Military Catechism.
QUESTION 1st.-Who among all the great Generals of the World has caused the greatest destruction of human life?
ANSWER-GENERAL DEBILITY.
QUESTION 2D.-Please name the principal officers in the General's Staff.
ANSWER.-Gens. dyspepsia, dropsy, piles, liver complaint, &c., and Cols. bronchitis, neuralgia, nervous exhaustion, boils, &c.
QUESTION 3D.-Who is destined to become his most formidable antagonist?
ANSWER.-IRON, as developed in the famous
PERUVIAN SYRUP.
The Hosts are Marshalling for the Conflict. Aug. 3. 3t

TENTH NATIONAL WOMANS RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100 pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON, Mrs. E. L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLAOKWELE, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYN GARRISON, Rev. BERIAN GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. 'A word to the wise,' &c.
Price, 25 cents: by mail, 30 cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860.
<c06>
ANNOUNCEMENT 
EXTRA.
MIND AND BODY.
PHYSIOLOGY reveals the intimate connection between the mind and the body, and shows us that without a sound and healthy body, the mind cannot property perform in functions. Having spent fifteen years in feeding the public mind, until apparently an absolute plethora has come upon it, we now propose to administer for the maladies of the body-' To cure the ills which flesh is heir to.' We have issued during our Publishing Life not less than FOUR MILLIONS OF VOLUMES, several of which have been translated into other languages, and have found their way to hundreds of thousands of readers, in every portion of the habitable globe.
Having been so largely instrumental in disseminating valuable books, which have made an indelible impress for good upon mankind, it is not without a slight feeling of regret that we abandon our calling for another, and we should hesitate in so doing, did we not believe that good can be done in another sphere, and that the body, with its multiform infirmities, needs attending to, (especially in this land of fast livers,) as well as the mind.
A few years since, a gentleman of Boston, an invalid, was traveling in search of health, in Peru, the beautiful land of the Incas, the country of mines and minerals. During his stay, he spent seven weeks in a convent in the interior; while there, he became possessed of a recipe for a medicine which effected his own complete restoration to health. Grateful for the means which had enabled him to live a sound man again, he extended his knowledge as he was able, and in a few years it was in successful use in all the Hospitals, and by all the medical men of Peru. The effect of the medicine was so wonderful that he entered into correspondence with parties in this country, who took it up earnestly, and have labored unceasingly for its introduction, until
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP,
-OR-
PROTECTED PROTOXIDE OF IRON.
Has come to be considered almost a necessity in every family. Its success is extraordinary, proving its great excellence. Notwithstanding its present popularity, it is destined yet to take s higher rank than my curative ever offered to the American People. Its elements are safe and simple, and disintegrated, have been known and recommended by physicians for centuries, but, previous to this discovery, could never be properly combined so as to be held in solution.
We purpose to devote the next ten years to a thorough and systematic dissemination of this INVALUABLE PREPARATION, Until
'EARTH'S REMOTEST NATION' 
shall be reached and benefited. If our language seems extravagant, we beg the incredulous or doubting to send for a pamphlet of testimonials, from some of the most distinguished men of Peru and this country, who have tested its value, and speak from experience.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.
The style of our new firm will be
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER,
STORE 39 SUMMER STREET, BOSTON,
(Next door to the New Post Office.) 
The medicine will be manufactured by N. L. CLARK & CO., bat exclusively for us, and, as heretofore, will be sold
BY ALL DRUGGISTS. July 20.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.' 
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
'For cash or approved credit. Sept 16 if

WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A. TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, ï¿½At Home,' &c. 
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety. 
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles. 
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES.
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18. sop6m.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L.I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-doer practice of any ï¿½Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
Anti-Tobacco Publications.
THE Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society are for sale at Nos. 5, 9 and 13, Corn hill, Boston, and also at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass.
Among them are the following:-
Six Tracts for Young America, or Boys. 
A variety of Tracts for Raisers, Sellers, Smokers, Chewers, and Snuffers. 
A variety for Ladies, Clergymen, Physicians and otners. 
The Zoological Temperance Convention; The Rev. Solomon Spittle; Uncle Tobey's Stories about Tobacco, for Youth and Schools of all sorts; Anti-Tobacco Envelopes, and a variety of handsome Cards, large and small, for Bends of Hope. June 22.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
SUMMER WOODS,
BY MARY HOWITT.
Come ye into the summer woods;
These entereth no annoy;
All greenly wave the chestnut leaves,
And the earth is full of joy.
I cannot tell you half the sights
Of beauty you may see,
The bursts of golden sunshine,
And many a shady tree.
There, lightly swung, in bowery glades,
The honeysuckles twine;
There blooms the rose-red campion,
And the dark-blue columbine.
There grows the four-leaved plant ‘true-love,’
In some dusk woodland spot;
There grows the enchanter's night-shade,
And the wood forget-me-not.
And many a merry bird is there,
Unscared by lawless men;
The blue-winged jay, the woodpecker,
And the golden-crested wren.
Come down, and ye shall see them all,
The timid and the bold;
For their sweet life of pleasantness,
It is not to be told.
And far within that summer wood,
Among the leaves so green,
There flows a little gurgling brook,
The brightest e’er was seen.
There come the little gentle birds,
Without a fear of ill;
Down to the murmuring water’s edge,
And freely drink their fill!
And dash about and splash about,
The merry little things;
And look askance with bright blue eyes,
And flirt their dripping wings.
I’ve seen the freakish squirrels drop
Down from their leafy tree,
The little squirrels with the old,-
Great joy it was to me!
And down unto the running brook
I’ve seen them nimbly go;
And the bright water seemed to speak
A welcome kind and low.
The nodding plants, they bowed their heads,
As if in heartsome cheer:
They spake unto these little things,
‘’Tis merry living here!’
Oh, how my heart ran o’er with joy!
I saw that all was good,
And how we might glean up delight
All round us, if we would.
And many a wood-mouse dwelleth there,
Beneath the old wood shade,
And all day long has work to do,
Nor is of aught afraid.
The green shoots grow above their heads,
And roots so fresh and fine
Beneath their feet; nor is there strife
‘Mong them for mine and thine.
There is enough for every one,
And they lovingly agree;
We might learn a lesson, all of us,
Beneath the green-wood tree.

THE RIVER PATH.
BY JOHN G WHITTIER.
[The following new and beautiful poem, from our ever-welcome contributor, will be recognized, by those who have ever been near his cottage, as a Picture of a Sunset on the banks of the Merrimac.]-Ed. Independent.
No bird-song floated down the hill,
The tangled bank below was still;
No rustle from the birchen stem,
No ripple from the water’s hem.
The dusk of twilight round us grew,
We felt the falling of the dew;
For, from us, ere the day was done,
The wooded hills shut out the sun.
But on the river's farther side
We saw the hill-tops glorified,-
A tender glow, exceeding fair,
A dream of day without its glare.
With us the damp, the chill, the gloom;
With them the sun-set’s rosy bloom;
While dark, through willowy vistas seen,
The river rolled in shade beween.
From out the darkness where we trod
We gazed upon those hills of God,
Whose light seemed not of moon or sun.
We spake not, but our thought was one.
We paused, as if from that bright shore
Beckoned our dear ones gone before;
And stilled our beating hearts to hear
The voices lost to mortal ear!
Sudden our pathway turned from night;
The hills swung open to the light;
Through their green gates the sunshine showed,
A long, slant splendor downward flowed.
Down glade and glen and bank it rolled:
It bridged the shaded stream with gold;
And, borne on piers of mist, allied
The shadowy with the sunlit side!
‘So,’ prayed we, ‘when our feet draw near
The river, dark with mortal fear,
And the night cometh chill with dew,
O, Father! let thy light break through!
So let the hills of doubt divide,
So bridge with <illegible> sunless tide!
So let the eyes that fail on earth
On thy eternal hills look forth;
And in thy beckoning angels know
The dear ones whom we loved below!’

BURIED GRIEFS.
BY CHARLES MACKAY.
Oh! let them rest, the buried griefs,
Why should we drag them to the day?
They lived their hour of storm and shower:
They lived and died and passed away.
Oh! let them rest-their graves are green;
New life shall rise above the mould;
The dews shall weep, the blossoms peep,
The flowers of sympathy unfold.
So, on the solitary moor,
The soldiers' graves are bright with flowers;
The wild thyme blooms, and sweet perfumes
Attract the roamers of the bowers.
There strays the bee to gather sweets,
And give his booming trumpet rest;
There waves the heath its purple wreath,
And there the linnet builds her nest.
So let them rest-the buried griefs,
The place is holy where they lie:
On Life’s cold waste their graves are placed-
The flowers look upward to the sky.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
An Essay delivered at the Exhibition of the English High School, Boston, Monday, July 16th, 1860, by WM A. HOVEY.
I know that when, in public lectures, the speaker proposes to discuss the rights of woman, many stay away in disgust. I know that when woman dares herself to stand up and claim her rights, she is ridiculed, and expelled from (so-called) good society. I known that when noble men have taken up the matter and defended the cause of the weaker sex, they have been derided, and called’ madmen’ and fanatics.’ All this I know, and yet have chosen for today’s subject the bare question of ’Woman’s Rights,’ hoping to prove to all candid minds, that those who have directed the public affairs of this Commonwealth (and we will not go outside of the Bay State) have not guaranteed to woman those privileges and rights to secure which our forefathers drained their deepest veins.
I claim for woman the enjoyment of all those privileges which are by statute secured to man. You cannot find the least shadow of a reason why, in the ‘eye of the law,’ there should not be perfect equality of the sexes.
First and foremost, I claim for women the right to exercise the elective franchise. They are persons; native, free-born citizens; property-holders, tax-payers; and yet you deny them this, the most sacred right of the citizen. Do they not contribute their part towards the support of the schools, the colleges, the churches, the poor houses, the jails, the prisons, the army, the navy of the country? and yet you allow them no voice in your councils of state. Do you not thus reinstate the doctrine of ‘taxation without representation,’ which Concord and Lexington and Bunker Hill, and every well-fought field of the Revolution, have pronounced infamous? Are you not doing by woman precisely as Britain did by your fathers? Do you not see the gross inconsistency of your course? Are not the women of the Bay State possessed of every qualification necessary to the legal voter, with the single exception of that of sex? Are not her daughters moral, virtuous and intelligent, and in all respects equal to her sons? Certainly. Why, then, have you classed them with idiots and lunatics? Yes, their legal position is even lower than that of either. The lunatic can vote in moments of sanity, and the idiot too, if it be a man, and not more than nine-tenths a fool; but they ‘who have guided great movements of charity, established missions, edited journals, published works on history, economy and statistics; who have governed nations, led armies, filled the professor’s chair, taught philosophy and mathematics to the savans of our age, discovered comets and planets, and piloted ships across the sea,’ are denied the most important right of the citizen, because they came not into this republic crowned with the dignity of manhood. Is not this grossly unjust?
Again, I demand for woman, in all criminal cases, the right to be tried by a jury of her peers. If you say that man is her peer, and therefore she has no right to complain, carry the principle out, for it is a good one. Put the names of women, as well as those of men, on the lists from which we make up our juries, and let woman’s voice be heard before passing upon the actions of man.
If you dislike this, and say she has no right to judge him, being inferior, then at your bar stands the female criminal, with the Magna Charta in one hand and the Constitution in the other, claiming and demanding the right of trial by a jury of her equals. These are the horns of the dilemma, and you cannot escape them, unless you reinstate the doctrines of perfect equality and impartial liberty, and secure to woman her full, natural rights.
Let us look at this matter in a little different light. Men of Massachusetts! are you prepared to say that your mothers, wives and daughters, who have enjoyed the advantages of our free institutions from the time of their birth, are incompetent to exercise the elective franchise, while you affirm that the thousands of emigrants that annually land upon our shores should be considered, after a residence of a few short years, politically equal to the most favored? Is it just that those who have nurtured and cared for you in childhood, who have watched over you in sickness, and piloted you through youth’s many dangers, should be cast aside and neglected, and allowed to exercise no influence, when you have reached manhood? Are you not thus guilty of the basest ingratitude? And
‘If there be a crime 
Of deeper dye than all the guilty train
Of human vices, ‘tis ingratitude.’
These are some of the wrongs of woman. Others, quite as important and quite as glaring, might be enumerated, but these will suffice to show that injustice exists, and to call attention to the subject. Let it be discussed fearlessly, yet with care, and I make no doubt but that we shall agree that to woman ought to be secured those natural rights that the world has so unjustly denied to her.
A SIMPLE CONCESSSION.-A FATAL CONFESSION.
Under your head, ‘Refuge of Oppression,’ (Liberator, June 29,) the Courrier des Etats Unis, speaking of Senator Sumner’s speech, says:- 
‘If one could assign absolutely a political object to this stupendous diatribe, the only admissible one would be, that Mr. Sumner wishes to put the South under the ban of the Union, and incite the North to cast out of the confederation all the slave States, as so many members irremediably gangrened. If the picture which he has drawn could be considered anything else than the extravagant work of a pencil steeped in gall, the South would be at once the moral shame, the political scourge and the physical cancer of the American Republic.’
The concession-the confession-here is, simply that Senator Sumner has shown to this editor-has put him under conviction-that ‘all the slave States’ are ‘at once he moral shame, the political scourge and physical cancer of the American Republic,’ fit to be ‘cast out of the confederation, as so many members irremediably gangrened.’ Why does not this editor, or some one in sympathy with his pretensions, undertake to make out a case of untruthfulness against the utterances which have produced in him these agonizing convictions? So far from this, he has barely, toward the close, in behalf of Brooks and Chestnut, alluded to them as ‘calumnies and impostures,’ by which it is plain, from all he has said besides, he only means truth unfitly spoken.
Again:
‘In almost every country, the law punishes as dangerous to society, the incitement of one class of citizens to hatred and contempt of another. Mr. Sumner has done nothing else; only he has done it on a larger scale: he has attempted to embitter one-half of the confederacy against the other.’
Here is further involuntary disclosure of conviction. Confession of cause existing for abandonment-disunion.
As sure as advancing intelligence is to popularize human liberty, this speech of Senator Sumner will yet be seen to have been but an approximation to the monstrous truth:-only a part of the truth in the case; and that part not unfitly spoken.
O. S. MURRAY.
Foster’s Crossings, Warren Co., O., July 4, 1860.
‘INCENDIARY PUBLICATIONS.’ The Richmond Inquirer states that the Grand Jury of Queen Anne’s county, Md., have presented the New York Tribune and the Sunday School Advocate as ‘incendiary’ documents, under the act of Assembly of 1831, and that Postmasters will be required to withhold these papers from subscribers in the future. Verily when a Church publication has the grace thus to offend the slaveocracy, there is hope for the slave.
<c03>
MISSIONS AND EMANCIPATION IN THE WEST INDIES.
EFFECT OF EMANCIPATION IN THE WEST INDIES-AN ENGLISHMAN'S OBSERVATIONS IN JAMAICA.
A meeting of the clergy of New York and vicinity was held last week at the Bible Union Rooms, Number 350 Broome street, to hear an address from Edward Beane Underhill, Esq., of London, Foreign Secretary of the English General Baptist Missionary Society for the last twelve years, and for four years last past, official visitor of the missions in Burmah, India, the West Indies, &c., who is now on his way to London.
A considerable number of clergymen were present, among them Rev. Frederick 0. Neillson, the banished missionary to Sweden.
The exercises were opened at ten o’clock by Rev. Dr. Gillette, who read a hymn, which was sung by the congregation.
Mr. Underhill confirmed the recent accounts from India, as to the increased interest of the Hindoo mind in regard to Christianity.
He next spoke of his recent visit to Jamaica. He had visited Trinidad and Hayti, and spent five months in Jamaica; and was prepared to deny the reports that either missionary labors or emancipation had been a failure in the West Indies.
He had come away from Jamaica and the other West India Islands with a glad and thankful heart. All the islands under British Government, except Trinidad, were eminently Christian islands. There were more church members, in proportion to the population, and more general attendance upon public worship, than in any other part of the world.
In some small islands, he could not learn of a single family that was accustomed to be absent from public worship; and the same was true, to a great extent, of Jamaica itself, in which there could not be less than 180,000 people under direct religious instruction. In some parts of the island, there were not two per cent, of the population that did not attend the churches.
There had been some falling off since emancipation, it is true, but that was owing to natural causes. The excitement attending emancipation had died away, and there had been time and opportunity for the purification of the churches, and the exercise of due discipline. Before emancipation, the people were mostly in the hands of the leaders, who were illiterate men-for the missionaries could rarely visit the plantations, except by stealth; but since emancipation, the leaders had become more instructed, and were more directly under the eye of the missionaries. Many of the people had gone into the mountainous districts in search of cheap lands, and at the present time, there was not sufficient means of reaching these wanderers. The ministry had also diminished, being almost entirely destitute of external aid. The great want of Jamaica to-day was more ministers.
Education had greatly advanced since emancipation. Then, in one district, there were but three or four out of five thousand who could read and write; now, there are eighteen hundred. The piety of these persons was sincere, earnest and devoted.
They supported their own pastors, and built and repaired their own churches, and maintained their own schools. The planting interest had always been antagonistic to their education until very recently.
He would speak next of the political aspect of emancipation, and denied emphatically the statements that emancipation had been a dead failure. The whole argument upon which such assertions; were based was utterly fallacious.
In the first place, emancipation was not the cause of the material decline of Jamaica. England now received from her West India possessions as much sugar as she ever did. It was true she did not receive half as much from Jamaica, but the other islands made it up. What had been a failure in Jamaica had been a great prosperity in Trinidad and the other islands, for emancipation took place in all together. The fact was, that act had nothing to do with the failure or the prosperity of those is lands; but the whole secret was good and bad management. Jamaica had lacked the skill and enterprise of the other islands, in the management of capital.
The West India Islands had enjoyed a great protective duty on sugar, even up to the time of emancipation, and the usual results followed in Jamaica, to wit: Unskilful cultivation and dependence upon the margin of protection for profits, instead instead of upon good management in production and manufacture. But protection was withdrawn from the other islands at the same time, and they continued to prosper. Hence, neither of these causes would account for the unquestionable commercial decay of Jamaica.
The planters of Jamaica complained that they; could not get laborers, and said that the people were idle and careless; but he could not confirm those allegations for the planters. There was not, taking one thing with another, a more industrious peasantry on earth.
The negroes of Jamaica themselves produced all that was produced. They saved money, bought themselves farms, and cared for their children; and throughout the interior, they gave evidences of an approach to a higher civilization.
The negroes were noted for honesty and integrity, and were trusted by capitalists with the management of large properties. They disliked sugar cultivation, because it was less profitable than labor upon their own freeholds.
To the people themselves, emancipation had been an unmixed good. On the mountains, and in the valleys of Jamaica, under the shadow of its mango trees, were to be found a happy people, whose faults came from slavery, and whose virtues came from emancipation.
In answer to a question by John R. Ludlow, Esq., Mr. Underhill stated that the planters in Jamaica had less sympathy with the Emancipation act, and even oppressed the peasants so that a hostile feeling became deeply rooted between them, while the planters of the other islands entered heartily into the spirit of the emancipation. Intelligent planters now in Jamaica will tell you that the want of a good understanding between the planters and the peasants, added to the frauds perpetrated by agents, have ruined the island. About one hundred and eighty thousand are engaged in; labor among the blacks. About one-third of the exports of the island is the product of labor wrought by the blacks on land owned by themselves.
In reply to a question, the speaker stated that the blacks appear to be free from a feeling of revenge towards their former masters. In conversation with him, they seemed to feel no resentment in consequence of their former servile condition.

From the Rochester Evening Express.
A ROCHESTER MAN HUNG BY A PRO-SLAVERY MOB IN KANSAS.
The Leavenworth Herald of July 12 contains 8 letter dated Paris, K. T., July 8, giving an account of the capture of Charles Doy (son of our former townsman, Dr. John Doy) by a band of pro-slavery ruffians, on the charge of horse-stealing-his escape, his subsequent capture, and his death! We quote:-
‘On Thursday last a party of nine men,” armed and equipped as the law directs,” but without legal process, arrested one Henry Woffle and son, and Charles Doy, (son of Dr. John Dor,) on a charge of horse-stealing. They were tried, found guilty, and the sentence of death passed upon them. Doy and young Woffle succeeded in making their escape-the latter, after being badly wounded. The sentence was executed upon the old man Woffle. He was deliberately shot, and his body left on the prairie. On Friday night, the same company, enlarged by additional recruits, learning that Doy was concealed in a house owned by the old man Woffle, surrounded it about 10 o’clock waited until daylight, procured a load of hay, fired it, and succeeded in dislodging him. He was tried, condemned, and immediately suffered death.
Charles Doy migrated from Rochester to Kansas in 1854, three months after his father and D. R. Anthony of this city went out with the pioneer party from Boston. Young Doy (he was then under age) passed through all the more terrible conflicts attending the early settlement of Lawrence and Douglas County, and shared the most thrilling achievements of that little band of heroes who so successfully resisted and repelled the incursions of the Ruffian “Chivalry.”
The history of these times that tried men’s souls is too familiar and too fresh in the memories of all to require more than a passing allusion. During the guerilla war, the Free -State men were often stripped of their horses and cattle, and household goods; and so frequent became these outrages, that at length they adopted a system of reprisal. The
<c04>
Doys, (father and son,) who had lost everything but the” claims” on which they resided, of course shared these adventures, and. hence the charge of horse-stealing.
The offence for which they were kidnapped and imprisoned at Platte City and St. Joseph, where for months they were subjected to the grossest indignities that their brutal captors could invent, was the attempted transportation of thirteen free colored persons, by the direction of the Town Board of Lawrence, from that city to the State of Iowa. The history of that cruel imprisonment, the trial and acquittal of Charles, the conviction and sentence of his father, and his subsequent rescue-so gallantly accomplished by a band of Free-State men from Lawrence, under the leadership of Charles-is familiar to the readers of the Doy narrative.
Dr. Doy returned to the Eastern States, where he has since been engaged in lecturing on the history of Kansas. Charles, unfortunately, as we see, remained to protect the family, and has at last fallen a victim to the insatiate fury of a brutal, bloody handed mob. The letter which we quote states that he “suffered death”-in what manner is not described. As he was dislodged by setting fire to the house, it is probable that he was cut down or shot in attempting to escape. Like his father, he was a man of distinguished bravery, impatient of, wrong, ready in his resources, and fearless in his measures of resistance and redress. While he defied danger like a hero, he endured suffering with the fortitude of a martyr. His private character was irreproachable. He was modest in his demeanor, strong in his attachments, generous, self-sacrificing in behalf of his principles and his friends. Death was the binding seal of the qualities of which his life was the witness. He lies with his brother, on a soil enriched and reeking with the sacrificial blood of American heroes. Their blood cries from a the ground, and though retaliation be neither politics nor Christian, the spirit of justice, if not of vengeance, will yet overtake their murderers.’

From the Bay State Chronicle.
THEODORE PARKER AND HIS CRITICS.
A large audience assembled in Lyceum Hall, on Sunday evening, to hear the Rev. Mr. Hassall discourse on ‘Theodore Parke-what they say of him’-it being understood that Mr. Hassall would review a recent article in the Christian Freeman, written by the Rev. George Hill of this town. A hymn being sung by the Friends of Progress choir, Mr. Hassall arose, and made inquiry whether Mr. Hill was present, stating that an invitation had been sent to him. Finding he was not in the hall, he commenced his discourse, speaking in substance as follows:-
When we heard of Theodore Parker’s death, we knew that a prophet had fallen. We did not mourn a on his account, but we believe no greater loss could be sustained by this age, this country, the world, than by the death of Theodore Parker; not that we believed that the truth depended altogether upon his life, or upon his activity, his learning, or his influence. And now that he is gone, those of us who were attached to him feel, perhaps more sensitively than we ought, any attacks upon his character; we feel that we are assailed through him.
No man has struck heavier blows against existing opinions than Theodore Parker. It was natural that there should exist a great diversity of opinion regarding him. No man would shrink less from criticism than he. He knew that he would be criticised after death, and he desired that he should be dealt with fairly and justly.
Mr. Parker was not always dealt with fairly by those who stood nearest to him theologically. He was not dealt with fairly by the Unitarians; but he has been since his death. There are many Unitarians who sympathize with him now. But amongst the Universalists, there is not the same disposition to treat Mr. Parker fairly; and I was much struck when I saw in the Christian Freeman an article written by Mr. Hill on Theodore Parker. I was requested to come here and review that article, and finally decided to do so. 
I was sorry to think that our friend Mr. Hill had treated Mr. Parker unjustly. He charges him with egotism, with being a destructionist. Nature is a destructionist, so is time. The Universalist creed itself is a destructionist. There never appeared a greater destructionist than Jesus of Nazareth, and I suppose the Jews were much astonished when they heard him. Who preached more severely against the Pharisees and Sadducees than Jesus and his Apostles? Martin Luther was a destructionist, so was John Wesley. And so has been every man who has been in advance of his age. Ideas are necessarily destructive, levelling everything, and yet constructive. What is a Universalist minister but a destructionist, and one of the worst kind-preaching every Sunday against the doctrines of the Trinity and of election. It comes with a bad grace from one of them to charge Theodore Parker with being a destructionist.
But what is Theodore Parker seeking to destroy? Mr. Hill says, ’The Church, the State, the Bible, the community, contained errors which did not answer his ideas of perfection, and he would sweep them all away.’ Where Mr. Hill got his ideas of Theodore Parker I cannot say; but he must have read his works different from what I have. 
Mr. Parker would revolutionize these, but never ‘sweep them away.’ He says himself, ‘To write down the true Christian Church seems to us as absurd as to write down the solar system.’ Would Theodore Parker, using these words, attempt to engage in such a thing as he is charged with? In his opening address to his Society in Boston he says, ‘We are here to establish a Christian Church.’
Mr. Hassall here read extracts from Mr. Parker’s works, speaking of Jesus of Nazareth as the ideal for us to follow.
Where did Mr. Hill get his idea that Theodore Parker would ‘sweep away’ the State? He was always a voter; his views on the government did not coincide with Mr. Garrison’s. No such statement can be found in any of his writings as is ascribed to him. He thought that to break up the Union would be the worst thing in the world for the slave.
He would not ‘sweep away’ the community. He must have been a mad destructionist to have thought such a thing, for, in that case, where would he be himself?
But the most serious charge which is preferred against Mr. Parker is, that he would ‘sweep away’ the Bible: and this seems to constitute Mr. Hill’s main objection. It is certainly a grave charge to say that he would sweep away the Bible, for no man of common sense would wish to give up this book. And nothing will prejudice the mass of the people against a man quicker than a charge like this, for the Bible has been a source of so much light and so much consolation, it has blessed the home, and nothing is dearer to the mass of men than this sacred volume Through it, God spoke from heaven for their enlightenment, and by it they will land in a brighter and a better world. To assail this is to commit a sin which is equalled by no sin under the face of the sun.
When a man makes a charge like this, he ought to be sure that it rests on good authority. Would any one get a fair idea of Mr. Parker’s position on the Bible by this article? No one. I charge Mr. Hill, not with gross ignorance, but with gross injustice to the man of whom he writes.
An extract was then read from Mr. Parker’s writings where he condemns, not the Bible, but the ‘ecclesiastical worship of the Bible as a Fetish.’
Mr. Hill, continued the speaker, omitted the words which qualified the passage of which he spoke, and he knew it at the time he made the statement.
After reading several passages from Mr. Parker’s works, showing his high regard and reverence for the Bible, Mr. Hassall said, that by reading Mr. Hill’s article you would think that Theodore Parker regarded the Bible as a nuisance rather than a blessing, a curse instead of a joy, and that it had helped to drag men down instead; of helping them up. When a fugitive slave fled to Mr. Parker’s house, he found not only a resting-place, but a blessing, and when he left, he had a Bible given him.
Mr. Hill selects particular phrases from Mr. Parkar’s writings; he puts them together, and gives a few of his opinions of Christ, and makes that his theology.
Mr. Hill says that Mr. Parker speaks of the Christian religion as a ‘spurious religion.’ I tried to find such a phrase in his writings, and I am confident that Theodore Parker never said any such thing. He says hundreds of times in his works that Christianity in the absolute religion, nothing more, nothing less; and can a man talk about the spuriousness of an absolute religion? Theodore Parker could not say such a thing. He says that in temperance, charity, honesty, the South Sea Islanders and other heathens are far
<c05>
ahead of the nations of the Christian world; and who will say this is not so?
Mr. Hill says that Theodore Parker has done a vast amount of mischief; that if he had done a hundred times the good he accomplished, he could never atone for the evil he did. This is one of the worst charges which could be made against Mr. Parker. I have no doubt that Mr. Hill is perfectly sincere in saying this; but what has Theodore Parker done? He has changed the views concerning this matter of the supernatural; he has not changed any man’s views concerning God. Mr. Hill acknowledges that he did much for temperance, for morality, but that his skepticism has done more harm than the good accomplished by all these. I think we should all thank Theodore Parker for the good he has done. I wish Mr. Hill could stand in his pulpit with as much courage and faith, in virtue as Theodore Parker stood before his people. He spoke strong words; he has tried to make every Christian minister freer and better; and I am thankful he was permitted to stand in Boston as he did. I think many a man has been saved from skepticism by his labor, and been made a stronger believer in the principles of right and justice; and his name will ever be linked with the greatest interests of humanity and the greatest interests of truth. 

From the Century.
ABOUT THEODORE PARKER.
Amidst the discussions concerning Theodore Parker and his belief, does not the possibility occur to his opponents that he may have been, not as they surmise,’ incapable of perceiving the truth of the belief, which they entertain, but capable of seeing far beyond their vision, and attaining a point they cannot reach? That the life of Theodore Parker was irreproachable, his goodness no sham, his worth beyond calculation, his learning profound, his perceptions clear, and his piety truly deserving the name according to the accepted interpretation of the word, his bitterest enemies cannot deny. But he does not hold a certain belief, and that is his sin.
The system of theology which so many cling to is intended for-what? No mortal man can assert that God founded it or Christ taught it; and if it be man’s invention, which history plainly shows, may it not be fallible?
The object of religion is to make mankind better-to fit them for the next world, and to enable them to bear the ills of life with resignation; to cause them to love their neighbors as themselves, and by a faithful discharge of all their duties here, become the servants of their Heavenly Father.
If a man have inner-light vouchsafed to him to fulfil the requirements, without enrolling himself on the side of the belief that he can do no good unless he holds the dogmas of the churches or sects, the whole world ought to admire that man as a proof of the power of the Almighty, greater than any schoolman’s faith could make him.
It has repeatedly been said that Theodore Parker’s teachings made all men better who listened to them. To vast numbers there is a vitality and power in everything which he ever wrote or uttered that show the man’ inspired of God.’
Would it not be well to inquire into the effects of his preaching upon his Society-to learn who compose the body, and if crime increased where he taught, and if an abandoned, licentious, atheistic, crew listened to him?
The doctrines Christ taught are very simple, and easy to be understood; but the devices of theologians, which, under the guise of ‘bread of life,’ are stones, crush more goodness from mankind than can be calculated. The wickedness of the Christian world would be lessened were people taught the power of deeds as well as of faith.
It is neither just nor proper for any clergyman to assert that Theodore Parker has not ‘accepted the conditions of salvation.’ Though clergymen may fancy themselves the accepted diplomats of ‘our Lord,’ they cannot show accredited papers save from themselves.
Instead of condemning Mr. Parker for his want of belief, commend the glory, beauty and utility of his life; and when such an one as he protests, look into the system which would strangle and suffocate him with the ideas of dead men, who could no more comprehend the future of humanity, than we the Infinity of the Eternal. R. R.

THEODORE PARKER.
To the Editor of the Christian Inquirer:
I have read with lively interest the various articles published in your paper respecting the now sainted and much lamented Theodore Parker. It seems to me a few have done him justice, so far as they were capable; more have done him injustice.
I believe it is an admitted principle, that, in order to render full and complete justice to another we must be his superior in head and heart. If that is so, in my estimation, the man is not born that can fully express Mr. Parker’s worth and our loss. At any rate, the American pulpit does not contain his equal. Some accuse him of being destructive, and not constructive. If I rightly understand him, he has aimed to destroy nothing but the superficial garb in which Christianity is clothed, and place it before the world in its naked beauty and loveliness, as simply a principle of love to God and man. I, for one, can truly say he has done more than any other or all other divines toward the building up of my faith, hope, and charity, although I never enjoyed the pleasure of hearing him preach. I think if all who have been built up in the most holy, pure and rational of all faiths, by his preaching and writings, were to write their names, it would be legion. Some have asked, with apparent soberness, was Mr. Parker a Christian? They might, with equal propriety, ask, Did ever a Christian live, move, and have his being upon this earth? In your last issue I noticed that a Methodist minister, of Roxbury, had lifted up his feeble voice against; the American divine who has sounded the death knell against all the creed-bound sects. How appropriate the prayer of the Savior for all such: ‘Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do!’ A. C. H.
Jersey City, July 16.
THEODORE PARKER'S MORAL INFLUENCE. A correspondent of the Watchman and Reflector writes the following scurrilous paragraph:-
‘Mr. Parker led a moral life; but his principles and doctrines carried others over the line at which he stopped, and threw them into the whirlpool of passion and corruption. In his own native place, (Lexington, Mass.,) where his legitimate influence would be surest to be felt, it was bad, demoralizing-an infection from which the place has suffered not a little. Moral though he was himself, yet he was quoted as authority by the immoral, applauded as their oracle and champion by the unprincipled and vicious, who felt themselves sustained and emboldened by his teachings. These things are said not lightly, nor without authority. They are a fair comment on infidelity, by whomsoever taught, and a tremendous drawback on even the humanity of the infidel, who undermines the characters and ruins the hopes of thousands of young men, while he manages to keep out of the slough of crime and corruption himself. Such a man’s crime against society is immeasurably great-not unlike that of the liquor-dealer, who sends multitudes to a drunkard’s grave, but keeps respectably sober himself, and walks proudly amid the ruins of his infamous occupation.’
We have no personal knowledge of the ‘immoral, unprincipled and vicious’ classes in Lexington, but they must differ greatly from the same classes in this city, where Mr. Parker lived and labored, if they were in the habit of quoting and applauding him. Mr. Parker was no favorite, either in the upper or lower circles of vice, for vice in all its forms never had a more unsparing foe. Probably the writer in the Watchman set out with the conclusion that every man who quoted and applauded Mr. Parker, was immoral, vicious and unprincipled. After this, it was not difficult to write the paragraph.-Atlas.
THEODORE PARKER'S LIBRARY. It will be seen by the proceedings of the Board of Aldermen yesterday, that Mrs. Parker has waived her right, under the terms of her husband’s will, to retain his valuable library in her possession, and has signified to the City Government that nearly all the books will be ready for removal to the Public Library on the 1st of December. The number of volumes thus added to the Library will be between 16,000 and 17,000, valued at $20,000. By this act of self-abnegation, which is above all praise, Mrs. Parker unites with her husband in a noble gift for the public benefit.-Journal.
The New York Post states that, during the lost winter, Story, the sculptor at Rome, modelled a bust of Theodore Parker. The latter was much pleased with the work, and paid it a rare compliment, saying,’ It looks as if it could do all that I have been trying to do.’
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.

‘IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Hair Restorative’!’
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
‘Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.’  St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS.S.A. ALLEN’ HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.’
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate., Boston, Mass.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.’'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.’
N.Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S as the Hair Restorer.’ N.Y. Independent. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind’ 
Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.’
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness. 
‘There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye- Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.’  U.S Journal. 
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.’'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ’World's Hair Restorer.’
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that ’Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.
Rahway Register’.
Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.’ Weekly Visitor, Franklin N.Y.
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ’Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character. 
St. Louis Ledger.
‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLDALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.’
Providence Daily Tribune.
‘We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.’
Boston Olive Branch.
‘Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus.
‘Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit ’Mrs. S. A. ALLEN's WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.’ It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.’
Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S AIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.’
Brooklyn Morning Journal. 
‘This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.’ Mercury’ Philadelphia.
‘Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.’
Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.’
Cleve. Leader. 
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N.Y
where address all letters and inquiries. 
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this’ on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information, Genuine assigned, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink are of counterfeits. 
See next issue of this paper for were information or send to Depot for Circulars. 
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
