THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at the rate of five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSONS, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON $ SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 20. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1736.
Refuge of oppression.
<c01>
REBEL RHYMES.
[Frank Moore, editor of the Record of the Rebellion, has made a collection of Rebel poetry, from which we take the following specimens:—]
Whoop! the Doodles have broken loose,
Roaring round like the very deuce!
Lice of Egypt, hungry pack—
After ’em, boys, and drive ‘em back!
Bull dog, terrier, cur, and lice,
Back to the beggarly land of ice!
Worry ‘em, bite ‘em, scratch and tear
Everybody, and everywhere!
[The following morceau is equally charming:—]
With a beard that was filthy and red,
His mouth with tobacco bespread,
Abe Lincoln sat in the gay White House,
A-wishing that he was dead—
Swear! Swear! swear!
Till his tongue was blistered o’er;
Then, in a voice not very strong,
He slowly whined the Despot’s song:
Lie! lie! lie!
I’ve lied like the very deuce!
Lie! lie! lie!
As long as lies were of use;
But now lies no longer pay,
I know not where to turn;
For when I the truth would say,
My tongue with lies will burn!
Drink! drink! drink!
Till my head feels very queer!
Drink! drink! drink!
Till I get rid of all fear!
Brandy, and whiskey, and gin,
Sherry, and champagne, and pop,
I tipple, I guzzle, I suck ‘em all in,
Till down dead-drunk I drop.

COPPERHEAD LOYALTY.
In the course of his speech in the U. S. House of Representatives, Mr. Long, of Ohio, said:—
“I now believe there are but two alternatives-either an acknowledgment of the south (meaning the slaveholders) as an independent nation, or their complete subjugation and extermination as a people. Of these alternatives, I prefer the former.”
Mr. Harris, of Maryland, backed up Long in a still more seditious speech, as follows:—
“The South ask you to leave them in peace; but no, you say you will bring them into subjection. That is not done yet, and God Almighty grant that it never may be! I hope that you will never subjugate the South”-(i.e., the rebel slaveholders.) 
Rogers, of New Jersey, summed up the Copperhead side of the debate, Pressing and sustaining the position, taken by Long. He closed his speech as follows:
“The fanatics and depots, like Burnside, would go down to the grave into endless perdition, and die worse than Napoleon when wrecked on a rock in the ocean. There were men here who would maintain their rights; they were not representatives of Abe Lincoln, but of the free people who sent them hither, who are content with standing by Vallandigham and other true patriots. [Hisses.] ‘God bless the exile!’ He (Rogers) prayed that the arrow of Heaven would pierce the heart of the despot, (meaning President Lincoln.) You are bringing soldiers here to keep old Abe, king of America, from being encroached upon by Jeff. Davis of the Southern Confederacy. This is no longer a country of republicanism, but of republicanism, but of monarchy and despotism, and I go for a dissolution of the Union in preference to a war of extermination. This fratricidal and ruinous war should terminate.”
Extract from “The Democratic Address to the People of the State of Ohio, and Resolutions”:-
“That we regard the existing fratricidal war of the North and Northwest upon the South to be wholly unconstitutional, as well as fruitless, wasteful, cruel and ruinous to both sections of the United States.
That the democracy of the State of Ohio have heard with dismay the doctrine of its advocates, and shrink with horror from the sanguinary scenes which have deluged the land by the hands of brethren in brother’s blood. That many democrats were themselves surprised into its qualified support at the beginning; but that long since, seeing their constitutional mistake, and realizing the utter hopelessness of coercion, they have now concluded to make what amends they could, by organizing themselves into one compact, rugged, unflinching peace party, for sopping the war on any terms whatever that would be fair between man and man. They are distinctly for peace and peaceable separation; for peace and mutual recognition; and they will positively and unanimously resist, by all suitable means, the further destruction of property and of life in such a cause. They take it for granted that each section is united on its policy, and that the border States can hereafter decide for themselves separately; that there will be a fair settlement of the partnership accounts, and the freedom of the Mississippi river.”

THE MURDER OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
The Portland Advertiser of Saturday—the PORTLAND Advertiser, a paper published in the loyal, liberty-loving State of Maine, dares to give utterance to the following infamous and atrocious language in extenuation, nay, in direct and unmistakable encouragement, of the inhuman and barbarous act of the rebels in murdering our colored soldiers at Fort Pillow:—
"Dressing a monkey in the uniform of the government—even epauletts put upon his shoulders—cannot convert the monkey into a real soldier, and attach to him the rights and immunities of a prisoner of war, if captured on the field of battle. Now we don’t understand the South as diclaling to the North as to what classes of animated nature the latter shall employ as soldiers. But do understand the South as refusing to be dictated by the North into recognizing as soldiers every such creature whom the North may elect to employ as soldiers. When men are so employed, whose very nature and hatred as victors incline them to give no quarter, is it to be expected that they will be accorded quarter in return, when captured?
Suppose, as under Mr. Van Buren’s administration in the Florida war, bloodhounds should be employed to hunt the white men of the South; could national men expect these bloodhounds, if captured, should be spared Or, if the man in command of them, and setting them on, were captured also, would you expect him to be spared by his captors? It would be more than human justice dictates to realize any such expectation.
Now we must look this matter square in the face. If the United States elect to employ barbarian means and agencies against the South, they must expect barbarian usage in turn, when the opportunity occurs for it, from the South.”
<c02>
Selections.
PAY OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL’S OFFICE, April 23.
SIR: You have done me the honor to refer to me a communication to yourself, from his Excellency, John A. Andrew, Governor of Massachusetts, with accompanying papers, relative to the claim of Rev. Samuel Harrison for pay as Chaplain of the 54th regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers.
It appears, by Gov. Andrew’s letter and the other papers, that Mr. Harrison, who is a colored man, was duly elected, and, on the 8th day of September, 1863, commissioned by Governor Andrew, as chaplain of the 54th regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, in the service of the United States; that on the 12th of November, 1863, he was mustered and accepted into the service of the United Slates, at Morris Island, South Carolina, by the proper mustering officer, and actually performed the duties of chaplain of that regiment, then and since serving in South Carolina. On demanding his pay as chaplain, on the 4th of February, 1864, he was met by the following refusal in writing, signed by the paymaster at Hilton Head:—
Samuel Harrison, chaplain of the 54th Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteers, (colored troops,) a kg pay at the usual rate, $100 per month and two rations, which, he being of African descent, I decline paying, under act of Congress paused July 17, 1862, employing persons of African descent in military service of the United States. The chaplain declines to receive anything lees. 
You have requested my opinion whether the Paymaster should have paid as demanded, and, if he should, whether it is your duty to order him to do so.
The 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers was organized in the same manner as were other regiments of State Volunteers, under the following order of the War Department, dated January 26, 1863, viz:—
I do not know that any rule of law, constitutional or statutory, ever prohibited the acceptance, organization, and muster of “persons of African descent” into the military service of the United States as enlisted men or volunteers. But whatever doubt may have existed on the subject had been fully resolved before this order was issued by the 11th section of the act of 17th July, 1861, chapter 195, which authorized the President to employ as many persons of African descent as he might deem necessary and proper for the suppression of the Rebellion, and, for that purpose, to organize and use them in such a manner as he might judge best for the public welfare; and the 12th section of the act of same date, chapter 201, which authorized the President to receive into the service of the United States, for the purpose of constructing entrenchments, or performing camp service, or any other labor, or any military or naval service, for which they might be found competent, persons of African descent, such persons to be enrolled and organized under such regulations, not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws, as the President might prescribe.
The 54th Massachusetts regiment was, therefore, organized and mustered into the service of the United States under clear authority of law.
But the fifteenth section of the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 201, after directing that all persons who have been or shall be enrolled in the service of the United States under that act, shall receive the pay and rations then allowed by law to soldiers, according to their respective grades, contains this proviso, 
”That persons of African descent who, under this law, shall be employed, shall receive ten dollars per month and one ration, three dollars of which monthly pay may be in clothing.”
Whether persons of African descent “enrolled in the service of the United States” as private soldiers, are included within the words “persons of African descent who, under this law, shall be employed,” thereby limiting their pay as soldiers to ten dollars a month, is not the question you have submitted to me. For Mr. Harrison was not a private soldier, but an officer serving under the commission of the Governor of Massachusetts, the authenticity and validity of which were recognized and admitted by the United States when he was mustered into the service. But the question is. Can a person of African descent lawfully hold the office and receive the pay of chaplain of a volunteer regiment in the service of the United States?
I have already said that I know of no provision of law, constitutional or statutory, which prohibits the acceptance of persons of African descent into the military service of the United States; and if they could be lawfully accepted as private soldiers, so also might they be lawfully accepted as commissioned officers, if otherwise qualified therefor. But the express power conferred on the President by the eleventh section of the act of 17th of July, l862, chapter 195, before cited, to employ this class of persons for the suppression of the Rebellion, as he may judge best for the public welfare, furnishes all needed sanction of law to the employment of a colored chaplain for a volunteer regiment of his own race.
Nor is any prohibition of the employment of such person found in the statutes which declare the qualification of chaplains. The ninth section of the act to authorize the employment of volunteers, &c., of 22d July, 1861, chapter 9, provides that there shall be allowed to each regiment one chaplain, who shall be appointed by the regimental commander on the vote of the field officers and company commanders on duty with the regiment at the lime the appointment shall be made. The chaplain so appointed must be a regularly ordained minister of a Christian denomination, &c. The seventh section of the act of August 5, 1861, chapter 42, for the better organization of the military establishment, declares that one chaplain shall be allowed to each regiment of the army, to be selected and appointed as the. President may direct:—Provided, That none but, regularly ordained ministers of some Christian denomination shall be eligible to selection or appointment. The eighth section of the act of July 17, 1862, chapter 200, declares that the two sections last cited shall be construed to read as follows:—
That no person shall be appointed a chaplain in the United States army, who is not a regularly ordained minister of some religious denomination, and who does not present testimonials of his present good standing as such minister, with a recommendation for his appointment as an army chaplain from tome authorized ecclesiastical body, or not less than five accredited ministers belonging to said religions denomination.
The closest inspection of these provisions will discover nothing that precludes the appointment of a Christian minister to the office of chaplain because he is a person of African descent. I therefore conclude that Mr. Harrison was the lawfully appointed and qualified chaplain of the 54th Massachusetts regiment.
The ninth section of the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 200, provides that thereafter the compensation of all chaplains in the regular or volunteer service, or army hospitals, shall be one hundred dollars
<c03>
per month, and two rations a day when on duty. Was Mr. Harrison entitled to this “rate of compensation, or was he limited to the pay of ten dollars a month and one ration, fixed by the proviso to the fifteenth section of the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 201?
It will be observed that this proviso declares ten dollars a month and one, ration shall be received by persons of African descent employed under the law of which it is a part, viz.: the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 201. Now we have seen that it is not necessary to resort to that law to find authority for the appointment of Mr. Harrison as chaplain; for, apart from the authority which might be presumed to exist prior to the enactment of any of these statutes, the eleventh section of the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 195, sufficiently warranted it.
To bring him, then, within the sweep of this proviso, and thus withdraw him from the reach of the act which specifically fixes the pay of the class of officer to which, by clear law, he belongs, would violate the plainest principles of construction. The act of which the proviso is a part was not intended, in my opinion, either to authorize the employment or fix the pay of any persons of African descent, except those who might be needed to perform the humblest offices of labor and service for which they might be found competent. The twelfth section authorizes them to be received into service for the purpose of constructing entrenchments, or performing camp services or any other labor, or any military or naval service for which they might be found competent.
The thirteenth section declares that when any man or boy of African descent, who, by the laws of any State, shall owe service or labor to any person aiding the Rebellion, shall render such service as that act provides for, he, his mother, wife, and children shall be free thereafter, with certain exceptions. And the fifteenth section fixes their pay as before stated. Whilst it is true that the words of the twelfth section are broad enough to embrace all persons of African descent who may be received into the military or naval service of the United States, it is yet quite evident from the terms of the whole section, as well as from the promise of freedom held out to such persons who were slaves in” the thirteenth section, that, in limiting their pay to ten dollars a month and one ration, Congress had in view the class who were fitted only for the humbler kinds of service referred to, and not persons who, under the authority of other laws, might be appointed to positions requiring higher qualifications and entitled to a higher rate of pay. To assume that because Mr. Harrison is a person of African descent, he shall draw only the pay which this law establishes for the class it obviously refers to, and be deprived of the pay which another law specifically affixes to the office he lawfully held, would be, in my opinion, a distortion of both laws, not only unjust to him, but in plain violation of the purpose of Congress. I therefore think that the Paymaster should have paid Mr. Harrison his full pay as Chaplain of a Volunteer Regiment.
Your attention having been specially called to the wrong done in this case, I am also of opinion that your constitutional obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed makes it your duty to direct the Secretary of War to inform the officers of the pay department of the army that such is your view of the law; and I do not doubt that it will be accepted by them as furnishing the correct rule for their action. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDWARD BATES, Attorney-General.
To the President.

A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
WASHINGTON, April 30, 1864.
A step has been taken in the right direction. Attorney-General Bates has given his opinion that colored chaplains are entitled to receive the same pay as white chaplains—$100 per month and two rations. The case in point is that of Rev. Mr. Harrison of the 54th Massachusetts, who refused to take the pittance of $10 per month offered by the paymaster, who construed the law for the employment of negro soldiers at $10 per month to include chaplains. Mr. Bates shows conclusively that, under existing laws, colored chaplains are entitled to $100 per month. But these same laws give the privates and non-commissioned officers $10 a month only. The colored soldier is expected to do just as much fighting as a white soldier, and not only that, but he is expected to do a great deal more hard work, building roads, digging trenches, wading in swamps. Why should he not receive as much pay?
On Monday last I saw the colored brigade of the 9th corps, with steady step and soldierly bearing, unsurpassed even by the veterans of that corps, march past the President of the United States amid the loud applause of the multitude. My cheek mantled for shame as in the evening, alone in my chamber, I reflected upon the event of the day. The colored soldiers were going out to fight, to die, to be murdered, massacred! They cannot be taken prisoners of war. They go without bounty. We ask them to do what we are not willing to do, fight for our country, and acknowledge by the terms of the contract that they have no country! While that column of men was passing the President—that very hour a Senator who fall himself Republican—Doo-little, of Wisconsin—was arguing that colored men should be excluded from exercising the rights of citizenship in the new territory of Montana! We ask them to fight for our country, but deny them a country! We ask them to fight for our flag, when for them to do so is certain death! We deny them a flag, and our flag is powerless to protect them! Where is the Anglo-Saxon or Anglo-American, who would shoulder a musket under such circumstances? We call ourselves a Christian nation; but Christianity implies a love of justice. We believe that our cause is just, and we confidently expect that a God of justice will give us the victory; and yet we are not only unjust, but selfish, mean and cowardly toward the colored race.
A man near me, while that brigade of colored troops passed by, disgusted with the applause which greeted the freemen, exclaimed with an oath:-"I can't stand that. We make the niggers as good as the white men.” Near by was another man with a tinge of African blood in his veins. He was well dressed, tall, athletic, more Anglo-Saxon than African. He watched the platoons awhile, and then: said to a friend: “Well, I am glad they are going, but I will not shoulder a gun till I have a country to fight for.”
As a people, as a government, we give the lie to the Declaration of Independence—our charter of Liberty. We say by our acts that all men are not equal. In bravery, in courage, in devotion to the flag, the colored troops have been our equals at Wagner, Port Hudson, Olustee, Paducah and Fort Pillow. I cannot believe this nation has lost its sense of justice—that it is dead to magnanimity. But so long as we permit the law of July 12,1862, employing colored troops, to remain unchanged in the statutes of the nation, how can we lay claim to respect from other nations, or how, if justice is meted out to us by the Morel Governor of the world, can
<c04>
we expect oar cause to prosper? Let the people everywhere call upon their Representatives and Senators to repeal that law. Let the soldiers of the United States, wearing the uniform of their country, marching under its banners, without respect of lineage or descent, be entitled to the same pay, the same privileges, the same protection.-Boston Journal.
CARLETON.

THE TREATMENT OF FREEDMEN-A MODIFIED FORM OF SLAVERY.
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.
NATCHEZ, Miss., April 8, 1864.
Among the interesting events of the times, the scenes witnessed in this city for some days past ought to have a place as items for the future historian. On the 22d ult., an order was issued by Dr. Kelly, the health officer of this city, and approved by Gen. J. M. Tuttle, the new commander of this post, and appeared in the Natchez Courier of that date. It is as follows:
HEALTH OFFICE, NATCIIRZ, Miss., March, 19, 1864. 
To preserve the general health of the troops stationed in the city of Natchez and of the inhabitants, and to guard against the origination here, and the introduction of pestilential diseases the ensuing Summer and Autumn, it imperatively requires the prompt, vigorous and steady enforcement of the sanitary regulations heretofore prescribed in this city.
It is of the first and greatest importance and necessity, that all causes tending to the engendering and dissemination of pestilential diseases here, so soon as their existence is known, shall be at once abated or removed, so far as practicable. It is to be apprehended that serious danger to the health of this city will result from the congregation within its limits of the large numbers of idle negroes which now throng the streets, lanes and alleys, and over-crowd every hotel. Lazy and profligate, unused to caring for themselves; thriftless for the present, and recklessly improvident for the future, the most of them loaf idly about the streets and alleys, prowling in secret places, and lounge lazily in crowded hovels, which soon become dens of noisome filth, the hot-beds fit to engender and rapidly disseminate the most loathsome and malignant diseases.
To prevent these evil effects, it is hereby ordered that after the 1st day of April, 1864, no contraband shall be allowed to remain in the city of Natchez, who is not employed by some responsible white person, in some legitimate business, and who does not reside at the domicil of his or her employer; and no contraband will be allowed to hire any premises in this city for any purpose whatever, and no other person will be allowed to hire such premises for the purpose of evading this order, nor allowed to hire or harbor any contraband who cannot satisfy the Health Officer that he or she needs the services of said contraband in some legitimate employment. All contrabands remaining in the city in contravention of this order after April 1, will be removed to the contraband encampment.
The word contraband is hereby defined to mean all persons formerly slaves, who are not now in the employ of their former owners.
Any evasion of this order will be punished more severely than the direct infraction of it, and all persons renting buildings to contrabands will be held responsible.
Persons drawing rations from the United States Government are not supposed to need many hired servants. The number allowed to each family will be determined by the undersigned. 
By order of
A. W. KELLY, Surgeon and Health Officer.
Approved:
J. M. TUTTLE, Brig. Gen. Commanding District.
If an order had been issued to preserve the health of the city, and for the removal from the city limits the class here spoken of, we would have been the last to object to its execution. But such was not the nature of this order, as its language evidently shows. These Freedmen, who are not hired, and are supporting themselves in lawful and useful employments, are the best class of the colored people in the city. But the manifest design of the language is that no freed man, who is not in a state of servitude, shall remain in the city. And in order to live in Natchez, the freedman must not only be hired to some white person, but he must also live at the domicil of his employer. He must be a servant, and he must live with his master. Though he were hired, yet if he lived across the street from his employer, he must be driven from the city. And in the execution of the order, these were the points that special attention was given to. No regard was shown to character, to age, sex, or condition. The simple fact that a freedman was honestly supporting himself and family was a sufficient reason for driving him from the city, except in some cases of hack-drivers and draymen and market men, whom Dr. Kelly excepted, as the city could hardly afford to lose them. In the execution of this order, there seemed to be no regard shown to the marriage or parental relations. If the husband was employed by a white person, and happened to live at his domicil, he might remain, but his wife must leave the city. Or if the wife was so employed, and her husband laboring for himself, he must be driven away from his family. And if the parents were employed, and their children working for the family or themselves, they must leave the place of their birth. The marriage and parental relations were no more in the way of the execution of this order, than they were in the way of the execution of the order of the auctioneer in the slave market a year ago in this place. Indeed, the days of slavery seemed to have returned again. There was the yard or pen into which the colored people, driven from the different parts of the city by the soldiers, were placed—old men and women, some of whom had lived in the city forty or fifty years, and boys, and girls, and little, children, to await the decision of the Doctor, or his subordinates, as to whether they shall be driven from their homes, and be separated forever. Some old citizens, living here for forty years, say they never saw so much sorrow and distress in Natchez as they saw on the 1st day of April. Many of the freed people were heard to say they never had been so hardly treated by their masters. Whole families had lived together with their masters; but now they must be separated—some stay in the city, others be, driven to the kraal, and from that to the plantation, to be again taken by the rebels. Hence many who had had kind masters resolved to return to slavery rather than expose themselves to the unknown cruelties of lawless and prowling guerillas. The consequence is, that so far as this class of persons is concerned, the order of Dr. Kelly, approved and backed by the power of the Brigadier, has defeated the Emancipation Proclamation of the President of the United States. And the oft-repeated recommendation of the Doctor’s officials to freedmen, to return to their masters, is some evidence of the design and tendency of this order.
Another fact in evidence. When persons requested to hire some of the colored people, and to get certificates of employment from the Doctor, the question was usually asked, How many slaves had you before our army came here? The answer was accordingly. If no slaves then, no servants now. If many slaves, then, they might have a corresponding number of servants now. And when freedmen applied for papers to defend them from being arrested again, those who had been notorious slaveholders formed his Council and determined their fate.
<c05>
Another sad effect of the execution of this order is that it has nearly broken up the free schools of the colored people in the city. Before the 1st of April, there were more than 600 colored children attending schools here, which had been established and were sustained by the liberality of the friends of freedom in the Northern States. Now the children attending schools will probably number 160. And the declaration frequently made by secessionists in the city since the publication of that order, that the nigger schools will be broken up, is some evidence of its meaning and design.
Seeing the great suffering and distress from the execution of this order, so contrary to the law of God and the claims of humanity and justice, as well as its inconsistency with the present policy of the Government to the freedmen, the following remonstrance was prepared, and signed by all the missionaries and agents of the Freedmen’s Relief Associations here, and presented to Gen. Tuttle:
NATCHEZ, Miss., April 1,1864.
GEN. TUTTLE—Sir: The undersigned, citizens of Natchez, would respectfully ask you to modify the recent order of the Health Officer of this city, because of the manifold and manifest evils arising from its execution, as it is now carried out. It certainly cannot be the interest or policy of the Government of the United States at this time to alienate the colored people from it, and make them its enemies. The colored soldier in the field, hearing that his mother or his wife has been driven from her quiet and comfortable home, simply because she supported herself and was not dependent upon some white person, may feel less inclined to hazard his life in the cause of his country now struggling for the life, and may doubt whether the pledges made by the Government to him have been fulfilled. And it seems strange just now, when the Government is fighting for the principles of universal liberty, that a distinction should be made in this district in favor of those who have been slaveholders, and against well-doing and self-supporting freedmen.
In the execution of the order referred to, the most flagrant wrongs have been inflicted upon the better class of the freed people. An old woman who has lived fifty years in this city, and was never disturbed before, was driven at the point of the bayonet to the camp. Mothers having young infants and attending to lawful business were arrested, and were not allowed to see their babes. Many persons in the employment of respectable white citizens were driven from their houses, and no time allowed them to obtain certificates of being employed. Many others who had paid their taxes and rents in advance, and who had official and personal security of protection and safety, were suddenly turned out of their neat and comfortable houses, without any time allowed them to arrange their affairs, and driven away from their young children, and children coming out of school were driven away by soldiers without the knowledge of their parents. These wrongs have been inflicted upon a people already sufficiently oppressed and injured, and upon many of them because they are not in a state of servitude, while it is the evident policy and design of the Government to liberate and elevate them.
Signed by
JAMES WALLACE, Missionary of the Reformed Presbyterian Church.
J. B. H. FERIS, Missionary of the Reformed Presbyterian Church to Freedmen.
S. G. WRIGHT, Missionary American Association, New York.
H. A. McKELVBY, North Western Freedmen’s Aid Commission, Chicago.
J. B. WEEKS, North Western Freedmen’s Aid Commission, Chicago.
J. G. THORN, Agent Western Freedmen’s Aid Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio, and Acting Agent National Freedmen’s Relief Association, N. Y. and Western Sanitary Commission.
WILLIAM G. THOMPSON, M. D., Assistant Surgeon Freedmen.
After the General had read this paper, he said to those who presented it, You appear to think that colored men have a great many more rights than white men. To which it was replied, we do not; that we had never dreamed of them having more rights than white men, but we simply believed that a colored man or woman who decently and comfortably supported himself or herself in lawful employment, might be permitted to remain in the city. He then referred the paper to Dr. Kelly.

SPEECH OF PARSON BROWNLOW.
HIS REASONS FOR BECOMING AN ANTI-SLAVERY MAN.
In the East Tennessee Convention, at Knoxville, on the 14th ult., Parson Brownlow delivered one of his characteristic speeches, of which the following were the principal points:—
I say that for more than eighty years slavery has ruled this Government, and that for more than three years, because it could no longer rule, it has sought, with fire and sword, and the assassin’s knife, and the dungeon, and the rack, and the stake, and every device that hell could suggest, to ruin this Government. Since the foundation of this Government, there have been nineteen Presidents. Of these the South have had thirteen. The North had in all but six; and of these six we kidnapped three, and ploughed with them our cotton fields, as we plough with bulls and horses. We have had most of the foreign appointments, and the hind teats of the Federal kine at home; and these things we had when we were not able to pay our postal expense to the General Government. And why? We did not solicit these things; we demanded them. In the name of our superior manhood, our peculiar institution, our high-toned chivalry, we demanded them.
Whence this arrogance? We got it from the negro. And now I am asked to let him alone as property. I fought Andrew Jackson all his life; but if my prayers could bring him from his grave, I would have had him at the White House when the negro sent the Southern chivalry to hold a club over the head of that mean, musty, miserable mockery of a man, the Old Public Functionary. Jackson would have raised him ten feet in his boots, and kicked the wretched Pennsylvanian through South Carolina into the Atlantic Ocean. And if he were here to-day, he would kick these Copperhead resolutions into the ground, and grind them to powder under his feet.
Yes, gentlemen, we of the South are responsible for this war. Before God I tell you that we made it necessary, whether or no; that we forced it upon the country, and this without the shadow of an excuse. I have been a pro-slavery man—the best pro-slavery man in this house. But I am for the Union. So I told the Alabama Legislature, in a speech, five years ago. They were then preparing for war, and had made an appropriation of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars for arming the State. And further back than that, when Henry A. Wise was Governor of Virginia, he wrote letters to all the Governors in the Southern States, declaring that in the event of the election of Fremont to the Presidency of the United States, he would head an army, march into Washington, and in the name of the South seize and possess the Government.
We of the South have intended this rebellion for more than thirty years. South Carolina, and two or more cotton States, have never been republican, and never had a republican government. South Carolina would have seceded in Jackson’s
<c06>
time, but the old hero took Calhoun by tee threat, and choked him down. And this choking is a remedy that ought to have been resorted to in the Congress of the United States when traitors like that walking liquor shop, Wigfall, who had sworn to support the Constitution of the United States, were in secret caucus every night plotting this rebellion. And still you cling to slavery.
Well, so be it. You will have a good time clinging to the negro; joy be with you. As for me, I shall cling to the Union, and let the nigger go. He used to be a local institution among us; but now he is what we Methodists call an itinerant. 
You used to cry out separation, and you got it; you have it to-day to your hearts' content. You are separated from your sons, some of you, and from your farms and houses, your fence-rails, your mules and horses. Yon used to cry out representation, and you got it. You are represented in every rebel army in the South, in every prison and bastile of the North, and you have more representatives in hell than any other set of men between heaven and hell.

THINGS THAT MAKE A PATRIOT MAD.
To hear men who never read the Constitution and never heard it read, ranting about its violation.
To hear men who never did a day’s labor in their lives, howling about the influx of negroes and the injury to white laborers.
To hear men rave about the President’s violation of the Constitution, who are so utterly stupid or knavish that they have never ascertained that the rebellion is a violation of the Constitution.
To hear men who care not for law—for God nor man—and who live in daily violation of law, prating about law.
To hear men who, were they South, would be treated as the poorest and meanest of “White trash,” “taunted as” mudsills greasy mechanics,” &c., upholding the very men who so degrade labor and despise those who do not own niggers.
To hear men justifying Jefferson Davis and the South, who have not the manhood and decency to go South, and seek a home which they like so well.
To hear a man who loves slavery more than his country or freedom.
To hear a drunken, leprous, thick-headed, gaunt-looking libel upon manhood belching about abolition.
To hear a man talking about peace and compromise, after he has been kicked and spit upon by the South.—Oswego Times.

THE FORT PILLOW MASSACRE.
REPORT OF THE INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.
WASHINGTON, May 5. The following is an extract from the report of the Committee on the Conduct of the War on the Fort Pillow Massacre:—
It will appear from the testimony that was taken, that the atrocities committed at Fort Pillow were not the results of passion elicited by the beat of conflict, but were the results of a policy deliberately decided upon and unhesitatingly announced. Even if the uncertainty of the fate of those officers and men belonging to colored regiments who have heretofore been taken prisoners by the rebels, has failed to convince the authorities of our Government of this fact, the testimony herewith submitted must convince even the most skeptical that it is the intention of the rebel authorities not to recognize the officers and men of our colored regiments as entitled to the treatment accorded by all civilized nations to prisoners of war.
The declarations of Forrest and his officers, both before and after the capture of Fort Pillow, as testified to by such of our men as hare escaped after being taken by him, the threats contained in the various demands for surrender made at Paducah, Columbus and other places, the renewal of the massacre the morning after the capture of Fort Pillow, the statements made by the rebel officers to the officers of our gunboats who received the few survivors at Fort Pillow, all this proves most conclusively the policy they have determined to adopt.
It was at Fort Pillow that the brutality and cruelty of the rebels were most fearfully exhibited. The garrison there, according to the last returns received at Headquarters, amounted to 10 officers and 538 enlisted men, of whom 262 were colored troops, comprising one battalion of the 16th U. S. heavy artillery, formerly the 1st Alabama artillery of colored troops, under the command of Major L. F. Booth, one section of the 2d light artillery (colored) and a battalion of the 13th Tennessee cavalry, (white,) commanded by Major A. F. Bradford. Major Booth was the ranking officer, and was in command of the fort.
Immediately after the second flag of trace retired, the rebels made a rush from the positions they had so treacherously gained, and obtained possession of the fort, raising the cry of no quarter. “But little opportunity was allowed for resistance. Our troops, white and black, threw down their arms, and sought to escape by running down the steep bluff near the Fort, and secreting themselves behind twos and lags in the brush, and under the brush, some even jumping into the river, leaving only their beads above the water. Then followed a scene of cruelty and murder without parallel in civilized warfare, which needed but the tomahawk and scalping knife to exceed the worst atrocities ever committed by savages.
The rebels commenced an indiscriminate slaughter, sparing neither age nor sex, white or black, soldier or civilian. The officers and men seemed to vie with each other in the devilish work. Men, women and children, wherever found, were deliberately shot down, beaten and backed with sabres. Some of the children not more than 10 years old were forced to stand up by their murderers while being shot. The sick and wounded were butchered without mercy, the rebels even entering the hospital buildings and dragging them out to be shot, or killing them as they lay there unable to offer the least resistance. All over the hillside the work of murder was going on. Numbers of our men were collected together in lines or groups, and deliberately shot Some were shot while in the river, while others on the bank were shot and their bodies kicked into the water, many of them still living, but unable to make exertions to save themselves from drowning.
Some of the rebels stood upon the top of the hill, or a short distance from its side, and called to our soldiers to come up to them, and as they approached shot them down in cold blood; and if their guns or pistols missed fire, forcing them to stand there until they were again prepared to fire. All around were beard cries of “no quarter," “no quarter,” “no quarter,” kill the d—d niggers, shoot them down.” All who asked for mercy were answered by the most cruel taunts and sneers. Some were spared for a time only to be murdered under circumstances of greater cruelty
No cruelty which the most fiendish malignity could devise-was omitted by these murderers. One white soldiers who was wounded in the leg so as to be unable to walk, was made to stand up while his tormentors shot him. Others who were wounded and unable to stand up, were held up and again shot. One
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMOUNG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IN CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." —J. Q. ADMAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
negro, who had been ordered by a rebel officer to hold his horse, was killed by him when he remonstrated. Another, a mere child, whom an officer had taken up behind him on his horse, was seen by Gen. Chalmers, who at once ordered him to put him down and shoot him, which was done.
The huts and tents in which many of the wounded sought shelter were set on fire, both on that night and the next morning, while the wounded were still in them, those only escaping who were able to get themselves out, or who could prevail on others less injured to help them out, and some of these thus seeking to escape the flames were met by these ruffians and, brutally shot down, or had their brains beaten out. One man was deliberately fastened down to the floor of a tent, face upwards, by means of nails driven through his clothing and into the boards under him, so that he could not probably escape, and then the tent was set on fire. Another was nailed to the sides of a building outside of the fort, and then the building was set on fire and burned. The charred remains of five or six bodies were afterwards found, all but one so much disfigured and consumed by the flames that they could not be identified, and the identification of that one is not absolutely certain, although there can hardly be a doubt that it was the body of Lieut. Albertson, Quartermaster of the 13th Virginia cavalry, and a native of Tennessee. Several witnesses who saw the remains and who were personally acquainted with him while living here, testified that it is their firm belief that it was his body that was thus treated. 
These deeds of murder and cruelty closed when night came on, only to be renewed the next morning, when the demons carefully sought among the dead lying about in all directions for any other wounded yet alive, and those they found were deliberately shot. Scores of the dead and wounded were found there the day after the massacre by the men from some of our gunboats, who were permitted to go on shore and collect the wounded and bury the dead. 
The rebels themselves had made a pretence of burying a great many of their victims, but they had merely thrown them, without the least regard to care or decency, in the trenches and ditches about the fort, or little hollows and ravines on the hillside, covering them but partially with earth. Portions of heads and faces were found protruding through the earth in every direction, and even when your Committee visited the spot, two weeks afterwards, although parties of men had been sent on shore from time to time to bury the bodies unburied and re-bury the others, and were even then engaged in the same work, we found the evidences of the murder and cruelty still most painfully apparent.
We saw bodies still unburied, at some distance from the fort, of some sick men who had been met fleeing from the hospital and beaten down and brutally murdered, and their bodies left where they had fallen. We could still see the faces and hands and feet of men, white and black, protruding out of the ground, whose graves had not been reached by those engaged in re-interring the victims of the massacre, and although a great deal of rain had fallen within the preceding two weeks, the ground, more especially on the side and at the foot of the bluff where most of the murders had been committed, was still discolored by the blood of our brave but unfortunate soldiers, and the logs and trees showed but too plainly the evidences of the atrocities perpetrated. 
Many other instances of equally atrocious cruelty might be mentioned, but your committee feel compelled to refrain from giving here more of the heart-sickening details, and refer to the statements contained in the voluminous testimony herewith submitted. These statements were obtained by them from eye-witnesses and sufferers. Many of them as they were examined by your committee were lying upon beds of pain and suffering, some so feeble that their lips could with difficulty frame the words by which they endeavored to convey some idea of the cruelties which had been inflicted on them and which they had seen inflicted on others. 
In reference to the fate of Major Bradford, who was in command of the fort when it was captured, and who had up to that time received no injury, there seems to be no doubt. The general understanding everywhere seemed to be that be had been brutally murdered the day after he was taken prisoner. And how many of our troops thus fell victims to the malignity and barbarity of Forrest and his followers cannot be definitely known. Two officers belonging to the garrison were absent at the time of the capture and massacre of the remaining officers. But two are known to be living, and they are in the hospital at Mound City. One of them (Capt. Porter) may even now be dead, as the surgeons, when your committee were there, expressed no hope of his recovery. Of the men, from three hundred to four hundred are known to have been killed at Fort Pillow, of whom at least three hundred were murdered in cold blood after the fort was in possession of the rebels, and our men had thrown down their arms and ceased to offer resistance. Of the surviving, except in the hospital at Mound City and the few who succeeded in making their escape unhurt, nothing definite is known, and it is eared that many have been murdered after being taken away from the fort.
When your committee arrived at Memphis, Tenn., they found and examined a man (Mr. Mc Logan) who had been conscripted by some of Forrest’s forces, but who with other conscripts had succeeded in making his escape. He testifies that while two companies of rebel troops with Major Bradford and many other prisoners were on their march from Brownsville to Jackson, Tenn., Major Bradford was taken by five rebels-one an officer-led a few yards from the line of march and deliberately murdered in view of all those assembled. He fell pierced by three musket balls, even while asking that his life might be spared, as he had fought them manfully and was deserving of a better fate. The motive for the murder of Major Bradford seems to have been the simple fact that, although a native of the South, he remained loyal to his Government. 
The testimony herewith submitted contains many statements made by the rebels that they did not intend to treat “home-made Yankees” any better than the negro troops. 
There is one circumstance connected with the events herein named which your committee cannot permit to pass unnoticed. The testimony herewith submitted discloses this most shameful and astounding fact. On the morning of the day succeeding the capture of Fort Pillow, the gunboat Silver Cloud, No. 28, the transport Platte Valley and the gunboat new Era, No 7, landed at Fort Pillow under a flag of truce for the purpose of receiving the wounded there and burying the dead. While they were lying there the rebel General Chalmers and other rebel officers came down to the landing and some of them went on the boats. Notwithstanding the evidences of rebel atrocity and barbarity with which the ground was covered, there were some of our army officers on board the Platte Valley so lost to every feeling of honor, decency and self-respect as to make themselves disgracefully conspicuous in bestowing civilities and attentions upon the rebel officers while boastiog of the murders they had there committed. 
Your committee were unable to obtain the names of the officers who thus inflicted so foul a stain upon the honor of our army. They are assured, however, by the military authorities, that every effort will be made to ascertain their names and bring them to the punishment they so richly merit. 

RETALIATION. 
President Lincoln, in his remarks at Baltimore, observed, that the mode in which redress was to be sought far the outrage of Fort Pillow, was not yet determined on; and indicated that it might be a question of some difficulty. We have Confederate prisoners enough in our hands, and it would seem to be easy to select three or four hundred men out of Camp Douglas, by lot or otherwise, and order them shot at once. But it will hardly do for the Government of the United States to proceed with rashness, or to be guilty of any act which may savor of cruelty. It is hard to say what might be properly done under some conceivable circumstances; but in seeking redress for a violation of the law, we most proceed lawfully, so as to secure the approbation of civilized nations, and to stop the mouths of the rebels themselves.
The men who perpetrated the horrible atrocity of murdering men after surrender, were not a parcel of unauthorized guerillas. Had they been such, we might proceed to hunt and kill them as murderers, without any further ceremony. But they are the regular soldiers of the Confederacy, wearing its uniform, bearing its commission, and receiving its pay-acting thus in all respects under its authority. The first steps in our course are therefore clear. We must know of the rebel authorities if these acts are done by their orders or permission; 
<c02>
if they will take the responsibility of them, or disavow them, and relinquish to punishment the perpetrators. 
The rebels themselves, have just set an example of the proper mode of procedure. They found, or pretended to find, upon the person of Col. Dalgren, whom they killed, a copy of orders-real or spurious-detailing the work to be done by his command when Richmond should be in their hands. Some of the items were, the taking off of Jeff. Davis, and sundry acts of burning and devastation; averred to be contrary to the rules of regular warfare. All rebeldom has continued to be greatly exasperated by these orders, which they affirm to be genuine, but which have been supposed to be forgeries, for the sake of effect. Their mode of procedure has been to inquire of our military leaders in Virginia if such orders were given to Col. Dahlgren; and if he was carrying out the policy of the United States Government in the endeavor to act upon them.
Gen. Meade and Gen. Kilpatrick have both replied, that no such orders were given to Col. Dahlgren, their mode of procedure was obviously the proper one in the premises. 
If Jeff. Davis avows the act of Forrest, it will then be necessary to consider the next step. It will then be for us to decide upon what act of retaliation we will enter. In that case it might be proper, to proceed to extreme measures at once-even to the putting to death of prisoners in our hands-should such a step seem safe and proper. It would doubtless be lawful. 
But if Davis disavows the act, and is ready to accord some suitable satisfaction, something less of stringency might be insisted on in our demands. But in any event the gang which perpetrated the massacre are the proper subjects of vengeance. If Davis will give up Forrest, Chalmers and their bloody crew, very well. If not, a proclamation of outlawry is the least that can be thought of. They are no more entitled to protection in case of being taken prisoners, than a parcel of tigers with the blood of men upon their jaws. 
At all events, we must go far enough to vindicate justice, and protect our black soldiers in the future.-Chicago Tribune. 

RETALIATION. 
BY A CONNECTICUT WOMAN. 
We cannot pass over the Fort Pillow massacre in silence. As regards the cruelty to our soldiers and the insult to our government, we need not notice it; because deeds like this are always a greater injury to those who commit, than to those who suffer them. But this bloody act is another expression, on the part of the rebels, of their determination never to recognize the negroes as men, whatever uniform they may wear-always and everywhere to deny to them the rights of humanity. Now we have an answer that we can make to this. The Legislature of Connecticut will assemble soon. Let it respond to butchery on the Mississippi, by giving to black men the right of suffrage, and making them citizens. And let every other State, which has not yet yielded to the claims of justice, make the same response. Let the Government at Washington, that shrinks from a bloody retaliation, make answer by securing the abolition of slavery and the recognition of the black man as the equal, before the law, of the white. Such a response would make a deeper impression upon the rebels, than the execution of three hundred prisoners of war. By retaliating in kind, we should declare the black patriot to be the equal of the white traitor. But by making the black man a citizen, we should declare him to be our equal, to whom we restore rights which we have wrongfully withheld. Such a response would be a greater protection to the black soldier; for the rebels, whatever may be their policy, would feel a greater respect for him if he were a citizen of the government which he serves, and not a mere hired soldier, sent for the purpose of saving the white citizen from the perils of war. It would be a greater encouragement to him; for it would assure him that, wherever he could help to carry our flag, there he would be recognized as a man. It would do infinitely greater damage to the rebel cause; for it would be a blow aimed at its very corner-stone.
We must remember that, while we deny to these blacks the rights of men, we share in the guilt of those who slaughter them like cattle. The Government at Washington must remember that, while it recognizes black men only as contrabands, it lends its sanction to Jefferson Davis in his treatment of them; it is not guiltless of the blood of our soldiers slain at Fort Pillow, nor will the most scrupulous retaliation, of itself, suffice to wash away the stain.-N.Y, Independent.
H.M.
NEW HAVEN, CONN.
RETALIATION. President Lincoln has promised that retaliation must follow the act of the rebels in the massacre at Fort Pillow. Every fair-minded man must concede that retaliation for such barbarities would be an act of justice, but there are many grave objections in the way of it. it must be remembered that the perpetrators stand low in the scale of civilization. They illustrate too truly the "barbarism of Slavery," and their acts of barbarism are not to be imitated. Our civilization, our self-respect, our position in the eyes of the world, prevent us from retaliation in kind. Other modes may possibly be resorted to, which though they may not possibly be so effectual, will be more in consonance with an enlightened age and country. 
Such retaliation in kind, would bring counter retaliation and the cold blooded slaughter would be terrible in the eyes of the world. The nations of the old world would find justification in an attempt to prevent it, as they did at the time of the cruelties of the Turks to the Greeks. Let me give them no pretext for intervention. 
We are willing to leave the whole matter to the wisdom and sagacity of our President. Perhaps he may deem it best for the black troops to be their own avengers in any future successes we may gain. Whatever Tie may decide to do of severity will be approved by the loyal men of the republic.-Salem Observer. 

MURDER OF SURGEON FAIRCHILD. 
Correspondence of the Leavenworth Conservative. 
FORT SMITH, Ark., April 17, 1864. 
The body of Assistant Surgeon S. A. Fairchild, 6th Kansas, brutally murdered after being taken prisoner while on his way to Roseville to attend to the wounded of the fight on the 4th inst., leaves here this afternoon per train to Fort Scott. 
The affair in which Dr. Fairchild lost his life, is one of the most cowardly and brutal, even in the history of bushwhacking. In my last I gave you a brief statement of the fight at Roseville, between Capt. Gardner's command and a force of Texans, under (first reported Gano), as it now appears, Lieut. Col. Battle, 3d Texas Cavalry, of which regiment the attacking force was composed, assisted by 50 bushwhackers. 
On the 5th, Col. Judson sent Lieut. McKibbern and twenty-six men of the 6th as an escort with Dr. Fairchild. At Roseville a number of wounded rebel as well as Union, needed attention. Ten wounded Texans were in our hands, and ten of our own. When at Charleston, 25 miles south-east, they learned that 100 rebels had camped there the previous night. Six miles further they found a camp just abandoned. Three miles further on they were fired upon by fifty men from a ravine; at the same time a large force appeared in front and both sides of the road. The Lieutenant Commanding ordered a charge for the purpose of breaking through, which he succeeded in doing, and reached Roseville with fifteen men. It was found that the Doctor and eleven men were missing. 
On a return to the scene of the attack, next morning, the bodies of nine men were found in the road, where they fell or were, shot down. The evidence was plenty of severe struggling. The bodies were stripped of every article of clothing, and horribly mutilated. Three of them were castrated, and others had their ears cut off. One man lay without a wound on the body, but his head and face so beaten with the buts of guns as to be reduced to a pulp. The features could not be distinguished. The other two men and the doctor's body were found near the road in the timber. The doctor was the only one who was not outraged. He was shot through the head and shoulders, after being taken prisoner. A woman living near the scene of conflict states that Fairchild told his captors the errand be was on and asked for his life. The others begged to be treated as prisoners of war the reply was brutal oaths, fiendish execrations, and horrible assassinations. It hardly seems possible that such fiends are human. 
THE SECESH DEJECTED. A Washington despatch says: "One strong indication of the result is the melancholy aspect of the secession sympathizers here." 
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1864. 
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in Boston on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, May 26th and 27th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., of Thursday. 
The meeting on Thursday will be in the MEIONAON, Tremont Street. On Friday, it will be in the TREMONT TEMPLE. In addition to the well-known and long-tried advocates of the Anti-Shivery cause, who for so many years have sustained the interest of this memorable series of Convention, and made it such a potent agency against the vile and traitorous schemes of Slavery, we expect this year to have with us our faithful and honored friend GEORGE THOMPSON, of England. 
Let the New England Anti-Slavery men and women gather once again in their annual Convention. Let them not rest content with valiant and telling blows dealt against the monster Slavery in the past. Every former labor remains incomplete and defective, until the last, crowning, mortal blow is given. It is at hand! A just and irresistible Providence is preparing the way and summoning this people to enact Justice throughout the land, and ordain Freedom for all. Who will be found backward and wanting now?
Let every State and section of New England be represented. We respectfully invite delegates from other States. And let those, who cannot appear in person, show their remembrance and their love for the cause by transmitting some contribution in its behalf.
By order of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, 
EDMUND QUINCY, President. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, SAMUEL MAT, Jr., Secretaries. 

RETALIATION.
CAN ANY METHOD OF RETALIATION BE FOUND, AT ONCE ADMISSIBLE, APPROPRIATE AND EFFECTIVE? 
When Van den Bosch, a warrior of the coarse and brutal class, proposed to Philip Van Artevelde, a leader of refined sentiments and high civilization, the murder of the bearer of a flag of truce, the latter replied-
"Nay, softly, Van den Bosch; let war be war, 
But let as keep its ordinances." 
This is still the desire of the better class of those whom circumstances have led to engage in the murderous trade of war. But, moderate as would be the relief gained to humanity by the realization of the wish in question, even this can rarely be attained. Humanity is rapidly worn away among those who are directing, as well as inflicting, the horrors of war. The commands of a superior officer become the imperative law, the "duty" (as it is called) of the subordinate. Even when the superior chooses to go beyond the "laws of war" in rigor and cruelty, his commands are, no less, the imperative rule for all his inferiors. And whenever the supreme authority on one side authorizes acts forbidden by that code, such infraction becomes, for ail his subordinates, their imperative law, and the custom of their party. The commander-in-chief is responsible, indeed, to public opinion, but his under officers, and the privates they command, are no less required to obey his orders. If he has the hardihood to command not only such killing as war permits, but such as even in its code is stigmatized as murder, then the war will be conducted in that manner; and there seems no help for it. 
The thing proposed by way of help for it in our case, the only thing that seems to be thought of by those who are striving to urge our shamefully dilatory government to a decent amount of consideration for those who are fighting its battles, is retaliation in kind; that is, the doing on our part of acts precisely like those that we stigmatize as atrocious and infamous in them. We are to commit the same sorts of brutality, and just as many of them. We, who call ourselves Christians, (we will not stop here to enlarge upon the inconsistency of all war with Christianity,) are to return to that Jewish law which Christ denounced and superseded eighteen hundred years ago, and begin a course of infliction of burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe; and all this even though we know that the acts already waiting for retaliation include the deliberate murder of sick and wounded, women and children, the flogging of men to death, the burying of them alive, the burning them alive, and the frightful combination of crucifixion with burning. 
Is it seriously proposed that New England officers shall command, and that New England soldiers shall inflict these things? And yet nothing less than all these horrors, and a great many of them, would be the retaliation contemplated. 
Cruelty "comes easy" to people educated under slavery. The common soldiers of the Southern armies have been accustomed, from their childhood, to the sight, and the infliction, of cruel and brutal actions. They do, without concern, acts of barbarity, the bare sight of which would make the average Northern man's blood curdle, and his flesh creep. The mass of the rebel force at Fort Pillow, officers and soldiers, did "with alacrity" the infernal work required of them, and enjoyed the torturing and butchery of the prisoners as much as the victory which gave them the opportunity. But can our men easily begin a similar course of action? If a Newburyport, or a Worcester, or a Plymouth officer should command a private from the same town to nail the hands of a wounded prisoner to a shed, and then set the shed on fire-will he do it? If he does it, will those two men ever go home again and look their townsmen and towns-women in the face? 
The very circumstance I have last mentioned shows how unequal would be the contest in question. The women of the South, educated under slavery like the men, have become as cruel as the men. Instead of dissuading their relatives and connections from such barbarities, they inflame and stimulate them. The letters of sisters, wives and sweethearts to the rebel soldiers, contain as many expressions of ferocious hatred towards the "Yankees" as of tenderness to the persons addressed. The idea, the sight, and the infliction of cruelty have become as congenial to the women as to the men. It is hopeless for us to complete with them in that line, even did our moral sense and the tone of public sentiment among us permit it Even those among us who now, in their excitement, call out for " retaliation," would not do, would not consent that a relative should do, the infernal acts in question.
There is yet another difficulty in the way of this method of operation, namely, it would not influence the rebel leaders to change their course. 
The great slaveholders, who were leaders in secession as they still are in the war growing out of it, are fighting for the assumption that the capitalist ought to own the laborer. They care no more for the rights or interests of the "poor whites" than of the blacks. The more intrepid of them have already advanced the theory that slavery ought not to be limited by race, or confined to the negro. They feel the same contempt for the "white trash" as for the slave, and extort service from one as unscrupulously as from the other. Our soldiers are our fellow-citizens; the bone and sinew of our community; a representation of all the classes, professions, occupations and interests among us. Their soldiers are the "poor whites," hangers-on of the slaveholders, a class who consent lo guard the institution of slavery that there may be one grade in society lower than themselves, and that, in the absence of all other testimony, their white skins may certify a sort of superiority and distinction, even it be only superiority over the despised " nigger." What would Jeff. 
<c04>
Davis and his associates care, even if retaliation in kind were practised upon this class, the technical equivalents of the victims of their butchery?
I have spoken of the difficulty of our degrading ourselves to the point of inflicting such retaliation. But even should we overcome this decent self-respect, we should imbrute ourselves for nothing, for the 'slave-holding class would be entirely unmoved by it; would feel no concern at the sacrifice of men so much their inferiors. Before adopting any method of retaliation, we should have some reasonable assurance that it will effect the object. There is not the slightest probability that the infliction of vengeance upon the men constituting the common soldiers of the South would compel or even tend to induce the rebel government to respect the laws of war. Something must be devised more nearly touching them. Something also must be devised less corrupting, less disgraceful, less infamous to us.
Perhaps we shall find nothing combining these qualities and at the same time promising efficiency. Nevertheless, this is the thing to be sought for. Let the wise and experienced search for it. In the mean time, this is the best suggestion that occurs to me, a hater of war, and of every form of murder, including what is commonly called capital punishment. 
The idea of a personal performance of man ual labor is as repugnant to Jeff. Davis and his class as hanging or flogging are to a northern roan. Any real danger of being obliged to work, especially to do such work as they are accustomed to require of slaves, would have a strong influence upon them. Any general plan involving the requisition of such work from the class to which they belong would be felt by them; felt as a serious evil and danger; felt as something to be averted by all means to which their power extends.
Without question, the setting of their officers at hard labor, on our fortifications or elsewhere, would be felt by them as a severer reprisal, a more serious misfortune, than the hanging or shooting, or even burning alive, of their common soldiers. 
Why should not this be tried? For every case of ill-treatment of our soldiers beyond that which the "laws of war" permit, let one of their officers, from the rank of Captain upwards, be placed at hard labor,' in a penitentiary dress, with half his head shaved. 
There would be special appropriateness in this discipline. This class of men have never earned their own living, but have lived by depredation on the labor of others. Honest labor for their own support is the thing of all others most hateful to them, and yet, at the same time, most needful to them. The North owes the South this lesson, to make them stop stealing and begin to earn. The heads of the rebel government are the very persons most in need of this lesson, since they attained their present elevation in virtue of being the greatest robbers of their class. Whenever they are seized, compulsory labor, the necessity of earning their own living, in convict's dress, for the rest of their lives, will be precisely the punishment most appropriate for them. Let us not, even in the cases of Davis and Forrest and Chalmers, when we get them, degrade ourselves by murdering prisoners. Let imprisonment at hard labor for life be the sentence of all civil and military chiefs of the rebellion who fall into our hands; and let us begin this system (if no better shall be suggested) upon the rebel officers now in our hands, as the check most likely to be effective against rebel cruelties to federal prisoners. 
One other course, the dictate equally of right on our side and of appropriate response to the atrocities practised by the enemy, ought certainly to be taken at once by the President. Just in proportion as the Confederacy makes enemies of the negroes, the United States should make friends of them. The President should seize this moment, when the world has been shocked by new manifestations of rebel outrage against this unfortunate race, to make reparation for his and the nation's misdeeds towards them. They should be solemnly guaranteed the rights of men, of citizens and of soldiers. Their enlistment in the army should be encouraged, not only by just pay and good treatment, but by the opportunity of promotion; and their vigor in the service of the country would be stimulated by the very outrages of which we have been speaking.-
C. K. W. 

THE WAGER OF BATTLE. 
We go to press this week while the fiercest struggle of the war is pending. Up to this moment, victory has followed the flag of freedom, although at a fearful cost. The armies of Grant, Butler and Sherman, aiming at the common goal of Richmond, are pushing on, from different points, with an energy and concert of action unparalleled in the history of our three years' war. Everywhere they have been met with the most desperate valor and consummate skill, for Slavery dies hard, and its demoniac strength increases with its waning life. 
It is premature yet to indulge in jubilation while the scale of battle is trembling undecidedly. We have seen the apple of apparent victory turn into the ashes of a disastrous defeat, just as it seemed within our certain grasp, too often to take anything for granted. We wait with prayerful solicitude for the result. 
Ours has been a bloody atonement for sharing in the guilt of the oppressor, but has the cup of suffering been commended to our own lips enough, even yet, to teach us that absolute justice is the only safety of the nation? Are we prepared to recognize the equal manhood of the victim we have wronged, and humble ourselves so much as to be willing to indemnify him for the injuries of the past, and throw around him the security of equal rights for the future? Have we rid ourselves sufficiently of the wicked spirit of caste, and the inhuman prejudice against color, to deserve the unqualified success we looked for? 
These are pregnant questions, and, until we can honestly answer them in the affirmative, ought we to expect the perfect triumph of our arms? W. L. G., JR. 
The battles of the week have been desperate and bloody, beyond what is shown in our extracts, and the contest probably continues unabated. What seems certain is that Grant, on one side of Richmond, and Butler on the other, are steadily approaching that city, and that the avenues for supply and reinforcement to it are falling into the hands of our troops. An approximative estimate of the loss of the army of the Potomac is, killed, 8000; wounded, 18,000; missing, 6,000. Total, 27,000. Many are but slightly wounded.
ATLANTIC MONTHLY FOR MAY. "Life in the Sea Islands" is a sketch from South Carolina, by a young lady of African blood, well known to many of our readers. There can be no mistake in attributing it to Miss Charlotte L. Forten, a graduate of the State Normal School in Salem, and subsequently an esteemed teacher in the Epes School in that city. John G. Whit tier introduces the article by the subjoined note to the Editors of the Atlantic Monthly-
"The following graceful and picturesque description of the new condition of things on the Sea Islands of South Carolina, originally written for private perusal, seems to me worthy of a place in the “Atlantic.” Its young author-herself akin to the long-suffering race whose Exodus she so pleasantly describes-is still engaged in her labor of love on St. Helena Island. J. G. W." 
In this connection we cannot forbear to quote an extract from a speech recently delivered at a great Union meeting in the city of Baltimore, by Ex-Gov. George S. Boutwell, formerly Secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Education. In the course of his remarks, Gov. Boutwell, referring to the same young lady, said:-
"In one of our Normal Schools for the education of young ladies as teachers, I have seen a colored girl with seventy-five or eighty or one hundred young ladies of white complexion, sitting at the same desk, pursuing the same studies, nothing ever occurring which indicated that the white ladies in the school regarded her other than as a sister. I saw her at the graduation of the class to which she belonged, by the vote of her associates of the class elected to write and deliver the closing poem at the graduation of the class. I saw her afterwards a teacher. She is now at Port Royal, off South Carolina." 
<c05>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
STORIES OF THE PATRIARCHS is the title of a charming little book which comes to us from Walker, Wise & Co. It is a collection of Old Testament stories, retold and interpreted for the benefit of children, by that true man and faithful minister, O. B. Frothingham, of New York. They were prepared originally for the children of his own Sunday school, because he thought it wrong “that they should miss wholly the wealth of the Old Bible teaching, as it by concealed under the fanciful symbols." We are glad that he has printed them. They will be welcome to" children of larger growth" not less than to the little folks for whom they were written.
In the literal and prosaic method of interpreting the Scriptures, too commonly adopted, adherence to the letter takes away the life. Considered naturally, as the outgrowth and expression of the religious wants of a remarkable people,-full of poetry sad symbolic of man's inward life and aspiration, the Bible is, in truth, a book of inspiration. But presented to children as an accurate and infallible history of events, its contradictory and impossible statements evaded by the teacher, or an attempt made to reconcile what is irreconcilable, the Book bewilders the immature mind and prepares the way for future skepticism. 
"Out from the heart of nature rolled 
The burdens of the Bible old,"
and he who helps us to read them aright, to appreciate ate their spiritual and moral significance, without detracting from their charm, is a benefactor. Who shall deny the title to Mr. Frothingham? 
From the same publishers we have also received two other attractive books for youth. SPECTACLES FOR YOUNG EYES is the appropriate title of one, whose authoress is Sarah W. Lander. We have read of the Irishman's telescope which brought a pig five miles away, so near that the beholder could hear him squeal, but these spectacles are not less wonderful. Through them one can look into Switzerland and not only see the mountains and lakes and villages, but hear what the people talk about, and, perchance, find the very questions in his own mind, asked and answered. The book is colloquial, pleasant and instructive.
THE FERRY BOY AND FINANCIER is the name affixed to the other book referred to, which is a life of Salmon P. Chase. We surmise that it was originally written with a view to the next Presidential nomination, but the handsome and patriotic withdrawal of the Hon. Secretary from the list of aspirants, does not make the story less apropos. The people will not be sorry to know more intimately the man whose name, thus far, is the most lustrous one connected with this administration. If he takes as good care of our finances as he has done, he can afford to bide his time, for the people will not forget him. He is the truest antislavery member of the cabinet. 
This story is written for boys, and will serve to inspire them with courage and energy. Lives of politicians are not usually the most healthy reading, rather the contrary, hut Mr. Chase, though justly open to some censure during his political career, is yet one of the few who has allied himself closely to liberty and justice.-W. L. G. JR. 
CHRISTIANITY AND FREEMASONRY ANTAGINISTIC. 
A Discourse delivered in the Congregational Church, Peru, N. Y, March 6, 1864, by Moses Thacher, A. M., Minister of said Church. Published by Request Boston: Press of T. R. Marvin & Son, 42 Congress Street.
Mr. Thacher is well known for his able and fearless espousal of the Anti Masonic cause, and was for several years the editor of the Boston Telegraph, a journal partly devoted to that object. His discourse is called forth by an "Address on Freemasonry-its Nature and Claims," by Rev. C. C. Bedell-and as the institution is claimed to be a religious one by Mr. Bedell, it is the object of Mr. Thacher to prove the opposite. In treating upon this subject, he says:-
"Towards Masons, as men, we have none but the kindest feelings; and, as caged birds, I deeply commiserate their terrible bondage; in which, if they delight, they are so much the more to be pitied. There are many, nominally connected with the institution, who have for it no fellowship. Such may be useful citizens and devoted Christians. As CHRISTIANS, but not as Masons, I would give them the "right hand of fellowship." Some, could they be divorced from the Order, would as gladly escape "as a bird from the snare of the fowler"; but they see no way in which the snare can be broken. They are conscientious in the belief that their oaths must be binding; they hate the profane and degrading ceremonies of every degree; they feel themselves bound not to speak against the institution; they cannot, they will not speak in its praise. So they bear the burden and the ignominy in silence, until death releases them from their sinful and cruel bondage. With such men we should deal tenderly and charitably. In heart, they are Anti-Masons, and remember, with shame and disgust, when, "hoodwinked, cable-towed, neither naked nor clothed, barefoot nor shod," they were led into the lodge, and made to pass through the degrading ceremonies of the Order; but through a false apprehension, that even such extra-judicial, barbarous, blasphemous and bloody oaths must be binding; or, perhaps, through apprehension of personal violence, they dare not speak what they think. Many of us remember such sober, conscientious, reflective men of the last generation. They were nominal Freemasons; but they would not advise their sons to join, or their neighbors and other friends. They would, indeed, in some instances, hint it was just as well to keep away from the institution; and it was welt known, that a long time had elapsed since they had attended a lodge-"communication." As death approached, and in the arrangement of their secular business they would seem not to forget anything of importance, they would express the most intense solicitude for the future education and prosperity of their sons; but not even an inuendo escaped them, that, on coming of age, those sons would do well to enter the lodge. Some of them would leave express, if not peremptory directions, that they should not be buried with Masonic pageantry. Such, even taciturn, examples, “speak louder than words”; and they speak a language which ought not to be misapprehended." 
The Appendix contains a record of some of the ceremonies and oaths connected with the institution, in proof of its dangerous tendencies. 
RELIGION OF REASON. By Gerrit Smith. 8vo. pp. 103. American News Company. 
We cordially adopt the notice of this work by the New York Tribune:-
"Without discussing the contents of this volume in their theological relations, which is not our speciality, we may commend it to the attention of the public for its transparent expression of the inmost convictions of its author, and its freedom from the influence of routine, fashion, or traditional authority in the exercise of thought. It is rare that written words so faithfully represent the interior processes of the mind. Such genuine transcripts of life and experience possess a value and attractiveness, irrespective of the results of formal argument, or the peculiar nature of the conclusions which they are intended to support In the present case, the themes discussed are of the loftiest import; they are treated in the spirit of reverent but unshrinking inquiry; the author evinces a wise appreciation of the demands of the age; he ranks among the most progressive thinkers of the day, but without a particle of scorn or contempt for those whom he leaves behind. The advocates of submitting religious doctrines to the test of reason will find a great deal in the volume to command their approval and sympathy; while those who prefer a more implicit and docile faith may here come in contact with views the opposite to their own set forth with earnestness and simplicity, with clearness and force of reasoning, and often with effective eloquence." 
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for May, is received. Its contents are: 1. Victor Hugo: 2. Springer's Art in the Nineteenth Century; 3. the Freedmen and Free Labor in the South; 4. The Evangelist's Debt to the Critic; 6. the American War as an English Question; 6. The Christian Patriot of California; 7. Review of Current Literature. In the list of New Publications are brief criticisms of many of the books named. 
<c06>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. VII.
NEW YORK, May 5, 1864. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The days of conservatism and of reverence for the status quo are well-nigh over. The energy of the people at this moment is expended in various experiments of reform and reconstruction. A new plan is devised for suppressing the armed remnant of the rebellion; society is undergoing important changes at the North and as the South; and it is an open question whether to endure the present Administration for another term, or to endeavor to replace it with a better. The tendency of all those movements is upward, but they are not equally intelligent nor equally promising of good.
The Legislature of Arkansas has organized itself by the election of a Speaker, and has declared the popular vote for a new State Constitution. Twelve thousand out of less than thirteen thousand votes were cast in its favor. The Virginia Constitutional Convention has just closed its session, but with a consciousness of dereliction, it refuses to submit its work to the sense of the people, after the example of those rebellion States in which secession was enacted over the heads of a popular adverse majority. To be sure, it passed an Ordinance "abolishing and prohibiting slavery is the State forever," but it failed signally, because it was unwilling to secure the political ascendancy of the loyal people against the evil day of the return of the prodigals. Of course, every voter must be white, but apostacy to the Union prior to the first of January current is made no bar to the privilege of suffrage; and the Legislature is empowered to pass acts restoring the disfranchised whenever it may seem safe so to do. The action of the Convention has been characterized as "feeble and irresolute form the first, arrogant and despotic at the close." In spite of the unfair representation of the pro-slavery counties of Maryland her Constitutional Convention contains a large majority for freedom-61 to 35, with all the Democrats in attendance. The Hon. Henry H. Goldsborough, a thorough Abolitionist, is President, and the fate of slavery in the State cannot be doubted. The fate of the black man is not so clear. The Louisiana Convention drags its slow length along, being chiefly characterized by the spirit of denial with which Mephistophiles stands identified. "No action," "laid on the table," and "lost" are a summary of its achievements. The Times' correspondent says it means "to pass the emancipation act and leave the status of the colored population to the future." The latter assertion, at least, needs no confirmation.
While the semi-subjugated States are thus availing themselves more or less subtly of the Amnesty to hamper the limbs of freedom in its unfamiliar abodes, Congress is groping for a plan of reconstruction to supersede the President's where it can. The party which lives by demanding "the Union as it was," strove on Monday last to constrain the House to affirm that the Union is just as it was, or, as they phrased it, “that the [old] Union is not dissolved," and that rebellion is to be crushed without derangement of the domestic institutions, or abatement of the constitutional privileges of the traitorous States. The House was neither persuaded nor intimidated by Mr. Harding of Kentucky. On the contrary, it passed, yesterday, a bill to institute provisional military governments for the conquered territories, until a majority of the population are fit to be trusted with the restoration of States. No Constitution will be recognized which does not embody these particulars:-
"First. No person who has held exercised any office, either civil or military. Stale or Confederate, except the office be merely municipal, or military below the rank of Colonel, under the usurping power, shall have the right to vote for or be a member of Legislature or Governor. 
Second. Involuntary servitude is forever prohibited, and the freedom of all persons is guaranteed in the said State. 
Third. No debt, State or Confederate, created by or under the sanction of the usurping power, shall be recognized or paid by the State." 
Disfranchisement is also attached to certain Confederate officers after date. The House sins with the President in excluding the colored man from the polls. Representative Grinnell, of lows, with others, is said to have made this a subject of protest while voting for the bill. The Senate has yet to set upon it.
Tardily, but in time to prevent serious troubles among our colored troops, as the mutiny at Fort Esperanza in Texas, and the disaffection at Fortress Monroe prognosticated. Senate and House have agreed to do justice to our dark-skinned defenders. Their action, however, is, except in regard to bounties, not retrospective beyond Jan. 1, 1864, and must be supplemented by the decision of the Attorney General, sustaining Gov. Andrew against the War Department, and urging, as required by law and by good faith, the full payment of every colored soldier and officer who, the war has called into the service. So far from the employment of black troops depending on the statue of July 17, 1862, he says:-"I do not know that any rule of law, constitutional or statutory, ever prohibited the acceptance, organization and master of persons of African descent into the military service of the United States as enlisted men or volunteers." 
I have, said that Northern as well as Southern society is undergoing a change. The recognition of military equality is a foretaste at civil. An aristocracy of dress cannot last long. It would be absurd for caste to depend upon black cloth when it is annihilated by blue. Still, we are not yet out of the woods. The Senate retracts its Montana amendment, and consents to a free Committee of Conference.
A month remains before the 7th of June. The political barometer is sensitive to the slightest fluctuations of public opinion and public events. A formal request has been made for a postponement of the nominating Convention, but it will not be heeded. That body will meet as appointed, having, besides other expressions for Mr. Lincoln, that of the Pennsylvania Union Convention rendered a week ago. Meanwhile, the Constitution is searched for commissions, by which a military man may be legislator till he sees fit to resume his profession, when he may gallop over the Senate on his way to the filed. The President, in his Kentucky letter, narrates the various stages of his education during the war, with a candor which does credit to his honesty, though not to his sagacity. He long ago rightly described his only policy by the term-" I drift." Strange that men are predicting a split at Baltimore, when conservatives and radicals will utter but one sentiment concerning Mr. Lincoln, and that, too,-" Let him drift!"
As I write, the army of the Potomac is in motion. The force whose concentration has cost us our recent disasters-save Bank's-is perhaps already engaging the foe in the most desperate conflict of the war. Before these words are in print, we shall have heard of the issue, which every heart awaits in trembling. A battle now is equal to a campaign. O, people, brace thyself for the final shock! 
"Sta’, come torre, fermo!"
M.DU.PAYS.
We learn form the New York Evening Post that Rev. Dr. Cheever delivered the address before the Church Anti-Slavery Society at the Church of the Puritans, Union Square, on Sunday evening. He criticised the action of the Administrator in regard to slavery, terming it a policy of expediency-not such a policy as justice or National honor demanded-alike dishonoring to the nation and repugnant to the God of justice. He argued that the only way to save the nations was to put an end to slavery forever within an our borders.
CORRECTION. In the letter of Mrs. Gage to Mr. May, in last week’s Liberator, acknowledging the receipt of $47.53 from Mrs. Anne R. Allen, of Ireland, an error occurred, we regret to say, in giving Mrs. A’s address. It should have been “Brooklawn, Black Rock, county Dublin, Ireland.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
After having labored ineffectually to defer, as far as was in our power, the critical moment, when the attention of the People must inevitably be fixed upon the selection of a candidate for the Chief Magistracy of the country; after having interrogated our conscience and consulted our duty as citizens; obeying at once the sentiment of a mature conviction and a <illegible> affection for the common country, we feel ourselves impelled on our own responsibility to declare to the that the time has come for all independent men, jealous of their liberties and of the national greatness, to confer together and unite to resist the swelling invasion of an open, shameless and <illegible>patronage which threatens to engulf under its destructive wave the rights of the People, the <illegible> and dignity of the nation.
Deeply impressed with the conviction that, in a <illegible> of revolution, when the public attention is turned exclusively to the success of armies, and is consequently less vigilant of the public liberties, the patron are derived from the organization of an army of a million of men, and an administration of affairs which seeks to control the remotest parts of the country in favor of its Supreme Chief, constitute a danger seriously threatening to the stability of republican institutions; we declare that the principle of One Term, which has now acquired nearly the force of law by the consecration of time, ought to be inflexibly adhered to in the approaching elections. We further declare that we do not recognize in the Baltimore Convention the essential conditions of a truly National Convention. Its proximity to the centre of all the interested influences of the Administration, its distance from the center of the country, its mode of convocation, the corrupting practices to which it has been and inevitably will be subjected, do not permit the people to assemble there with any expectation of being able to deliberate at full liberty. Convinced, as we are, that in presence of the critical circumstances in which the nation is placed, it is only in the energy and good sense of the People that the general safety can be found; satisfied that the only way to consult it is to indicate a central position to which every one may go, without too much expenditure of means and time, and where the assembled people, far from all administrative influence, may consult freely and deliberate peaceably, with the presence of the greatest possible number of men whose known principles guarantee their sincere and enlightened devotion to the rights of the people and to the preservation of the true basis of republican government; we earnestly invite our fellow-citizens to unite at Cleve-land, Ohio, on Saturday, the thirty-first of May next, for consultation and concert of action in respect to the approaching Presidential election.
R. GRATZ BROWN, Missouri. STEPHEN S. FOSTER, Mass.
AND. VANANTWERP, N. York. BIRD B. CHAPMAN, Ohio.
ETRA C. ANDREWS, Me. HENRY A. CLOVER, Missouri.
PETER ENGLEMAN, Wis. CASPAR BUTZ, Illinois.
GEORGE FIELd, New York. EDWARD GILBERT, New York.
PETER GILLEN, New York. ISAAC W. HAFF, New York.
WEN. HERRIES, New York. JAMES HILL, Me. New York.
K. HEISZEN, Mass. New York. AND. HUMBERT, Penn.
S. P. DINSMORE, Dist. of Col. J. F. WHIPPLE New York.
L. SIEZOLD, Iowa. WM. MORRIS DAVIS, Pa.
E. M. DAVIS, Pa. W. F. JOHNSTON, Pa.
FIELD, KAPP, New York. CHARLES E. Moss, Missouri.
ERNEST PREUSSING, Illinois. WM. D. ROBINSON, Me.
JOHN J. SAVERY, New York. E. CLUSERET, New York.
EVIL PRETORIUS, Missouri. NATH. P. SAWYER, Pa.
EARNEST SCHMIDT, Illinois. JAMES REDPATH, Mass.
WALTER H. SHUPE, Ohio WM. H. SMITH. Me.
P. W. KENYON, New York. JAMES TAUSSIG, Missouri.
PE. STOPPELRIEN New York. SAMUEL TAYLOR, New York.
JAMES S. THOMAS, Missouri. F. MEUNCH, Missouri.
J. QUINEY WESTBROOK, Me.
and THEO. OLSHAUSEN, Missouri. 
Of the People’s Committee.
In connection with the above CALL we publish the following
LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS.
JUDGE STALLO:-Dear Sir,-Since you asked my judgment as to the course to be taken in nominating a candidate for the Presidency, I have been requested to sign a call for a Convention for that purpose, to meet at Cleveland, in May next.
Let me tell you the national policy I advocate:-
Subdue the South as rapidity as possible. The moment territory comes under our flag, reconstruct States thus: confiscate and divide the lands of rebels; extend the right of suffrage broadly as possible to whites and blacks; let the Federal Constitution prohibit slavery throughout the Union, and forbid the States to make any distinction among their citizens, do account of color or race.
I shall make every effort to have this policy purchased. Believing that the present Administration repudiates it, and is carrying us to a point where we shall be obliged either to acknowledge the Southern confederacy or to reconstruct the Union on terms grossly unjust, intolerable to the masses, and sure soon to result in another war, I earnestly advise an unpledged and independent Convention, like that proposed, to consider public affairs, and nominate for the Presidency a Statesman and a Patriot.
Yours, faithfully, 
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
CONDITION OF THE PRISONERS RELEASED FROM RICHMOND.
It was announced, some days since, that a large number of the Union prisoners, recently released from Richmond, had been sent to the Jarvis Hospital in Baltimore, for medical treatment. A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, who has visited this hospital, describes the condition of the men. He says:-
“I had numerous interviews with many of these prisoners, all of whom gave evidence of having been fairly educated. One venerable old gentleman, named Daniel Spear, from East Tennessee, fifty-seven years of age, has been incarcerated for illegal political offences; or in other words, because he was a Union man, and loved his country.
Not content with depriving him of all his property, and driving his wife and children from a comfortable home, they also sapped the foundation of his life by cruel incarceration. He appeared to be a truthful, honest farmer, and declared he saw a Union prisoner deliberately shot dead by a heartless guard, whilst eating his scanty ration at the prison window.
Another one told me that in General Hospital No. 24, in Richmond, whilst there were five hundred and eighty prisoners brought in during a single month alive, five hundred and fifty-five were taken out dead in the same time.
Sergeant Thomas James, of the Regular United States army, who acted as steward or Apothecary in the same hospital, from the 1st of January to the 1st of March, says that of twenty-seven hundred patients in that time, there were the unprecedented number of fourteen hundred deaths, the greater portion of whom could have been saved with proper care.
In Belle Island the suffering was unparalleled. I say many-a dozen or more-who had their feet, fingers, hands and toes frozen off, whilst exposed to the severe weather in this desolate abode. To keep from freezing entire they were often compelled to huddle, dozens together, and change positions as those under get warm and those outside began to freeze. Death, the dead and dying, grew familiar to all, and many prayed for a hastening of the hour of dissolution. It was no uncommon thing to see twenty, thirty, forty and fifty dead bodies carried out in a day, or to behold them strewn around like carcasses of dumb animals.
Dogs and rats were caught when opportunity afforded, and eaten by prisoners on this island as choice morsels, and an old bone discovered here was gnawed as a delicacy. What became of the many gifts of provisions sent from home, prisoners, with extreme exceptions, confined here, could not tell, save that they saw them at times eagerly devoured by the rebels themselves.
I heard many tales of horror in which there was a universal concurrence of sentiment from these prisoners, all of which, together with their forlorn condition and haggard looks, could not fail in bringing conviction that they have been inhumanly treated. I speak from seeing, and know what I assert.”
CAPTURE OF SIXTEEN PRISONERS BY THE 54TH MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT. On the night of Friday, the 23d inst., the 54th Massachusetts
(colored) regiment, gained for themselves laurels which will be willingly accorded to them by the other troops in the Department. On the occasion in question, a party of sixteen rebels launched boats from James Island with the evident view of passing down our lines on the west side of Morris Island, in order to gain a little information with reference to the disposition of our troops in that locality.
The night was quite dark, consequently by no means unfavorable for the accomplishment of the rebel design. But as luck would have it, our men doing picket duty on the creek, were too vigilant for the interest of the rebels, and as they came down in their rickety skulls, they were, at a favorable moment, challenged by a detachment of the 54th. Failing to give a satisfactory response, they were ordered to lay by their oars by our pickets, with which command they readily complied, and as would be naturally supposed, it was not long before they were in our possession as prisoners of war.-Port Royal New South, April, 30.
MAIMED NEGROES. An Alexandria (La.) correspondent remarks:-
“A steamer loaded with negroes has just arrived from above; not a pleasant sight to see, for among them are many maimed and diseased men, and all are ragged and dirty beyond our experience. One cannot but be surprised at the number of maimed negroes here. Quartermaster Welch told me yesterday that his force of laborers consisted of twenty-one negroes, each having but one eye. How is this to be accounted for?”
<c02>
THE GREAT CONTEST IN VIRGINIA. 
THE BATTLES WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY. 
ACCOUNT BY THE JOURNAL'S CORRESPONDENT "CARLETON.”
WILDERNESS CHURCH, May 5. 
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:-
The Army of the Potomac left its position north of the Rapidan yesterday morning at daylight, and made a rapid march to gain the lower fords. The Second Corps crossed at Ely's ford without opposition, and reached Chancellorsville at two O'clock. The Fifth and Sixth Corps crossed at Germania Ford. A portion of the supply trains crossed at Gold Mine Ford, between Germania and Ely's. The march was made in good order. The troops crossed on pontoons. 
Gen. Sheridan with his cavalry pushed beyond Chancellorsville, and found Stuart in in force. As soon as Lee discovered Grant's movement to get between him and Richmond, be made a rapid change of front during the day and through the night, concentrating his force about two miles west of Wilderness Church and Tavern, on highly advantageous ground, pressing in our pickets. The 5th New York Cavalry lost ten killed and thirty wounded in one volley. Gen. Grant moved from Germania Ford to establish headquarters at Wilderness Tavern, and directed Griffin, with the first division of the 5th corps, to ascertain whether the rebels were in force, or whether it was a small body thrown out to harass his advance. 
Skirmishing commenced about 11 A. M. Griffin's Division of the Fifth Corps was first engaged. It was soon ascertained that A. P. Hill and Ewell were in front of him. Grant's line faced southwest, his right resting on the Rapidan, above Germania Ford. Ricketts' and Wright's divisions of the Sixth Corps held the right; the Fifth Corps held the centre; Getty's Division of the Sixth Corps was sent over to the left and joined the Second Corps. The Ninth Corps (Barn-side's,) after an all night's march, reached Germania Ford at noon, and were placed in reserve on the right. Griffin was met by A. P. Hill's entire corps, and maintained a stubborn fight. The rebels charged on him, and succeeded in capturing two guns of the Fifth Unite States Artillery. 
Wadsworth's division went to aid Griffin, but Ewell’s Corps was brought in front of him. Griffin was then withdrawn, and Robinson sent in. The battle continued till 4 o’clock without cessation, neither party gaining decided advantage. The 11th and 9th Massachusetts lost heavily in this fight. Col. Hayes and Col. Guiney were wounded; also Gen. Bartlett, commanding the Brigade. 
Finding that Lee had his whole force in front, Gen. Grant made preparations for a general battle. Gen. Hancock with the 2d corps moved out on the Orange plank road, and engaged the enemy at 4.20 P. M. Getty's division had the right and was joined by Carr on the left. The rebels appeared in mass. Everywhere the forest was so dense and thick with underbrush that artillery could not be used, and officers were obliged to dismount. The fight on the left lasted till dark, and was one unbroken roll of musketry at close range. 
There were few bayonet charges. It was a fair stand up fight, with both parties. Every inch of ground was obstinately contested. The engagement was wholly unlike any other. There were few flank movements or attempts at strategy. The fight was renewed on the right at sunset, without much advantage to either side, both parties holding their lines of the morning, except on the left, where Gen. Hancock gained decided advantage. Gen. Alexis Hayes, commanding the Second Brigade of Getty's Division, was killed. He was hard pressed, and sent word to Hancock that he must have reinforcements. “Tell him,” said Hancock, “to hold his ground twenty minutes and he shall be relieved”; but before twenty minutes expired his body was brought in. 
The forests were so dense that the ammunition teams could not get up, and cartridges were sent in on the stretchers which brought out the wounded. The first man killed was Charles Williams, of Franklin, belonging to the 8th Mass. The old Bay State has, as usual, poured out her blood freely to-day. 
The 8th and 9th regiments suffered severely. I cannot obtain a list of casualties to night. The battle will doubtless be renewed to-morrow. The line of battle to-night is about six miles long, extending from the Rapidan, along which 200,000 men are in position. Six hundred prisoners have been taken. 
The soldiers are enthusiastic to-night, and are confident of victory. The battle will be renewed at daybreak. Lee began the fight to-day. Grant will “probably take the initiative in the morning. 
BATTLE-FIELD, 10 P. M. 
Everything is quiet, except an occasional volley by pickets, and the placing of fresh troops in position.
“carleton.”
THE GREAT BATTLE OF FRIDAY. 
NEW YORK, May 9. The Times' Washington despatch, dated midnight, May 8, says your special correspondent, writing from Headquarters at the Wilderness Tavern, Friday night, May 8, gives the following intelligence of the great battle of Friday:- 
The day has closed upon a terribly hard fought field, and the Army of the Potomac has added another to its list of murderous conflicts. 
Lee's tactics, so energetically employed at Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, of throwing his whole army first upon one wing and then upon another, have again been brought to bear, but I rejoice to say that he army of the Potomac has repulsed the tremendous onslaught of the rebels, and stands 
to-night solidly in the position it took this morning. 
The first attempt was made upon Hancock upon the right, somewhat weakened in numbers by the battle of yesterday, but the “Iron”2d Corps stood its ground. Then the enemy hurled his batteries upon Gen. Sedgwick and once or twice gained a temporary advantage, but our veterans were nobly rallied and the rebels repulsed with awful slaughter. About 4.30 P. M., Lee made a feint attack upon the whole line, and then suddenly fell with his whole force upon Gen. Sedgwick, driving him back temporarily; but the advantage was soon regained, and the rebels were hurled back with great loss. 
Night had now come on, and it is believed at headquarters, at this time, that Lee has withdrawn from our front. 
Although the nature of the ground has been of a terrible character, most of it being so thickly wooded as to render the movements all but impossible, and to conceal entirely the operations of the enemy, yet he has been signally repulsed in all his attacks, and nothing but the nature of the battle-field prevented it from being a crushing defeat. 
The loss on both sides has been very heavy, but at this time of hasty writing I cannot even give an estimate mate.
The Times' Washington despatch says the latest news from the army received here is up to 7 o'clock yesterday evening, at which Gen. Grant fully maintained his position. 
The fighting on Thursday and Friday was very severe, with skirmishing only Saturday. 
Lee's first onset was made upon our left, but failing, he then fell upon the centre, and finally upon our right, where the hardest contest took place. 
Here the rebels charged upon our lines twice, but were repulsed each time with severe loss. Gen Hancock's corps charged back twice, and at one time entered that portion of the enemy’s intrenchments commanded by A. P. Hill, but were at length compelled to fall back.
Gen. Seymour’s division of Hancock’s corps was badly cut up.
Generals Wadesworth and Bartlett were badly wounded, the former having been knocked off his horse by a spent minie ball.
The rebels were reported retreating yesterday morning. The number of wounded is reported at 10,000. The killed at 2000. The loss of the enemy exceeds this. He left his dead and disabled on the field in our hands.
 The ambulance corps with its admirable organization is working up to its full capacity, conveying the wounded to Rappahannock Station. Sixteen trains of cars, dispatched from Alexandria to day, will receive them. It is expected that they will return about daylights (Monday.) Several car loads of ice were also sent down for the comfort of the wounded. 
The Sanitary and Christian Commissions are on the field with a full force and with plentiful supplies, and everything necessary for the wounded. The Government has hospital accommodations here for 30,000, which will probably meet all demands. 
The Herald's Washington dispatch says on Friday the attack was renewed by Longstreet on the right, while the rebel troops under A. P. Hill were hurled in like manner against the left of Gen. Grant's army, composed of Hancock's corps. The centre was also engaged in repelling these assaults of the enemy. 
The fight continued, with hardly any intermission for two days. But yesterday rooming Lee, having failed completely in his object, withdrew from the engagement, leaving our Army of the Potomac in possession the ground, and of a large number of wounded and killed rebels. 
It has not been ascertained definitely, whether Lee’s army has retired behind their intrenchments at Mine Run, or moved to a position nearer Richmond and the railroad. 
Ample supplies of hospital stores are on their way from here for the relief of the wounded, many of whom have already been brought to Rappahannock Station, and trains of hospital cars have been sent out to bring them in. 
The result is regarded at the War Department as a decided success for General Grant, which, if followed up, will give him a complete victory.
Grant's loss in the two great battles is estimated by the Medical Director at 8000. The loss of the rebels is supposed to be greater. 
<c03>
Accommodations have been made for the transportation of 10,000 wounded, including those of both sides. 
In the War Department, at the White House and in the headquarters of Gen. Grant here all are cheerful and hopeful of a brilliant victory. 
It is believed that the combinations on foot will prevent the escape of Lee's army from Virginia, and bring upon it a disastrous and irrevocable defeat, as well as place in our possession the rebel capital. 
Transports fitted up as hospital boats have been sent to Fredericksburg. 
It is stated that Lee's army is retreating rapidly, and that our army is pushing as rapidly as possible. 
REBEL REPULSE ON SATURDAY. 
Under date of Wilderness Tavern, Sunday, the World's special says: There was considerable skirmishing during yesterday afternoon between the two armies, and late in the afternoon Gen. Hill made an attempt to get between Gen. Sedgwick, on our right, and the Rapidan, but was repulsed, though at one time it was thought best to let them succeed, as they surely would have fallen into a trap. The enemy's lines towards dark looked weaker, and by 9 o'clock, P. M. it was discovered that the entire rebel army had fallen back towards Spottsylvania Court House. Our cavalry started in pursuit, and by daylight to-day our corps had commenced to move forward. 
SKIRMISHING ON SUNDAY. 
I stop the courier to add that I have just heard that our cavalry are skirmishing with Gen. Lee's rear beyond Pine Tree Church, near Spottsylvania village. It is the impression here that unless his presence is demanded near Richmond, Lee has fallen back to the North Anna river for a new defensive line. 
On Monday, there had been some hard fighting at Spottsylvania Court House, where, (we announce with pain,) Gen. Sedgwick was killed, and Generals Robinson and Morris wounded. 
DESPATCH FROM GEN. BUTLER. 
HEADQUARTERS NEAR BERMUDA LANDING,
May 9, 1864. 
To E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Our operations may be summed up in a few words. With 1700 cavalry we have advanced up the Peninsula, forded the Chickahominy and have safely brought them to our position. These were colored cavalry, and are now holding our advance pickets towards Richmond. 
Gen. Kauntz, with 8000 cavalry from Suffolk, on the same day with our movement up the James river, forded the Black Water, burnt the railroad bridge at Stony Creek, below Petersburg, cutting in two Beauregard's force's at that point. 
We have landed here, entrenched ourselves, destroyed many miles of railroad and got a position, which with proper supplies we can hold against the whole of Lee's army. I have ordered up the supplies. 
Beauregard, with a large portion of his command was left south of the cutting of the railroad by Kauntz. 
That portion which reached Petersburg under Hill I have whipped to-day, killing and wounding many, and taking many prisoners after a severe and well contested fight. Gen. Grant will not be troubled with any further reinforcements to Lee from Beauregard's forces. 
(Signed) BENJ. F. BUTLER.
Major General. 
FROM GEN. SHERMAN'S ARMY. 
WASHINGTON, May 10-7 o'clock, A. M. 
To Major General Dix: 
A dispatch from Gen. Sherman, received at midnight, states that “we are fighting for the possession of Rocky Face Ridge, and I have knowledge that McPherson took the Snake Creek Gap, and was within seven miles of Resaca this morning.”
You will remember that on Saturday the rebels were forced from Tunnell Hill by Gen. Thomas, and took a position at Buzzard's Roost, in a bend of Milt Creek, just north of Dalton. 
This is represented to be a very strong position, which Gen. Thomas was unable to drive the enemy from on a former occasion, when he advanced on Dalton; but Resaca is a position on the railroad, about fifteen miles south of Dalton, and this will place McPherson, with a strong corps of veteran troops, in the rear of the enemy, while Thomas advanced upon the front and Schofield closes in upon the flank from Cleveland. 
It is probable that a great battle was fought on that line yesterday, and may be now in progress. Gen. Joe Johnston is in command of the rebel force. 
Nothing since my last dispatch has been heard from the Army of the Potomac or from Gen. Butler. 
EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War. 
REBEL MOVEMENT IN NEWBERN. 
THE ENEMY DRIVEN BACK BY GUNBOATS. 
HATTERAS, N. C., May 7. The schooner Eliza Sheldon, bound for New York, has just arrived here from Newbern, and reports that the enemy made a demonstration on Newbern yesterday, cutting off the railroad communication between that place and Beaufort, and making his appearance on the south side of the Neuse river, two miles below the city, with a cavalry force, accompanied by a battery of four guns, which commanded the water approaches to Newbern for a period. The gunboats Commodore Barney and Louisiana suddenly made their appearance at the points threatened, and forced the enemy back from the river. Nothing was allowed to pass over the railroad from Newbern to Beaufort yesterday. As this demonstration was expected, therefore the enemy failed to secure a loaded train of cars. Capt. White says this movement of the enemy was only a cavalry dash and not intend ed as a general attack on Newbern. 
Information was received at Washington last Monday, May 9th, that the rebel ram in Albemarle Sound has been attacked by the U. S. steamer Secaucus and others, and, after a severe contest, forced to retreat, with damage. 
ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN. 
Call to the Friends of Union and Liberty to return thanks to God for his especial favor. 
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 9, 1864.
To the Friends of Union and Liberty:
 Enough is known of army operations within the last few days to claim our especial gratitude to God. While what remains undone demands our most sincere prayers to, and reliance upon, him without whom all human effort is vain, I recommend that all patriots at their homes, in their places of public worship, and wherever they may be, unite in common thanksgiving and prayer to Almighty God.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 
A COPPERHEAD VIEW OF THE NEWS. The Courier says: 
“The summary of the news from the Army of the Potomac appears to be that it received a very heavy blow from Lee's army, as shown by our losses and the absence of any details of substantial advantages gained by us.” 
Just such a blow as Lee inflicted upon our army at Antietam. But in the present instance the General commanding our forces will not wait for his men to receive new shoes before ascertaining how much damage was inflicted on the enemy.-Boston Journal. 
THE FIFTH MASSACHUSETTS COLORED REGIMENT. 
The 5th Regiment of Massachusetts Colored Cavalry, mounted, armed, equipped, and ready for service, is organized, and embraces one thousand one hundred black men. The first battallion of this regiment reached New York Friday from Boston, and after remaining here a few hours, took its departure for Washington. More than two-thirds of these men were originally slaves, who escaped from slavery either before or since the outbreak of the Rebellion. They are skilful horsemen. Some of them acquired their skill in the management of horses while serving their master in the rebel service. Major H. N. Weld,
an officer of five years' experience in the Regular Army, and who participated in the Mexican war, has command of the 1st Battalion, comprising four of the twelve companies. The commanders of the companies are as follows: Company A, Capt A. R. Howe; Company B. Cyrus Emery; Company C, Horace Weld; Company D, C. C. Parson. Most of the line officers are white men, and have seen service. Col H. S. Russell is commander of the regiment.
Evidence that the rebels are determined to massacre all the black soldiers who may fall into their hands is furnished in a letter from Canton, Mississippi, and published in the Atlanta (Georgia,) Appeal, of April 13. The letter writer says: 
“General Ross broke up a plantation near Snyder's Bluff, killing some fifty negro soldiers who were guarding the workmen. The killing was applauded. Take no negro prisoners is the cry in which all join. It is proper.” 
The writer goes on to assign a reason for the murder of black prisoners of war He says:
“Self-preservation requires that there be no rule but that of extermination with armed negroes.”
He is not insensible of the logic of this proposition as he adds: 
“It might be well to have no other rule with these white fellows.” 
KANSAS FOR LINCOLN. At the State Convention held at Topeka, on the 22d instant, delegates to the Baltimore Convention were elected. They were instructed to vote for President Lincoln.
<c04>
THE ABOLITION AMENDMENT. The following is the joint resolution for amending the Constitution, as it passed the Senate on Friday the 8th instant:- 
Be it resolved, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, two-thirds of both Houses concurring, That the following Article be proposed to the Legislatures of the several States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of the Legislatures, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, a part of the said Constitution, namely: 
ARTICLE XIII. Sec. 1. Neither slavery nor Involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall be duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. 
Sec. 2. Congress shall have the power to enforce the article by appropriate legislation. 
The negative vote of six was composed as follows: Davis, of Kentucky; Hendricks, of Indiana; Mc-Dougall, of California, Powell, of Kentucky, and Riddle and Salisbury, of Delaware. It is believed that the requisite two-thirds vote will be secured in the House for this measure. After that, it will go to the President for his approval, when it will be submitted to the Legislatures of the different States, the assent of three-fourths of which will be necessary to give it effect as a part of the Constitution.

JUSTICE TO THE COLORED SOLDIERS. 
Both Houses of Congress have voted to give the colored soldiers the same pay and privileges as the white. Here is the righteous enactment: 
“All persons of color who have been or may be mustered into the military service of the United States, shall receive the same uniform, clothing, arms, equipments, camp equipments, rations, medical and hospital attendance, pay and emoluments other than bounty, as other soldiers in the regular or volunteer forces of the United States, of the like arm of the service, from and after the first of January, 1864; and that every person of color who shall hereafter be mustered into the service shall receive the same amount of bounty as the President shall order in the different States or parts of States, not exceeding one hundred dollars. 
Any colored person enlisted and mustered into the service as a volunteer, under the call of October 7, 1863, for three hundred thousand men, who was at the time of enlistment enrolled and subject to draft in the State in which he volunteered, shall receive from the United States the same amount of bounty as was paid white soldiers under said call, not exceeding in any case one hundred dollars.
All free persons of color who have been or may be mustered into the military service shall, from the date of their enlistment, receive the same uniform, clothing, arms, equipments, camp equipage, rations, medical and hospital attendance, pay, emoluments, and bounty as others of the regular or volunteer forces of the like arm of service, and all enlistments in the regular army may be for the term of three years.”
The negative votes in the House on this measure should be remembered. They were 49, as follows: 
Nays.-Messrs. James C. Allen, Ancona, Brooks Brown (W. Va..) Chanler, Clay, Cox, Dawson Dennison, Eden, Eldridge, Finck, Grider, Hall, Harding, Harrington, Harris, (III.,) Herrick, Holman, Kernan, King, Knapp, Law, Lazear, Le Blond, Long, Marcy, McDowell, McKinney, Miller (Pa.,) Morris (Ohio,) Morrison, Noble, O'Neal (Pa.,) Perry, Robinson, Rollins (Mo.,) Ross, Scott, Smith, Steele (N. Y.) Stiles, Strouse, Voorhees, Whaley, Wheeler, White, Wood, Yeaman-49. 

DEATH OF HIRAM WILSON.
It is with no ordinary sensations that we announce to our readers, (many, if not most of whom were deeply interested in him and his Christian labors,) the death of Rev. Hiram Wilson, at his home in St. Catharines, (C. W.) on the 16th inst., aged 60 years, after a brief illness of one week, from inflammation on the lungs. The information comes to us in a letter from his son, Mr. John J. Wilson, a student in Oberlin College, who was, providentially, at home, on a visit, just in time to witness the sickness and death of his excellent father. 
Hiram Wilson was one of the students at Lane Seminary, Ohio, who left it in 1834, on account of the order of the Trustees to disband their Anti-Slavery Society. He was one of the Delegates to the World's Anti-Slavery Convention in London. For many years he labored for the benefit of fugitive slaves in Canada, and to aid those who had recently arrived there. This labor led him to travel extensively in the free States to obtain the necessary means of supplying their necessities. He also interested himself, and many others, in efforts for establishing a Seminary of learning, for their benefit. Of late he has labored among the seamen on the Welland Canal. Few men connected with the anti-slavery labors of the last thirty years have enjoyed, in a higher degree, the confidence of the Christian public, of all denominations, or communicated personally, with a greater number of them. And no one has left a deeper impression of his Christian benevolence, sincerity, and piety. He died, as he had lived, in the faith of the Gospel, and shared richly in its consolations, in his last moments.-New York Principia. 

THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY SANITARY FAIR. 
Our friends at St. Louis are very much interested in the approaching Sanitary Fair in that city. A separate department in aid of the Freedmen and Refugees has been agreed upon. The St. Louis Democrat speaking of this says:- 
“Unless we are grossly deceived, this Department will be one of the most attractive and pecuniarily successful of the whole Fair. The appeals on its behalf have been widely circulated and have elicited a warmer response in various parts of the East, than the general objects of the Fair. The cause of this proceeds from the fact that so many Fairs have now been held for sanitary purposes throughout the North, that a majority of individuals feel that the country had been so thoroughly drained for assisting sick and wounded soldiers, that they cannot afford to give anything more for that object at present; but here is a new charity, never before included in Sanitary Fairs. This touches a new chord of charity, and opens many purse strings which could not be reached. This is particularly the case in the region where the New York, Brooklyn, Boston, Albany and Buffalo Fairs have exhausted the charitable offerings of the people-yet for the Union refugees and freedmen, now suffering for food and clothing, they can and will give a little more. The result is many contributions in money and goods, which will materially assist in swelling the funds of this excellent and meritorious department.” 
Among the distinguished contributors will be found Mrs. L. M. Child, who has contributed a set of her works, accompanied by a letter in which she says:- 
“Gen. Rosecrans has long been one of my pet heroes. His sensible, manly letters are about as admirable as his activity and courage on the field of battle. I am so thankful to see him take the right ground on the subject of slavery. * * * I have for many years predicted that Missouri would be the first of the slave States to abolish slavery. But Maryland and Arkansas have got the start of her. The fact will shine as a brilliant gem in the crown of those States. Posterity will see the matter in a different light from what we do. It will in the future be a subject of marvel, that men could be so reluctant to part with a baneful disease, a clinging curse. 
With thanks for the kind expressions in your letter, I am cordially yours, 
L. MARIA CHILD.”
Mr. Long's speech in Congress is published in the Raleigh Conservative, (Rebel,) and is spoken of as “a bold and manly speech, and is in several respects the most remarkable speech that has been delivered in Yankeedom.”
The Richmond Sentinel prints Long's treasonable speech in full, having previously printed a pretty full synopsis. It says: “As the speech is able, truthful, deliberate and brave, and as it has excited so much attention in consequence of the abortive efforts of the Lincolnites to expel Mr. Long from the House of Representatives for its utterance, and the barren victory they won on the motion to censure, we have thought we could not better use our space than to copy it in full.”
FRANK P. BLAIR. This gentlemen was serenaded on his return to St. Louis. In his speech, referring to the alleged liquor speculation, he said his auditors all knew that he liked whiskey too well to speculate in it. He declared himself still in favor of the emancipation of the slaves, and their removal from the country. He was in favor of their fighting “if they will,” but opposed to giving them the right of suffrage. He said much more in the same vein. 
VICKSBURG. Some 3,000 slaves of all ages and colors reached here yesterday. It was one of the saddest spectacles witnessed for a long time in Vicksburg. The women and children have almost starved, and are half naked. Such a terrible picture of abject want and squalid misery can neither be imagined nor portrayed with pen. Many of the women and children were sick with fevers, brought on by the great fatigue and exposure of the long march from Meridian Enterprise, Quitman, and other places. Will not the friends of freedom and the humane philanthropists of the North come forward at once, and with their generous hands rescue these liberated slaves from premature graves! Shoes and clothing for both sexes are needed immediately.-Corr. New York Tribune.
Gold sells at the rate of $1 for $30 of Confederate money in Georgia. Flour $300 per barrel. No articles of any kind are sold for less than five or ten dollars. 
<c05>
THE LATE LIEUT. COUTHOUY. The following despatch from Admiral Porter confirms the report of the death of this estimable officer:
MISSISSIPPI SQUADRON, Flag Ship Cricket, Off Grand Ecore, La., April 7. 1864. 
SIR: I regret very much to inform you of the death of Acting Volunteer Lieut. Joseph P. Couthouy, commanding U. S. S. Chilicothe. This estimable officer was picked off by a guerrilla while on the deck of his vessel directing his guns on a large body of cavalry that were engaged at the time with our cavalry:; the former were compelled to retreat by the fire of the gunboats. The death of Capt. Couthouy is much regretted by officers and men, and by no one more than myself, as he was a zealous and patriotic officer. He was shot on the 3d inst, and died on the 4th. 
I am, Sir, very respectfully, 
Your obedient servant, 
DAVID D. PORTER, Rear Admiral. 
HON. GIDEON. WELLES, Secretary of Navy. 

GARIBALDI ON OUR WAR. An English correspondent says that Garibaldi, in a very straight-forward way, called on our Consul at London (Hon. Freeman H. Morse,) and told him that he would do himself the honor of breakfasting with him the following morning, when he hoped to meet all who would do him the honor of calling on him. Mr. Morse, of course, was delighted with the privilege thus afforded him. In the course of the conversation that ensued, the correspondent says:- 
“Garibaldi spoke in the most enthusiastic terms of General Grant. He said that he was a brave and efficient officer, and commented particularly on his Western campaign, saying that it was the most masterly military feat that it had been his province ever to have heard of. He spoke of him as being the ‘right man in the right place,’ and that he above all others was the man to command the American armies.
I may mention another item which was part of Gen. Garibaldi's conversation. In speaking of having been in London some years ago, before he had become so universally known, he said when here he dined with the notorious George N. Sanders, then United States Consul here. Since that time Sanders has written to him, asking him to go over and take up the cause of the South, ‘which proposition,’ said he ‘I scornfully rejected. I did not even answer Sanders' communication.’”
REBEL BRUTALITIES IN WEST VIRGINIA. A communication from Pendleton county, West Virginia, states that a few nights since a party of rebel guerillas visited the house of Capt. E. C. Harper, commanding the “Swamp Dragoons,” a company organized in the neighborhood for home defence. The Captain and his brother were out at the time, and approaching soon after, were shot in their tracks, and in the presence of their aged parents. The murderers then stripped the dead men of their clothes, and after robbing the house, proceeded to the dwelling of Mr. Eli Harmon, in the neighborhood, whom they also served in the same way. Harmon lived a short time after being shot, and during his last moments was taunted by his murderers, and refused a drink of water his wife, at his request, was about handing him. The gang committed various other outrages, and finally left the county, carrying with them a large amount of plunder. 
CAIRO, May 4. A gunboat from the Red River brings information, that finding it impossible to get the Eastport off, and being attacked by the enemy while endeavoring to lighten her, Admiral Porter ordered her to be destroyed, to prevent her falling into the hands of the enemy. 
It was found necessary to destroy the transports, which were burned. Several of the crew of the ironclads were killed and wounded. Among them was Sylvester Pool of Newport, Ky., Executive Officer of the Eastport, who had charge of the sharpshooters on Fort Hindman. He was struck on the back of the lead by a 12-pound ball. 
THE NEW STATES. Enabling acts have passed the House of Representatives for the admission of Nebraska, Colorado, and Nevada, into the Union. For the first time in the history of legislation on this subject, the enabling acts afford a perfect safeguard for the freedom of the new States. The subjoined provisions constitute a part of each act:- 
1. That the Constitution [of the new State,] when formed, shall be republican, and not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the principles of the Declaration of Independence. 
2. That said Constitution shall provide by an article, forever irrevocable without the consent of the Congress of the United States, that slavery or involuntary servitude shall be forever prohibited in said State. 
The chivalry of the South has exhibited a fresh proof of their boasted devotion to woman. Not content with giving her the precedence in the ball-room and by the fireside, they would have her take the advance on the battle-field also. These brave Southrons rally valorously behind a woman's skirts. A telegram from St. Louis informs us, that at the late fight at Paducah, they put their helpless females forward as a bulwark of defence against a shower of Federal bullets, and with a sharpness that even a Yankee would not have practised, availed themselves of a flag of truce to restore their shattered lines. In Southern parlance this may be chivalrous, but the world will unite in pronouncing such atrocity fiendish, and the annals of civilized warfare will be searched in vain for a parallel for so barbarous an outrage on woman. 
The Baltimore correspondent of the New York World says the defences of Richmond are most extensive and formidable. All the engineering skill and defensive ingenuity of the South have been lavished and exhausted upon the rebel capital. Its triple line of forts, one within the other, defy assault, while the James river, from the city down to Fort Darling, a distance of eight miles, is one mass of intricate and immovable obstructions. Fort Darling is a Gibraltar in itself; but it is only one of the sixteen forts whose gaping batteries frown along this part of the river. 
REVOLUTION IN NEW YORK SUGGESTED. The Richmond Sentinel, noticing the fact that the troops garrisoning the fortifications in New York harbor were removed to other fields of usefulness, and that their places were to be filled by New York State troops, says: “This is Seymour’s chance to free the State, if he has the pluck to use it.” 
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe accompanies another sketch sent to the Watchman and Reflector with the statement that her permanent residence is no longer Andover, Mass, but Hartford, Conn., to which Prof. Stowe and his family have already removed. 
PERSONAL. Wm. S. Thayer, United States Consul General for Egypt, died at Alexandria on the 10th of April, after a long illness. He was a native of Haverhill, in this State, where he was born in 1829, and was graduated at Harvard College in the class of 1847. Mr. Thayer was formerly connected with the New York Evening Post, and was a gentleman of genial nature, rare culture, and great executive ability. His early death will carry sorrow to a very wide circle of friends, which included all who knew him. It will be remembered that the father of the deceased, a noted journalist, died recently at Northampton. 
The late Commander Flusser, of Kentucky, recently killed at Plymouth, (N. C.) by the recoil of a shot fired by his own hands against the impenetrable sides of a rebel iron-clad, was one of the bravest and most efficient officers in the navy. Though no politician, he was, in sentiment, like the noble State to which be belonged, devoted heart and soul to the Union as it existed until party spirit rent it asunder.
THE FORT PILLOW MASSACRE. A planter near Fort Pillow is reported as saying that Forrest informed him that his men had already buried three hundred and sixty negroes, and that the last one in the fort would be buried before they left. As there were only four hundred negroes in the fort, there could be but few survivors to this, the most fiendish butchery that ever disgraced the world. 
A barn of John Morgan, Eden, Vt., was burnt on the night of the 23d of April, with eighteen cattle, five sheep, five lambs, nine tons of hay, and farming tools. Asa A. Raymore has been put under $5000 bonds for setting this fire. 
POLITICAL. A despatch from the new Governor of Arkansas to President Lincoln says that the vote for the new free State Constitution is 12,179, and against It only 226. The vote for Governor is 12,430. These are the official figures. 
Rev. Samuel Crowther is shortly to be consecrated Bishop of the native churches in Western Africa beyond the dominions of the British crown. This announcement will shock “our Southern brethren,” for Rev. Mr. Crowther is a black man, and was once a slave boy. Yet the black slave is now to be made a Bishop of the English Church! 
About two acres of the celebrated forest of Chantilly, in France, have been destroyed by fire, caused, it is supposed, by a lighted cigar thrown into some dry grass. 
Nine officers of a colored regiment at Fortress Monroe having resigned for insufficient causes at the approach of active operations, General Butler has forwarded their resignations to the President, with the recommendation that they be remanded to their former regiments to serve out their time as private soldiers. 
Three proprietors of drinking saloons have died at Winsted within a short time; Oscar F. Hawley, the last one, on his death-bed entreated his associate to give up the business.
<c06> 
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will speak at Quincy, on Sunday, May 15, in the afternoon, at 2 o'clock, and evening at half-past 7.
Subject: Afternoon-The Infldality of Reformers.
Will also speak at Concord, N. H., Sunday, May 22.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Hingham, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock. Subject: “The Mystery of the War.”
A. T. FOSS will speak at Farmington Corner, N. H., on Sunday, 15th inst., during the day and evening.
LORING MOODY, Agent of the New England Educational Commission for Freedmen, will lecture in Maine, as follows:-
Auburn, Sunday, May 16.
Winthrop, Wednesday May 18.
Kendall's Mills, Thursday, May 19.
Bangor, Sunday, May 22.
“AN APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC.” It being a well-known fact that the brave men composing the 54th and 55th Regiments Mass. Vols. have, since they have been in their country's service, received no pay, and also, that hundreds of them have fallen in defence of the American flag, leaving here in our midst their poor, suffering and destitute wives and children, the Colored Ladies of Massachusetts, knowing the urgent necessity there is, just at this time, of doing something for these suffering ones, are preparing to hold a Fair in this city at as early a day as possible, this being, in their judgment, the most practical method of accomplishing their object. Donations, either of goods or money, will be most thankfully received by the President, Madam CARTEAUX BANNISTER, 31 Winter street, and the Treasurer, Rev. Mrs. GRIMES, 28 Grove street. As we have just sent into the field another brave regiment, the 5th Cavalry, and their families are left with us, while their husbands, brothers and fathers have gone to uphold the honor of our flag, there will be a demand for all our friends may assist us in raising.
May 7.
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will be held at the usual place near Waterloo, on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 3d, 4th and 5th days of June next.
A cordial invitation is extended to all who have ears to hear-all especially who prize most Truth and the interests of Humanity-who seek, before all else, the life and growth of the soul, to join us in this our annual gathering. Come, that we may mutually impart and receive counsel, encouragement and quickening.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, A. M. POWELL, C. D. B. MILLS, and other able speakers from abroad, will be present to participate in the discussions, and lend interest to the occasion. 
Communications for the meeting should be addressed to PHEBE B. DEAN, Waterloo, N. Y. 
PHEBE B. DEAN, HARRIET A. MILLS,
ISRAEL LISK, HENRY BONNEL,
STEPHEN SHEAR, HUGH D. THORN,
MARY DOTY, WILLIAM BARNES,
Committee of Arrangements.
Waterloo, March, 1864.

YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS. 
The Twelfth Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Progressive Friends will be held at LONGWOOD, (near Hamorton,) Chester County, Pa., beginning at 10 o'clock, A. M., on Fifth-day, the 2d of 6th month, and continuing, probably, for three days. 
This Society demands assent to no system of doctrines, acknowledges no priesthood, prescribes no form of worship; but, cherishing the utmost liberty of religious opinion, inquiry and speculation, seeks its bond of Union in a common love of God as the Universal Father, a common regard for mankind a* s one Brotherhood, common aspirations for moral and religious excellence, and common labors to redeem the world from ignorance, superstition and sin, and introduce the era of universal righteousness and peace. Welcoming and cherishing whatever of truth was spoken or recorded in the past, it nevertheless looks continually for fresh revelations of the Divine will, and rejoices in the assurance that it is the privilege of the pure in heart, not less now than in former ages, to hold communion with God, and to be guided by the teachings of his Holy Spirit. The time of its public assemblies is devoted, not to sectarian propagandism, nor to unprofitable strife and debate in regard to modes of faith and worship, but to the discovery and adoption of the measures best adapted to promote the welfare of the human family; to the application of the principles of justice and freedom to individuals, communities and nations; to the promulagation of testimonies against every system of oppression and wrong; to the cultivation of those sentiments, aspirations, yearnings and hopes which proclaim the soul of man immortal as his Maker; and to that exalted fellowship one with another which is the fruit of mutual toils and sacrifices in the cause of our common humanity.
All who feel attracted towards a Religious Society founded upon the principles, devoted to the objects, and animated by the spirit above described, are heartily invited; to meet with us, and take part in our deliberations. 
OLIVER JOHNSON, ALLEN AGNEW,
MARY ANN FULTON, JENNIE K. SMITH,
THEODORE D. WELD, HANNANAH COX,
ALICE ELIZA HAMBLETON, ANNIE STEMBACH,
ALFRED H. LOVE, DINAH MENDENHALL,
SARAH M. BARNARD, SUSANNA P. CHAMBERS,
THOMAS HAMBLETON, RACHEL WILSON. 
Communications for the meeting may be addressed to OLIVER JOHNSON, 48 Beekman street, New York, till the 30th of May; after that, to Hamorton, Chester Co., Pa. 
Among those who are confidently expected to attend the meeting, and who will do so unless prevented by causes not foreseen, are GEORGE THOMPSON of England, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, and THEODORE TILTON. 
Longwood is about thirty miles west of Philadelphia, from which place it is reached by the cars of the Philadelphia and Baltimore Central Railroad, which runs each way twice a day. The Progressive Friends are hospitable 
to strangers. 
TO LET, for the Summer season, one of the most desirable residences in Lynn, situated on Sagamore Hill, free from dust, mosquitoes and other annoyances, and within three minutes' walk of the Beach. The house will be let with or without the furniture. Rent reasonable for the times.
Inquire of J. BAILEY, on the premises. 

SUNSHINE: 
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of “Woman’s labor,” “Woman under the Law,” &c. 16mo; paper, 36 cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price. 
ALSO, 
DR. BARTOL'S SERMON COMMEMORATIVE OF REV. T. STARR KING. 15 cents. 
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER. A Rational Method of Teaching Reading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By Rev. J. C. ZACHOS. 38 cents. 
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
BOSTON.
April 8-1w
THE RED SEA FREEDMEN, 
A STIRRING Sermon for the times; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of "Clark's School Visitor,” and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia.
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address
J. W. DAUGHADAY,
1308 Chestunt street, Philadelphia.
April 15. 3t
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood &Co’s now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, looks stoped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Portion.
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston.
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
 
Poetry.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A WREATH OF SONG
TWINED FOR
MAY-DAY FESTIVAL AND FAIR, 1864.
BY REV. NATHANIEL HALL
All hail to the SPRING! the fetters are breaking
Which Winter had fasten'd on Nature’s great heart;
In garden and woodland the May-blooms are waking,
At each pore of Creation fresh verdures outstart.
Yet aspects diviner inspire us to-day,
On hopes that fly broader our garlands we fling,
Chains direr than Winter’s are falling away,-
Hail, hail the now advent of LIBERTY’S SPRING!
Those thousands,—fetterless, indeed,
From bonds that gall the frame,
Yet prison’d still in cruel need,-
Prefer their voiceless claim:
Claim for the culture that shall bring
Their budding hopes to bloom;
Claim for the bounty that shall fling
New sun-light o’er their gloom.
Oh, give the Freedman gracious ear!
Oh, let the plea he lifts,
In joy and plaint, in hope and fear,
Go echoing back in gifts:
Gifts that shall fall like Spring’s warm showers
Upon his waking soul;
Prophetic of the Summer dowers
That Freedom shall unroll:
Gifts unto HIM who says, from Heaven,
In sweet fraternity,-
“Whate’er to such, in love, is given,
"Tis given unto me."
Dorchester.

THE VICTORY OF LIFE.
BY THEODORE TILTON.
I once made search, in hope to find
Abiding peace of mind.
I toiled for riches-as if these
Could bring the spirit case!
I turned aside to books and lore,
Still baffled as before.
I tasted then of love and fame,
But hungered still the same.
I chose the sweetest paths I knew,
Where only roses grew.
Then fell a voice from out the skies,
With message in this wise:
“O my disciple! is it meet
That roses tempt thy feet?
“Thy Master, even for His head,
Had only thorns instead!"
Then, drawn as by a heavenly grace,
I left the flowery place,
And walked on cutting flints and stones.
I said, with tears and groans:
“O Lord! my feet, where Thou dost lead,
Shall follow, though they bleed!"
And then I saw He chose my path
For discipline, not wrath.
I walked in weakness, till at length
I suffered unto strength.
Nor ever were my trials done,
But straightway new begun.
For when I learned to cast disdain
Upon some special pain,
He gave me sharper strokes to bear,
And pierced me to despair.
Until, so sorely was I pressed,
I broke beneath the test,
And fell within the Tempter's power;
Yet in the evil hour,
Bound hand and foot, I cried, “O Lord!
Break Thou the three-fold cord!"
And while my soul was at her prayer,
He snatched me from the snare.
I then approached the gate of death,
Where, struggling for my breath,
I knocked my coward knees in fear,
Aghast to stand so near!
Yet while I shivered in the glooms,
Down-gazing in the tomb,
“O Lord!” I cried, “bear Thou my sin,
And I will enter in!"
But He by whom my soul was tried
Not yet was satisfied.
For then He crushed me with a blow
Of more than mortal woe,
Till bitter death had been relief
To my more bitter grief.
Yet, bleeding, panting in the dust,
I knew His judgment just;
And as a lark with broken wing
Sometimes has heart to sing,
So I, all shattered, still could raise
To His dear name the praise!
Henceforth I know a holy prayer
To conquer pain and care.
For when my struggling flesh grows faint,
And clamors with complaint,
My spirit cries, THY WILL BE DONE!
And finds the victory won.

GOOD BYE TO WINTER.
As some dear friend to other climes departing,-
Holding the hands of one he loveth well,-
Looks in his eyes while silent tears are starting,
And without words they speak a mute farewell;
So, ere the Spring across the mountains flying,
Wakes the gray earth from silence and repose,
Let us draw near the hoary monarch dying,
And say good bye to Winter ere he goes.
Think, when he came, his royal robes around him,
Grand in his strength and glorious in his might,
Minstrel and Bard with song and welcome crowned him-
And shall he go without a word to-night?
Then he was strange; no single grief or pleasure
Bound to our lives his presence like a spell:
Now, when he holds our memory's dearest treasure,
Shall we forget to bless, and say farewell?
No,-for though fast her future ties can bind us,
Fair with the light her witchery may cast,
She cannot hide the tender gloom behind us,-
She cannot hush the whispers of the Past!
Yet as we bend to pluck the opening flowers,
We’ll think of one, though faded, all more dear;
And while we touch glad chords in joyous hours,
Some broken echo sweeter still we hear.
And in life's paths of honor and of duty,
Each day fulfills the promise of the last:-
He best may hope to win the future’s beauty,
Who best has kept the treasures of the past.
Then are the Spring, across the mountains flying,
Wakes the grim earth from silence and repose,
Let us draw dear the hoary monarch dying,
And say farewell to Winter ere he goes.
MARIE.
-Boston Saturday Evening Gazette.

THANKSGIVING.
Burst into praise, my soul! all nature join!
Angels and men, in harmony combine!
While human years are measured by the sun,
And while eternity its course shall run,
His goodness, in perpetual showers descending,
Exalt in songs and raptures never ending!
The Liberator.
<c02>
LETTER FROM A TRIED FRIEND.
Though the following letter was not written for the public eye, yet we are sure the perusal of it will give pleasure to the many friends of Mr. Dodge in Boston and its vicinity.
JACKSONVILLE, (Fla.) April 19, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:-
ESTEEMED FRIEND—After an absence of more than a half year from our good old Bay State, I fell impelled from a sense of duty to address you a letter, not so much for the purpose of communicating general information, (that you get from more competent sources,) but rather to render thanks at this late day for the assistance kindly volunteered in my behalf, which resulted in securing for me the opportunity to labor among the Freed people of this region; and also to make such report of myself as circumstances permit; not doubting that you feel a parental interest in the welfare of your spiritual children, one of whom I claim to be. 
I came down into “The Department of the South” with the endorsement of the “Educational Commission" of Boston, last September, and was immediately harnessed to the work of superintending the labors of the negroes on Hilton Head Island, S. C., having in charge eight plantations, from which were subsequently harvested nearly 80000 pounds seed cotton for the Government, besides an ample supply of other crops for the negroes—some six hundred in number, residents thereon. 
At my solicitation, Mrs. Dodge was sent down as a teacher by the same Commission the latter part of December, and found much necessity for labor in that capacity among the people whom I have been serving in other directions; and soon collected a school at our plantation residence, of some eighty or more scholars; a large portion of whom were gathered in the school room for the first time probably. 
The business of cultivating plantations having been abandoned by the Government, and hence the labor of superintendents in that locality, to a considerable extent, no longer needed, Gen. Saxton, in February, offered me a position here, having reference to the interests of the negroes of this vicinity. The unfortunate, and probably unnecessary repulse which our brave forces met with at the battle of Olustee delayed our coming till the last days of March, when we found ourselves in this most beautiful of Southern towns, in the midst of refugees, rebels, contrabands, and other evidences of an extreme Southern community. 
We were disappointed at finding so few freedmen here—probably not more than two hundred. The purpose of our Government having been anticipated by the rebels, most of the valuable negroes were removed interior-wise. Government is furnishing rations to about seventy-five of them, mostly children. 
There is but one school in town at the present time: it has seventy or eighty scholars, in charge of Mrs. Hawkes, assisted by Mrs. Dodge. It is our purpose to institute others soon, hoping to secure the attendance of the children of the “poor white trash,” who are needing the advantages of schooling quite as much as the blacks. Even more—for it is very apparent that this important part of Southern society is decidedly inferior in natural developments to the negro— less competent to take charge of the business of society, less business capacity, less integrity and uprightness. 
Of slavery I had learned much before coming South, and of its fruits; but of this large class of Southern society, denominated “poor whites,” evidently the result of slavery, necessarily I had no adequate conception. But, after mingling with society here as at present constituted, I am almost in doubt who of the victims of slavery most need our pity and assistance —the poor whites or the negroes. Give them an even chance in the race of life, and the negro will come out ahead every time, I am fully persuaded. The negro is willing to work; is ambitious, respectful, zealous to secure education, active in changing positions for the better; while his neighbor, clothed in poverty even as the black man, is quite too proud to associate with him in school, in labor, or in other paths which lead to usefulness and self-advancement—almost too proud to recognize a Yankee as deserving attention from them. Coupled with this pride is a spirit of indolence, impudence and assurance most contemptible, and very pitiable. While we ought, nevertheless, to labor in season and out of season for those on whose limbs we have intentionally fastened the actual chains of slavery, and incurred a debt which can never be discharged till the day of final reckoning; we, surely, cannot honorably “pass by on the other side,” leaving these other victims of our criminality, maimed and bruised and helpless, to perish, without balm and oil for their wounds, because in smiting down the negro, the blows which fell on them were accidental, or necessary to the accomplishment of our wicked purpose to the other. 
Do not understand me as having one word of apology for slavery. O, no, not a word! Your teachings we well remembered in all their scathing denunciations of that abominable institution. I am familiar with the terrible power of the weapons you wield, and how it has been used in laying open to public gaze the character of slavery. I came down here, therefore feeling pretty well acquainted with its hideous form; possibly over-estimating its enormities somewhat, but prepared certainly to witness the dying throes of a repulsive monster. But, alas! alas! how had the power of language failed you to describe, and how incompetent must all find themselves duly to appreciate in all its height and depth, the institution of slavery! Mingle with the people who have been part and parcel of it—those who have partaken of its sweets, if such there be—and those, also, who have drunk of its bitter dregs. Draw the curtains, as we now can, which have hitherto, in some measure, hidden its deformities. Look at its policy, its enormities, its barbarities, its fiendishness, as we find them imprinted on the face of all things which have grown up under the mildew of this terrible scourge. Then shall we say that the half of its enormities has not been told; neither has it entered into the heart of man to conceive the measure of its iniquity. 
I am continually being impressed anew with the hidden mysteries of slavery, as they unroll themselves from day to day; and it fills me with amazement that such iniquities could be practised, without some earth quake of a rebuke, if there is indeed a God of justice, “who rules in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of earth.”
I came down here an Abolitionist, feeling that I had been baptized not by sprinkling, but by deep immersion. Still, I feel that my experience and education during the past six months, have rebaptized me into eternal hatred to human bondage, and secured me as by a new birth to the work of its extermination. My enlistment in the cause is not for six months or three years, but for the war. Please enroll me on your papers of enlistment as one of the veterans. 
Excuse me for having presumed to occupy your attention with my thoughts on the “sum of all villanies,” so poorly expressed. It was far from my purpose in the outset, having been led into it accidentally as my pen passed hastily along without reflection. 
You know not how much I mourn over the loss of the enjoyment of good meetings at home, which the very acceptable weekly visits of the Liberator assure me are still going on. Mr. Thompson is with you, dispensing the blessings of his eloquence and his wise counsels to the multitudes who throng his pathway, and gather strength for the conflict to which we are all now harnessed, directly or indirectly. 
I remember the Anti-Slavery office and all its inmates, and hope not to be forgotten by them. It would rejoice me to get letters from any of them who have nothing better to do with a leisure half hour. I need good Anti-Slavery counsel from those who are wise in these matters. 
Believe me in work for the extermination of slavery, and the rebuilding of the nation, 
Yours to the end,
J. G. DODGE.
<c03>
THE EXPERIMENT OF FREE LABOR.
LETTER TO A FRIEND.
31 INDIA ST. BOSTON, May 2, 1864.
DEAR SIR—Your note of April 30th is before me, and I must thank you for your hearty expression of confidence in me. But I think you place too great stress upon my good intentions in regard to the welfare of the blacks—i.e., I do not regard the philanthropic motives of the employer as of so much importance, in the long run, as various other things, in elevating the condition of the negro; for on a large scale, they can not be depended upon. If people would read my letter to the Evening Post with candor, they would find that I am not opposed to a policy by which the blacks may come into possession of lands just as fast as they can pay a fair market price for them, and enter into their new position on the same footing as the white settler. In short, I think that any policy which discriminates between the two races, in favor of either, will be productive of mischief, by keeping wide open the social breach created by the slave system. Such a discriminating policy, if in favor of the black, will only tend to make a pet of him—thereby depriving him, in some degree, of the proper stimulus, and exposing him to more odium than he would encounter if let alone. The objections to the land policy in Port Royal were founded on the above conviction; for that policy discriminated in favor of a certain number of negroes, allowing them a chance to buy, at a nominal price, about four times as much land as they could possibly improve with their own hands, while at the same time it left a large majority of the negroes unprovided for. Those few who got the land took it on speculation, and had no means of working one fourth part of it, while the rest got none. 
It seems to me, and I think the same view would be taken by any practical man who has had much intercourse with laboring classes, that Industry is the great and by far the most efficient engine to be used for the elevation of the negro. In his present condition, his industry has never been cultivated one bit more than his intellect His wits have been almost exclusively employed, for generations back, in devising means to shirk labor, for his labor was never rewarded pro rata. Thus he has become a confirmed shirk, and the habit is not to be shaken off in a hurry. Any system of labor by which he can be put at once on his own responsibility, and be required to provide for himself, at the same time paying him exactly in proportion to the amount of labor actually performed, will be the surest way to develop habits of industry, and get rid of the degrading effects of compulsory labor and a position of no responsibility. In this view, I believe our Port Royal system is far better than any system by which the laborer is paid for his time by the day or month. The very moment he sells his time to me, the negro begins to devise means of spending that time with as little exertion as possible; and, as mentioned above, the negro has had an education that renders him very expert hi this thing. The very strongest incentive to exertion that can be devised is, undoubtedly, to have an interest in the land; provided a man has sufficient capital to live on while raising a crop for sale, and provided he has sufficient confidence in the future to work for a distant reward, and sufficient knowledge and appreciation of the usages of civilized society to live at peace with his neighbor, and respect his neighbor's rights. In these particulars, the negro of the Sea Islands is sadly deficient, but not incapable of improving. There are instances which are only exceptions to the above, and which tend to confirm the truth of what I here say; for these instances are taken from the most intelligent and self-reliant negroes, whose natural abilities and former experience as drivers or foremen have given them constant intercourse with white men, and thereby raised them above the general level of their race. 
If the possession of the land is the strongest incentive to industry, it should also be regarded as the highest boon, next to citizenship, which a man can acquire in society. It should, therefore, not be indiscriminately given away, but held as the reward for self-imposed exertion. The negro should not be allowed to buy land to the exclusion of whites, any more than the white to the exclusion of the negro. They should both have a fair chance in the race, on the same footing; and then the negro will soon show himself not only capable of earning his homestead, but becoming a citizen too; and I have confidence that this will be granted him in time. Public opinion has already undergone vast changes in regard to the qualifications and deserts of the negro within two years, and will, I trust, end by giving him all his rights. 
The friends of the negro have, in my opinion, made a mistake in wishing to make special enactments in his favor. They thus not only tend to defeat their own ends, by raising to an active condition against him a degree of odium among men who might otherwise let him alone, but, by petting the negro himself, tend to demoralize him by removing from his shoulders a part of the burthen which I verily believe God intended him to bear—viz., the full responsibility of working for his living on an equal footing with other men. 
If the negro's rights were respected so far as to allow him to enter the race fairly, and guarantee him pay for his labor at market rates, the enormous competition for that labor, which is sure to rise throughout the South as soon as property is protected, will, I think, be a sufficient security against his being oppressed by his employers for a long time to come. In the meantime, he will be steadily advancing in intelligence, and acquiring capital in money earned, by which he gradually qualifies himself to become a landholder; and he should have the same opportunity, now, and always, to become such, which is given to other men—no more and no less. 
This healthy competition for labor among capitalists cannot be checked. It is just as sure to come as the next summer's sun wherever and as fast as the tide of war is rolled back, and the arts of peace succeed. 
It has been my object, while in South Carolina, to bring before the world facts to prove that the negro could be economically employed on a fair commercial basis as a free laborer, in order to stimulate at the earliest practicable date such a competition among his employers as would ensure him fair wages. The lands were bought and have been worked with this object in view; and, so far, the experiment has succeeded in proving that free labor is cheaper than slave labor. 
The ultimate disposition of the lands has not yet been determined upon, any further than by the fixed intention of all concerned to so dispose of them as will conduce to the best interests of the whole community when the time shall come. There are several gentlemen interested in them, besides myself, who regard the ultimate welfare of that little colony as of more importance than the pecuniary profits arising there-from; and I hope that our eyes may not be blinded by any selfish motives in disposing of this land. 
We feel confident that the time has not yet come, when the interests of the negro can be best served by selling all the land to them, and will not come so long as they are surrounded by an armed and powerful enemy, with no law but martial law to protect them, and with the title of the seller to the land still imperfect. 
I am not aware that I have ever committed myself to any definite plans for disposing of this land; for I have not been able to digest or mature any plan satisfactory to myself. But I feel a great responsibility in so managing the concern that the truest and best interests of the community may be served thereby; and if I make a mistake, I hope it will be pardoned. 
It must be remembered that there are other rights to be guarded besides those of the laboring classes; and while guarding them, care should be taken not to infringe upon these others. It should also be remembered that any great industrial experiment, in order to be a complete success, should pay the capital for risks incurred, and a fair profit for its use, as well as a fair rate of wages to the laborer. Moreover, I contend that whatever policy is most profitable to the employer will also be most profitable to the employed, in a well-ordered community; and I do not wish to be understood.
<c04> 
that a true regard to the rights of the negroes in this case should necessarily require the capitalists, who have risked their money in it, to come out without reasonable pay for the course they have taken. This course seems to be the only one by which the whole transaction can be called a fair commercial one, capable of being imitated elsewhere; for we cannot always expect (if we do, we shall not find) commercial men or capitalists to employ the millions of freedmen, thrown upon the community in our Southern States, to be actuated by less selfish motives than the average of our race.
Neither do I think it reasonable to expect that the negro, educated in ignorance, taught laziness, suspicion, improvidence, theft, all manner of similar disqualifications, by the necessities of his past position, can at one stride become the enterprising free holder, capitalist, and trader, which is required to develop the resources of the Southern States. He may, doubtless, become so in time; and you may, now and then, find one man whose past opportunities and natural abilities enable him at once to assume such a position; but this is rare, and the mass is not fairly represented by such samples, in regard to present condition, though they may be good samples of the negro's capacity. 
It is an axiom among intelligent writers on political economy, that when a man holds more land than he can profitably work and improve, he is not a help to the public welfare, but stands in its way. If the whole of the South were divided among the negroes, with a view of compensating them for past services, they would certainly thus stand in the way of their own advancement. If the company which I represent were to continue to hold lands in South Carolina, which they cannot at any time work to as good advantage as somebody else, then the time will have come to dispose of them; and I trust they will do so with an eye to the true welfare of the community, regardless of any other object. 
I began to write in haste, meaning to explain myself to you, personally, in a few words; but if you think the whole or any portion of what I have here written is of sufficient general interest, you are at liberty to publish it. 
Very truly yours, 
EDWARD S. PHILBRICK. 

WOMEN’S ESTIMATE OF THEIR SEX. 
Extract from an admirable work, entitled “Woman and her Era, by Eliza W. Farnham”—published by A. J. Davis & Co., New York, in two volumes:— 
Is there one of the many, many worldly, selfish Women, however eager for her fill of admiration and applause, who would venture anywhere but in the company of fools, to speak light or derogatory words of the obscurest or the most brilliant Woman, whose history, fairly stated before her auditory, had shown a life of earnest, helpful activities; sympathy for the unfortunate; wise guidance to the bewildered; reverence for the rights of all, the lowly as well as the exalted, the depraved as well as the innocent; and ever abiding faithfulness to the truth?? If there be, I have never met her. If you believe otherwise, prove my statement by taking up the cause of any such Woman, in the most external circle where you find her name introduced; state it with entire fairness but earnestness, and watch the vanishing complacency of the shallow faces, as it grows before them, through your speech; see the careless eyes droop, and here and there grow dim with the dew of appreciation; hear the half-breathed or openly avowed assent and approval that will echo your own feeling, and say then if these Women do not in their souls reverence that Woman. I care not that she was scoffed at in the day of her action as “strong-minded,” “unsexed,” “forgetful of her sphere,” “masculine,” and so on. Let her but get her work done, and your candid relation of it, with whatever scorn or ridicule it provoked in the doing, shall infallibly command for her and yourself a respectful hearing from any circle of Women. Her scoffers and abusers will be denounced, and she and her narrator will receive acknowledgment and sympathy. Because the female soul, whatever the evidence of the clacking tongue, always responds to noble work and pure purposes, and, seeing, reveres them anywhere, in Woman as well as in man—in her the more that there has never been a day in which she could perform them, no matter what her capacity, on any scale larger than the household or neighborhood one, without having first surmounted almost insuperable difficulties. Thus foolish, thoughtless Women, either the young and untaught of experience, or worse, the old in years, yet still untaught by that matchless teacher, may upon provocation speak lightly, or even bitterly, of the cotemporary near Woman who disturbs the stagnant waters about them; but their real, inner sentiment is not expressed in such speech. They utter that in calmer hours of deeper feeling; moments of finer insight which come, if ever so rarely, to all; seasons when the perceptions, the intellect and the affections shine unclouded, as they will temporarily at the worst, out of the lives of all Women; and, more than all—more profoundly, sacredly, and above every manner of question, do Women prove their trust in and love for their sex, in their appeal to it for sympathy and understanding in their higher and rarer experiences, whether happy or unhappy. However assiduously and unscrupulously they may court the praises or strive for the affection of men;. however they may dance idly for their admiration, and become, as many do, mere glittering insects in its shining; the time comes ultimately when they turn away, sick and unsatisfied, yearning for the sympathy of a life capable of addressing itself more deeply and religiously to their interior nature. And thus in their hours of deep grief or profound happiness, when they mount the peaks flushed with the warm light of Hope, or descend into the valleys still and dark with the twilight of suffering, ALL WOMEN make their appeal to Woman. It is ever her hand they reach to clasp in theirs; ever a Woman's eye which they yearn with aching heart to look into; ever a Woman’s bosom on which they long to lean for support in their anguish, and repose in their happiness. Though the lover's homage move her, or the husband’s noble, pure affection make her count herself the lest among women; though the brother's abiding, protective love, or the son’s reverent, watchful care, enrich and content her—every Woman still craves another as the sharer of her feelings; of these no less than any. The best man, and the noblest friend she can possess in the other sex, outside of these relations, is insufficient for those sacred experiences, which, as they can come only to Women, can also only by Women be understood and appreciated. And she will accept an inferior female, if none other be near, before a noble man, for many such confidences, because into the kingdom of her life, whither she must invite and sit down with the friend of that hour, he cannot enter. It must be a sister Woman who comes there. 
Moreover, as the slavery of women becomes modified through the spread of more liberal ideas of them, and a consequent braver self-assertion by the good and true, the whole body of intelligent faith in Women toward their sex becomes year by year broader, more firmly knitted, more clear, persistent, unwavering and sustaining. 
If we consider that in a perpetuated slavery like ours, many of the tendencies to falseness and moral dislocation are cumulative from age to age, growing into every generation from its own practical experiences, and descending by inheritance from each to the next; that not only the natural sentiments and feelings have become thus perverted in themselves, but that the courage to speak out what social bondage bids us hide, can hence be moved, in the mass of Women, only by a support which assures them of sympathy; and that we have but just reached that point of Revolution within the second quarter of this Nineteenth century when Ideas can come to our aid and emancipation, no earnest lover of our sex can fail to find in its position, to-day, abundant cause for rejoicing, and rich inspiration to noble faith in its future. Within fifty years, to go no farther back, Woman has done for herself a vast work—an initiative work, of which the consequence can, at present, be but imperfectly estimated by the most prophetic soul. And, while we cannot forget that this Revolution has its foundations in the preceding labors of man—the discoveries, sciences, arts and systems which he has developed—so neither ought it to be forgotten that our deepest need of it also springs from him—his selfishness, his love of power, his coldness to justice—the professed law of his era—and his forgetfulness of equal rights. The systems and conditions to be revolutionized are the fruits of his sovereignty, and the remote truths
<c05>
upon which the approaching revolution is based, are of his discovery; but it is Woman who must make their application, and follow them up to their high sources, in the divine of her own nature, and the higher divine to which she is of nearer kindred than man. It is she who must show of them fairer flowers and more delicious fruit than he could ever find. It is she who, leading the career of inquiry into human nature beyond the point where he stops, arrested by the fineness and subtilety in himself, must carry forward the work in her own behalf, and thus verify the eternal prophecy that who would enjoy freedom must first win it.
Nothing is clearer than that Woman must lead her own revolution; not alone because it is hers, and that no other being can therefore have her interest in its achievement, but because it is for a life whose highest needs and rights, those to be redressed in its success, lie above the level of man’s experiences or comprehension. Only Woman is sufficient to state Woman’s claims, and vindicate them. Hence the deep heart-joy that is felt in each one of those who, with the courage and firmness of her sex, tempered with its gentleness, stands up in the armor of God’s high truths; makes her presence known through them, and announces that she comes to demand emancipation in His name. Victory is hers when she rises. If the sun shines, the air must move, swiftly or slowly. If the stream set out, it must reach the ocean at last. If the sap circulate, the budding life most testify of its track and motions. Effect must follow cause, and WOMAN, in the attitude of revolt against man’s sovereignty over her, is as sure a prophet of its overthrow, as the sun of wind, the current of a lower level, and sap of buds, leaves and flowers. Her pretensions and efforts are oftener derided now because of the weakness, apathy, or opposition of selfish, undeveloped or parasitic women, than for any or all other causes combined. The outward strength and dignity of revolt are in the cohesion and mutual confidence of those engaged in it; and men, who judge a cause rather by the outward visible signs of its strength, and who are less apt to estimate moral force and the gravity of irresistible truth than numbers of supporters and their affiliation, ‘laugh at the idea of a revolt in behalf of Woman, which seven-tenths of the sex reject, and even ridicule more bitterly than themselves.
But it cannot be difficult, I apprehend, for any fair-minded person to see, first, in the nature of the cause the guarantee of its sure success, as founded upon the deepest and highest need of humanity, viz: its need of capacity for spiritual freedom and culture, a capacity everywhere desired, but as yet no where realized, save in the souls of a few women and men; and, second, in the fact of its progress, proof of the rapidly cumulating forces necessary to its accomplishment, the most essential of these being the growing sentiment in women of trust, confidence, and respect toward those of their own sex to whom nature assigns its conduct.

MISOEGENATION BY JEFF. DAVIS. 
A certain class of people, seeking to bring opprobrium upon Republicans and Union men, are accusing them of advocating what is termed “miscegenation.” There is no truth in the statement. These individuals, however, who are great lovers of Jeff. Davis and his minions, seem to forget that miscegenation is carried on extensively at the South, or has been in the past. Instances innumerable might be cited. “Perley,” the Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal, furnishes to that paper a remarkable instance, from which it appears that Jeff. Davis goes in practically for the doctrine of blending the races. He quotes from a letter from a United States officer, whose veracity is vouched for. The writer says:—
Whilst at Vicksburg, I resided opposite to a house belonging to a negro man who once belonged to Joe Davis, a brother of Jeff. Learning this I happened one day to think that he, perhaps, would know something about the truth of a story told in the London Times, that there was a son of Jeff. Davis in our navy, the mother of whom was a slave woman. The next time I met the man, I asked him if he had ever known Maria, who had belonged to Jeff. Davis, and was the mother of some of his children. He replied that he had not known Maria, but that he knew his Massa Joe Davis's Eliza, who was the mother of some of Massa Jeff's children. I then inquired if she had a son in the navy. He replied that she had—he knew him—they called him Purser Davis. He said that Eliza was down the river some thirty miles at work on a plantation. 
The next day, as I was walking down street, I met the man, who was driving his mule team, and he stopped to tell me that Eliza had returned. A few moments afterward, he came back, and pointing to one of two women who came walking along, he said that she was the one of whom he had been talking. When she came up, I stopped her, and inquired whether she had not a son who would like to go North. She replied yes, and added that she would like to go too. I told her that I only wanted a lad. She said that her son had gone up the Red River on board the gun boat Carondelet, but that when he returned, she would be pleased to have him go. “Well,” said I, “some say that Jeff. Davis is your son's father—do you suppose it’s so?" “Suppose!" she exclaimed, with offended pride, “I’s no right to suppose what I knows am certain so. Massa Jeff. was the father of five of my children, but they’re all dead but that boy, and then I had two that he wasn't the father of. There's no suppose about it.”

RELEASE OF REV. CALVIN FAIRBANK. 
“A little brief authority“ was never more happily or humanely exercised than in the instance recorded below:— 
LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 19.
Rev. Calvin Fairbank, who was implicated with Delia Webster in enticing slaves from Kentucky, several years since, who had served twelve of a sentence of fifteen years in the Frankfort Penitentiary, was pardoned by Lieut. Governor Jacobs, while performing executive duties during Governor Bramlette’s absence from the State. 
The case of Mr. Fairbank was remarkable for its exhibition of the merciless despotism of slavery, and for the contempt of laws and boundaries which it involved. On a false charge, the victim of slave-holding vengeance was kidnapped in the free State of Ohio, dragged across the river to Kentucky, there mocked with a trial, and consigned to a prison for the term above indicated. It was an atrocious occurrence, whether we regard the alleged offence as real, and admit that Mr. Fairbank lent aid to refugees from the house of bondage, in obedience to human instincts and the divine behests; or, whether we consider the audacity of the slave-power on the one hand, and the humiliating submissiveness of an outraged State on the other. Ohio went down on her knees to Kentucky, as Massachusetts had formerly done to South Carolina—each impotent to protect its citizens, white or black, from unconstitutional statutes and from lawless violence. To-day it is Kentucky, and not Ohio, which intervenes to shorten the affliction of the sufferer for righteousness' sake. While Gov. Bramlette is in Washington, seeking to perpetuate slavery by preventing the enrollment of slaves in his fine old neutral State, his Lieut. Governor undoes, as far as is possible at this late day, a cruel wrong of the system in the plenitude of its insolent strength. Slavery is no longer in its prime, but men who ought to be the champions of liberty are still worshipping the setting sun. Legislators who deny equal suffrage to colored citizens of Montana; who refuse to pay what is just to our colored patriots in the field; and, above all, who vote to retain the most ancient of our fugitive slave laws, are possessed of the same spirit which prostrated Ohio in the dust before a slave-aristocracy, and doomed Fairbank to an incarceration of twelve long, painful, despairing years.—N. Y. Independent. 

AN IMPRESSIVE SPECTACLE. 
WASHINGTON, April 25, 1864.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal: 
From the window of the Journal room here in Washington, I look out upon columns of men marching down Fourteenth street on their way to the theatre of war in the Old Dominion. Sit with me here, and behold the scene—platoons, battalions, companies, regiments, brigades, divisions. The men are bronzed by the rays of a Southern sun, and by the wild March winds. Some of them have been at Newbern, Roanoke, Antietam, Fredericksburg, Knoxville, Gettysburg, and a dozen other fields. They are old soldiers. They know all about hardship, suffering, privation, want. You can tell them nothing about iron hail and leaden rain. They 
<c06>
have stood like walls of adamant against the shocks of rebel columns at Malvern Hill and Cemetery Ridge, and they have swept like tornadoes upon the foe at the Antietam bridge and on the wooded heights of Gettysburg.
The bright sunshine gleams from their bayonets. Above them wave their standards tanered by the winds, torn by cannon ball and rifle shot, stained by the blood of dying heroes. They are priceless treasures-—more beloved than houses or lands, riches, honors, case, comfort, or wife or children. Ask the battle-scarred soldier what he loves best on earth, and he will have but one answer—“The flag! The dear old flag! It is their pillar of fire by night, and cloud by day—the symbol of everything worth living for—worth dying for.
I read upon those banners as they flutter in the breeze—“Bull Run, Ball’s Bluff, Roanoke, Newbern, Gainsville, Mechanicsville, Seven Pines, Savage Station, Malvern Hill, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Antietam, South Mountain, Knoxville, Vicksburg, Port Hudson, Gettysburg”—all those names are there in golden letters, and others so torn and defaced that I cannot read them.
There is an advancing crowd. The streets are lined with men, women and children. The grave Senators have left their chambers, and the members of the House of Representatives have taken a recess to gaze upon the defenders of their country once more as they pass through the city—many of them, alas, never to return. There is the steady tramping of the thousands, the deep heavy jar of the gun carriages on the pavement, the clattering of hoofs, the clanking of sabres, the drum beat, the bugle call, and the music of the military bands. Pavement, sidewalk, windows and roofs are occupied by the people. Upon the balcony of the hotel is their corps commander, Gen. Burnside, and by his side the President of the United States, pale, careworn, returning the salutes of the officers and acknowledging the cheers of the soldiers.
A division of veterans pass. And now, with full ranks, platoons extending from sidewalk to sidewalk are brigades which never have been in battle; but now, at the call of their country, they are going forth to crush the rebellion. Their country! They never had a country till the tall man on the balcony, so pale and worn, gave them one.
For the first time they behold their benefactor. They are darker hued than their veteran comrades who have gone before, but they can cheer as heartily as they. “Hurrah for Uncle Abe! Hurrah for Massa Linkun! Three cheers for the President! Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!” There is a swinging of caps, a clapping of hands, a waving of hand kerchiefs and banners. There are no cheers more lusty than those given by the redeemed sons of Africa; there are no responses more hearty than those in return from the admiring multitude. Regiment after regiment of stalwart men—slaves once, but freemen now, with steady step, closed up file and even rank pass down the street, moving on to Old Virginia to certain victory, or certain death; for while I write, there comes the news of the surrender of Plymouth, and fresh from the telegraph and press are the sickening details of the massacre at Fort Pillow.
Such is the scene. They have gone. The crowd has dispersed, but the event of the day remains. For the first time, the President of the United States has reviewed a division of the corpsd’ Afrique. It is a fact in history to remain forever. He gave them freedom, he recognizes them as soldiers. Will he protect them? The question comes up in a way which demands an immediate answer. The President must answer it, or the soldiers will. Their law will be blood for blood, life for life, no prisoners. As the troops halt by the road-side, and read the account of the massacres at Fort Pillow and Plymouth, you can see the clenched teeth, you hear the oaths—not altogether profane—that they will be avenged. Not only among the soldiers, but among the citizens you see and hear the determination to have retaliation.
The government must take immediate action, or our future-battle fields will be terrible scenes of earnage. Our savage foe in his hate has placed himself in a position which must soon alienate the sympathies of those who have hitherto supplied him with arms and ammunition. He has placed himself outside the pale of civilization. We cannot afford to follow. Let the Government, and not the common soldier, take retaliation. Let there be an appeal to the moral sense of nations, and let the retribution be terrible and sure. There must be no hesitation. I write from observation. If the government does not take retaliation, the soldiers will.
CARLETON.

BURIAL OF A COLORED SOLDIER.
Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
PHILADELPHIA, April 29, 1864.
A novel and interesting fact occurred in this city yesterday. Military ceremonies and honors were paid, for the first time in this city, to the remains of a colored man. Sergt. Major Robert Bridges Forten of the 43d U. S. Colored Infantry was buried with military honors due his rank.
James Forten, the father of the deceased, was long known in this city, and respected by all the business community with whom he came in contact. He was a friend of the late Louis Clopier and Stephen Girard. The prison ships of 1776 were his residence for a long period, and his son inherited his love of country from a loyal and his son inherited his love of country from a loyal and earnest friend of liberty in the infancy of our nation. While in London doing business, where the prejudice of color would not prevent a man of the highest culture in every respect from advancing, he heard the call of his native country for her sons of color to rally for the defence of the “Old Flag.” In it he recognized a call for the lovers of Freedom to do their duty now in the “trial-day” of its existence. Slavery, the curse of his race, was about to die, and Mr. Forten left lucrative business enjoyments in England to do what he could to help hasten its death. Being about fifty years of age, and never accustomed to the hardships of life, he against the advice of friends enlisted in the ranks when he found that there was no higher position for him, though he had the talent, character and education which, had he been white, would have secured him the position of a field officer, at least, in any of the volunteer regiments. His country, he said, asked her colored children to rally for her defence, and those of them who had been blessed with education should be foremost in responding to the call. Actuated by these motives, he joined the 43d, and was immediately made Sergeant-Major, and ordered to report to Col. S. M. Bowman, chief mustering and recruiting officer for colored troops in the State of Maryland. In the many speeches he made to those of his race in Baltimore, so full of logic and true eloquence, he in a great measure contributed to the great success which has attended Col. Bowman’s efforts during the last two months. That officer, in reporting to the Philadelphia Supervisory Committee, commended him as a soldier and a gentleman. His last duties were performed with such zeal and devotion that when sickness set in, it was soon seen that his end was near, as his constitution seemed undermined by his prolonged labors. He died suddenly of erysipelas. His wife and one son are in London, and his daughter is a teacher in the camp of the freedmen at Port Royal. Appropriate remarks were made at his residence by J. Miller McKim, Esq., long known as Secretary of the Philadelphia Anti-Slavery Society; Thomas Webster, Esq., Chairman of the Supervisory Committee for the recruiting of Colored Troops, and Mrs. Lucretia Mott. The remains were then escorted to St. Thomas's Church, on Fifth, below Walnut street, by an escort of sixteen of his late comrades, commanded by a Sergeant. Following in the long and respectable train were many prominent citizens and a large number of commissioned officers, who thus showed their respect for a noble and devoted friend of his race. After the rites in the church, his remains were deposited in the family vault in view of curious and wondering thousands. The three volleys which were fired over the grave of Sergeant-Major Forten in the heart of this great city was a lesson not to be forgotten.
P. E. G.

VALUABLE PUBLICATION.
PROCEEDINGS of the American Anti-Slavery Society, at its Third Decade, held in the City of Philadelphia, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863. With an Appendix, and a Catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863. This is an octavo pamphlet of 175 pages: just published and for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, Fifty cents.
May 6. tf

BOARDING.
MRS. R. A. SMITH would inform her friends and the public generally, that she has taken house No. 42, Grove Street, Boston; where Board, transient and permanent, may be obtained on reasonable terms. A share of the public patronage; is respectfully solicited.
