THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED -
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21. CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisement making less than one square c three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery <illegible> are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBHICK and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 3. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1517.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
ILLUSTRATIONS OF DEMOCRACY.
The adherents of Democracy, even in the free States, have at length come out boldly in advocacy of Slavery as just, and blasphemously quote Scripture in its support .Mr. O' Connor, a distinguished and able leader of the party in New York, gave utterance, at the great Union-Saving Meeting in that city, to the following sentiments:-
'Is negro Slavery unjust? If it is unjust, it violates that first rule of human conduct, 'Render to every man his due.' If it is unjust, it violates the law of God, which says, 'Love thy neighbor as thyself,' for that requires that we should perpetrate no injustice. And gentlemen, if it could be maintained that Negro Slavery was unjust, perhaps I might be prepared, perhaps we ought to be prepared, to go with that distinguished man, to whom allusion is frequently made, and say there is a 'higher law' which compels us to trample beneath our feet the Constitution established by our fathers, with all the blessings it secures to their children. But, gentlemen, I insist-and that is the argument to which we must come, which we mast meet, and on which we must come to a conclusion that shall govern our section in the future selection of Representatives in the Congress of the United States-I INSIST THAT NEGRO SLAVERY IS NOT UNJUST; [bravo and cheers;] it is not only just, [hisses, applause, and cries of' put him out,' 'put him out,' 'sit down,' 'order, order.']
'Mr. O'Connor. Order, order, if you please. 
'Mayor Tiemann. Let him stay there, order!
'Voices. Put him out. 
'Mr. O'Connor, Serpents have the privilege of kissing; good men will be silent and hear. I maintain, gentlemen, that NEGRO SLAVERY IS NOT UNJUST-[No, sir; and applause]-that it is BESIGN IN ITS INFLUENCES on the white man and on the black man, [that is so, and cheers;] that it is ORDAINED BY NATURE; that it is a necessity created by nature itself; that it carries with it duties for the black man, and duties for the white, which duties cannot be performed, except by the preservation, and, if the gentlemen please it, the PERPETUATION of the system of Negro Slavery.' [Applause.]
Mr. Singleton, of Mississippi, in his speech in the House of Representatives on Monday week, gave utterance to the following version of the Democratic creed:
'If you exclude Slavery from us, it will prove the disruption of every tie. We will have expansion of Slavery in the Union, or outside of it, if we must, If you want to know my advice to Mississippi, I say, the sooner we get out of the Union the better; for the longer we stay in, the worse for us. The South have made up their minds to sustain Slavery. We don't intend to be prescribed by present limits, and it will not be in the power of the North to coerce the three millions of freemen at the South with arms in their hands, and prevent their going into the surrounding Territories. Gentlemen must remember that a gallant son of the South, Jefferson Davis, led our forces into Mexico, and, thank God, he still lives, perhaps to lead a Southern army.
'The South will expand to Mexico, that country being without government, and they can administer the estate for themselves. Whenever a man like Mr. Seward or Mr. Hale is elected to preside over the destinies of the South, there may be expected an undivided front in that section, and all parties will be united in resistance to the aggression.'

SOUTHERN VIEWS.
We of the South love the Union with a holy love. In our ideal, it is a league of brotherhood; a pledge of peace and mutual good offices and affection at home; a guarantee of national respectability and glory abroad. It is sanctified by many glorious recollections, it is associated with many glorious hopes. We love the Union, and we love Union men;-we mean such men as stand up now, as Pitt stood up in British Parliaments to denounce the tyranny and deplore the folly of those who destroyed the Union then. There are many such, and they stand a noble host. But spare us, we again demand, spare us the mockery of Union professions from Seward and from Hale,-from the King of Republicanism or from the king's jester!
We do not want 'Republicans' to clank chains of creak prison doors in our ears, in the prostituted name of Union. But when Buchanan, or Dickinson, or Everett speaks, or a host of others whom we might name,-when we hear them say they want the Union to endure that they may love us, and not that they may oppress us; when they show us silken cords instead of iron manacles,-then, we bear the voice of brothers, and of true Union men, and we gladly listen and cordially respond.
But as the tyrant Norths of 1776 destroyed the Union then, while swearing by ships and armies that it should not die, so Northern tyrants will as surely destroy it now, if they do not bring forth the fruits of affection and justice, instead of relying on force to sustain them in the aggressions which they are perpetrating. The cry of Union on their lips is an insulting, mocking, hypocritical ery, which shoes that the ennobling sentiment condected with an honorable and patriotic Union, is a stranger to their thoughts. We would listen with less offence to a tirade from Wendell Phillips at a Brown sympathy meeting.-Alexandria {Va.) Senrinel.

A CLERICAL CONSPIRACY.
A circular is now being sent forth extensively, emanating from what is styled the 'Church Anti-Slavery Society,' which, as indicating a menacing phase of sectional fanaticism, is worthy of a brief notice. The officers of this organization are J. C. Webster, President; Henry T. Cheever, Secretary: William Claflin, Vice President; I. Washburn, Treasurer. Executive Committee-Deacon Timothy Gilbert, Boston, Mass., Baptist Church; Rev. 
Samuel Hunt. Franklin, Mass., Congregational Church; Rev. John H. Twombly, Worcester, Mass., Methodist Church: Rev. George T. Day, Providence, R. I., Freewill Baptist Church; Lewis Tappan, Esq., New York city, Congregational Church; and exofficio, Rev J. C. Webster,  Hopkinton, Mass., President, Congregational Church; Rev. Henry T. Cheever, Jewett City, Conn., Secretary, Congregational Church; Hon. William Claflin, Newton, Mass., Vice President, Methodist Church: Hon I. Washburn, Worcester, Mass., Treasurer, Congregational Church. This Committee, pursuant to a vote of the Society, have appointed' its Secretary ( a congregational pastor of Jewett City, Conn.,) General Agent of the Society for one year, to correspond with the churches, and urge combined action against Slavery, and to receive which pecuniary aid as individuals and churches may bestow for the purposes of the Society, and bespeak for him a hearing before the churches of all denominations, and a hearty cooperation by the people of God in the plans of the Society, so far as they are in accordance with the Holy Scriptures, and warranted by true Christian philanthropy. They have also of
<c02>
fered a premium for a tract on Slavery., They, re-commend a quarterly or monthly concert of prayer for the enslaved, with contributions, of course, and a form of constitution for a local church Anti-Slavery Society.
We need not copy in full the Declaration of Principles they put forth as the basis of their movement; it is enough to say that, under the guise of philanthropy, it reeks of' hatred, malice and all uncharitableness.' Slaveholding is a deadly sin, and slave-holders all sinners and anti-Christians. This, of course, heaps with infamy the graves of Washing-ton and of our own New England ancestors, em-bracing thousands of the best and purest men that ever lived. The reverend plotters recommend all churches of their stamp to rebuke all others differing from them, and the refusal of fellowship to that section of the visible church which defends slavery. Abolition is demanded' at once.' Article eight reads, verbatim et literatim, thus:-
'The Church and the Ministry to form the conscience of the nation in respect to slavery, and to make it loyal to the law of God, against all unjust judgments of Courts, and unrighteous legislation of Congress.' 
We will venture to say that there is not a man among the authors of this manifesto who is not a howler against the priest craft of Rome-who does not go in for a proscription of a portion of our fellow-citizens, because in addition to the heinous sin of foreign birth, they are falsely charged with being under the influence of their spiritual teachers in secular affairs. But that the Christian charity, which is ignored by these self-constituted apostles forbids, we should charge them with being conspirators of the deepest dye. We should say that as intelligent men, they were, knowingly, enemies of the Christian religion, dire foes of the colored race, and enemies of their country; for all intelligent men know that Anti-Slavery agitation in the pulpit has broken up and is breaking up congregations; that the fierce and fratricidal war on the South only tends to rivet the fetters of the slave and restrict his privileges; and to set up a higher law than that of the supreme law of the land, will infallibly produce anarchy, disruption, ruin. The men, therefore, who put forth the sentiments expressed in this' Anti-Slavery Church Declaration of Principles,' are either conscious disturbers of the public peace and plotters of public ruin, or they are monomaniacs maddened by dwelling on a single idea. On one or the other born of this inevitable dilemma they must be impaled.-Boston Post.

SELECTIONS.
From the (Edinburgh) Scottish Press, of Dec. 20.
SLAVERY STILL AT ITS DIRTY WORK.
[The writer of the following letter, Miss Remond, is a young lady of color, now spending the winter in London. It shows the unjust treatment of such persons on board the Cunard steamers,-and the manner in which they are received at the office of the American Minister in this country.]
Sir,-Every colored American knows, from bitter experience, the liability to receive insult from the majority of the American people. We do not expect it under English influences. My sister, Mrs. Putnam, and her friends had first class tickets from Boston to Liverpool. After the purchase of the tickets, they were informed that they would not be allowed equal privileges with other first-class passengers. Mrs. Putnam remonstrated with the Boston agent. The health of two of the party was the object of the voyage, more particularly that of one who left our climate by the advice of his physician as a last resource for the restoration of his health. No American vessel will take colored passengers except with similar restrictions, and if English steamers imitate Americans, the only reason for colored persons to take the former in preference is that they are sure of kinder treatment on board the English vessels. A short time after the Europa left Boston, a waiter informed Mrs. Putnam and her friends that they could not go to the table with other first-class passengers. They asked to see the captain; the steward then came, and Mrs. Putnam remonstrated with him, but he said, as the waiter had said, that she and her friends could not be allowed to go to the table. The captain did not come. The only point is this-whether men and women guilty of no crime but having a dark complexion, shall be liable to such injustice on board English steamers?
The facts relating to the passport are these:-I called at 24 Portland Place-the office of the American Minister, Hon. Mr. Dallas, with my passport which I had obtained before leaving the United States. I asked to hare it vised for the purpose of going to Paris. The Secretary said I was not a citizen of the United States, and he could not sign it. I informed him that I was a citizen of Salem in Massachusetts, and Massachusetts acknowledged my citizenship-and the fact of my having the passport was a proof of my citizenship. The Secretary still refused to sign it, and said I ought to be satisfied with his refusal. During the conversation, I turned to my sister and said,' Thank God we are in a country where our rights are respected, and I have no doubt we can obtain passports which will take us to France. 'This remark called forth from the gentlemanly Secretary this reply,' If you do not cease this conversation, I will have you put out of this house. 'Most earnestly would I ask all who read this letter to judge what the spirit of a country is that will allow such treatment to its citizens, the spirit which enslaves four millions of men and women, and insults the free colored population of  the United States?  You may read the facts, but no words can express the mental suffering we are obliged to bear because we happen to have a dark complexion. No language can give one an idea of the spirit of prejudice which exists in the States. I am most respectfully yours,
Sarah P. Remond. London, December, 1859.
From the Abington Standard, A WARNING-JOHN BROWN'S FRIENDS

GIBBETED.
Mr. EDITOR:-The Charleston (S. C.) Courier of the 9th inst. publishes the call for the John Brown meeting held in this town on the 2d inst., which the editor says was furnished to him by a' gentleman,' together with a list and classification of the signers.
I wish you to print the list for the information and as a warning to all those who have been so foolish as to suppose they did not sell themselves, as well as the goods they have sent to the southern market. They are so much in the habit of buying and selling men the other side of Mason & Dixon's line, it is perhaps not to be wondered at if they should fancy them equally the subject of barter on this.
Don't they buy negroes, bodies and souls? And why should they not believe themselves possessed of an equal control over those of the merchants, manufacturers, and laborers here? Certainly, the con-duct of the Websters, Choates, Everetts, Pierces,
<c03>
Buchanans, and of the' Union savers' generally, goes far, to justify such a belief, And then, when they see what specimens of humanity come from the North,-a sample of which may be seen in the one who furnished the article for the Courier, with a mixture of fact and fancy,-with what' comfortable alacrity' they do the dirtiest and meanest work of Slavery, by turning spies and informers against their former friends and neighbors,-there is, at least, the shadow of an excuse for the opinion now acted upon in Congress and through the South, that the merchants of the North bargain away their principles with their wares.
The utter want of manhood and independence exhibited by the ruling influences in the so-called Free States, the servile, cringing and heartless spirit which has everywhere appeared in this struggle with the worst form of despotism and oppression known to the civilized world, goes to confirm the belief. How many are there, like the witness on the stand, who said to the lawyer,' Only tell me what you want I should say, and I will say it!'- How many are there who say to the slaveholders,' Only tell us what you want done, and we will do it'!
There are two things particularly observable in connection with this expose of the gentleman who plays the mousing owl' for the Charleston paper. The first is the involuntary testimony to the sincerity of those who signed the call for the John Brown meeting in this town. What other motive but an honest one, a conviction that their action was just and humane, could induce them so to jeopardize their pecuniary interests, as this man, in the publication of their names to their Southern customers, virtually declares they have done. They had nothing to gain in the way of trade, but everything to lose. There is, then, the best evidence of honesty of purpose, and simple obedience to the dictates of conscience and the noblest impulses of humanity, on the part of those who are thus hung up before the exasperated people, writhing under the consciousness of wrongdoing, and in an agony of fear lest their victims shall be stimulated by the sympathy of the great popular heart to rise and break the yoke, as their forefathers did that of Great Britain.  Was there ever seen such a sight? A whole people driven into ecstacies of fear and madness by the attempt, on the part of twenty men, to run off a portion of the slaves of Virginia! Slaves, too, so much in love with their condition, that nothing can induce them to forsake the elysium of happiness in which slavery has placed them! What a lesson is taught in the folly, tho ferocity, the worse than savage blood-thirstiness of the South, in connection with the Harper's Ferry affair, as in all other efforts to open the dark den of Slavery to the warm radiance of the sunlight of liberty!
This blind and merciless spirit, the' gentleman' in the Charleston Courier would let 'loose' upon former friends and neighbors, who honestly earn the bread they eat, and are not disposed to keep silence when, in the judicial murder of one of God's noblemen, a great outrage is committed upon the principles standing at the base of the government, and which are the life of liberty and law. Well, he must follow his affinity, and will have his reward.
The second thing observable in this publication, is the utter want of moral principle shown by the writer, in attempting to sway the honeat convictions of men by an appeal to their pockets. It is really saying to them, 'I have nothing of principle, nothing of justice, or religion, or freedom, or manhood, but what I am ready to sell for a consideration, to be measured in dollars and cents! Why should you have? I am willing to sell anything for money. There is nothing so sacred, or so holy, or so noble, but its price can be found in the market, and I am ready to sell it. I do not believe you are more in corruptible than I am. Ho! then, ye men of Abington and the North, who havebeen living for forty years by Southern trade, or who wish to live that time to come, stifle your convictions-strike hands with the slave-owner-shut your eyes to manifest robbery and injustice-still the throbbings of your hearts in behalf of the suffering and the dumb; affirm that darkness is light, and light darkness; deny your Divine Master like Peter, or sell him like Judas, if you can only save the Union, which means, secure the thirty pieces of silver ! Cotton is king- Slavery is on the throne-bow down and worship it! So trade shall flourish, and a golden stream shall run into your coffers. No better advice has ever been given than that of Iago,' Put money in your purse.' As the great panorama of historic life passes in review before us, see how men have al-ways sold themselves, or have been sold for gold.- See how successful fraud and oppression have always rioted in wealth and luxury, while honest poverty has been sold in the market, or starved in its hovel. See
'Truth forever on the scaffold,
Wrong forever on the throne,'
and be wise in your generation as I have been, and, though you will lose your manhood, you may probably fill your pockets !'
Whether the gentleman' aforesaid is fully aware of the motive which actuates him, and by which he has sought to influence us. I cannot say. It may strike other people differently, but this is the look the whole thing wears to me.
I had written thus far when the Standard of this week came to hand, containing a letter from Charleston, S.C, and signed' C. T. Dunham. 'It appears to be intended for the benefit of the signers to the call for the John Brown meeting, and points to him as the' gentleman' who furnished the material for the article in the Courier. He appeals in moving terms certainly to the grave Senator,' the' Representatives elect,' the ministers who have' donned the sacerdotal robe to enter into the arena of wild fanaticism, &c.' and to the' manufacturers,' with means and without, who have lived' forty years,' more or less, by trading with the South, entreating them not to let loose upon the country a population happy, peaceful and contented, to riot, rob, burn and pillage wherever their footsteps mightlead them.'
It would be bad, would it,' to let loose a peaceful, happy and contented population to riot, rob, burn and pillage' anything or anybody? At other times, and of another sort of people, the question would naturally come,' How is it possible for such a population to run loose for such a purpose?' But that is out of order, and will not be permitted.
The gentlemen who are thus peremptorily arraigned at the tribunal of this' adopted son of the South' are all able to speak for themselves, if they are disposed to answer the summons. Although I had the good fortune to be one of the signers of the' Knell,' yet as I am only a' laborer,' one of a class whose normal condition, they tell us down South, is that of' fixtures of the soil, to be bought and sold with it,'-one of the' mudsills of society, 'as defined in the dictionary of Senator Hammond-it will not be expected or desired that I should plead at all. It is, perhaps, fortunate I am above or below the temptations which it is intimated will exercise, so strong a motive power over the other signers of the' Knell.' I cannot tell what I might do under other circumstances, and can only speak from the' standpoint' I occupy. This leads me to say, that there is not gold enough, is the Carolinas, nor real or fan-
<c04>
cied blessings enough in the 'Union,' to make me affirm that a system, in whose category, human beings are written down, and in the words of South Carolina law, declared to be' goods and chattels personal, to all intents, purposes and constructions whatsoever,' has in it one element which can awake the sympathy, or command the respect and support of a single genuine man on the globe. I say, more-over, that those who are thus struck from the scale of humanity, and classed with the brutes, have an indefeasible right, from God and nature, to throw off the yoke, and assert their claim to the dignity and position of men, the best way they can. These are my sentiments, and I am ready to follow and abide by them through all their natural and legitimate consequences.
When the millions of laboring men in this country come up to this standard, the hour of Slavery's doom will be struck. Of all those countless millions, reaching out through the present into the remote and indefinite future, John Brown was a fitting type and representative. God bless all such ! And he will!
N. H. WHITING.
North Abington, Dec. 22, 1859.
[Hon. Mr. Whiting, the writer of the above, is a noble representative of the working-classes of New England, and Senator from Plymouth in the present Legislature of Massachusetts.]

From the London Morning Star.
THESE WAS NO'BUNKUM' IN BROWN.
North and South in the United States admit that there was, to use a favorite and expressive phrase of theirs, the true' grit' in Brown. There was no fine sand in his composition, sleekly and ignominiously sliding through the hour-glass of life. He was an angular bit of granite that kept its place on the shore of events-though all the surges of the sea beat against it. He was a gnarled oak, unbending before the tempest. In this place, nor at this time, we neither discuss his aims nor his conflict; neither its wisdom nor its consequences: we have to do today with a stern, single-minded, God-fearing, Puritan-souled man, who has died for an idea, and that it disinterested and generous one. We will not allow any opinion upon his principles to jar with the rightful estimate of his personal qualities. We do not treat him as a martyr, but as a man. The world is full enough of those who, in supine ease, shrink from the discharge of tame duties, and if unselfish heroism gleams on the world from a scaffold, it should not want acknowledgment.
OSAWATOMIE BROWN! 'What a name to fill the speaking trump of fame!' He must be in a way a man of genius to reconcile the fastidious ears of Europe to such a patronymic. Yet for the space of six weeks that name has eclipsed all others occurring in the free press of two worlds. Our news columns have informed our readers of the events of Harper's Ferry-the subsequent capture, trial, and sentence of one JOHN BROWN; oftener called' OLD BROWN,' and better distinguished as 'OSAWATOMIE BROWN.' The last American mail brought, as our readers of yesterday saw, particulars of his execution. Brown was a man moulded in hardships and the Bible. BAXTER'S' Saint's Everlasting Rest, and BUNYAN'S 'Pilgrim's Progress' did for him what SWIFT'S Tale of a Tub' did for COBBETT. COBBETT read in Kewgardens-BROWN as be lay in churchyards, or following the troops of his country engaged in patriotic struggles. BROWN had a Puritan mind. He feared God, but evidently, from his youth upwards, feared nobody else. He was what is sometimes denominated a square man,' with a' back-bone perfectly straight. 'Very firm men incline a little from the perpendicular. BROWN inclined none. He was no' stump orator.' His mental composition was Carlylesque. He acted; and stood by his acting. His countrymen who did not sympathise with his principles, even those widely opposed to him, could not but feel gratified at the American nerve he displayed unflinchingly to the end. He was wounded when taken, and lay on a bed in court on his trial. His counsel set up a plea that he was insane. The prisoner raised himself up and said,' that while he was not insensible to the intentions of his defender, nor regardless of the power of the court, yet as an honest man he must say that he was of sound mind. He was not the intentional cause of the calamities which had occurred, but what he bad done he intended; 'and he stated with distinctness and correctness his own course of conduct. His obvious truthfulness, which no vanity amplified nor any fear abridged, was conspicuous. He neither braved his sentence nor shrunk from it. His conduct was utterly free from effect-making. His speech was always that of a modest, determined, shrewd, sensible, well-possessed man. Mrs. Brown herself seems an equally remarkable woman, and is described as being' courageous without insensibility, tender without weakness;' and her bearing in the last interview was worthy of a Roman wife.
BROWN, shortly before his execution, addressed a letter to his wife, in which he enters with a practical good sense into his views of the future, and the education of his children, which few moralists would surpass. The advice he gives is as well conceived and as applicable to the firesides of New England and Old England as the pithy apothegms of Dr. FRANKLIN. The noble passage deserves the distinction of repetition. He says:-
'Let me say a word about the efforts to educate our daughters. I am no longer able to provide means to help towards that object, and it therefore becomes me not to dictate in the matter. I shall gratefully submit the direction of the whole thing to those whose generosity may lead them to undertake it in their behalf, while I give anew a little expression of my own choice respecting it. You, my wife, perfectly well know that I have always expressed a decided preference for a very plain but perfectly practical education for both sons and daughters. I do not mean an education so very miserable as that you and I received in early life, nor as some of our children enjoyed. When I say plain but practical, I mean enough of the learning of the schools to enable them to transact the common business of life comfortably and respectably, together with that thorough training to good business habits which best prepares both men and women to be useful though poor, and meet the stern realities of life with a good grace. You well know that I always claimed that the music of the broom, washtub, needle, spindle, loom, axe, scythe, hoe, flail, &c, should first be learned at all events, and the piano, &c. afterwards. I put them in that order as most conducive to health of body and mind; and for the obvious reason that after a life of some experience and much observation, I have found ten women as well as ten men who have made their mark in life right, whose early training was of that plain, practical kind, to one who had a more popular and fashionable early training.'
The merit of the writer of this admirable advice was, that it was consistent with his personal character and the discipline of his household. It is singular that this man should be written about and spoken of as a fanatic. Had he been that, we had not drawn attention to him. He was no more a fanatic than a tradesman or an artist, who discharges his duties in a right line, is a fanatic. He was no more a fanatic than GEORGE STEPHENSON or James Watt, or any of the men whom Dr. SNUKES discourses of in his' Self-Help.' We repeat, we do not discuss here the object of BROWN, but the char-
<c05>
acter of his life and mind. It is also remarkable that this strict-thinking Puritan desired for himself and comrades the burial of Shelley, and wished that their bones should be calcined and their ashes purified by fire. But the tone in which he declined any religious ceremony after his death has a majestic mournfulness in it.' He said that he desired no religious ceremonies, either in the gaol or on the scaffold, from ministers who consent to or approve of the enslavement of their fellow-creatures; that he would prefer rather to be accompanied to the scaf-fold by a dozen slave children and a good old slave mother, with their appeal to God for blessings on his soul, than all the eloquence of the whole clergy of the commonwealth combined.' This intense reliance on humanity the late Leigh Hunt would have recorded as one of the heroic utterances of the' Religion of the Heart.' Brown's end became his life. During the ten minutes he was kept on the scaffold with the rope round his neck, that certain military displays might be perfected, he neither blenched nor wearied.
The moral tone of the man, his utter freedom from bombast, commands for him respectful recognition. He knew that his life was forfeited, and he made no words about it. Under the circumstances, it was impossible that it should be spared. Mr. Horace Greeley says he' uniformly took this view of the matter, and discountenanced all appeals in his behalf for pardon or commutation, as well as every-thing savoring of menace. 'This last word proves that Brown was strong and wise as well as brave, and we believe that when the irritation of the South has subsided, and posthumous justice is done to Brown's character, it will be seen that he was a worthy foe; and if wrong-headed, at least right-hearted. Upon Brown's act for which he suffered, this is not the time to pass judgment-but it is not good to keep silence when an honest man dies for an unselfish idea. There is something in this spectacle which will ever stir the pulses of men. The end of titled and pompous egotism may attract the vacant glare of the fool, or the praise of the hireling scribe; but the bier of the brave, however humble, who die for others, brings the throb to the heart and the tear to the eye; and many who here glance unheedingly at palace and tower, will descry with interest that distant Virginian scaffold which to-day becomes one of the historic sights of the world.

From the Manchester [England] Examiner and Times.
THE EXECUTION OF JOHN BROWN. The gallows has lately closed the career of a man who will hold no infamous place in history. We refer, of course, to the execution of John Brown, the instigator and leader of the slave insurrection at Harper's Ferry. As we read the particulars of that lamentable event, we insensibly correct the fallacious impression established by custom with regard to the ignominiousness of certain modes of punishment. After all, the hangman is not necessarily the bestower of infamy; the rope does not always make a man's reputation loathsome and abhorred. Old Brown has died the death of murderers, but no man ever died in a nobler cause, or died more nobly. It is a huge misfortune for any State when its laws condemn men to death for crimes which one half of its own citizens, and the bulk of mankind generally, will extol as virtues. This is only one aspect of the retributive effects of slavery. It is not in the nature of things for a great and civilized nation to connive at an enormous wrong, without paving the penalty in some form or another. The righteousness which governs the world will not be mocked and evaded with impunity. Twenty millions of white men are physically competent to hold four millions of black men in slavery, but it is totally out of their power to frustrate the inevitable consequences of such a violation of the moral law. Their own consciences will create avengers. However selfishness may blunt the perceptions of those who are engaged in the crime, the instincts of every honest heart will pro-test against their miserable sophistry, and brand them as assassins of the most sacred lights, as traitors at the bar of God and man.
The act for which Brown has been hanged is, of course, legally a crime. It is an offence against the State. He conspired to set men free, to rescue them from the condition of chattels, and restore to them the full enjoyment of the prerogatives which belong rightfully to all men. If the laws of the United States had been in harmony with justice, there would have been no room for the commission of such a crime.  We do not wish to blink the fact that Brown sought to effect his end by violent measures. He believed it right to appeal to the sword, to enlist bloodshed on the side of freedom. There was not the slightest chance of success in such an attempt, and hence he is chargeable with a grave, perhaps a criminal, responsibility. But viewing his conduct in the very worst light, we find nothing to prevent us from placing him side by side with those patriots of all ages who have loved liberty, not wisely, but too well. He aimed at a righteous object, he was inspired by the loftiest sentiments, he risked his life for the welfare of the oppressed of another race than his own, he has expiated his chivalrous daring by a death at the hands of the executioner, and he has borne his fate with the lofty spirit of a martyr. The world's opinion is usually stamped by success. If Washington had failed in the War of Independence, and been hanged at New York, he would have figured in history merely as an unsuccessful rebel, instead of being idolized as the Father of his country. If the French generals who were apprehended in their beds early on the morning of the 2nd December, had got scent of the project the night before, Louis Napoleon would probably have been put to death as a traitor against the French republic, and his memory branded with the odium of a foul conspiracy; as it is, we know he is the greatest man in Europe, a monarch comparable to Louis XIV., famous in arms, and the very model of magnanimity, sagacity, and moderation. If Brown, by some miracle, could have placed himself at the head of the black race in North America, driven the planters over the Missouri, and founded a flourishing republic of colored men, with New Orleans for its capital, his fame would have rivalled that of Washington, and the world would have voted him a place among its greatest heroes. For the crime of failure, he is a felon. We do not question, for a moment, the political necessity which has dealt with him as a traitor, but in a higher sphere than that of politics we may venture to award a truer verdict.
There is something dangerously fascinating in the lofty fanaticism of this man. It might have bee a blunder, to have set him free, but it is unquestionably a political misfortune that the Americans were bound to hang him. His death cannot fail to deepen and embitter the hostility which divides the Northern from the Southern States, and to advance by peaceful or by violent means the cause of the abolitionists. The sympathy felt for him was so general and unmistakable, that it was necessary to guard the prison by a strong military force, and to surround the gallows with soldiers. His wife was attended to and from the prison by an armed escort, and was received by the troops with military honons. During his confinement, he re-
<c06>
ceived letters of condolence from many of the best and most distinguished citizens of the United States, and the members of various religious communions emulate each other in caring for his family, as a tribute to the father's worth. The day of his execution was kept in Boston as one of general mourning. The colored people wore crape on their arms, the bells tolled, and at a great meeting of the citizens, held in Tremont Temple, his portrait was exhibited underneath a cross of evergreens, and surrounded with a laurel wreath. The conduct of the unhappy man was in strict harmony with these public demonstrations; composed, resigned, sustained by religious thoughts, indomitably firm, without any mixture of hardihood or bravado.
If the United States can afford to bang such men, they are a fortunate people. It would be a glorious thing if the whole race of planters and Wall-street speculators could be made to possess a tithe of the virtues of old Brown. He is hanged mainly because, bating a few errors, he preferred the service of God to the service of the Devil; and it cannot but go ill with any country where that preference is made by law a hanging matter. This is the real evil to be abated, and not the likelihood of more Harper's Ferry insurrections. A nation may out-live an occasional riot, but it cannot outlive determinate, wholesale treason against the first principles of natural equity. They must resolve to strangle the treason,' or it will strangle them. But the attempt to get out of the difficulty, even in the honestest and most straightforward manner, will be necessarily arduous. Will the long-continued conspiracy against human rights be satisfied with a less inexorable expiation than the rupture of the Federal tie? This or something worse would seem to be imminent, if any credit is to be attached to the Southern declarations published in the New York Herald. If those threats are authentic, and being authentic, anything more than bombast, the Northern States must consent to be plunged into a deeper slough of villany, or withdraw from an unholy alliance with men-owners. How they will resolve on this point remains to be seen, but assuredly half a dozen executions of such men as old Brown would settle the question.
The Liverpool Mercury, in an article on the probable effects of John Brown's death, draws this conclusion:
'A man must be himself a slave-owner to think slavery a safe, solid, legitimate and permament basis of social existence, or to view it otherwise than as a chronie provocation to the worst of anarchies. The Virginian authorities have themselves taken excellent care that no one shall fancy there is anything conservative in the cause which they so furiously defend. The frenzied rage and terror which seem to have taken possession of the entire State from the day of the Harper's Ferry outbreak reveal the conscious weakness and rottenness of the' peculiar domestic institution.' By carrying into execution the sentence against Brown, whom a politic magnanimity night have spared in consideration of the atrocious wrong which had unhinged the brave old man's reason, the slave-owning rulers of Virginia missed an invaluable opportunity of conciliating sympathy or disarming hostility.
They have committed the yet more damaging blunder of making themselves, and their State, and their cause, contemptible by the exaggerated militatary precautions they have taken against imaginary foes. All things considered, we do not anticipate that the southern party will gain political strength by this Harper's Ferry affair, rather the reverse. The so-called abolitionist invasion of Virginia has had the effect of disclosing the frightful insecurity of a social condition based on slavery; and it has brought out the character of a slave-owning community in a light at once odious and ridiculous. In no point of view does it appear calculated to increase either the numerical or the moral force of the South and its adherents.'

AN INQUIRY.
Editor of the Transcript: Mr. Everett, in his speech at Faneuil Hall, Dec. 8th, requested leave to read a few sentences from the historian of the Revolution of St. Domingo. He read the following paragraph:
The largest sugar plantation on the plain was M. Gallifet's, situated eight miles from the town, the negroes belonging to which had always been treated with such kindness and liberality, and possessed to many advantages, that it became a proverbial expression among the lower white people in speaking of any man's good fortune, to say,' Il est heureux comme un negre de Gallifet,' (he is as happy as one of Gallifet's negroes.)
Mr. Everett then tells the story of the white in-fant on the stake. It appears to me that the orator could not have been more unhappy in his selection, and that he has wholly mistaken the true meaning of the phrase,' Il est heureux comme un negre de Gallifet.' The actual truth is, that the slaves of Gallifet were subjected to the most dreadful tortures. In order to force the largest amount of work from them, every species of cruelty was used,- whips, thumb-screws, racks, &c. I was told, in conversation last evening, by a lady who resided some time in St. Domingo, that she had visited the plantation of Gallifet. Her description of what she saw, was this:
From the house a thick wall of stone ran for some distance. At intervals in this wall, dungeons of only sufficient size to admit the body of one human being were constructed. They were partly underground, and in wet weather were partly filled with mud and water. In these dungeon?, refractory or other slaves were placed, the front was then bricked up, and the wretched prisoners left to die of starvation. It was in summer when I was there, and of course the ground was dry. By stooping down and brushing away the grass, I was able to look into these dungeons. I reached my hand in, and took out parts of chains. The bodies of those who had been confined there had perished away, and nothing but the irons remained.'
It was in view of these terrible cruelties that the ironical saving arose. When any one wished to express the lowest condition that any one could attain, he said, 'Il est heureux comme un negre de Gallifet,' heureux not being used in the sense of happy, but' lucky.' Mr. Everett's impaled infant does not look so horrible in this light.
Again, Mr. Everett should have mentioned that on the very day when the insurrection broke out, the principal white inhabitants were assembled at Cap in open rebellion against the government of France, and decided to offer the island to England. It was this which gave the negroes the opportunity to rise. The whites were clearly responsible for the impaled infant. What caused the rebellion of the exhites against the French government? When the French Revolution broke out, the free mulattoes supposed that they were to have equal representation with the whites. This the whites denied, and murdered with horrid cruelties Vincent Age and his brother. The impaled infant again ! This time the impaling was done by the whites to grown men. The cruelties inflicted on Vincent Oge interested many influential persons in Paris in the cause of the mulattoes. The Abbs Gregoire pleaded for them.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is' a covenant with
death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and esssential support of slavery. We are the jailers sad con-stables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our fathers in framing the Constitution, swerved from the right. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States an tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the National Assembly, and on the 15th of March was passed the celebrated decree which gave the mulattoes the rights of French citizens,-of suffrage and to seats in the parochial and colonial assemblies. Robespierre said, 'Perish the colonies rather than sacrifice one iota of our principles.' The meeting of the whites to resist this just decree gave the negroes the opportunity to impale white infants as the whites had impaled grown mulattoes.
SUBSCRIBER.
FALSEHOOD IN SUPPORT OF SLAVERY.
From the Boston Atlas and Daily Bee.
You have well said, Mr. Editor, of Caleb Cushing's speech at the 'Union-saving' meeting, on Thursday, at Faneuil Hall, that it was, as was to be expected, 'in the highest degree partisan.' You also say that it was 'jesuitical,' and, moreover, that t was 'distinguished by that gentleman's peculiar mental characteristics.' If, by this expression, you mean to imply that the speech was most thoroughly and impudently mendacious, you were quite correct. The person who began his political course with perjury, is not likely to hesitate at mere falsehood, especially when working for the Democratic party; and the falsehoods with which this speech was filled (saturated with a malignity even more detestable than their falsehood), were a fit prelude to its suggestion of the assassination of prominent Abolitionists, as a remedy for existing evils.
In a partisan speech from Mr. Cushing, falsehood is to be expected. The highest degree and the greatest abundance of it may be confidently looked for from that quarter, and on such an occasion. But Mr. Everett (we have judged) is a man of a very different character. Direct and atrocious violations of truth would surprise us in him, would they not? If, in defence of his favorite institution, slavery, he goes somewhat beyond the very verity, if, to preserve a well-nigh fractured Union, his lips, once called Reverend and Honorable, utter a sophism, or a misrepresentation, will not this be the utmost extent of their transgression in this wise? Will he violate the truth further than to call men and women 'property,' or to designate this Union's glorious Union,' and this country 'a free and happy country'? Let us see!
Speaking (generally) of the things which John Brown undertook to do in Virginia, and particularly of the allegation that the weapons collected by him were designed for defensive, not offensive, purposes, Mr. Everett says:-
No, sir; it was an attempt to do on a vast scale what was done in St. Domingo in 1791, where the colored population was about equal to that of Virginia; and if any one would form a distinct idea what such an operation is, let him see it, not as a matter of vague conception in the mind of a heated fanatic, but as it should in the sober pages of history, that record the revolt in that island; the midnight burnings, the wholesale massacres, the merciless tortures, the abominations not to be named by Christian lips in the hearing of Christian ears-some of which, too unutterably atrocious for the English language, are of necessity veiled in the obscurity of the Latin tongue. Allow me to read you a few sentences from the history of these events:
'In the town itself, the general belief for some time was that the revolt was by no means an extensive one, but a sudden and partial insurrection only. The largest sugar plantation on the plain was that of Mons. Gallifet, situated about eight miles from the town, the negroes belonging to which had always been treated with such kindness and liberality, and had so many advantages, that it became a proverbial expression among the lower white people, in speaking of any many's good fortune, to say, il est heureux comme un negre de Gallifet (he is as happy as one of M. Gallifet's negroes).
'M. Odeluc, an attorney, or agent, for this plantation, was a member of the General Assembly, and, being fully persuaded that the negroes belonging to it would remain firm in their obedience, determined to repair thither to encourage them in opposing the insurgents; to which end he desired the assistance of a few soldier from the town guard, which was granted him. He proceeded accordingly; but on approaching the estate, to his surprise, he found all the negroes in arms on the side of the rebels, and (horrid to tell', their standard was the body of a white infant which they had recently impaled on a stake!'
I wish, first, to inquire into some details of the 'happy' condition of M. Gallifet's negroes, and into the probable reasons why M. Odeluc, the agent of that worthy man, and the personal administrator of such 'happiness' as his negroes enjoyed, 'desired the assistance of a few soldiers from the town guard' before he approached them. Fortunately, the means are at hand.
I have before me, a pamphlet of 96 pages, printed at Cape Henry, Saint Domingo, in October, 1814, dedicated to King Henri I. (who is known to us only by his surname, Christophe,) and written by Baron De Vastly, entitled ' Le Systeme Colonial Devoile.' (The Colonial System Unveiled). It gives an account of the destruction of the original Haytians, of the origin and horrors of the African slave-trade, and of those frightful cruelties, systematically perpetrated under slavery, which led to the massacre of the slaveholders. The writer understands the importance of giving details, and he specifies the names and the individual acts of some of those planters and agents who were most distinguished, at the time of the insurrection, for hideous and atrocious cruelty to their slaves. Strange to say, these dreadful narrations are made in sorrow, not in anger. Strange also (to those who have depended on the honor and veracity of Mr. Everett), the names of his chosen representatives of the humanity-let me be accurate the 'kindness and liberality' of slave-holders-Gallifet, the proprietor, and Odeluc, his agent, appear in this list, as follows:
'Gallifet and Montalibor destroyed their unfortunate blacks by the most horrible sufferings, under the scourge, and in miry dungeons, where the victims perished, their bodies lying continually in water. Gallifet was accustomed to cut the hamstrings of his slaves.
'After the terrible quatre piquet (the punishment called the four stakes, to be described hereafter),Odeluc, agent of Gallifet, caused brine to be poured upon the bleeding bodies of his victims, with Cayenne pepper, and other acrimonious substances. p. 44.
After describing (p. 64) a variety of kinds of dungeons horribly adapted to inflict suffering, the writer continues. 'Other dungeons were made in muddy places, (such were those of Gallifet, Montalibor, Milot, Latour Duroc, and almost upon all the residences of the great planters where the victims perished lying in water, by a cold and dampness which suppressed the circulation of the blood; besides these frightful dungeons, there were a thousand varied instruments of torture invented by the ferocity of the colonists, bars, enormous iron collars with projecting branches, thumb-screws, hand-cuffs, mufflers, iron masks, chains, &c. Ah! why, great God! was all this apparatus of death and agony reserved for innocent victims, who fell on their knees at the least sign!!! Finally, the terrible quatre piquet, which was always ready in the plantations, the towns and villages; the victim was fastened to it by the four limbs, the middle of the body being kept firm by a band which prevented him from moving; others extended the sufferer upon a ladder well supported by ropes, while two executioners (relieved by two others when they were weary), by lashes a hundred times repeated, lacerated and mangled the body of the wretched one.'-pp. 64-5.
'The ruins of these frightful dungeons (which have been demolished by order of the government) still exist on these plantations; those who doubt can come and see them.'-p. 64, note. [I.]
"We see now what must have been the meaning of the fearfully sarcastic proverbial expression,  as happy as a slave of Galtifel'!
Did Mr. Everett know the terribly significant facts which I have quoted, and the real meaning of the proverb in question? Who can tell? We know the extent of his knowledge, and the persevering industry with which he searches out facts when the facts are on his side. But so much as this it is safe to Bay: even if Mr. Everett had read the pamphlet in question, and had uttered his praise of Gallifet and Odelue with a full knowledge of the directly and frightfully antagonistic facts-even' then he would not have told a more deliberate and absolute lie than when he said, at the commencement of the above extract from his speech, that John Brown's enterprise ' toes en attempt to do on a tast scale what was done in St. Domingo in 1791'
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
December 10th, 1859.
(1.) Les debris de ces affreux cachots qui ont ete demolis par ordre du gouvernement, sont encore existens car ces habitations; ceux qui douteront de la verite peuvent venir les voir.
<c02>
AMERICAN COLORPHOBIA.
Every day brings fresh evidence how indelible and foul is the stain of American slavery. Poor John Brown was hanged because he felt a noble impulse to deliver men and women wickedly held in bondage,-and the antipathy to color is so deep seated that even in free England it denies the ordinary courtesies of civilized life to ladies whom Henry Brougham was proud to recognize, and who are deemed no un-worthy associates of the elite of out female nobility. But this is not all: on board English steamers plying with the United States, ladies are being insulted, for the mere purpose of gain, that American caprice may be gratified; and on board our Cunard steamers, persons of refined manners and educated tastes have been rudely thrust aside, and denied equal privileges because their skin was not of the orthodox hue. We cannot read of these indignities practised on unoffending women, seeking a temporary asylum in free Britain, without our blood boiling, not so much for degraded America, as that any man, with Englishman written on his forehead, should ape her miserable exelusiveness.
When Lady Macbeth in her dreams, which followed the foul murder she had instigated, exclaimed, ' Out, damned spot!' she spoke as truly of slavery as of murder; and we may say of Americans as the spectators said while she muttered her sleeping horror-' Her eyes are open, but their sense is shut.' They see the state of matters, yet they refuse to follow it to results. They hear the rumble of the volcano, and (as at Harper's Ferry) they see a spark of fire, but they will not believe in the molten torrent that will one day burst its bounds. Our object today is not to discuss slavery-illustrated though it recently is by the fate of Brown, its last victim-but to call attention to a letter in our columns from Miss Remond, describing the double indignity offered to her sister and that lady's friends on board an English Cunard steamer, who were first-class passengers from Boston to Liverpool, and by the Secretary of the American Embassy in London, who threatened to have Miss Remond and Mrs. Putnam ' put out of the house,' because they spiritedly remonstrated against conduct equally ungentlemanly and illegal-namely, a refusal to vise their passports to Paris, on account of their being persons of color. Over Mr. Dallas's alter ego we have no control,-We can only hold up his conduct to the indignant scorn of public opinion. Over the Cunard steamers we have control of various kinds. It ought to be known to the slavery-hating people of Britain, on whose goodwill these steamers live and thrive, the treatment bestowed on unprotected citizens of the United States of America by persons in charge of the vessels. Nay, more, unless these steamers openly stipulate that persons of color shall not enjoy certain privileges, an outrage on public opinion on which they would not readily venture, it is not to be doubted that the proprietors might be sued at law for breach of contract-when the exposure would probably put an end forever to such proceedings.-How can we expect to make any impression upon the upholders of slavery in America, when they find our own countrymen ready to imitate their practices and do homage to their prejudices, actuated by the sordid motive to which slavery itself appeals, the love of gain? We only trust the press of Britain will do its duty. However the journals of America may attempt to drown its voice by noise and vulgar abuse,-its earnest protest would at least succeed in putting an end to those vexatious practices on board English ships, which not only do discredit to our country, but encourage the slave party in the States to maintain their vile system in the face of the world.-Scottish Press, Edinburgh.

EXPERIENCE OF AN INDIANAIAN IN KENTUCKY.
From the Indianapolis Journal, Dec. 24. 
COVESPRING, Mercer Co., Dec.20, 1859.
Mr. B. R. SULGROVE:-Dear Sir: 
I will endeavor to write you at few lines, and I know it will surprise you and my friends. I started from Indianapolis last Monday, the 14th. Little did I think, when I got here, that I would be notified to leave the State, or take a coat of tar and feathers for being an Abolitionist. On Saturday I went up to Harrodsburg from here; and when I came back, there was a company of slaveholders here to arrest me for being a negro-stealer from the North, and they notified me to leave the State. I told them 1 was ignorant of the laws of Kentucky, but I thought the law of the land was that before they could hang a man, they must find him guilty, and therefore I should not go until I got ready; and if they chose to apply the tar and feathers, they could pitch in; but I thought they would have a warm time of it before they got through. That is what they call Democracy here-the man that can scare and catch the most men from the North here is the man they intend to run for the next Congress. But I told them I did not come from Indiana here to be run off by a pack of ruffians. I told them I lived in a free; State, and was a Republican; that every man spoke his sentiments there, and, thank God, I was glad of it. They may hang me yet-I can't say what they will do-but I want it distinctly understood that I am no negro-lover. 
I was going to start back to-morrow, but I shall remain longer, to let them know that they can't scare me: and if anything worse occurs, I will try and let you know. Yours, Wm. S. DEMOTT
Since the above letter was put in type, we have seen Mr. Demott himself, who has returned home. He says he was arrested on Monday following the writing of his letter, and put in jail till the next day, when he was released on $500 bail. The charge against him was that he was tampering with some body's slave. He was on a visit to some of his relatives, and his guilt has just the extent, and no more,: of being an Indianaian. His attorneys, Hon. J. F. Bell, the Opposition candidate for Governor last fall, and Mr. Fox, certify that there was no evidence of the truth of the charge. The fact is that the feeling in Kentucky, as in all the other slave States, makes criminal purposes of the mere presence of free State men; and while this feeling lasts, it is actually useless for an Indianaian to visit the interior of Kentucky, unless he chooses to play the lick-spittle to their prejudices. The arrest of Mr. Demott, from all that we can learn, was nothing, and was intended to be nothing, but the most offensive mode of insulting and outraging his Republican opinions. He made no concealment of them, though he did not offensively parade them, and his imprisonment shows the appreciation that Kentuckians have of freedom of speech and opinion. People from that State will never be molested here for an expression of their opinions. May be they may learn some time that it will be wisest for them to show equal liberality.

A NINE YEARS' RESIDENT DRIVEN AWAY FROM ALABAMA.
We have authentic information that a gentleman, who has resided for nine years in Alabama and Georgia, was driven away from home a few days ego, and forced to take a hurried passage to the North, leaving behind his wife and children, and a thriving business which must go to wreck. What was his crime? He had not only never spoken against Slavery, but always in favor of it. He honestly held Southern sentiments, and was always ready to avow them, although he never could persuade himself to own a slave. His profession was that of a teacher of vocal and instrumental music. A fortnight ago, a book agent was arrested in a town in Alabama for soliciting subscribers to ' Fleet-wood's Life of Christ,' published by a Northern publisher. The Methodist Conference was in session at the time, and the case was noticed on the floor of that body. The members advocated the unfortunate agent's immediate expulsion from the place on the ground that his continued presence would be dangerous to the existence of Southern institutions. A paper was drawn up, adopted, and published in the newspapers, setting forth the grounds of their action substantially as follows:
'We have examined this man's case. We find no evidence to convict him of tampering with slaves, but as be is from the North, engaged in Belling a book published in the North, we have a right to suspect him as being an Abolitionist, and we therefore recommend, in order to guard ourselves against possible danger, that he be immediately conducted by the military out of this county into the next adjoining.
Accordingly the militia were called, and the poor book-peddler was summoned to receive military honors. But this was not all. The musician of whom we have spoken, a nine years' resident, whom nobody ever suspected of being an Abolitionist, was called upon to ride at the bead of the procession, and play the flute. He immediately declined, and took occasion to express his opinion that the agent had done nothing worthy of his expulsion. The procession accordingly marched without the flute-
<c03>
player. In the evening, greatly to his surprise, he received an anonymous letter, (whose source he could not fail to detect,) commanding him, under penalty of tar and feathers, to leave the State immediately. He knew the people too well not to be wise enough to take the hint. His wife, who was a Southern lady, and had never been in the North, was thrown into great grief on reading the letter, but advised her husband to leave before daylight, as she feared for his safety if he remained longer. So at three o'clock in the morning, he saddled his horse, and taking with him what clothes he could put in his saddle-bags, galloped away-an exile from home and friends! He has since reached a Northern city, and is now making arrangements to bring his family to a place where they can breathe freer air!

THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, JANUARY 20, 1860.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, on THURSDAY and Friday, Jan. 26th and 27th. The day meetings (morning and afternoon) will be held in the MEIONAON, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M. The evening meetings will be held in the TREMONT Temple, commencing at 7. ALL hose who are believers in the irrepressible conflict' between Freedom and Slavery-in making no terms with the slave oligarchy, but meeting every issue presented by them, in the spirit of freemen, unflinchingly and uncompromisingly-in laying the axe at the root of the Upas tree of Slavery, instead of protesting against its extension while giving it constitutional nourishment and protection-and in making Massachusetts free to every fugitive from oppression the moment he breathes her air-are cordially invited to be present, and to participate in the deliberations of the meetings. In connection with the Anti-Slavery Subscription-Festival, (Wednesday evening, Jan. 25, at Music Hall,) let the gathering be unprecedentedly large,
Among the speakers confidently expected to be present are the following:
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, C.C. BURLEIGH, CHARLES L. REMOND WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. FOSS, THEODORE TILTON, Esq., of New York, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, T. W. HIGGINSON, of Worcester, Rev. U. M. FISK of taunton, Rev. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAM, Dr. Rock.
In behalf of the Board of Managers,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION.
The Anti-Slavery families who have so long made Boston the seat of this annual social occasion, gratefully renew their invitation to all the early friends of Freedom, and cordially extend it to the multitudes of new friends in every part of the land, whom the past year has made; earnestly entreating the satisfaction of their company at
THE MUSIC HALL,
BOSTON,
On "Wednesday, January 25th. Soiree at 7 o'clock.
The general arrangements for the day and evening the same as last year.
We, who now unite in this heartfelt invitation, are not of Northern origin exclusively; some are of the South, and some have been slaveholders. But all seeing clearly that the present must be a year of unwonted moral exertion, if our country is to be carried successfully through the present hopeful crisis, unite in entreating our friends to meet us in this way at its opening, for mutual understanding and cooperation, counsel and encouragement, sympathy and congratulation. Never were the signs of the peaceful extinction of slavery so full and propitious to the eyes long trained to read them aright.
We shall shortly send special invitations to both the earlier and later friends. In the mean time, we entreat all who love their native land, and are beginning to feel deeply moved, to serve and save it, to consider the necessity of steady, long-sustained, unremitting exertion, such as we carry on, and to uphold it now by presence, if possible-at all events by letter and by sympathy. The names of such as have reasons for avoiding publicity will be sacredly kept, and our grateful expressions conveyed to them by private acknowledgment.
Let none who sympathize with us be absent because our special invitation may fail to reach them, for accident and omission, however carefully guarded against, are almost unavoidable in issuing invitations on so large a scale: and the occasion is one that will, we trust, bring to our acquaintance many now unknown to us, whose co-operation will be most valuable. 
We entreat any whose love of the cause induces them to hesitate about making what they account a small subscription, to remember that while the largest sum is small in comparison with the grandeur of the Cause, the smallest may be the expression of high feeling, high thinking, and self-sacrifice.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING,
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY BOBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
SARAH P. REMOND,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
ELIZA ANDREW,
SARAH CABOT ATKINSON,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.
To obviate the difficulty we have found, while trying to forward special invitations, of obtaining accurate addresses, we entreat of all such as wish there were no such thing as Slavery, the pleasure of their company, assuring them of a most cordial welcome
AT THE MUSIC HALL,
January 25th. Hours of reception, from 12 to 4 o'clock in the day, and at 7 o'clock in the evening. No admittance fee is permitted; but Notes of invitation may be had of all the Hostesses at their homes, at Messrs. Ticknor & Fields, booksellers, corner of School and Washington streets, at the Anti-Shivery Office, 21 Cornhill, and at the Music Hallon the 25th. But it is requested, to avoid delay at the entrance, that the Note be previously countersigned with the name and address of the guest.
<c04>
GOV. BANKS AND THE MILITIA LAW.
In revising and consolidating the. General Statutes of this Commonwealth, the recent extra session of the Legislature Very properly obliterated the-word 'white' from the militia law; but, in order to compel them either to restore that invidious and proscriptive term, or to lose the labor of months, at great cost to the State, Gov. Banks vetoed the entire code as revised by them; first, (to screen himself from public blame,) adroitly procuring the Attorney General's opinion, and then the opinion of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, that, in striking out the word 'white' aforesaid, the Legislature transcended its constitutional powers. The alternative thus presented to the Legislature was a very embarrassing one. On the question being put, 'Shall the bill pass, notwithstanding the Governor's objection?' the House, by a vote of 46 yeas to 146 nays, refused to pass the bill. The word ' white' was then restored, and the bill passed by a vote of 170 to 1-the very honorable exception being Sir. FREEMAN, (most rightly named,) of Mendon. In the Senate, the bill as amended received 15 to 11 votes. The colored citizens of Massachusetts are, therefore, still to be ostracised, in this particular, on account of their complexion.
To cover up this iniquity, Gov. Banks and the Supreme Court use a multiplicity of words, in empty generalization, but without venturing to allude distinctly to white' or black,' or any other color as if conscious they we engaged in a very shabby business. Throwing aside all this worthless verbiage, let us see on what ground they rest their decision.
'The militia is a national institution,' says Gov. Banks. What has that to do with the merits of the case?
He says that the power is granted by the U. S. Constitution to Congress, of ' organizing, arming and disciplining the militia'; and that 'the power to organize includes that of determining what classes of persons shall be so organized'; and this has been determined by an act of Congress approved May 8, 1792, which enrolls 'each and every free able-bodied white male citizen of the respective States, resident therein, who is or shall be of the age of 18 years, and under the age of 40 years.' Gov. Banks coolly adds-'It is not, in my judgment, within the power of the Legislature to change this basis of enrollment, or enlarge or diminish the classes of men embraced in this organization of the militia.'
So says the young Attorney General Phillips, and so says the venerable Supreme Court.
Is this declaration true, or reasonable, or in accordance with the constitutional rights of citizens: We affirm that it is not; that it is an outrage upon common sense, and utterly at war with all just idea: of citizenship. True, the odious law of Congress is an old one; true, its constitutionality has never been questioned by any legislative body till now; still, it is none the less indefensible, and it ought to have been resisted, denounced and repudiated when it was first submitted to Congress, on the all-sufficient ground that ' the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.'
The citizens of each State are equal to those on every other State; hence, in section second, article fourth of the Constitution, it is declared, ' The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States. It is among the prescribed powers of Congress to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia'; but, of course, not to do this invidiously proscriptively, tyrannically, but only on such grounds as commend themselves to the reason of things But to disarm or degrade any class of recognized citizens on account of their complexion, is not reasonable,-is unwarranted by anything in the letter or spirit of the Constitution. The present militia law does thus disarm and degrade a portion of the citizens of this, as well as of every other State in the Union; therefore, it is plainly unconstitutional. For, to assume that Congress has unlimited power in this particular, is to render State sovereignty a farce, and to place every class of citizens at the mercy of that body. If it may exclude from the militia all native-born free colored citizens, it may also all naturalized Irishmen, Scotchmen, Germans, &c, &c. Nay, a Democratic Congress may enact that none but Democrats shall constitute the militia of the several States, to the exclusion of all Republicans; or vice versa. Or it may proscribe Catholics, or Presbyterians, or Baptists, or Methodists, in the same manner. But this would breed a revolution, because these parties are too powerful to be insulted with impunity. Alas for our colored fellow-citizens! they are few and uninfluential, and therefore may be safely outraged!
Whatever may be the shades of meaning attached to the word ' citizens,' by which distinctions are recognized in regard to age, sex, and qualification, they who make the government, enact the laws, and do all the voting, are undeniably citizens in the highest and most comprehensive sense of the term. Nor is it to be supposed that they will either ostracise themselves, or allow others to ostracise them, for causes over which they have no control, and which have nothing to do with their loyalty or fitness.
It is to the honor and glory of Massachusetts that complexional distinctions among her people are unknown to her Constitution and her laws. The blackest of her citizens stand side by side with Governor Banks, Attorney General Phillips, and Judges Shaw, Metcalf, Bigelow, Merrick, and Hoar; they are eligible to every office in the gift of the people; by their votes, as well as by those of others, a State government is rendered possible, the United States government is kept in existence; the executive, the judiciary, the army and navy, are created;-hence, an insult offered to one of them is (or should be) an insult offered to the whole people. For Congress to exclude such from the militia, merely to gratify the slaveholding malignity of the South, or the prejudice of a portion of the North, is an intolerable usurpation. The power which calls into being is greater than the thing created, and therefore cannot be circumscribed by it. Without voters, there would be no representatives; without States, no senators. Every voter, therefore, is clothed with complete sovereignty when voting for a national Congress, a President of the United States, as well as for all State officers; and no man is his superior in political power, or in the rights and dignity of citizenship.
Massachusetts is as solemnly bound to protect her colored citizens, in all cases, as she is her white ones. She taxes them all alike; she imposes upon them all the same burdens; she demands and expects of them all the same allegiance; she knows nothing of them as to their height, bulk, or complexion, but only as men and citizens. Hence it is her duty at once to declare the act of Congress, approved May 8, 1792, to be unconstitutional in its excluding her colored citizens from enrollment in the militia, and to refuse to be governed by it. She should do this with the same promptness and spirit which she would were Congress to enact that none but ' each and every free able-bodied colored male citizen of the respective States, resident therein,' shall constitute the militia of the country; and Congress has constitutionally as much right and power to make this classification, as the one now under consideration. Let the present Legislature vote to strike out the hateful word ' white'; and let Gov. Banks again veto the righteous alteration, if. he dare.-, The people will then pot their veto upon him, at the earliest opportunity. It may be said, that even if the Legislature should take the desired action, and Got. Bank should waive his objections to it, still we know that the new law would be pronounced unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of this State, or if not, most certainly by the Supreme; Court of the United States, as now con-
<c05>
stituted; and therefore it-would be the labor of Sisyphus, tantalizing and useless.
To this we reply, no possible or probable injustice on the part of Gov. Banks, or either or both of the Supreme Courts, can justify non-action on the part of the legislature. Let senators and representatives remember that they must meet their own responsibilities within-their own legitimate sphere; and that they are bound to uphold all the rights of their constituents, by a solemn oath to God, whether the Supreme Court or the Governor will co-operate with them or not. We have been assured that they will do this, and we. trust the information is well-founded. In their decision on this point, Judge Shaw and his associates think to put an end to all further controversy by oracularly declaring-The general government having authority to determine who shall and who may not compose the militia, and having so determined, the State government has no legal authority to prescribe a different enrollment. Indeed! What power, then, can be more despotic? Do those judges really mean what they say? Are they ready to follow out their assertion to its legitimate consequences? No-we do not believe it. Their verdict is neither unbiassed nor rational. They are respecters of persons, and cater to the unchristian spirit of caste. But, as a matter of consistency, they do not go far enough; for they should boldly affirm, in the language of the infamous Judge Taney, that the colored citizens of this State have no rights which the white ones are bound to respect; and, therefore, they are not qualified to hold any office, or to cast any vote, or to enter any complaint.
Of course, it is not that we desire to see our colored citizens ' armed and equipped for military duty, (aside from the injustice of their forcible exclusion,. that we have made these remarks; for we believe in abolishing all military organizations, as a consistent advocate of peace. But we hate and despise every proscriptive act; and until men of every color can be led to see the superiority of spiritual over carnal weapons, we want them to be placed upon the same footing in all military arrangements.
It is very evident that the pretence of Gov. Bank and the Supreme Court of profound regard for the ac of Congress of 1792, as rigidly to be obeyed, is quit hollow; for, by the existing mode of ' playing training' in this Commonwealth solely by volunteer companies, (which are no part of the militia of the United States,) the aforesaid act of Congress is practically rendered null and void. Shame on the men who can resort to such a contemptible subterfuge!
It gives us pleasure to record the manly and eloquent protest made in the Senate by Mr. Davis o Bristol, and Mr. Parker of Worcester, against the vet of Gov. Banks and the decision of the Supreme Court In the House, Mr. Kimball of Boston, and M: Griffin of Maiden, made some keen and effective criticisms, though they finally yielded their own convictions. But the conflict is an ' irrepressible ' one, and the sooner justice is done, the better.

REMEMBER THE TERMS.
To our Subscribers. Those of our subscribers who have not paid for the current year,-that is, from January 1st, 1859, to January 1st, 1860,-are reminded of the standing rule by which, their papers wish be discontinued after February 1st, 1860, unless payment for the same be previously sent in. 
The Financial Committee, in calling attention to the above standing rule, would also ask every sub scriber, for the sake of the cause, as well as for the sake of the paper, to do what in him lies to extend the circulation of the Liberator, at least to the eater of procuring each one an additional name for our list.

THE PETITION FOR PROHIBITING SLAVEHUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS. 
Friends! the time is short, and the work of securing names to the petition should be taken up and completed without loss of time. Do not let the work be thrown entirely on one or two persons in any place In every town let a committee, of men and women representing all parts of the town, be selected, who will see that the petition is presented at every house By this division of labor, the work will be easily an speedily done. It needs only this effort to secure, we believe, the names of five-sixths of the men and women of Massachusetts to the petition. Many heart and hands are now at work for this object throughout the North. Let Massachusetts not be found wanting Give the petition to your representative in the Legislature; or, if preferred, send it to the care of SAMEL MAY, Jr., 21 Cornhill, Boston.

MEETINGS AT OLD PLYMOUTH.
The annual gathering of the friends of emancipation took place at old Plymouth on Saturday, Dec.31st, and Sunday, Jan. 1st. The attendance was very encouraging and highly respectable. Four consecutive public meetings were held in Davis's Hall, over which that estimable and well-tried friend of the cause, Bourne Spooner, Esq., presided. The resolutions presented for discussion were the following: 
Resolved, That the ' irrepressible conflict' now going on in this country between Liberty and Slaver is not of man's devising, but of God's ordering-originating in elements diametrically and eternally opposed to each other, and therefore utterly beyond the power of legislation and the devices of party management; and it must continue until the rights of man are either fully recognized and enjoyed, or entirely subverted, without regard to race or complexion.
Resolved, That the spirit of Southern slavery is a ready to trample upon the rights of white men a upon those of black men, in order to preserve its power, and to accomplish its purposes; hence, the continual violation of the constitutional as well as will as the natural rights of Northern citizens at the South, suspected of holding anti-slavery sentiments, by the in fliction of the most brutal and dastardly outrage, upon their persons, and subsequent expulsion from the soil; all demonstrating that there is no common
country, Constitution or Union for freemen, but only for slaveholders and slave-traffickers, and hence that the time has fully come for a separation between the free and the slave States, to avoid degradation and in suit on the one hand, and guilty complicity and ruin on the other.
The principal speakers on the occasion were Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Harrison. C.L. Remond, John Wyman and <illegible> The <illegible> were intensely into<illegible> worthy of Plymouth Rock. The <illegible>. adopted without dissent. The hospitality of <illegible> mouth' friends was, as usual, on a generous <illegible> all from abroad.

THE SUBSCBIPTION FESTIVAL AND ANNUAL MEETING.
Next week will be a busy and an important one in reference to the GREAT STRUGGLE in our land for the ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, in the matter not only of placing on record those moral testimonies which powerfully help to mould and concentrate public opinion in the right direction, but specially with reference to providing the ' MATERIAL AID ' necessary to carry on the operations of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in the spirit of disinterested philanthropy and good will to all sections of the country. The SUBSCRIPTION-FESTIVAL at Music Hall, on Wednesday evening next, bids fair to be numerously attended by such as are ready to assist the cause by their pecuniary gifts as well as by their words, and it cannot fail to be an occasion full of interest and pleasure. Those who cannot be present personally, send your donations by mail or proxy.
We anticipate a spirited anniversary of the Massachusetts A. S. Society on Thursday and Friday.
We have received a letter from our esteemed friend John G. Whittier, in reply to our criticism, which we are obliged to defer till next week.
<c06>
LETTER FROM MISSOURI.
St. Louis, Dec.19,1859 
The aggressive spirit of the North is never satisfied. We cannot-whip a negro, but it sets them all a mivelling; nor sell a ditty wench, but we must hear a moral lecture on tie wickedness of parting husband and wife, parents and children. Our Northern brethren are so officious in their everlasting intermeddling, that they make it a matter of conscience to liberste our slaves; and hence the outbreak by john Brown, that cost him, and his subordinate their lives, We of the Slave States feel deeply aggrieved. Numerically, we are in a minority; and the North, taking advantage of our weakness, have appropriated to themselves every important office of the General Government. Every president, and nearly every vice president, have been in their interest. The speakers of the house of representatives, have all been op posed to slavery; and have so constituted the congressional committees as to oppress, and nearly ruin the Slave States. Every judge of the supreme court of the "United States h so prejudiced against slavery, that, in all issues between liberty and slaver, he decides in favor of liberty; he declares that slaveholders have, no rights that his court is bound to respect'; and to such extremes hare the North carried their war against slavery, that whenever a slave
holder, or a friend of slavery, has been nominated as a judge, the senate have rejected him for that simple reason. Nearly all the heads of the departments as Washington have come from the North, All the collectors of customs, the foreign ministers, our consuls our land officers, our officers in the army and the navy, are, and have been. Northern men and opponents of slavery. No territory has ever been innexed for the benefit of slavery; but how often have we been threatened with Canada and Nova seotia, to make Free States! We have been driven out of Kansas, cheated out of California, and are denied Nicaraugua and Cuba. We are oppressed and robbed at every turn of the wheels of government. Our slaves are aided to escape, while none assist as to pursue and catch them, but National Democrats and drunken vagabonds, who do it for the offered reward. Neither merchants, politicians, lawyer?, nor priests join us ' with alacrity," as they ought to do. Searcely a day passes, in which our Southern people are not compelled to send to his Northern home, or to <illegible> some pestilent abolitionist, having first given him, gratis, a coat of tar and feathers, for his benefit on the cold country to which he is bound, and a free ride on a rail to expedite his journey. These are ad ministered for incendiary thoughts against our patriarchal institution. The kind, friendly, and frank treatment abolitionists have received during their sojourn at the South, we trust, will tend to restore those friendly relations between the North and South that formerly subsisted, but which, of late, have been sadly rent by northern aggression. The utmost vigilance is, however, required of our postmasters a breaking open, examining, and burning, incendiary documents, such as are calculated to induce the slaves to revolt. It is no argument that slaves never receive communications through the post office, <illegible> that they cannot read them if received: we must close the mail against them. 
In addition to all these wrongs, heaped upon us by the North, we have to sustain a thriftless, idle, vagabond race of shrewd and cunning free negroes and
mulattoes, which the North have imposed upon is by passing laws to prevent them from settling in the Free States. These free blacks and mulattoes are constantly teaching our slaves what they should not know. They incite them to run away; direct them where, to go, and how to escape when pursued; and their presence is that of evil, and of evil only. They are mostly slaves who have been emancipated
for their faithfulness by well-meaning, but weak persons; or, they are the descendants of gentleman, who did not like to see their children driven a slaves. So wholly unbearable have these worthless wretches become, that, at the last session of our legislature we passed through the lower house a bill to sell them in to slavery, for the purpose of educating our children. Our State loses over two million of dollars every generation, by her culpable neglect a claim her rights, and sell the free negroes and mulattoes, who are much better off as slaves than as freemen. The law referred to, also confiscated their property, for the support of the poor. That property, in this county, is over two millions of dollars. The bill, however, went to the Senate, where it laid over to the present session for the want of time. But it has been brought up, and passed, after a long and in teresting debate, in which it is difficult to decide whether patriotism or piety predominated. It was so modified before it passed the senate, that all the money goes into the county treasury without appropriation. Enclosed, you will find a copy of the bill from which you will see that all the truly conseiertious members have an abiding faith that' Godliness is great gain'; but what per cent, they expect it will pay, they do not disclose.
Now that John Brown and most of his confederates are killed and hung, Virginia will, we hope, be permitted to rest. The hanging just and right. Brown has been guilty of treason, insurrection, and murder, because the jury said so. They were under oath, and it must be true. It cannot be gainsayed nor denied. Then consider what a mean part Brown acted in Kansas. When Henry Clay's Dunder Pate went out from Westport in Missouri, with thirty men, to take Brown and his eleven men prisoners, Brown, instead of surrendering, as it was his duty to do, on the true democratic principle that a majority should govern, took Dunder Pate and his party prisoners; and he ought to be hung for that, His friends killed the Doyles and the Doyles neighbors who acted with them, for nothing in the world but stealing their cattle, horses, and hogs; burning their houses and shooting the abolitionists;-when it can be proved that Doyle sent them word fairly, and gave them all the time necessary, to remove and escape death. But, instead of going as they ought, they combined together, and. without sending the Doyles word, as Doyle had sent them. cruelly murdered them all in one night. The amiable Mrs. Doyle, who sent a halter to Gov. Wise with which to hang Brown, requesting that her surviving son might act as hangman, ought to have had that reasonable desiregratified. We are happy to see that her pecuniary necessities are to be cared for. One New jersey
democrat has already donated two dollars; and we may reasonably hope that there are thousands who will be equally benevolent and democratic.
There can be little expected of the North, anchored as she is in ignorance and prejudice. She has none of the elements of progress. How different, in this respect, are the Slave States. Look at our schools and our lecture-rooms. See your pulpits and your courts, filled with priests and lawyers from our Southern seminaries; your schools filled with gentlemen and lady teachers from the South; your land filled with the machinery made in our Slave States. Where at the North, can you find a hardy, industrious yeomanry, so well educated, so enlightened. so intelligent, or so independent and happy. as the corerackers, the sand-hillers, and clay-eaters of Carolina and Georgia,-men so powerful that they have only one senator in their State legislature, to every four from other parts of Carolina? Note, also, the progress made in political science in morals, and in all the movements that mark the progress of this enlightened age. One of our great men,-great even in our Slave States-in a fit of enthusiasm ex
claimed, 'Give me liberty, or giveme death!' We have corrected this highly-colored adage, and in accordance with the revised edition, we say, 'give as slavery, or give us death!' The old Virginia coat of arms says, 'Death to all tyrants.' The new democratic correction is, 'Death to the foes of tyranny.'
When the people walked in darkness, their maxim.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
was, Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. Now, we know better, and say, Slavery is the chief corner stone of liberty. In the former days of ignorance, we had a maxim, that Every man was presumed innocent until he was proved guilty. Now, he is presumed guilty, and punished unless he can give a good account of himself. In former times, the military authority was subject to the civil; but experience has clearly shown, that to receive the blessings of liberty, the civil must be subject to the military authority. A leader of the old fogy school said, All men were created equal. We have proved, by old fogies themselves, that nobody but white men were created equal; and that negroes were not created equal at all. We have recently ascertained, and proved, that the golden rule does not extend to negroes, mulattoes, nor abolitionists. The South is now discussing two very important moral and political questions. The precedents and authorities are about equal, and they must be decided on their merits. The old practice was, to imprison the rogues, and let honest men alone. It is now proposed to imprison the honest men, and to give the rogues, the liberty of the town. The other change proposed is, to hang the benevolent and conscientious men, instead of the rascals, as formerly. Both these changes are sustained by the maxim, that turn about is fair play. We wish to act understandingly, and have therefore imprisoned quite a number of innocent men, while we have permitted any number of rogues to run at large. We have also hung a few good men, and left a goodly number of murderers-like the murderers of Thompson at Harper's Ferry-pass unnoticed. We think the proposed change desirable. Considering our enlightened and liberal views, we are at an utter loss to conceive why our Slave States, with the greatest area, the best soil and climate, the greatest mineral resources, do not outstrip the Free States in population. Here, we do not have to work: our slaves do that, while we meet at our village saloons and improve our minds over a social glass, or discuss the affairs of the nation. Why we should fall behind the North in population, when we excel her in everything else, is an unexplained mystery. If we can banish about one quarter part of our present population of anti-slavery sentiments,-,a population that renders our property so insecure,we think we could regain our numerical ascendancy, and acquire the control of our General Government, of which we have been, so long, and so unjustly, deprived. There seems, to be nothing to prevent this consummation but the aggressive villany of the North. L.

DIVISION OF THE STATES.
The declaration of Mr. Seward, that there is an irrepressible conflict' between free and slave labor, which can only be terminated by the total destruction of one or the other, has been extensively commented upon, by pro-slavery presses and orators, in a manner indicative rather of alarm than of incredulity. No attempt is made to disprove this proposition; but it is everywhere denounced, as if atrocious in its purport, or tending to disastrous consequences. When it; is considered that this doctrine is not original or new with Mr. Seward, but has often before been expressed, that its truth has been proved by the abolition of slavery in Western Europe, and the emancipation of serfs now in progress in Russia, and the experience of our own country, which has for several years been the arena of a bitter political conflict on the subject of slavery, in defiance of the efforts of leaders of all parties to quell agitation, by compromising finalities'; and when we perceive that the declaration is only an abstract theorem in political economy, not proposing or contemplating any overt action, we may well be surprised that it should be met with such an excited hostility. This treatment of it is significant; it betrays fears of its influence in destroying the Slave Power, and unmasks sentiments subversive of our free institutions. It is, therefore, now highly important that this proposition and its results should be attentively considered.
I shall at once assume the truth of the proposition in question so far as to say, that slave labor and free labor cannot permanently exist together, in any noticeable degree, under the same government or political connection, without an incessant political conflict; and the inference I draw from this is, not necessarily that the cessation of such a conflict must be terminated by the complete abolition of one or the other; especially if the parties are nearly equal in strength, and equally resolute; but will be far more likely to be accomplished by political separation from each other. It is obvious that the opposing views of slavery in the free and slave States have, within a few years, become more and more discordant, not only in regard to the benefit or evil of the institution, but radically, as to its moral character; and that a crisis is now approaching, when a struggle will commence-perhaps in the Congress now convenedwhich will give no hope of a settlement in legislation, either by victory of either party, or a compromise. The presidential election of next winter will probably bring this contest to a decision. In case of the election of a President in favor of free labor, the leading aristocratic powers of the South proclaim their resolution to secede from the Union; and there is no sufficient reason to doubt their sincerity; at any rate, it would be unsafe to rely on any anti-slavery sentiments in the slave States to avert this occurrence; and should this measure not be resorted to, still, such nullifying resistance will be made to Federal enactments as will destroy the peace of the Union. On the other hand, if the friends of the present Administration shall still continue to wield the powers of the government, emboldened by success, they will unavoidably, and in necessary consistency with the Dred Scott decision, attempt to extend the existence and protection of slavery over all the free States. But the free spirit of the North cannot submit to this, and it will be resisted by legislation, or by force even unto bloodshed.
There seems, therefore, to be a real danger of civil war, which it is not wise to slight. In this impending crisis, it is highly important equally for the friends of peace and liberty to give timely attention to such proposals as may tend to avert it; and we can discern none more effectual and unobjectionable than that of a peaceful separation of the free from the slave States, by mutual consent; which, we trust, they will have the wisdom of adopting. It is true, this would not be an abolition of slavery where it now exists; but it would be the removal of all fear of it in the free States and the Territories; and they would have no more complicity with it, or mortifying responsibility for it, than they now have for its existence in Asia or Africa; and it would be easy to show that such a separation must, in a few years, be followed by entire emancipation, to be attained in no other way; but this is a consideration into which I do not now enter.
I have said that this measure is unobjectionable. It could not be disagreeable to the people of the South, or their leaders, if there is sincerity in the proud assertions made in their papers, that they are Perfectly competent to sustain a Republic of themselves; that their progress in prosperity is obstructed by their connection with the North; that their intercourse with foreign nations would be freer and more direct without it; and that they would be less dependent on Northern industry for manufactured articles. It would be a great relief to the people of the North and West, not only from the degrading complicity with slavery mentioned above, but from the apprehensions of foreign war, in which slavery is most likely to involve us, and in which we should have an internal, as well as an external, enemy on our hands; an odious Fugitive Slave Law,' oppressive to humanity, would no longer enchain us; and, above all, we should be released from that iniquitous obligation we are now under to sustain and aid the tyrannical Slave Power in its suppression of every ves<illegible> ige of the dearest rights of man, promised to all
<c02>
Americans in the Declaration of Independence, and to the assertion of which we owe our own republican institutions. 
But it is thought that a separation would be followed by a war. This is a groundless fear. If the division was by mutual consent, neither party could have the least object or motive for such a war; each would, by the simple separation, have obtained all it professes to desire. In the present temper of the sections; a civil war is far more likely to occur, while nominally under the same government; as the Federal power is pledged to the enforcement of law, however tyrannical. The separation may therefore be a means, perhaps the only means, of averting fraternal bloodshed. The destruction of life in the late affair at Harper's Ferry was effected by United States marines, supported by the votes and money of the North, for an action which causes grief and indignation in every Northern bosom.
The fear of Northern merchants and politicians is, that commerce with the South will be destroyed by separation, and pecuniary loss thus accrue. This is also groundless; the natural wants of each section would be the same as now, and of course the interchange of commodities would be the same, regardless of governmental interference; even if either government should be unwise enough to impose duties on passage of the lines, such a regulation could not be executed, could not be injurious or permanent.
It is not here intended to recommend an immediate proposal, on the part of the free States, for a separation from the slave States; but only to give such a view of the events to be expected as to encourage Republican members of Congress, when threatened with secession by slaveholders from the South, to express a readiness to accord with it, and to enter into a plan for the purpose. This will be at least a test of the sincerity of these threats, and silence at once all further attempts to terrify the North by them; and if, in case of a Republican administration, they should show a resolution to carry this threatened separation into effect, they should be cheerfully permitted to do so. It is far better that they should be friendly aliens, without the Northern government, than discontented and hostile citizens.  J. P. B.

JOHN BROWN'S INTENTIONS.
BOSTON, Jan. 13, 1860. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-In your criticism of Mr. Whittier's poem on John Brown, you have made one error, which, I notice, is shared by many of the old warrior's friends. You say-
He perilled all that was dear to him, not to achieve liberty for himself, or those of his own complexion, but to break the fetters of a race not colored like his own,' most wickedly abhorred, universally proscribed, and subjected to a bondage full of unutterable woe and horror. But, even in their behalf, he sought no retaliation nor revenge, but only (if possible) a peaceful exodus from Virginia, &c. &c.
John Brown did not intend to make any exodus from Virginia, peaceful or otherwise, but to liberate the slaves in their native State, and to support them there. The idea that he intended to make an exodus comes from his reference to his exploit in Missouri, which was given as an explanation of the fact that slaves might be liberated without bloodshed; not as an indication of the mode by which he intended to operate in Virginia.
Have you not seen his letter of explanation to Mr. Hunter? By reading it, you will see that there was no real contradiction in his statements.
Now comes the question-How did he intend to support himself in Virginia without insurrection?
Mr. Emerson never said a truer word than when he described John Brown as a pure Idealist. It would have been as easy to drive a shadow into the centre of a block of granite as to force a pro-slavery falsehood into his brain or heart. Truly regarded, is it not a concession to the Southern creed, to call a rising of the slaves an insurrection? The whites of the South are now in insurrection. Southern society for two centuries has been an insurrection. John Brown, therefore, went down to Virginia not to incite, but to extinguish, insurrection. He went down to Virginia as an abolitionist and compensationist-to free the slaves, and pay them for their past unrequited services. If any man had presumed to oppose this righteous action, John Brown would have summarily resisted him to the death. That was the why he bought pikes, and Sharpe's rifles and revolvers. He did not design to go Northward, but toward South Carolina and Alabama. He intended to put the Declaration of Independence through from Harper's Ferry to the Gulf of Mexico.
There was no intentional deception in John Brown's language to the Court or elsewhere. He neither intended, it is true, to incite or excite insurrection, even in the Virginia sense of the word; but as he would undoubtedly have been resisted, he would unquestionably have stirred up a terrible revolution. Yet, to say that he would have been the cause of it, is to cover the crimes of slavery with the mantle of legitimacy.
Yours, truly, JAMES REDPATH.

MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
Pursuant to notice, a large meeting convened at the Bethel Church, on Monday evening, Jan. 16th, which was organized by the choice of Henry Weeden as Chairman, and A. N. Gale and C. H. Gardner, as Secretaries.
Wm. Wells Brown submitted the following resolutions, which, being discussed by the mover, John J. Smith, Dr. J. S. Rock, Rev. J. B. Smith, Dr. Knox, Rev. J. Sella Martin, Wm. C. Nell, John Oliver and several others, were, on motion, adopted:-
Resolved, That we regard the reasons given by Gov. Banks, in his veto message to the late Legislature, for refusing to sign the revision of the statute because the word white had been erased, owing to its unconstitutionality, to be wholly groundless.
Resolved, That this meeting appoint a Committee, whose duty it shall be to draw up a memorial to the present Legislature, asking it to strike out the word white' from the statutes of this Commonwealth, and that said Committee solicit a hearing before the Legislature.
In compliance with which resolutions, the following persons were appointed said Committee: Wm. Wells Brown, Wm. C. Nell, Dr. J. S. Rock, Robert Morris, Esq., Rev. J. Sella Martin.
Crosby, Nichols & Co. have just published The American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the Year 1860'-crowded with all sorts of valuable information respecting the complex affairs of the general and State governments. No where else can be found collected such full details in regard to the Executive and Judiciary, the finances, schools, charitable institutions, and pauperism and crime of the several States. It also contains tables of railroads in this country and in Canada, and of the surveyed routes to the Pacific; of telegraphs and submarine telegraphs; of colleges and professional schools in the United States; of the population of the several States at the decennial periods; of the debts, property and expenses of the States; of the times of the State elections and the meetings of the State Legislatures, and of the votes at the different Presidential elections-&c., &c.
We learn that a very interesting discussion on S.S. Foster's scheme for a new political party was held, some days since, in Brinley Hall, Worcester, at a meeting called for that purpose. A friend who was present says,-A young man, a student in a Law Office here, by the name of Sheridan, undertook to defend slavery, whereupon ABBY TKELLEY FOSTER gave him the severest castigation I ever heard from mortal lips. Her speech, though perfectly extemporaneous, was one of surpassing eloquence. I would give a good deal for a verbatim report of it.' 
<c03>
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF THE TERRIBLE
CALAMITY AT LAWRENCE.
AFFECTING SCENES AT THE CITY HALL.
Some of the most heart-rending scenes have occurred in the room where the dead were brought for recognition. Of one, there was nothing but the scalp and a shoe, shriveled by the fire. Of another, there remained only a few bones and a small scarf partly burned.
Thomas Nice recognized the body of his wife by a ring she wore on her finger. He had searched anxiously for her body, as she was found in the list of missing. A charred and misshapen mass brought into the room of the dead he examined, as he examined all. Upon a bone in the clasped skeleton of the hand he found a ring. Upon it was engraved his own name. It had been presented by him to his wife on their happy bridal day. When he found this sure token, his sad consolation triumphed for a moment over his burning sorrow. He waved his hands aloft, and cried for joy. When he looked again upon the blackened corpse, his loss fell, as it seemed, with a deadening weight upon his soul, and all was changed. He fell upon his attendants, venting the wildest grief. Nothing could command his attention beside, and he was borne from the room raving wild as a maniac, exhibiting a feeling as strong as could be pictured by the most extravagant imagination. 
Mrs. Barrett, wife of James Barrett of Lawrence, had lost a child. She, too, was a frequent visitor at the dead-house. Saturday afternoon she came, accompanied by a younger daughter, bringing a miniature likeness of the lost. The miniature represented the features of a young lady of unusual personal attractions. A lively beauty danced in her youthful, fresh and rosy face; an expression of a nature almost angelic beamed in her eyes. With this the mother and sister came seeking the original among the dead. The lost one was found, but the fair face was burned away, the lithe and graceful form was now a shapeless trunk, which was recognized only by the fabric of the dress she wore, a small part of which was not destroyed. The mother threw herself on the remains: she aroused herself and gazed upon the miniature, and from that her eyes again wandered to the remains of her child. She fainted, and was borne away. Those present turned away heart-sick. Those who had stood firm through all until now, melted until their sympathy awakened tears that fell like summer rain.
Among the missing first reported was James Harty. He came from New York nearly a year ago, accompanied by his only sister-his only relative in America. They had long lived for each other alone. His form below the head was found to be perfect in death, only the flesh was literally roasted by the fierce heat. His body was recognized by a key and portemonnaie in his pocket; added to this evidence, his boot was pulled off, and upon his stocking was found his initial letter, which had been carefully threaded there by his dear sister, who now sought him, and thus found him in her despair. The trunk of the deceased was taken to the City Hall, and the key found in his pocket fitted the lock. To add to the grief of the sister, while it proved again that the vilest depravity can exist among the most awful scenes, the trunk was broken open by some villain while it remained at the City Hall, and all that was practically valuable, as well as all that was highly prized as sacred mementoes, were stolen from it.
The body of Miss Mary Murphy was recognized on Saturday by the clothes upon it, which were a brown lyonese dress and a white flannel skirt. Beyond these, there was nothing to furnish evidence for identification.
Margaret Coleman's body was taken from the ruins this morning, and soon after identified by a dress given her by her boarding mistress a few days ago. 
The bodies of Catharine Harrigan and Ellen Ahern were also taken out and identified by the same means. The mother of the latter saw upon a misshapen fragment, a small piece of dress of a peculiar pattern. Before that, she had no thought that she was by the side of what was her fair and beloved daughter. She was overpowered by the scene, and was borne away in a fainting fit.
The remains of Catherine Sweeney, aged 22, daughter of Cornelius Sweeney, who lives in Common.St., were found and identified by two thimbles and a comb in the pocket of her dress, and by a bandage on one of her fingers. She was employed in the card room. Her funeral took place on Saturday.
An incident is related of a young and beautiful girl employed in one of the upper stories of the mill, who, when the crash came, was thrown prostrate upon the floor by a piece of shafting which fell across her neck, preventing her rising. The coupling which connected the shaft prevented the latter from strangling her; and, in her comparative ease, and confident of a speedy delivery, she calmly watched the efforts made by the rescuers to extricate her. She would have been saved had the fire been stayed but for a few minutes. But the flames swept over the spot, claiming and obtaining its victim.
A little daughter of James Bannon was entangled in the ruins, beyond the hope of rescue. As the greedy flames came crackling towards her, she took her time-bill' from her pocket, and giving it to another girl, said, You will be saved, I shall not; give this to my father, and say good-bye to him for me.' The story carries its own reflections.
One of the most constant visitors to the entrance of the dead-room, at the City Hall, is a poor woman who worked beside her daughter in the doomed factory. She heard the fatal crash, and sprang involuntarily into the sink-room, then into the privy, where she was saved. She saw her daughter a moment before the alarm, but has not seen her since, dead or alive, and gazes with dreadful anxiety depicted in her tearless eyes, upon the bodies, as one after another the grief-stricken and the curious file in and around each newly recovered body.
The body of Lafayette F. Branch was found Sunday afternoon outside of the wall, on the southeast corner of the building. The body was perfectly natural, there being few bruises upon the head. The fingers were somewhat mutilated, and one leg was broken. The body was found lying face upwards, in a straight and natural position. His watch was found in his pocket, the crystal unbroken. The watch was stopped at thirteen minutes of 5 o'clock, which was supposed to be the exact time of the crash. By the position of the body, it is believed that he jumped from the window, but was overtaken by the falling walls before he could get away. Mr. Branch was a member of the last city government, and he was universally respected in the community. He was foreman of the dressing-room in the fourth story, where he was at the time of the accident. He was the only overseer killed.
The number of bodies exhumed on Saturday was thirteen. These, like all which have been recovered since the fire, were burned beyond the possibility of identification, save through the medium of patches of dress and articles which chanced to be found upon them.
Some bodies have been recovered, with no resemblance to the human form; and some are burned into such a misshapen mass that the workmen are obliged to saw them apart to get them into coffins. In some cases, nothing remains of the forms which so recently were animate, but fragments of charred limbs and portions of the vitals, so effectual was the work of the devouring element.
THE SUM TOTAL OF THE DISASTER. By the dispatches of our reporters at Lawrence, it will be seen that the following figures represent the sum total of the latest investigations, as to the dead, wounded and missing:
Dead. 117
Injured severely, 119
Injured slightly, 200
Missing, 89
Total, 525
It is supposed that but a few more bodies will be found in the ruins, and the remainder of the missing will be accounted for by those who are said to have gone to their homes immediately after the accident, without giving any account of themselves to the authorities. According to the above figures, and the most reliable statements as to the number of persons in the mill at the time of the accident, less than three hundred persons escaped uninjured.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CHURCHES. Although a day had been set apart for general funeral service and mourning in all the churches, every minister in Lawrence alluded to the fearful calamity, and delivered discourses more or less exclusively appropriate ate to the occasion.
RELIEF FOR THE SUFFERERS. The following touching appeal from the Mayor of Lawrence was received by the Chairman of the New England Society, Saturday. 
It should open the purse-strings of the most penurious, and will, we trust, swell the subscriptions for the relief of the suffering and meritorious operatives to an amount which will not fail to keep want from their doors:

CITY OF LAWRENCE,
Mayor's Office, Jan. 13. 
My Dear Sir: We as yet know but little of the heart-rending agony that is crushing our people. Instances are hourly brought to my notice, which make me long for a time to weep. I have steeled my nerves, yet they almost break.
There are many cases which call for speedy aid and sympathy. Nine hundred people, upon whom at
<c04>
least three thousand were dependent for support, are out of employment. Young children have lost their parents. Brothers and sisters, dependent upon each other, are separated. Aged and infirm parents, dependent upon their children, are now childless.
One terrible case came under my personal observation. A little girl about fifteen years of age, who supported her younger orphan brothers and sisters, was buried in the ruins, but not injured. We had nearly extricated her; ten minutes more, and she would have been safe but the flames came. You must imagine the rest. I can't write it. Oh, how fervently our prayers joined with hers to God!
There are many very sad cases. I can't write-it unmans me. Yours truly,
D. SAUNDERS, Jr. Mayor.
Hon. NATHAN APPLETON, Boston, Chairman Committee.'
FRED. DOUGLASS AND THE HARPER'S FERRY INSURRECTION.-The Rev. R. L. Carpenter, of Halifax, England, at which town Frederick Douglass is at present staying, states that the latter was concerned in the recent insurrection in the following way only:
He is charged by Capt. Cook with having abetted the Harper's Ferry insurrection, and then deserting it. As he has informed the American public by letter, which has appeared in many of their papers, Capt. Cook is wholly unknown to him, and his accusation is untrue. Unless Capt. Cook was a person who once called on him with Capt. Brown, he does not even know who he is.
With Capt. Brown Mr. Douglass has long been very intimate, and he entirely approved of his plan of helping the slaves to escape to the mountains, and secure their freedom. He was cognizant of the Harper's Ferry plan, but did his utmost to dissuade him from it. In his anxiety to avert what he deemed an impracticable scheme, he went, about a month before the event, to visit Capt. Brown at Chambersburg, about twenty-eight miles from Harper's Ferry. His arguments were, however, unavailing; and his visits would no doubt be taken as an evidence that he was a party to the plan. He is in no way, therefore, mixed up with the insurrection, except in so far that he did not betray his knowledge of it, and he is not in any way chargeable of deserting Capt. Brown, since Capt. Brown well knew that he was opposed to it.
THE FREE-NEGRO QUESTION.question of expelling free negroes just now occupies a considerable share of attention in several of the slaveholding States.
Hon. Ab. Caruthers, of Tennessee, publishes an elaborate opinion in the Nashville papers. He says:
My conclusion is, that the act of emancipating a slave only confers upon him the capacity of acting as a freeman, subject, as the same capacity in a white man is, to all curtailments of his liberty that may not be forbidden by some specific guaranty of the Constitution; that he is not a freeman in the sense of the declaration of rights, and therefore may be exiled.'
The Memphis Enquirer thinks that, under present circumstances, when so numerous and active a body of fanatics are openly and professedly determined to make them dupes, and then assassins, this class of population should be removed.'
Among the laws passed by the late Legislature of Georgia was one which provides that free negroes wandering or strolling about, or leading an idle, immoral, or profligate course of life, are hereafter to be deemed and considered as vagrants, and may be indicted as such. In case of conviction, they shall be sold into slavery for any given time, in the discretion of a Judge of the Superior Court, not exceeding two years for the first offence; but upon conviction of a second offence, they must be sold into perpetual slavery.
In Florida, the free-negro bill failed to become a law, for want of the Governor's signature. The negro question is involved in many perplexities, but fortunately does not require the aid of Northerners to assist in its elucidation.

HELPER'S BOOK.
To the Editor of the Norristown Republican:
I would inform the public, through your independent and fearless journal, that Mr. Dale, the President of the Norristown Railroad, has forbidden the news agent who rents the stand in the gentlemen's apartment at the Philadelphia depot, to sell Helper's book; and further, it is reported that the boy who serves papers in the cars has also been forbidden to sell it. Really, I would like much to inquire of Mr. Dale, through you, whether the character of Norristown Railroad authorizes any such discrimination as to what kind of books travellers may read?  Is not Mr. D. a little too anxious to preserve travellers from heresy?  A DAILY TRAVELLER.
The project for enslaving the ninety thousand free blacks of Maryland is again agitated by the pro slavery papers of that State; and petitions to the Legislature praying the passage of an act by which the proposed enslavement may be authorized are being circulated for signatures. We are glad to say that that sterling Opposition journal, the Baltimore Patriot, denounces the wickedness with all the indignation and scorn that honorable and just men ought to feel with a proposition so infamous is submitted for approval. The Patriot assures its readers that the pirates overrate their strength, and that the iniquity at which they are at work will not be accomplished.-Missouri Democrat.
THE MISSOURI SLAVE INSURRECTION.The Chicago Press and Tribune asks us what has become of the Bolivia, Mo., Slave insurrection. Our answer is, that the accounts furnished by the Southwest (Warsaw) Democrat, which were telegraphed to our paper, seem to have been mere exaggerations of a Christmas row between a gang of drunken negroes and a party of frolicksome white folks. The design of the Warsaw paper was no doubt to operate upon the Legislature, and create votes for the infamous Free Negro bill.- Ibid. 
MR. SEWARD IN THE SENATE. Mr. Seward made his first appearance in the Senate, since his return home from his European tour, on the 9th inst. in fine health and spirits. He received a warm greeting from his political friends, but it is stated by the correspondent of the Baltimore Sun that not more than two or three Southern men went forward to speak with him. 
Macaulay, the scholar and historian, is to be added to the list of the illustrious dead of I859. He died in London on the 28th ult., of disease of the heart, in the 60th year of his age.
PHOTOGRAPHS OF INTERESTING CHARACTERS. Heywood & Heard, 10 Tremont Row, who justly rank among the first artists in the country, have just got out a superb photograph of Wendell Phillips. No one will fail to pronounce entirely life-like-the distinguished orator just as he looks and is. They have also just produced likenesses of all of the Brown family, leading off with the hero-martyr, John. All of these pictures indicate a high style of art, and show that these gentlemen undertake nothing which they do not finish and complete with
the utmost skill. Our readers should not fail to visit their rooms.-Boston Atlas and Bee.

THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT
IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
A series of Anti-Slavery Conventions will be held in the State of New York, as follows:-
Poughkeepsie, Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 23, 24.
Hudson, Wednesday  Jan. 25.
Troy, Friday, Jan. 27.
Easton, Saturday and Sunday, Jan 28, 29.
The Conventions will be addressed by Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Marius R. Robinson, Susan B. Anthony, and others.
The sessions will commence at 2 and 7 o'clock, of each day. 
The platform will be free to all candid discussion of the subject.
NEW YORK STATE ANNUAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held in Association Hall, ALBANY, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 31st and Feb. 1st and 2d. 
Speakers-Wendell Phillips, Parker Pillsbury, Marius R. Robinson, Leonard Gibbs. Aaron M. Powell, Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones, Susan B. Anthony, and others. 
Convention to commence at half-past 7 o'clock, Tuesday P.M.
Let every county in the State be represented. This, surely, is the hour for the friends of Freedom to rally at the Capital, that our rulers may feel the united voice of the Empire State for a PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture as follows:- 
Kingston, Saturday evening, Jan. 21.
Sunday, Jan. 22.
Duxbury, Monday, Jan. 28.
Plympton, Tuesday, Jan. 24.
The friends of Goe. W. Caleff (so say the dailies) are about giving him a benefit in the Meionaon, Tremont Temple. Gilmores Band (seven pieces) is to assist. Eminent speakers. To take place February 1st.
<c05>
RECEIPTS
Of Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from Oct. 3d, 1859, to Jan. 1, 1860.
George and H. B. Draper, Hopedale, to redeem pledge, $100 00
Proceeds Anti-Slavery Fair at Worcester, 200 00
Mary G. Chapman, to redeem pledge, 20 00
Mr. Smith, of Charlestown, to redeem pledge, 1 00
Female A. S. Society, Concord, do. 20 00
Caroline R. Putnam, Salem, do. 10 00
Francis Jackson, do. 400 00
Eben D. and Anna T. Draper, do. 50 00
Benjamin Snow, Jr., do. 100 00
Bourne Spooner, do. 20 00
J.N. Buffum, do. 25 00
Edmund Jackson, do. 100 00
David Joy and wife,   do. 50 00
Weymouth A. S. Society, do. 2500
Do. do., a donation, 85 00
Mary C. Sawyer, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Sylvanus Smith, do. 5 00
Jacob Leonard, do. 5 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
NEW YORK STATE WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION will be held in Association Hall. ALBANY, Feb. 3d and 4th, commencing at half-past 2 o'clock, Friday P. M.
Addresses by Wendell Phillips. Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Mrs. Lucy Cutler, J. Elizabeth Jones, Frances D. Gage, and others.
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL COURSE OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
The last Lecture of this series will be given by GEORGE W. CURTIS, Esq., on Monday evening next, Jan. 23, in Lyceum Hall.
Lecture to commence at 7 o'clock. Single admission, 
5 cents.
CAROLINE BALCH,
Rec. Sec. Salem Female A. S.  Society. Salem, Jan. 12.

ABINGTON ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR AND LEVEE.
The Anti-Slavery friends of Abington and vicinity will hold a Fair and Levee at Union Hall, North Abington, on the afternoon and evening of Tuesday, January 31st, when they will offer for sale a variety of useful and fancy articles, together with refreshments, and sundry amusements to render the occasion pleasant and profitable to those who may favor them with their presence.
In the course of the evening there will be speaking by W. L. GARRISON and others, interspersed with vocal and instrumental music.
On Wednesday evening, February 1st, there will be a Social Dancing Party, commencing at 7 1-2 o'clock, for which good music has been engaged.
Tickets for admission to the Fair and Levee, 25 cts.; for the Dance, 50 cts. A11 are invited to attend. 
North Abington, Jan. 17, 1860.
THE COMBINATION EFFORT, to aid the widows of the colored American heroes of Harper's Ferry, and to promote the erection of a Monument to their memory, will take place at the Meionaon, on Tuesday evening, Jan. 24.
The exercises will consist of Declamations, original and selected, by several young men, interspersed with appropriate music, by a Volunteer Quartette Club,
and three pianists. For particulars, see Programme. Tickets, 25 cents each, to be obtained of William C. Nell, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, of George L.
Ruffin, of Madame Christiana Bannister, and at the door.
Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock; exercises to commence at half-past 7 o'clock.
MARRIED-In this city, Nov. 26, by Rev. John W. Lewis, Mr. WM. H. JACKSON to Miss LOUISA PROPHETT, both of this city.
Jan. 12, by the same, Mr. MILTON CREW to Miss ELIZA P. ALEXANDER, both of this city.

LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
This highly interesting work is now out of press, and in rapid circulation. The enterprising publishers, Messrs. Thayer & Eldridge, have taken unwearied
pains to get up a good book, both in its biographical and literary character, and its mechanical execution; and the acknowledged ability of Mr. Redpath for
this undertaking ought most certainly to commend the book to the appreciation and patronage of the friends of the family of John Brown, and the friends of humanity in this country. The General Agent for Suffolk County has made ample arrangements to give every one in the county an opportunity to obtain the book, by having in employ several efficient assistants;-among them, Mr. Wm. C. Nell, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill; Mrs. Sarah A. Taylor, Intelligence Office, 140 Cambridge street; Mr. Jackson Neal, 12 Groton street; and George Coffins, 13 South Cedar street,-who will call on the citizens in general. JOHN W. LEWIS,
Agent for Publishers in Suffolk County. Boston, Jan. 20, 1860.

30,000 COPIES
SOLD IN ADVANCE OF PUBLICATION.
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the Family.
THE LIFE OF
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an Auto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegant volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with a
MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT
OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN,
by the best artist in America, from a daguerreotype, entirely different from the photographs, and being the only authentic likeness of the PHILANTHROPIST and PATRIOT which has yet appeared.
All at the Extremely Low Price of One Dollar.
Comprising an account of his early life up to the period of his going to Kansas; together with an intensely interesting narrative of his career in that Territory, giving authentic accounts of his famous battles, with all the details of his last attempt to liberate the slaves at Harper's Ferry, Va., including his entire prison correspondence, and the PRIVATE LETTERS TO HIS FAMILY, NOT HITHERTO PUBLISHED. Also,
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY LIFE,
BY CAPT. BROWN HIMSELF.
This important document has not, and will not, appear in the public press, as it is the desire of the friends who contribute it that it should appear exclusively in our publication, FOR THE BENEFIT OF HIS FAMILY, and any re-printing of it will be prosecuted as an infringement of copyright. Of this Autobiography it is sufficient to say, that nothing of the kind, since the AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANKLIN, has been published, which is at once so characteristic and so interesting.
A large per centage on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:-
Extract from a letter of Mary A. Brown, widow of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1859.MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEAR FRIENDS-I am satisfied that Mr. Redpath is THE Man to write the life of my beloved husband, as he was personally acquainted with him and I think will do him justice. * * I think that the Portrait is a very good one.
Yours, respectfully,
MARY A. BROWN.
Letter from Salmon Brown, son of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1859.
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEAR SIRSI was somewhat acquainted with James Redpath in Kansas. I am also familiar with his writings, and I consider him an able biographer, THE MAN ABOVE ALL OTHERS to write the life of my beloved father. I believe him to be a man of undoubted veracity, and fully believe he will do justice to the work he has undertaken.
Yours, respectfully,
SALMON BROWN.
Copies of this book will be furnished to any address, postage paid, on the remittance of $1, and 21 cents in stamps.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS, 
114 and 116, Washington street, Boston. Jan. 20. tf
<c06>
Scrofula, or Kings Evil,
is a constitutional disease, a corruption of the blood, by which this fluid becomes vitiated weak, and poor. Being in the circulation, it pervades the whole body, and may burst out in disease on any part of it. No organ is free from its attacks, nor is there one which it may not destroy. The scrofulous taint is variously caused by mercurial disease, low living, disordered or unhealthy  food, impure air, filth and filthy habits, the depressing vices, and, above all, by the venereal infection. Whatever be its origin, it is hereditary in the constitution, descending from parents to children unto the third and fourth generation; indeed, it seems to be the rod of Him who says, I will visit the iniquities of the fathers upon their children.
Its effects commence by deposition from the blood of corrupt or ulcerous matter, which, in the lungs, liver, and internal organs, is termed tubercles; in the glands, swellings; and on the surface, eruptions or sores. This foul corruption, which genders in the blood, depresses the energies of life, so that scrofulous constitutions not only suffer from scrofulous complaints, but they have far less power to withstand the attacks of other diseases; consequently, vast numbers perish by disorders which, although not scrofulous in their nature, are still rendered fatal by this taint in the system. Most of the consumption which decimates the human family has its origin directly in this scrofulous contamination; and many destructive diseases of the liver, kidneys, brain, and, indeed, of all the organs, arise from or are aggravated by the same cause.
One quarter of all our people are scrofulous; their persons are invaded by this lurking infection, and their persons are invaded by this lurking infection, and their health is undermined by it. To cleanse it from the system we must renovate the blood by an alterative medicine, and invigorate it by healthy food and exercise. Such a. medicine we supply in.
AYER'S
Compound Extract of Sarsaparilla,
the most effectual remedy which the medical skill of our times can devise for this every where prevailing and fatal malady. It is combined from the most active remedials that have been discovered for the expurgation of this foul disorder from the blood, and the rescue of the system from its destructive consequences. Hence it should be employed for the cure of not only scrofula, but also those other affections which arise from it, such as ERUPTIVE and SKIN DISEASES ST. ANTHONYS FIRE ROSE or ERYSIPELAS, PIMPLES, PUSTULES, BLOTCHES, BLAINS and BOILS, TUMORS, TETTER and SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, SYPHILITIC and MERCURIAL DISEASES, DROPSY, DYSPEPSIA, DEBILITY, and, indeed, ALL COMPLAINTS ARISING FROM VITLATED OR IMPURE BLOOD. The popular belief in impurity of the blood" is founded in truth, for scrofula is a degeneration of the blood. The particular purpose and virtue of this Sarsaparilla is to purify and regenerate this vital fluid, without which sound health is impossible in contaminated constitutions.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR ALL THE PURPOSES OF A FAMILY PHYSIC,
are so composed that disease within the range of their action can rarely withstand or evade them. Their penetrating properties search, and cleanse, and invigorate every portion of the human organism, correcting its diseased action, and restoring its healthy vitalities. As a consequence of these properties, the invalid who is bowed down with pain or physical debility is astonished to find his health or energy restored by a remedy at once so simple and inviting.
Not only do they cure the every-day complaints of every body, but also many formidable and dangerous diseases. The agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis my American Almanac, containing certificates of their cures and directions for their use in the following complaints: Costiveness, Heartburn, Headache, arising from disordered stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Pain in and Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Jaundice, and other kindred complaints, arising from a low state of the body or obstruction of its functions.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease. 
So wide is the field of its usefulness and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other medicine of its kind is too apparent to escape observation, and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL. MASS.
THEODORE METCALF & CO 
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem; 
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every
where. 6m

CARPETING.
All the year Round.'
JOHN. H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c, Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit
Sep. 16

JUST PUBLISHED,
The John Brown Invasion,
AN AUTHENTIC HISTORY
-OF THE-
HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY;
WITH FULL DETAILS OF THE
CAPTURE, TRIALM, AND EXECUTION OF THE INVADERS,
and all the incidents connected therewith: with a LITHOGRAPHIC PORTRAIT of Capt. John Brown, 
from a Photograph by Whipple.
Published by JAMES CAMPBELL, 62 and 64 Cornhill, Boston. For sale by J. J. DYER & CO., A. WILLIAMS & CO., REDDING & CO., and by Newsmen and Periodical Dealers throughout the Free States. Dec. 30.

Resistance to Slaveholders!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, 
Entitled
THE NATICK RESOLUTION;
OR,
Resistance to Slaveholders the Right and Duty of the Southern Slave and Northern Freeman.
BY HENRY C. WRIGHT.
RESISTANCE TO TYRAMTS IS OBEDIENCE TO GOD.
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Bela Marshs. 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the Liberator office,21 Cornhill.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE VIRGINIA LADYS LAMENT.
Fairest fair, Virginia Lady!
Though thy hero be away,
Still thy trembling, hush thy terrors-
Thou art safe-be calm and gay.
Lady, thou art pale with watching,
Anxious, weary, and distrest;
Do not faithful slaves surround thee,
Guardians of thy peaceful rest?
Faithful slaves! we bought some dearly,
Some were raised on our own land;
But what care they for their mistress?
There's not one in all the band-
No, not one among their number,
At my bidding though they fly,
Would, if they beheld me dying,
Shed a tear, or heave a sigh.
Yet I dress them gay and splendid;
Seldom flog them, feed them well;
But, of course, I mean the house-hands-
Oh my terrors, who can tell!
Even now perhaps they're plotting
Schemes to take my life away;
All the night I dream of murder,
List each footstep through the day.'
Fairest fair, Virginia Lady,
Are there none whose love you've won,
Not a slave in all your household
To defend you, not even one?
No, theyre all ungrateful creatures,
House and field-hands all alike;
Though they speak us fair, and tremble
When we threaten or we strike.
They would run away and leave us,
Saying freedom is their right,
And that they are born our equals,
And that black is good as white.
But I'll send to Harper's Ferry;
Tell my husband not to waste
Time in trying Brown and others;
Hang him, and return in haste!
Not for him do I feel anxious;
The insurgents are but few-
Few, and wounded; they can't harm us,
And our troops are strong and true.
But I tremble for my children,
Now their father is away;
Be they with me, be they absent,
They're not safe by night or day.
Why did Brown come to Virginia?
We had plague enough before
With our slaves, to keep them under;
Now we shall have ten times more.
Oh that I were in some free State,
Where a mistress need not fear
Every member of her household,
Every footstep that draws near!'
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.
For the Liberator.
THE FUGITIVE.
!Crouched beneath the broken tree-top,
In the forest lone and wild,
On a bed of withered oak-leaves
Slept a mother and her child.
Little heeded she the serpent,
Coiled, and hissing in her ear;
Little thought she of the wild wolf
That perchance was lurking near.
All her senses locked in slumber,
Shutting out the dreary past,
She was dreaming of the future-
Dreams of bliss too bright to last;
For the silvery waves that bounded
Slavery's cursed and blood-stained shore,
Parting it from lands of Freedom
She had safely ferried o'er.
What cared she for hissing serpents,
Or the howl of wild wolf then?
Beasts of prey were tender keepers
By the side of brutal men;
Brutal men, who chained and wronged her,
Blackening all her youth and prime
With the darkest, direst curses,
With the blackest, foulest crime.
Now she deems her trials ended,
That upon Ohio's ground
No slave-hunter can pursue her
With his whip, his chain and bound.
Closer, closer in her dreaming,
To her breast she clasps her child-
She is thinking of its father
In the far Canadian wild.
Hark! there comes a sound more fearful
To her ear than rifle's crack!
Up she springs with fainting terror-
Tis the bloodhound on her track!
Down below her rolls the torrent,
Over rocks a whirlwind wave,-
Quick as lightning down she dashes
Her loved infant to its grave!
And she watched the bright waves catch it,-
Loud she laughed as on they came,-
Waiting calmly her pursuers
As with shouts they spied their game.
Now we have her!' cries the master,
Seize her, Terror!' Still she stood,
Till the hound had almost reached her,
Then she plunged into the flood.
Down the dashing waters bore her-
Down the tyrant rushed, all wild,-
Rushed to save his human chattels,
Save the mother and her child.
But the God of mercy heard her
Cry of anguish, and no more
Toiled the spirit-broken Cora
On the old Virginia shore.
For the Liberator.
WITH A ROSE,
That bloomed on the day of John Brown's martyrdom.
In the long silence of the night,
Nature's benignant power
Woke aspirations for the light
Within the folded flower.
Its presence and the gracious day
Made summer in the room,
While woman's eyes dropped tender dew
On the little rose in bloom.
Then blossomed forth a grander flower,
In the wilderness of wrong,
Untouched by Slavery's bitter frost,
A soul devout and strong.
God-watched, that century plant uprose,
Far shining through the gloom,
Filling a nation with the breath
Of a noble life in bloom.
A life so powerful in its truth,
A nature so complete,
It conquered ruler, judge and priest,
And held them at its feet.
Grim Death seemed proud to a soul
So beautifully given,
And the gallows only proved to him
A stepping-stone to heaven.
Each cheerful word, each valiant act,
So simple, so sublime,
Spoke to us through the reverent hush
Which sanctified that time.
That moment when the brave old man
Went so serenely forth,
<c02>
With footsteps whose unfaltering tread
Re-echoed through the North.
The sword he wielded for the right
Turns to a victors palm;
His memory sounds forevermore,
A spirit-stirring palm;
No breath of shame can touch his shield, 
Nor ages dim its shine;
Living, he made life beautiful,
Dying, made death divine.
No monument of quarried stone,
No eloquence of speech, 
Can grave the lessons on the land
His martyrdom will teach. 
No eulogy like his own words,
With hero-spirit rife,
I truly serve the cause I love,
By yielding up my life. L. M. ALCOTT.
THE LIBERATOR.
HARD TO PLEASE.
Ever since Maria Edgeworths beautiful tales were written,-tales illustrating high and noble principles, and exemplifying a worthy and beautiful life, alike for childhood, youth and mature age,-a certain set of people have been finding fault with them, and warning the public against them, as un-religious, some even going so far as to say irreligious.  The people who admired the high moral tone of these works, and who thought themselves fortunate in being able to put into the hands of their children stories at once so pleasing and so useful as those of The Parent's Assistant,' Moral Tales' and Popular Tales,' ventured to suggest that they certainly taught good moral lessons. The critics, ingeniously converting this eulogy into a reproach, stigmatized the author in question as as teacher of mere morality.' The objection evidently was, that in these stories (which pretended only to delineate human life and character in such a way as to give some useful practical lesson) neither the author nor the better class of her characters made any profession of religion.  The writer of stories was blamed for not incorporating religious professions and theological ideas into her narratives.
Well, time passed on, and there appeared in the world a Monthly Magazine which announced itself Devoted to Literature, Art, and Politics.' The authors of some of its papers in the department of Literature'-perhaps warned by the wide-spread approval of the criticisms above mentioned to avoid the inculcation of mere morality,' perhaps impelled to speak of religion by their conviction of its paramount importance-introduced into their stories and sketches an occasional appeal to religious considerations; pointing out the correctness of those views of religion which they thought just and true, and also the incorrectness of those contrary views which they thought false and mischievous. Strange to say, the same class of people which formerly found fault with Miss Edge-worth for not putting religious considerations into her stories, now attacked the writers just mentioned, and the proprietors of the Magazine in which they wrote, for the expression of their ideas respecting religion. And the reason they gave for this objection, most astonishing of all, was that a publication of the character in question was neutral ground; that there was a tacit understanding that, in such a publication, no such ideas should be expressed, no such considerations appealed to; and that the people who had subscribed for 'Literature Art, and Politics,' were somehow deceived and imposed upon if you threw in, gratuitously, a few suggestions about religion.
It really seemed, by the talk of these objectors about 'neutral ground,' and by the general way in which their objections were stated, (namely, as if for the benefit, not of their party only, but of the whole community,) that they had quite changed their ground since Miss Edgeworth's time, and come to the conclusion that, however excellent religion might be in itself, it ought not to be mingled, insinuated, or sifted in with other things, and should never be served up, except pure, unmixed, and with its appropriate label.
These things being so, all at once-as if a magician, with his 'Presto, change!' was playing his tricks with these people-they have now thrown a somerset back to the old Edgeworth position-and have begun to find fault with Alexander Von Humboldt and with Washington Irving, because they had not intermingled appeals to religious considerations, the one with his science, the other with his literature! What has become of the 'neutral ground' theory?
These self-contradicting movements by themselves are suspicious. But, on tracing back the contents of the Magazine, in regard to which this claim of outsiders that it should hold a 'neutral' position in religion was first made, we find evidence that this outcry was a partizan one from the beginning, and that the persons who made it had never any objection to the introduction, in that place, of ideas belonging to their theological party. Thus, not a lisp of objection was heard to the elaborate detail of a religious experience which, in the judgment of an orthodox minister, fitted its subject for membership in an orthodox church. 'Ann Potter's Lesson.' coming to this result, had no unfitness for a Magazine devoted to 'Literature, Art, and Politics.' But when an equal earnestness of religious feeling is applied to the suggestion of ideas not belonging to the system self-styled 'orthodox,' then we have indignant remonstrance, and a theory of 'neutral ground'; which theory, on examination, proves precisely equivalent to the boyish formula-Heads, I win; tails, you lose!' C. K. W.
SLAVERY HAS NO RIGHTS THAT AN HONEST MAN IS BOUND TO RESPECT.
It is the habit of some to speak of Chattel Slavery as if it had rights. Monstrous thought! Most fatal mistake! What is Chattel Slavery? It is a crime against man! Where, then, are its rights? It is a crime against God! Where, then, are its rights? It is the sum of all crimes, the expression of all conceivable outrage. Again: where are its rights? In the nature of things, it has none,-no, not one!
Do you speak of moral rights? The very term is an utterance against you. The question of moral rights involves the duties of rational beings towards each other. Your doctrine, then, in plain terms, is, that one man may seize another man, subject him to his will for life, and reduce him to the level of a brute! He has a mind, but you deny his right to use it; capacities of improvement, but you will not allow him to test their extent, or their quality; a heart that can love as broadly and as deeply as your own, but you crush its yearnings, lacerate its tenderest fibres, and snap asunder its dearest ties. If Slavery possesses moral rights, it has a right to perpetrate all these wrongs. Nay, these are not wrongs, if, on the aide of the perpetrator, there is right. But few, however, are so morally debauched as to affirm slavery to be morally right,-at least, in this community.  But there are many who talk of its legal rights. A legal right, not based on a moral or natural right, is a legal fiction; not exactly, perhaps, what is known in law by that name, but, nevertheless, the most fruitful imagination never gave birth to a greater fiction, nor the most purulent to a more monstrous one. If we felt any inclination to argue the point at length, the  highest authority, and legal authority, too, might be adduced in support of our position.  Such names as Seneca, Cicero, Grotius, and Blackstone, Sydney, Milton and Burke, with a host of others, might be quoted on the side of the laws of nature against the laws of man. The way we propose to deal with this matter is a shorter, and, we think, an effectual one.
We affirm Chattel Slavery to be the greatest crime known among men, or imaginable among devils. Every man's consciousness supplies the evidence and demonstration, or it fails to testify of his man-
<c03>
hood. Crime can have no legal rights. Who denies so plain a statement disturbs not the axioms, but hews asunder the foundation of his own welfare, the guaranty of his own safety. And in this position we leave him, that he may gather from experience what he should have known from intuition; to be taught, under the rod of a despot, the lesson he might have learned in the school of common sense.
There is another view of the extent of our obligation to tolerate slavery. We would press upon the attention of those who still cling, a little reluctantly, perhaps, to the letter of the law which killeth, to the neglect of the spirit which maketh alive. These doubting Thomases and lagging Peters are thrown completely off their moral balance by what they call the 'Compromises of the Constitution,'-a name given to a notorious device of the Old Serpent, in which he compounds for our denial of his right to curl his whole vile length on our hearthstone, by wheedling from us the privilege of introducing his fanged and venomous head into our cradles!
Now, whatever of sanctity, whatever of binding force might once be attached to said 'compromises,' we affirm that it is completely annulled and destroyed by Slavery's own act. Slavery respects no compromises and no constitutions that offer a barrier to its desolating march. Look, look, ye worshippers of compromise, at the conduct of the South! The Constitution guarantees freedom of the press and of speech, does it not? Behold, how faithful is the South to her allegiance! The Constitution requires, that citizens of Massachusetts, traveling in another State, on a peaceful and lawful errand, shall be treated with all the respect due to a sovereign State. Does the South do this? Does she not imprison our citizens,-insult and brutally assault them? Has she not, a hundred times over, heaped outrage upon outrage upon our rights as men, and our sovereignty as a State, one single instance of which, in any foreign nation, would be held good cause for war, unless speedily redressed? Bear witness, Hoar, fleeing for thy life, with thy invalid daughter, before a howling Charleston mob! Bear witness, ye sable mariners, now pining in the swamps and on the plains of the South, because a faithless and cowardly mother, who accepted the oath of your fealty, has basely left you to perish among thieves and robbers! When we point you, O worshippers of compromise, to that infamous law to facilitate man-hunting in free States,- a law that makes pagan hospitality a crime, repeals the moral law, dethrones the God of Justice, and crowns the Moloch of blood and cruelty, annuls your boasted right of trial by jury, disarms the State of all power to protect its citizens from outrage and slavery,-when we point you to the Missouri Compromise demolished, that slavery may pour its lava tide of woes and crime over lands it had, in the most solemn manner, pledged itself, for a consideration promptly paid, to leave untouched forever; and then, maddened at the prospect of losing, after all her perfidy, the stake for which she had bartered her honor and her soul, the South sends her armed ruffians into Kansas, drives honest and peaceful settlers from their humble homes, burns down their houses, steals cattle, violates women, shoots down unarmed travelers, drives legal voters from the poles, themselves voting in their stead, and fraudulently multiplying even that fraudulent vote, and a legislature thus chosen enacting a code which, for injustice and villainy, for cold-blooded atrocity and diabolical wickedness, stands unsurpassed by anything of the kind in the civilized world;-when, O ye Thomases, who doubt what freedom is, and what she requires; when, O ye Aarons, who exalt a calf as the object of your reverence, into the place of God and his justice; when, in addition to this dark catalogue of crimes, of wrongs and insults, at the ruthless hand of Slavery, we cite you to its avowed purpose of repealing the laws against the infernal slave trade, or, failing that, to re-open the traffic in defiance of all law, human or divine,-we know we shall only echo the honest utterance of your heart, when we say, that, with the South, there is nothing sacred but Slavery! Now, we assert, that the South, by her own voluntary act, has dragged the monster, bodily, over all real or supposed compromises. We affirm, that, by her disregard, boldly avowed, of all compromises, constitutions and Unions, that do not bow to the behests of slavery and decry liberty, she brings this whole question into the forum of conscience, and herself absolves us from all obligation to heed the verdict of any other court! Now, O ye worshippers of the calf, your captor has unbound you and your prison doors stand open, will ye not at once make good your escape? Come! come! come to the ranks of the free; join with the hosts of the brave; come, and echo with us the war-cry of Freedom, the slogan of the free,-Slavery has no rights that an honest man is bound to respect. E. R. PLACE.
LETTER FROM REV. M. B. BIRD, ENGLISH MISSIONARY TO HAYTI.
ST. HELIERS, (Jersey,) Eng. Dec. 2, 1859.
W. L. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-One of the greatest pleasures which I have in looking back upon my visit to the United States is, the remembrance of the privilege which, was afforded me of taking part in your great and interesting meeting at Framingham Grove, on the celebrated 4th of July last, a meeting at which every true Christian lover and friend of the unconditional and universal freedom of the human race ought to have been present, whatever might have been the hue or shade of his religious opinions; nor can I for a moment doubt, that the time is fast approaching in the United States, when the great question of humanity and freedom will triumph over every consideration of sect or party; for, notwithstanding the heavy curse, in the form of slavery, which now presses sorely and heavily upon your great Republic, and which enters into the very soul of all its interests, social, commercial and religious, yet there are souls, even with white exteriors, in the American Union, that are literally burning with holy and intense desire that every child of Adam should be free. To me, this is a glorious thought, and the more so, as I cannot but believe that such desires are fed, sustained and fanned by the smile of heaven.
After leaving your great, and, to me, deeply interesting meeting at Framingham, to which I have already referred, I returned to Boston, and, as an Englishman and friend to liberty and independence as the only springs that can safely work the interests of the human family, I fully sympathized with the flowing joy of the day; but when at night the great battle of Bunker Hill was represented by fire-works, and the inscription, Bondmen,' which was highly elevated in the air, was represented as falling, and than of 'Freemen as gloriously rising, I felt that whatever of truth there might be in it, there was also a deplorably humiliating inconsistency which clung to it; and I asked myself, how can they be free, whose interests are all bound up in chains, which deprive their fellow-beings of the right of calling their wives, their children, or even their very souls, their own? Such is man, and such is America. Truly, I do rejoice that, on the subject of slavery, there are such men in the United States as Wm. L. Garrison and Wendell Phillips, who will allow no compromise with the ascursed thing; men who feel that their country is not, and cannot be free, while any of its citizens, or fellow-beings, writhe in chains. That you will triumph is sure as the eternity of truth and righteousness; for the grand anomaly of a free republic in chains is too great a violation of the common sense of mankind to become permanent; nor can the legal execution of those who die, because they would that all men should be free, retard the progress of right and truth; for the glorious moral Sun, from which emanates all of heaven to man, can no more be arrested in his course than the bright orb that rules the day. Would that your warnings, prayers and entreaties, so
<c04>
long and so perseveringly made to your country, could reach every heart!-for the horrors of St. Domingo might well be regarded as the mere explosion of unrighteous principles; yea, the cries of the down-trodden do at last enter heaven, and the reply, the vials of righteous indignation, are sometimes poured out. Such men as Dessalines are fearful rods when used by a righteous and justly offended God. Is it not a significant and warning truth, that Hayti, weak, and, humanly speaking, helpless, triumphed over a power far superior to herself? Truly, the race in this case was not to the swift.
I am laboring to get out a small volume on Hayti, but I scarcely know whether I shall be able to meet the difficulties of publication in England. I am, however, not without hope.
During the last month or two, I have travelled a good deal in England in attending public meetings, and pleading the general cause of missions, which, I am thankful to say, still stands high in the esteem and feelings of the English public, and at the same time awakening sympathy for the destitute at home. The conversion of the whole world to truth, righteousness, and universal love, is the glorious aim and design of our common Christianity. Nor can we doubt its perfect adequacy to this sublime and mighty task. I am also thankful to say that our enterprise of a Girls' School for Port au Prince, in Hayti, has met with friends in Europe.
I fully hope to visit Boston next summer, on my way to Hayti, and I shall earnestly hope for the sympathy and help of the friends of Hayti in America on my way back. Anything sent to my address to the Wesleyan Centenary Hall and Mission House, Bish-opgate Street Within, London, will find me.
Yours, truly. M. B. BIRD.

JOHN BROWN IN PRISON.
The following-written by a noble Anti-Slavery woman in Ohio-was sent to us before the execution of John Brown, but it has been excluded from our columns till now by the pressure of other matter.
MR. GARRISON: There is but one thing to write about now-but one subject for orator or journalist to hope will be of particular, not to say of absorbing interest to the public-but one object for our country to contemplate, for the world indeed to gaze at, astounded. No need to designate; no need to say what scene the most sublime, the most revolting, since Christ's crucifixion, is now transpiring before us. History will pause long before it. Poets, painters, sculptors will find it to tax the highest resources of their art to translate its language into their several vernaculars. They can have none of modern times, at least, grander than John Brown in the presence of his accusers.
Ralph Waldo Emerson has said, Should he be executed, the gallows will henceforth be glorious like the cross.' I would add, not in levity, but from deep and solemn conviction, that the humble pallet of that wounded hero will henceforth be held as another Sinai, upon which, as a sacred mount, one man, elevated by his Christ-like spirit and aims, and his sublime self-abnegation, above the throng around him, with its passions of the pit, and from which issue lessons, such as a people receive only once or twice in a thousand years.
Go, then, sensualist, man of selfish ambition, you who have wriggled your way up to what the world calls distinction, through the mire of a petty policy, and see how a man, a hero, and a martyr looks at death, and how he earns an immortal name! Granted that he was 'unsuccessful,' as men estimate success, that his scheme was wild, and, as it appears to us, impracticable; the question is not of the balance of battles or elections. We have something else given us to think about. This is not a selfish or vain man, overreached in his policy, or failing in his efforts through want of skill and sagacity, even, for he appears to have had qualifications for leadership such as very few possess; but that is not to the point. The great decisive battle is being fought now, and he will be the victor. In his own simple and noble words, I am not sure that this is not the best.' How otherwise could so much have been achieved? The kind of success at which he aimed is certain, for God and his immeasurable hosts are on his side.
The affair at Harper's Ferry drew upon him the attention of the world, and now he Wields the sword of the Spirit, on the right hand and on the left, with such effect as legions of men, and centuries of ordinary debate, could not otherwise have produced.
Southerners ask, 'Who instigated you to this?' Brown steadily answers, 'God alone! and they begin to suspect it is true, for there is something almost supernatural in his steady coolness, courage and self-possession, as they think.
When some of us first heard of his attempt, and its termination, it was with the feeling that the recital of it was too distressing to listen to, regarding it as the bitter fruit of slavery, in which there was no flavor of good, that a good and sensible man should become mad in consequence of its aggressions, and lead other rash men to pull down upon themselves a few stones from the citadel, too few to endanger slavery, but enough for their own destruction. But, like Mr. Conway, when he said Brown 'would excite but little sympathy,' we reckoned without our host. He has aroused the whole humanity of the nation, and every noble impulse will take sides with him.
We did not dream that he could so sustain himself through his fiery trials, and draw from them a blessing of such august meaning to the world. Does history afford a parallel?
God bless those noble women who have offered him help and sympathy! May I venture to say, every womanly heart is with them. There is not a mother or a sister in the North who would not deem it an honor and a privilege to take that grey head upon her knees, to dress its wounds, and wipe away the clotted blood.
I never lost command of myself but once,' said the noble old soldier, and that once was in obedience to an impulse of humanity. What a lesson to youth! If for nothing else, he deserves immortality. There can never be too much said of the principal actor in the scenes at Harper's Ferry, but what of the others? Stephens, the superb Roman, and Coppock, (for that is his name, and not Coppie, at it is printed,) that brave and beautiful youth with the blue eyes and pleasant countenance, who goes smiling to a felon's death. Can no mother, sister, or, perchance, 'a nearer one yet, and a dearer one,' be admitted to cheer the last days of his brief life, with the tender care so natural to his years? His mother (a widow) whose home is in our vicinity, has gone, I am told, to Harper's Ferry. What will be the result, no one can tell. I almost fear that the presence of these near and dear ones will weaken the fortitude of the brave prisoners. But true love is heroic, and one may hope everything from a woman like Mrs. Brown. May wife and mother both be enabled to send the beloved souls soothed and strengthened on the dark but short way up to the Hall of Heroes'!
How I wish we had one great Church where all could meet to spend the fatal day in prayer!
Yours, E. A. L.
JOHN BROWN.
This man must live in the world's history, and in the affections of all true lovers of freedom, so long as there are souls to appreciate noble self-sacrifice, true courage, and stern integrity.
I had a slight personal acquaintance with him, and differed with him somewhat radically as to the best means of removing wrong; and although the great martyr actually used instrumentalities for the slave's redemption which I lack both the physical courage and the moral conviction that would prompt me to use such, still, I should shrink from imputing to the hero of Harper's Ferry a less holy motive than that which actuates me in the choice of a different instru
<c05>
mentality for the accomplishment of the same great purpose.
Nor should we withhold our admiration of John Brown, even though it should be proven that he committed some retaliatory excesses on some of the murderous minions of unparalleled despotism in Kansas; for, while no allowance is to be made in favor of the bloody agents of slavery, much, very much is to be forgiven to the spirit of liberty that urged John Brown on to the defence of an outraged people; and it must also be considered that he had great provocation, under which he must have been something more than human, if he could have conducted himself with as much propriety and mercy amid the border-ruffians and murderers in Kansas as we, his critics, exhibit here in Massachusetts, in our peaceful parlors, surrounded by our families. Faults he had, no doubt; and who has not? but, with all of them, and in spite of them, we love him still. The fact that John Brown was hated and put to death in the flesh, by slaveholders, is a prima facia warrant to every person that hates oppression for keeping his memory in grateful remembrance. But when it is also considered that he exhibited a towering heroism, and an almost unexampled spirit of self-sacrifice in behalf of the poor and down-trodden, together with unblenching integrity of principle and varied moral excellence, such as astonished and awed Virginia slaveholders and all his other enemies, except such as are represented by the Vallindjghams and that other class of human monstrosities still more obdurate, which finds fitting exponents in the conductors of the New York Observer; when this is considered, I say, it becomes the duty as well as the privilege of all in the thickening ranks of Anti-Slavery to celebrate his virtues and commemorate his noble deeds, both by speech and song; by vigorous prose and lofty verse; and also in humbler strains, truthful but not towering, such as are familiar to the common mind, such as the common people love to sing to popular, simple and expressive music. As a slight approximation towards such humbler strains, the following unpretending stanzas are offered. The writer is aware that some may discover either in the versification or verbal expression some little indication of the presence of the parodic element, sufficient perhaps to remind them of a certain well known serio-humorous ditty that almost everybody sometime or other, in the course of his lifs, has either heard or sung; but this I am sure will constitute, in no reasonable mind, a serious objection. Forever cherished be the fragrant memory of John Brown of Osawatomie!
JOHN BROWN IS GONE!
TUNE-Auld Lang Syns.
John Brown is gone, that good old man,
We'll see his form no more;
He gave his life to free the slave
On old Potomac's shore.
John Brown is gone, that good old man, 
Whose heart was warm and true;
He scorned to ask of other men 
More than for them he'd do.
John Brown is gone, that good old man,
Who ne'er the poor refused;
Like him of Nazareth, he set 
At liberty the bruised.
John Brown is gone, that good old man,
Who sought th' oppressed to free,
For which the tyrants in their wrath
Condemned him to the tree.
John Brown, to help the helpless slave,
Counted all else but loss;
Henceforth that hateful gallows tree
Is glorious like the cross.
John Brown still lives! a martyr crowned,
He walks the peaceful spheres,
While Freedom's foes, who shed his blood,
Are quaking with their fears.
John Brown still lives! let us rejoice
That souls cannot be slain,
Nor listless lie in paradise,
But come to earth again.
Come, then, John Brown, inspire us all
With purpose true and strong,
And we will write our thoughts in deeds,
Till right shall conquer wrong!
Springfield, Jan., 1860. E. W. T.
JOHN BROWN MEETING IN INDIANA.
A meeting was held at Lexington, Lagrange Co., Indiana, on Sunday, Dec. 18, to listen to an oration on the death of John Brown and his associates. Wm. Hern, of Lexington, was chosen President, John F. Broth well Vice President, and D. W. Rupart, Secretary.
After singing by the Springfield choir, Mr. Rouse addressed the meeting at some length, and was listened to with attention. The Chairman followed with a few brief remarks, when the following gentlemen were chosen to draft resolutions: D. W. Rupart, S. Prentice, J. A. Fox, Geo. Gale, and J. T. Rouse.
The meeting adjourned till half-past 2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION. The house was called to order by the President; and, after singing by the choir, the Committee reported the following preamble and resolutions:-
Whereas, John Brown and his brave companions, in their recent attempt at Harper's Ferry, have proved themselves true friends of freedom and humanity; and whereas, they, on the 2d and 16th days of December, 1859, have by their deaths become at once the heroes and martyrs of the age; therefore,
1. Resolved, That we owe it to them to cherish their memories, and to make their bereaved friends the objects of our special care and sympathy.
2. Resolved, That Virginia, in her base and cowardly conduct toward these brave men, has rendered herself an object of contempt, and severe condemnation.
3. Resolved, That while we deplore the bitter and rancorous spirit existing between the two sections of the Union, nevertheless, we are ready for any emergency, and will meet it with a brave, unyielding spirit.      
4. Resolved, That while we cannot subscribe to all the acts of Brown and his associates, yet we feel to honor them and hold the self-sacrifice they made in grateful remembrance, and feel that good will result from they example they have set, of noble courage, and in striking terror to the heart of the Slave Power.
The resolutions were taken up separately, and unanimously adopted.
The following preamble and resolution were then taken up and passed by a majority vote:-
Whereas, the American clergy and the American church have, by their reprehensible silence on the slavery question, served to strengthen the hands of the slaveholder; therefore,
Resolved, That, in the judgment of this meeting, they deserve only our contempt, until, by well-directed efforts in behalf of the oppressed, they shall entite themselves to our sympathy and respect.
D. W. RUPART, Sec'y.
Rev. Mr. Troy, of Windsor, C. W., addressed a large meeting in London on the evening of the 15th ult., on the condition of the fugitives in Canada. He stated that the number now there had reached 45,000, and had increased since the passage of the fugitive slave law at the rate of 1100 or 1200 each year. Mr. Troy remarked that he had been stationed four years at Windsor, the terminus of the Great Western Railway, at which point it was found most slaves arrived in their flight from the Southern States. His circuit included eight or ten different stations, with a population of 16,000 escaped slaves, and he was now seeking for pecuniary aid to complete a commodious chapel and school-room, which had already been commenced. On the motion of the Rev. Dr. McKerrow, seconded,by Rev. A. Thompson, as resolution expressing sympathy with the object and confidence in Mr. Troy was carried by acclamation. Mr. George Thompson afterwards addressed the meeting, and a collection was made in furtherance of Mr. Troy's project.
<C06>
IT IS NOT A DYE.
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S.A. Allens Hair Restorative?
We can answer  this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St louis. St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLENS HAIR RESTORATIVE!
 given universal satisfaction, wherever it has has be used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.
Chn Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
MRS. S,. A. ALLENS WORLDS HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.
Philadelphia Christian chronicle.
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used. N. Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge Mrs. S. A. ALLENS as the Hair Restorer.
 N. Y. Independent.
MRS. S. A. SALLENS WORLDS HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind. Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published  in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like cole and appearance they cause the hair to assume  and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.
U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an IS assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that Mrs. S. A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.
Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.'  
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
' From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood  there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's world's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribuse.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.
Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring.invigrating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations which have been successfully palmed off in sumerous instances,upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'
Norfolk Argus.
Those unsuccessful with ot	her articles can try this with success.
Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S. Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Bev are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for Were information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
