THE LIBEBATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
Al1 remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST- PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Commitee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JAKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JAKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 14 ,
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1581.

Refuge of Oppression. 
<c01>
THE DISTRUST OF SOUTH CAROLINIANS. 
A writer in the Charleston Mercury, who doubts about the evacuation of Fort Sumter, writes:
"We must be sure that we are in possession before we withdraw a single muzzle of the thirty pieces of cannon that now bear upon that fortress. Any delay in the evacuation-the measure hating been resolved upon-will be suspicious! It may be that this, is only one of the pretty little ruses de guerre, which merely cunning politicians will devise, in order to lull their victims into security. Our Commissioners are to be delayed by such proceedings as these. This game has been so beautifully played with the border States and the Peace Convention- these were so admirably diddled and deluded with fair seemings and pleasant plausibilities-even to the last moment- that the cunning rogues of Albany and Washington may reasonably hope, by the same oleaginous and treackly processes, to humbug the States further South. Let us beware!
We must not let them take us in! We must suspect them most when they profess most; and believe them to be most dangerous when they ostentatiously show themselves to us paring their claws! Our Commissioners at Washington ought to be counselled that their mission is at an end the moment the answer implies delay. We demand, and so should they, a yea or nay answer, as promptly uttered as the monosyllables will allow. It really matters not much what answer is made. We are prepared for either, and perhaps our embarrassments will be the sooner at an end, if they give us a plump denial to our demand. We shall then concentrate our energies and resources upon the necessary duties, and put our independence upon the sure basis of our strength.”

THE SUFFERING OF THE NORTH.
Any troops raised to invade the South would have to march over the dead bodies of at least their own number before, they ever set foot on Southern soil, and Greeley and Beecher and Field, and the other truculent Abolition leaders, would be seen some fine morning swinging by the neck from the lamp posts of Broad way. But I fear that even your determination to stand by your rights, though it has cowed the poltroons whose tongues and types were so brave will not ultimately prevent insurrections at the North. The whole city of New York, you may rely upon it, is on the verge of bankruptcy. Not five dry goods houses will be able to stand.
There is no business being done. The number of hands discharged is immense. The Morrill tariff will bring the commercial crisis here, made from political causes, to an explosion next month. The greater part of the foreign trade will be diverted southward, and in a short time pauperism and general distress will be so great that risings and riots will take place, and the white slaves of commerce and capital, both in New York and in New England, will administer to the lips of their task-masters the poisoned chalice which they have prepared for the planters of the South.
An ignorant proletarian mass, whose condition at best is infinitely inferior to that of your negroes, will be sure to” better the instruction” they have received from their oracles. Long taught that” property is robbery," they will put the doctrine into practice at last, upon a scale of fearful dimensions. At this moment, there are fifty thousand human beings in New York and Brooklyn, who know not where they will be able to get their breakfast tomorrow morning, and every day the number of the destitute will greatly increase. The New York papers conceal or gloss over this terrible reality.
If the South wants recruits to fight its battles against invading hosts of Abolitionists, and spare the lives of its own citizens, let the Confederacy employ a few agents in New York and other cities of the North, and it will soon have as many troops as it requires. There is not an unemployed Irishman who would not gladly enlist in the cause, and there are thousands of native Democrats eager for the same service. And, should the Lincoln administration proceed to make war upon your commerce, you can find at the North any number of ships and men ready for letters of marque from the Southern Confederacy. -New York Correspondent of the Charleston Mercury.

EULOGY OF A TRAITOR.
What ex-Secretary Floyd was enabled to accomplish for the benefit of the seceding States, is faithfully set forth by the Southern Confederacy, published at Atlanta, Ga. Such an overwhelming sense of gratitude as is here exhibited, is as uncommon as it is astonishing:-
"But for the foresight and firmness and patriotic providence of John B. Floyd, in what stress and peril would the Cotton States be floundering in this day! He saw the inevitable doom of the Union, or the doom of his own people. For many months past, from his stand-point, he had an expanded field of vision which enabled him to see the great danger which threatened us, but which was hid below the horizon from the eyes of most of us. When his faithful loyalty to his own persecuted people began its labors in our defence, in what a condition were the Southern States? The North had the heavy guns, the light arms, the powder and ball, just as the North had everything else that belonged to the common Government. How quietly were men shifted from our soil who might nave been here to-day to murder us at Abraham Lincoln's order! How slender the garrisons became in Southern forts, which were made for us, and belonged to nobody else, but which a savage enemy now chafes and rages to get possession of! Who sent 37,000 stand of arms to Georgia? How came 60,000 more prime death-dealing rifles at Jackson, Mississippi? And, in short, why have we anything at all in the South to mail the strong hands of the sons of the South with at this hour, when every heart, and head, and arm of her children arc needed in her defence? Truth demands it of us to declare that we owe to John B. Floyd an eternal tribute of gratitude for all this. Had he been less the patriot than he was, we might now have been disarmed. and at the mercy of a nation of cut-throats and Plunders,"
TREASON DEFINED IN FLORIDA. An act just passed by the Florida Legislature, declares that in the event of any actual collision between the troops of the Federal Union and those in the employ of the State of Florida, it shall be the duty of the Governor of the State to make public proclamation of the fact, and thereafter the act of holding office under the Federal Government shall be declared treason, and the person convicted shall suffer death. This has been approved by the Governor of the State.
<c02>
Selections.
From the New York Tribune.
THE REIGN OF RUFFIANISM-SOUTHERN CHIVALRY.
A WOMAN'S STORY.
Without claiming any distinction as a martyr, I wish to make a plain statement of the facts respecting my arrest and confinement in the jail at Charleston, S. C., during the months of October and November last, which I feel is due to many friends who have kindly interested themselves in my behalf, and who are desirous of more satisfactory information concerning my case.
I left New York for Charleston on the first day of December, 1859. When I arrived in the latter city, I was not aware of any ill-feeling or prejudice against the Northern people, but I soon learned of cruel outrages and violent threats against strangers from the North, and these called forth the indignation I could not always conceal, as I was quite unprepared for such developments in a civilized community. For this reason, I confined myself quietly and closely to my business, seeking no acquaintances.
I had gone thither with the most peaceable and friendly intentions, harboring no purpose of meddling with local institutions, though my sentiments were by no means favorable to slavery. I was very careful to hold no conversation with any of the colored people: they knew nothing of me, and I was an utter stranger to them all, and should have remained so had not the persecution I suffered given me notoriety. I never forced my opinions on any one, but when asked what I thought of slavery, I always told them the truth in a friendly spirit, disclaiming all intention of interfering with them. I had too much respect for them to suppose they could respect a pandering hypocrite, and I, therefore, told them my sentiments, which were the result of early education. I admitted that their education and habits made it natural for us to differ on the question of slavery; and, on their side, they appeared to have no suspicion of me. The Sumner passed thus quietly away, and I had no more fear there than if I had been living in my Northern home.
It was on the 27th of September that, as I was alone in my room, having hardly recovered from a severe illness, a large and coarse man presented himself before me, without permission or announcement. He demanded my name. I told him, and asked what he wished. He stated that he was one of the Vigilant Police, and ordered me to go with him to the Mayor's Court, that officer having sent for me. I said I would not go, and asked him what right he had to insult and molest me; whether he had any written authority to demand my presence. He said no. Then followed this conversation-I beginning it by asking,-
"What does the Mayor want of me.?”
"I understand you are an Abolitionist.”
"Yes; and what of that?”
"You must come, with me, or I will take you by force," he said, angrily.
I considered for a moment, and decided on the whole it was best to go with him quietly. I thought it probable the Mayor had been imposed upon by some idle reports, and that after hearing what I had to say, he would dismiss me, with an apology for being the occasion of this unwonted intrusion. I immediately made myself ready, and went with the man to the Guard House. I was ushered into the common court room, where several idlers were assembled, who seemed to have no other business than to await my coming, but the Mayor was not there. I waited an hour, expecting every moment he would make his appearance, those around me, in the meantime, whispering among themselves, though they said nothing to me. I took no notice of them, but began to get very impatient for my expected interview. A ruffianly-looking man soon came in, carrying a large bunch of keys.” Step this way, Madam," said he. I followed him without the least apprehension, supposing the Mayor would be respectful enough to hear me in his own room, rather than before a crowd, for I had done nothing, and had nothing to fear. I was led through two or three large rooms, and through an infirmary, where there were several sick people in bed.
"Where are you going?” said I to the man.” This way, ma'am," said he, opening a door that led by a flight of steps to a long, dark passage. On each side were the underground cells. I looked around me. Two or three rough-looking fellows stood by me, ready to do the jailer's bidding, while he opened one of those dirty, dismal cells.
"Come down," said he,” and go in there.” I asked in surprise,” What does this mean?”“ It means that you are to be put in here: it is the Mayor's orders.”
I was thrust in and locked up. Shortly after, the same man opened the door, and wished me to give my name in full. I told him I should not answer his questions; I wished to see the Mayor immediately. He said I must wait until I was called for, and then locked the door. I saw no one again that day. Night came-9 o'clock. I grew sick and faint from breathing the foul air. I had scarcely recovered from recent sickness. The poor wretches dragged in from the streets, screaming and groaning, were thrown in cells around me, from which I was separated only by a thin board partition. No place could be more painfully disagreeable to pass a night in than that.
I knocked on the door to attract the attention of the turnkey, as he was passing. He opened the door, and asked what I wanted. I told him I wanted to get out of that place, and asked him if he would put me in a decent room. No; the Mayor had left strict orders that I should be kept there until he chose to see me. When I asked the man to take a note or message to some of my friends or acquaintances, as I needed some relief, he said,” This place is as good as the other cells, and you have got to stay here. You have reason to fear lest something worse than death may happen to you. Your sentiments don't suit the people here.” I told him to go away and lock the door, as I would not hear another word from him. He left then, without any more words, and I saw no one again that night.
In the morning, a pail of water was put in the cell, but nothing else. At 2 o'clock, the door was unlocked by an officer, who told me the Mayor was ready to see me. There were many, people stationed along the passages, but they did not say a word as I walked through to the Mayor's room, which was filled with respectable-looking men.
The Mayor read the charges he had written down. No witness was called; no one appeared against me. The examination was as follows:-
"Mrs. Bottsford, you are accused of treason and sedition.”
"I am not guilty of treason or sedition.”
"I understand you have been tampering with slaves.”
"It is utterly false, sir; I have had nothing to say to the slaves.”
<c03>
"You are an Abolitionist?”
"Yes.”
"An admirer of John Brown?”
"Yes.”
"You have expressed Abolition sentiments?”
"I have, on a few occasions, when asked. I can name all I ever conversed with, and what I said to them I will say here. I have lived here nearly a year, attending closely to my own business; I have not injured or offended any one, and have been well treated, until now. I cannot see why I should be subjected to this outrage.”
"You say you have been well treated?”
"Yes, until now.”
"Then I think you have been very ungrateful.
You have been well treated, been profitably employed, and have received our money while you hated us?”
"I have not hated the people: I am no friend to slavery. I have not seen anything in Charleston to give me a more favorable impression of it: quite otherwise. I have paid for all I have had here. I have received what I have earned. I owe you no gratitude.”
"I would advise you to go home.”
"I shall certainly do so, as soon as I can settle my business. I have no desire to stay a moment longer.”
The Mayor then said he had not heard anything against my character.” You are spoken of," said he,” as quiet and respectable. But I require bail for your good conduct. If you can find any one to be your bail for three hundred dollars, I can dismiss you.”
I told him I had not been guilty of any bad conduct, and could not get any bail. He then left the room, with one or two more. As I afterward learned, he was persuaded I was an emissary for some Northern society or publisher. I saw no more of him. He sent the turnkey in: I was ordered to the cell again, and locked up. Some of my friends from the house I left felt alarmed, and had been several times to inquire for me, but could get no satisfactory answer, and were rudely driven away.
In an hour or so, an officer opened the door, and said I must go with him, as the Mayor had given me over to the State's Attorney. We crossed the Citadel Park to the office of Magistrate Kanepaux. Twenty or thirty citizens were gathered there, and among them one whom I was acquainted with, and had conversed with about two weeks before. I spoke to him, and asked him if he was the complainant. He said he was. I indignantly, asked him if he was not ashamed of himself; if it was possible he could do anything so contemptible. Without waiting for his reply the Magistrate answered for him:” This man has done perfectly right; I should have done just so myself. Why, if you had been a man, you would have been hung up on one of the trees in the Park; you would never have got here alive.” I asked, very calmly, if any one wanted my life. No, the Magistrate said; as I was a woman, my life might be spared. But the Mayor had been too lenient; he had raised my bail to $2,000, in default of which I must go to jail. I told him it made no difference about the amount of the bail; I was no criminal, and I needed no bail.
"Are you not an Abolitionist?”
"Yes, I am.”
"You are charged with treason and sedition, and tampering with slaves.”
"All these charges are utterly false; I have said nothing to the slaves; they do not know me.”
"Do you hold correspondence North, and receive papers and letters?
"Only from my nearest friends a few letters, no papers.”
"Do you not read the Tribune?”
"No; because I cannot get it here. I should read it if I could get it.”
"You need not answer all my questions; you may commit yourself.”
"No fear of that, sir: I am perfectly willing to answer your questions; there is nothing to conceal.”
He then asked many more-as, when I had lived in New York; where I had lived, and what I had been doing. I answered all readily. Then I asked civilly, if he would allow me to ask him some questions. Who had said I had tampered with slave's? I had never held any conversation in their hearing. No; he could not listen to me then, nor before these, pointing to those around him. 
"If you can think of any one that will be your bail, I will send for him, or else you must go to jail," said he.
"I told him I should not ask any bail.” Well, go to jail; you cannot speak here. My officer is waiting to take you to jail.”
I walked through the streets by the side of the constable to the jail, which was at some distance. During this time, two men were sent to search my room. They broke open my trunks and bundles, unrolled every parcel, trying to find papers or letters; but they found nothing they wanted, though they carried off one or two of my letters. When got to the jail, I was faint and exhausted. It was now 6 o'clock on the second day; I had not had a morsel of food for nearly forty-eight hours. I sent to my friends at the house, which I had leit, and just before the jail was to be shut for the night, the lady of the house appeared at the door. She had not been allowed to see me before, though she had tried repeatedly. If she had not come just then, I should not have had anything until the next day, when the prison rations would be served. The jailer had strict orders to show me no favors; I was to be lodged with the common prisoners of the female ward; no one outside the walls was allowed to give me aid or comfort. I was to remain here four months, and then take my trial for treason and sedition. The jailer told me I must take leave of my friend, and go to my quarters with the rest, as he was to lock the jail for the night. The lady asked him if I should be comfortable? He said yes; I should fare like the rest; he could make no distinction without orders. So then, I was to be a prisoner again, and not alone, but with such poor creatures as are the usual inmates of such places. Two drunken, abandoned women were to occupy the room with me.
This is a jail; Madam, said the jailer, as he opened the door of the miserable cell; you cannot expect much here. I thought he was indeed right. There was not the least comfort of any kind; not an article of furniture; nothing but a dirty blanket on the floor to sleep on. Locked in here with such company, with the roar of the blood-hounds that were loosed for the night to guard the yard, with the yellings and clanking of chains of the male prisoners I passed another terrible night. I am certain I could not have endured all the privations of this place, had the orders of the magistrates been strictly carried out.
The Sheriff visited the jail after two or three days. He was quite a different man, and seemed anxious to do all he could for me. I afterward had a room to myself and my friends were permitted send me such articles of furniture as I needed from the place where I had lived. He also allowed the Sisters of Charity to visit me, who, with one other lady, daily supplied my wants, and made me as com
<c04>
fortable as I could be in that situation. To these good women I feel that I owe my life. They used their influence to effect my release, procured me counsel, and did all they could to serve me. They also sent one of their friends, with a petition for my release, to the State Attorney, Judge Wayne, but he would not listen to it. A German gentleman offered to procure bail, and spoke more warmly in my behalf than it suited these honorable gentlemen to hear. No amount of bail need now be offered, they said; I should stay in jail, and stand my trial. Before night, four warrants were out for his arrest; he had to leave even his clothing, and steal out of the city, or he too would have gone to jail. 
As for myself, I sent no petition, wanted no favors. But justice and my liberty I demanded. The Rev. Dr. Howe of St. Philip's Church visited me, with Judge Pringle, on hearing I was a member of his church. They said they were sorry to see me a prisoner, asking, “Why are you here, and what have you done?” I told them my story, and that I was there on a charge of treason and sedition, which was most ridiculous, as well as false; the treason was on their own part, not on mine.
“You have said you were an Abolitionist," said the minister.
“Yes.”
“Oh, that's treason, that's sedition, most decidedly," waving his hand, as though it were a foregone conclusion.
"Oh, no," I answered;” it is quite useless to try to persuade me that I have been guilty of anything like that; I know what treason and sedition are as well as you. I know what the constitutional laws of our country are; I claim their protection. You are accountable to them; you are not out of the Union yet.”
"Well, we have slaves, and we mean to keep them; I own them myself. We are irresponsible despots, you must know; we have laws here that strictly forbid any such expressions as you have made.”
"Such laws are nothing to me; let those obey them that choose to. I am no slave, if you claim to be despots. I have my rights, and mean to have them respected.”
The minister advised me to send a petition to the Mayor and State's Attorney. If I would go home immediately, he would see what he could do for me. I positively refused to send any petition, as I had suffered, and had been most shamefully wronged. I would not consent to be smuggled off in disgrace. I would be very glad to go as soon as I could leave honorably. I turned to Judge Pringle, and asked him if he would grant me a writ of habeas corpus. He would hear what the other party had to say.
The minister showed me some trifling favors in the way of affording me some bodily comforts, which I declined. They both seemed much perplexed, and to do these gentlemen justice, I believe they were heartily ashamed of the whole transaction. Mr. Northrop offered his services as my counsel. He seemed convinced that what I said was entirely true; but they were talking of revolution, and legal proceedings would be of little account, so I was convinced that I need not expect anything but to remain in jail, I did not know how long.
I then wrote to Mayor Wood, of New York, knowing he had much influence with the Charleston people. I related the facts substantially as I have done here, praying him to take measures for my release, or to make my case known to the Governor. I received his answer, directed to the care of Mayor Macbeth. The following is an exact copy:
“MAYOR'S OFFICE, New York, Oct. 23.
Mrs. BOTTSFORD: Madam-I have received your letter of the 15th inst., stating that you are now in prison in Charleston on the charge of uttering dangerous and seditious sentiments; that you are held to bail in a considerable amount for your good behavior, and that you are unable to find assistance.
I sympathize with your forlorn and desolate condition; a widow, in prison, and friendless; but cannot palliate the offence you have committed. 
You have offended against the peace and good order of the community where you were sojourning, and where you were obtaining employment which you found profitable. It was inconsistent for you to go thither if such were your feelings. If to cherish hate even in the inmost thoughts is not according to the strict rule of morality, how heinous must be the crime" of uttering words that might become weapons fatal to the peace and quiet of the land where you are entertained and protected?
But my object is not to blame, but, if possible, to do you a favor. I therefore counsel you to review your past conduct with calmness. Do not suffer your judgment to be warped by the false and dangerous doctrines of evil men; learn your errors; acknowledge them in a spirit of contrition before the authorities of Charleston, and I am convinced they will consider your needs, your widowhood and inexperience, and on receiving satisfactory assurance that you will depart from the State, the laws of which you have violated, they will release you.
No other power can aid you in the distress you have brought upon yourself, and you must rely solely on the mercy of those who administer the laws you have broken, and the generosity of the people you have injured. FERNANDO WOOD, Mayor.
My astonishment only equalled my indignation, on reading this absurd letter. If the State seal had not been engraved on the paper, I should have pronounced it a forgery. I could not have believed a Mayor of New York could stoop to insult a helpless woman and uphold such villainous acts.
The weather was now getting colder, and the prison grew more and more dreary. There was to be an execution in the jail-yard, and the gallows was built and a negro hung just before my window. The sights and sounds around the place I cannot describe.
I asked my counsel and the Sheriff what they pretended they were keeping me there for. Their foolish charges were of no consequence whatever; nothing could be construed into a crime, except tampering with slaves. Was there any one they could name that had ever seen or heard me talking to slaves? No, they could not say that they had heard of any that would hold themselves responsible for such a statement Before long, I received a letter saying that I had permission to leave in the next steamer bound for New York, and that if I was willing to leave, a carriage would be sent for me, and my passage paid. Of course, I was not sorry to leave Charleston. A close carriage was sent to the jail, and a vigilant policeman to take care of me. There was a great commotion around the steamer. They were sending back sixty poor Irish laborers that had come out in the steamer, and had not been allowed to land; they had no provisions for their return voyage; the Minute Men, with terrible oaths, were threatening to cut their throats if they dared put a foot on shore.
My attendant helped me aboard the ship, gave me my ticket, and turned away, as if in haste to leave. At a glance, I saw I was booked for the deck passage, with the sixty Irishmen. The Mayor was so kind as to pay for us all, $3 a head. I ran after the man. “Here, we" said I, “take this ticket back; I am not going on the deck.” He said I should not leave the ship; I would be obliged to go, as the Mayor ordered. I called for the captain,
<c05>
who came round and civilly heard what I had to say. He said he would send a messenger, and propose some arrangement with the Mayor. I said I should never reach New York alive; I could not endure the cold and exposure, and hoped he would refuse to take me. He asked me what did I propose to do. “I will go back to jail again, and wait until my friends come for me.” Soon the man returned, consulted a moment with the captain, and said to me,” You must go as you are ordered; the Mayor will not pay your passage in the cabin.” I indignantly answered,” I have not asked him to pay my passage, or for anything else. I want no favors from him; I shall go on shore; my friends will come for me.” I was making my way off the steamer, when the captain stopped me, and offered me comfortable accommodations in the cabin, if I was willing to leave Charleston, which offer I very gladly accepted. It is to Captain Berry of the steamer Columbia, that I am indebted for my safe arrival in New York the last of November.
I trust I shall be able to cancel the debt of gratitude I owe to Mayor Macbeth and his worthy colleagues. I was safely protected in jail for as long as they dared to keep me, although I was” the most audacious and defiant criminal" they had ever dealt with. Others had been tarred and feathered, whipped, and hung, while they asserted their entire innocence of all Abolitionism; yet I was released, sent away, and S3 was paid for my passage. If I have not returned formal thanks for all these favors, I have by no means forgotten them. 
CATHERINE BOTTSFORD,
No. 157 Hudson street, New York.
A WIFE'S. ACCOUNT OF HER HUSBAND'S MURDER.
Mary Crawford, wife of the William H. Crawford, who was hung in Texas last Summer, has published in the Waseca (Minn.) Citizen the following story of the tragedy. Hundreds of innocent men have been murdered by the negro-whipping devils of the South, upon as baseless grounds as here set forth; but no account of their fate has been given, except the whitewashing falsehoods prepared by the murderers to give some color of excuse for their hellish work.
MRS. CRAWFORD'S ACCOUNT.
At the request of my friends, and in justice to the memory of my husband, the following facts are published:-
My husband, Wm. H. Crawford, was the son of the late Capt. Wm. Crawford, a well-known shipmaster of Bath, Me., from which city we came West in 1854, and lived in this State, part of the time at Faribault, and part of the time in Waseca County, during the years 1856,'57, and'58. The bad seasons of those two years for farmers, and the depression in business, with the favorable reports we heard of Texas, caused us to emigrate to that State in the fall of 1859, in company with the families of J. C. York of Waseca County, Dr. Williams of Rice County, and several young men.
After three months of such travelling and hardships as pioneers only experience, we reached Texas, and stopped at the small town of Fort Worth, Tarrant Co., all except Williams, who stopped about forty-five miles this side. Here we intended to remain till spring, and then go further west, where it was expected the Legislature of the State would donate large tracts of land to the settlers, and where my husband wished to make a farm and commence stock-raising. But in the spring, the Indians were very troublesome on the frontier, and we concluded to remain here until fall. Meanwhile, my husband attended to his own business, and worked hard, seldom having a day's leisure, except Sundays. In the winter he worked with his team, and in the spring he was employed in Mott's saw-mill, until the water became too low to run it, when he took a job of building a stable for a lawyer named Fowler. As soon as he had finished it, he hauled a load of drugs and medicines to Dallas, (about forty miles from Fort Worth,) for a Dr. Peake, and returned home the 16th of July last.
I am thus particular in detailing these facts to show that, instead of spending his days loafing, gambling, and carousing, as many did there, or being engaged in any pursuit that would give reason for public sentiment against him, my husband was all the time at some legitimate business; providing means to sustain his family and carry out his plans for their future welfare. No man was ever more devoted to his family, and one of his dearest hopes was to be able to help his children to a liberal education.
Before going to Dallas, he received a letter from Williams relative to going to find locations to move to in the fall, thinking by that time the Indians would be driven off, troops having gone out for that purpose; and he was daily expecting Williams to go with him. Among those who went against the Indians were three of the young men who went there with us. About this time, he received a letter from one of them-Guillium-requesting him if he moved away before their return, to leave some marks on the route we went, so they could find us; and another letter from a friend in Independence, Missouri, who had just arrived from the East. In this letter was a sentence to this effect: “I have the pistols safe in my trunk.” These pistols were four Colt's revolvers that my husband had sent for, in the spring, to his brother-in-law, the Hon. B. M. Prescott of East Boston, Mass., as by so doing he could get them at factory prices, and they are very high in Texas. The three young men who joined the troops were each to have one of them, but there I was no chance to send them so soon as was expected. These letters appeared to have been opened.
On the evening of the 16th of July, after we were in bed, some one knocked at the door. It proved to be a negro slave-belonging to Turner, who was a merchant of the place, and owned about forty slaves. His errand was to sell some bacon that, he said, belonged to himself. My husband told him he would buy none unless he brought a written permission to sell it, from his master. At that he went off, and I soon went to sleep. In the morning my husband told me that the slave came back, after an hour or two, with one piece of bacon, saying that he hadn't so much to sell as he at first thought, and he did not think it worth while to say anything about it to his master, or overseer, but he would give us that piece for the trouble he had made us. My husband told him he would not take it for nothing, and gave him a half-dollar. The slave then said he had got into trouble, and wanted him (my husband) to help him out of it. He had whipped a young slave, he said, and his overseer tried to whip him, but that he had, instead, whipped his overseer, and his master was going to sell him for it He had lived in the family always, and did not want to be sold out of it. My husband told him that he was acquainted with his master, and thought him to be a fine man, who would treat him no worse than ho deserved; that he had better go borne, about his business, as he could not help him
<c06>
if he did, it would be a hanging matter. Upon this the slave went away.
Up to this time no one had intimated to my husband that he was in the least personal danger from any cause, or that he was suspected of being an Abolitionist. He knew there was a strong prejudice against people from the Northern States, and when on errands to the stores, he was sometimes drawn into discussing the comparative power and resources of the North and South, and on such occasions could but defend the North against misrepresentation. Several times he came home to his books for authority to support his arguments At all these times, he was careful to avoid saying anything concerning slavery, and he never had anything to say or do with slaves, more than his business made necessary. In politics, he was, and always had been, a Democrat. We were much disappointed with both the country and society there. The wealthiest and most intelligent people were principally slaveholders, and they held but little intercourse with the others, who were generally the poorest, most ignorant and degraded whites. Men went about wearing pistols and bowie-knives openly, and it was a common thing to hear of a man being shot without any notice being taken of it by the authorities.
On the morning of the 17th of July, my husband, with our two boys, one seven and the other five years of age, took his team, and went about half a mile from town for a load of sand. About 12 1/2 o'clock, the boys came back, and told me they were afraid their father had been shot. They said that just as they were ready to start for home, three men -Mr. Turner, his overseer, and another-came up, with revolvers under their arms. Their father spoke to Turner, calling him by name, when immediately Turner charged him with promising to help one of his slaves to run away. Their father denied it, saying he did not think that of him (Turner)- accusing him of such a thing. They then wanted him to go with them, saying they wished to talk more about it, or something to that effect, and telling the boys to take care of the team until they came back. He went with them over a hill, and was soon out of sight. The boys then went on a hillock near by, and shortly after saw their father running toward them, then turn and run in another direction, until again out of sight. In a few moments they heard the report of a gun or pistol. They then went back to the wagon, and waited an hour or more, but no one appearing, they came home. I started on with them at once, to try to find my husband, hoping, if they had shot him, that he might not be dead, and that I could save him. We had gone but little way, when we met some men who told us he was hung.
They took me back to the' place we had been living in. My grief, my indignation, my misery, I have no words, no desire to describe. The body was not brought to me until night, and only then by the direction of Capt. Dagget, a son-in-law and partner of Turner, who hail been a friend to my husband, and was the only man of any influence who dared to befriend me. He had been away from home, and did not return until after the murder had been done. He denounced the act, and said they had killed an innocent man.
An inquest was held, and the following verdict given, with the editorial remarks, as published in the Fort Worth Chief:-
MAN HUNG. On the 17th inst. was found the body of a man by the name of Wm. H. Crawford, suspended to a pecan tree, about three-quarters of a mile from town. A large number of persons visited the body during the day. At a meeting of the citizens the same evening strong evidence was adduced, proving him to have been an Abolitionist. The meeting indorsed the action of the party who hung him. Below we give the verdict of the jury of inquest:-
“We, the jury, find that William H. Crawford, the deceased, came to his death by being hung with a grass rope tied around his neck and suspended from a pecan limb, by some person or persons to the jurors unknown. That he was hung on the 17th Jay of July, 1860, between the hours of 9 o'clock, A. M., and 1 o'clock, P. M. We could see no other marks of violence on the person of the deceased.”
W. A. Sanderson, J. P., acting as Coroner. E. M. Dagget, A. Y. Fowler, S. M. Jameson, A. M. Quayle Jurors.
The following is the report of the meeting referred to as published in the same paper:-
“At a large and respectable meeting of the citizens of Tarrant County, convened at the Town Hall at Fort Worth, on the 18th day of July, 1860, pursuant to previous notice, for the purpose of devising means for defending the lives and property of citizens of the county against the machinations of Abolition incendiaries, J. P. Alford was called to the chair, and J. C. Terrell was appointed Secretary. After the object of the meeting was explained by Col. C. A. Harper, the following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Whereas, the recent attempts made to destroy several neighboring towns by fire, the nearly total destruction of one of them, coupled with the conversation and acts of one Wm. H. Crawford, who was hung in this county on the 17th inst., prove conclusively to us the necessity of an organized effort to ferret out and punish Abolition incendiaries, some of whom are believed to be in our county:-Therefore, to discover and punish said Abolitionists, and to secure the lives and property of our citizens, be it
Resolved, That we indorse the action of those who hung W. H. Crawford in this county on the 17th inst., convinced as we are, from the evidence upon which he was hung, that he richly deserved his fate.
Resolved, That a Central County Committee be appointed by the President, consisting of seven citizens, whose duty it shall be to appoint such committees in every precinct in the county, which sub-committees shall confer with and report to the Central Committed the names of all suspected persons in their precincts, which persons shall be dealt with according to the pleasure of the Central Committee.
Resolved, That the members of this meeting hereby pledge themselves to support said Central Committee in the discharge of their duty in dealing with Abolitionists and incendiaries.
JAMES P. ALFORD, Chairman. J. C. TERRELL, Secretary.
The Central Committee hereby notify all persons connected with or holding Abolition sentiments to leave the county forthwith, or they may possibly have cause to regret remaining.”
And this was all that was ever published there to show the justice of the act. On the 18th, his body was buried by the roadside! I have asked, in vain, for permission to have it boned in the village graveyard. After the body was brought in, three men came and said they had been appointed to examine our letters and private papers. They searched through the writing-desk, book-case, trunks, and everywhere that they thought letters or papers might be concealed. When they were leaving, I asked them if they had found anything. They answered, “Nothing but letters of friendship.”
Immediately after the murder, a dozen stories were circulated to prove that he was an Abolitionist, all of which I knew to be false. One was that he was connected with the burning of the town of Dallas which happened two weeks before; when it was well known that he was at home. Another
The United States, Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.”
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility over known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it- no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can he likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession.”-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.


	
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
was that he had sent for revolvers to distribute among the slaves. That sentence in the letter from Independence gave rise to this story. For that letter, together with the one from Guillium, had been opened in the post-office before we received them. And because Guillium's letter happened to be mailed from one of the adjoining towns, and the writing so bad they could not make it all out, they charged that it was from a conspirator. But the principal story was that he had promised to help the negro run away who had come to sell us the bacon; that he had shown him the north star, and told him if he would steal two horses and come there the next night, he would go with him, and show him the way off. Capt. Dagget afterwards told Dr. Williams that, at first, the negro told the same story that my husband told me, but that upon being charged by his master with lying, and whipped severely, he made the other statement. Furthermore, Capt. Dagget said that he had been sent there to try my husband, and that if he had gone to Turner the next morning, and told him of the slave's being there, he would not have been harmed.
I feel sure that Turner was the chief murderer, for my boys had seen him often in town, and described him to me perfectly. I sent for him to come and see me: I wished to confront him with my boys, and if he showed signs of guilt to shoot him down. I had a pistol loaded for the purpose. But he would not come near me. I went to his store to see him, but when he saw me enter, he skulked into an adjoining room, and did not show himself again. I was told if I wished to get away safely, I must keep my tongue still. But I should not have come away without an attempt on the lives of those three fiends, had it not been for the consideration of the welfare of my four children, the youngest of whom was less than a year old. I remained there a week, stopping with Mr. York's family. The house we had lived in was rented to another tenant, and as I did not get ready to leave the town within a day or two of the time I expected to go, my things were put out of doors, and left so one night,. or until I came away. Capt. Dagget found a man, belonging in Kansas, to drive my team for me as far as Independence, which place we reached, after a long and wearisome journey. Our horses, for the want of water and fresh grass, would not have lived through it, but for our meeting with occasional help from teams along the road; as it was, they were so reduced that I could not sell them, and was obliged to leave them at Independence.
Capt. Dagget gave me $20. which, with what I had, enabled me to reach Minnesota once more, where I felt sure I should find both friends and safety. I have not been disappointed. Mr. York and Mr. Williams have both been obliged to leave Texas with their families. The former is in Iowa, the latter in Missouri. Upon arriving at Wilton, I learned that my husband's cousin, the editor of the Citizen, had mailed his paper to us regularly all the spring and summer, but we only received the first number; the others must have been detained at the post-office. It being a Republican paper was, perhaps, what first directed suspicion against my husband. A few days before I left Fort Worth, I got two letters from the post-office, both open.
Since I arrived at Wilton. I have been treated with much kindness and generosity by the people of this vicinity, for which I pray that Heaven may bless them , and preserve them from afflictions so bitter as mine. MARY CRAWFORD.

SOUTHERN RUFFIANISM TOWARD NORTHERN CITIZENS.
A very elaborate Remonstrance against the repeal of the Personal Liberty Law,-signed by David Lee Child, L. Maria Child, S. E. Sewall, Geo. L. Stearns, and others,-was recently presented to the Massachusetts Legislature, and by that body ordered to be printed. It occupies 36 octavo pages,-and exhibits much legal ability and earnestness of feeling. We give below the concluding portion of it:-
Besides seeking instant redress and future security for the colored citizens of Massachusetts, there is another thing, if possible, still more urgent to be done by Northern men, who maintain the authority of Congress to pass fugitive slave bills. They must demand immediate and stringent legislation, backed, if necessary, by steamers and armies, to protect from lynching, robbery and murder, their white fellow-citizens, who visit the South on business or otherwise. Indeed, they ought to feel deep sorrow and remorse for not having done their utmost long before this, to arrest the horrid and systematic crimes, committed in that quarter, against Northern and other strangers, not only guiltless of offence, but unaccused of any-crimes, which, if fully developed by a narrator on the spot, would shock and disgust, even more than did the enormities of the Thugs the reading public of Europe and America. The plundering and murderous savages, composing Southern mobs and vigilance committees, have rendered the greatest part of the slaveholding region more formidable to travellers and strangers, than the ranges of the Bedoweens, Curds, and Comanches. Clamorous, merciless, blood-thirsty rabblements start up instantaneously at the mad-dog cry of abolitionist, or even Northerner, and further infuriated by whiskey, an auxiliary institution, they are wielded by vigilance committees, demagogue-attorneys, quack-doctors, and by politicians of every stripe, seeking to acquire power, or desiring to use brute force for any unhallowed purpose or pitiless deed. Under this dynasty, society has reached that condition of ancient barbarism, in which stranger was synonymous with enemy. Prudence and silence are no security. If a man holds any shade of opinion, adverse to slavery, however moderate or profoundly buried in his own bosom, he may find himself, at any moment, perhaps when sleeping in his bed at midnight, compelled to choose, on the instant, between taking to lying and taking a lynching.
Nor is it any exemption to entertain no particular opinions, He whose thoughts have never learned to stray beyond animal life and material pursuits, who knows no difference of East, West, North and South, except by bad debts, is one of the most frequent victims. Such cases pay, as well as glut a blind and indiscriminate hatred and vindictive rage against all Northern persons without distinction of sex. * * * * *
In North-eastern Texas, from last midsummer to autumn, befell the most frightful, causeless and inexplicable men-slaughter that has signalized the ferocity of American slavery, or stained the annals of our country. An intense drought prevailed, and destructive fires occurred. Dallas, a considerable county town, was burned. It was said that the fire was kindled in a number of places, but no proof of this has appeared; on the contrary, there have been repeated contradictions of it, and the fact that the fire took place on Sunday, a little after dinner, affords a strong presumption that such was not the case. Men, moreover, select night and darkness for such deeds! But a vigilance committee proceeded to put slaves to the torture to extort confessions. The rule of this practice, universal in the South, and shocking to us, when we read of it in the histories of the Inquisition and the dark ages, is to tie up or tie down, and whip till the desired confession is obtained, even if it be unto death. Many a poor slave has nobly died a martyr, rather than bear false witness. Of course, fictitious tales will be invented in the pauses of probation to meet the demand, as has happened in all ages, and with men of high character and culture. It is no peculiar reproach of the ignorant and degraded slave. On this occasion, a number of slaves confessed to firing the town, with the aid of other slaves, and at the instigation of whites. Although it was represented that the entire town was swept by the flames, it must have remained rather populous to do and suffer all the hanging that was done. Confessions were also made, that poison had been given out by whites, to be put in the wells and in the food of families by the slaves. According to newspaper reports, and private letters published in newspapers, sixty persons were hung at this place. Among them were a number of whites, mostly from the Western States, but there is no information how many. In one batch of twenty sufferers, it was stated that two were white. Fires occurred in rapid succession in other localities and counties of the same section. Henderson, another county town, was said, and probably believed, to have been fired in several places; but this was subsequently and most positively denied. The executions were continued apparently, and as some of the Texan presses said, with demoniacal delight in blood; and hideous sights and horrid sensations became, for a season, articles of the first necessity in Texan life. Many were done to death under the charge of distributing or applying strychnine, till the whole number of the dead exceeded two hundred. It has not appeared that these massacres proceeded on any other evidence than the confessions extorted from slaves,
<c02>
whose evidence, under no circumstances, is admitted against whites in the Texan courts. It is avowed by pro-slavery letter-writers, that some were hung on mere suspicion. Of course, there were no trials. We imagine we hear some Texan exclaim, "That would have spoiled the fun!" Several Methodist ministers were hung, and one lady of intelligence and worth, a Mrs. Foster, on the limb of a tree. The whites were all from the North, and the question was agitated of expelling the Northern settlersen masse, though very numerous, large owners of property, and sufferers by the fires. Probably it would have been the greatest favor that could have been done them.
Dreadful as these facts are, there remains one more dreadful than all. Communications from the most reliable sources in Texas, including their Governor, affirm, that the accusations were all forged, the confessions all false; and what the poor tortured slaves showed as strychnine, to make good their confessions on the rack, was found, on chemical analysis, to contain no trace of poison; that the fires were generally accidental, catching by reason of the parched condition of that whole region; that there were a good many thieves and robbers about, as there always are, who probably set some fires to facilitate or cover their depredations; that all the ordinary causes, and all the extraordinary casualties, were imputed to Methodists, chiefly ministers, and to abolitionists, and these all lumped with Black Republicans, to make political capital! Notwithstanding these exposures, of whose general correctness there cannot be a reasonable doubt, seceding orators, and late senators of the United States, have repeated the exploded calumny, placing it among the justifications of secession. No wonder; for never was fraudulent bankrupt more put to it to make a decent schedule.
It is believed that not less than twenty to twenty-five Northern men. generally sojourners in the State, perished in this persecution. During the last year, ending Dec. 31, 1860, sixteen Northern citizens were murdered in other slave States. Their inventive genius, which had not in the past shed much brilliancy on our national annals, has been taxed to devise new and ingenious methods of torture and death. It was the favorite study of some of the most celebrated tyrants of antiquity; but when the people recovered their rights, and "God made inquisition for blood," they perished by their own cruel devices. Two white men were headed up alive in barrels, and rolled into the Mississippi- one at Memphis, Tenn., and one at Friar's Point, Miss., and one in like manner into the Alabama river. Seven hundred and twenty-three Northern men, during the same year, were violently expelled, or on their arrival by the steamers, turned back, and not permitted to land. Of the latter, there were one hundred and twenty. A large proportion of the whole were lynched by bloody stripes, shaving or half-shaving the head, whiskers and mustaches; tarring, feathering, and riding on rails, nearly drowning or hanging, and repeating the operation after resuscitation. One man was hung five times till the agony was over, and then let down. There is no probability that we have had accounts of all the cases, and especially of the worst. It is well known that the Southern presses, to whom we must be chiefly indebted for this kind of information, often observe on these subjects a severe reticence. Very recently, a Massachusetts pedlar has returned, who declares that two Northern men, to his knowledge, were hung, of whom not the slightest public mention has been made.
Such tragedies, though of late more frequent and more bloody, are not new. They happened in the South, with catastrophes more or less shocking, seventy years ago. They commenced with the practical development of the Quaker and Franklin movement of emancipation in Pennsylvania; and at that day the Quakers were the exclusive or nearly exclusive sufferers. The celebrated and venerable minister of the Friends, Elias Hicks, was threatened with violence and death. Sixty-eight years ago, Eli Whitney's great invention, the cotton-gin, was seized and dragged from the house of the widow of General Greene in Georgia by a mob of chivalrous burglars of the highest respectability, before he could obtain a patent; and he was thus wholly despoiled of the profits during the first fourteen years. When he applied to Congress to extend it for a term, the Southern members went en masse against it, and it was rejected!
That such monstrous and heart-rending facts, such massive, overwhelming, merciless and bloody enormities, that words are weak and tire to detail them, should be forgotten or ignored during all the clamor for new concessions, new guarantees of slavery and its crimes, and humble atonement, in bated breath and self-abasing acts, for giving our votes for a President and Vice-President of the United States, as the Constitution requires, is in our view the most melancholy circumstance attending our present troubles. That a headlong hurry of old Massachusetts to unconditional surrender and self degradation, a blind and insensate furor, intolerant of pause or reason, trampling down with heels of hired ruffians the most precious of constitutional and God-given liberties, "the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to conscience," -should have derived their origin and greatest pressure from a class of men in our midst, for whose gain many, and through whose criminal indifference in the past and in power, all these innocent victims have been immolated-is an inexpressible aggravation of our grief. It impresses us with fear that absorbing selfishness, forgetfulness or contempt of eternal principles, which are the law of God, and utter insensibility to others' wrongs and woes, have become so inveterate and predominant in our national life, that there is little left of all that we have inherited and abused which a just God can, consistently with his justice, spare. 
In point of morals, no State nor citizen is bound to submit to an enactment, which manifestly violates fundamental and constitutional rights. It is void from the beginning, and never was nor can be, for a moment, law. Prudence would indeed dictate that the peace of a community should not be disturbed, and life, property and the arts and pursuits of peace put at hazard, except for grievances of the gravest character; but there are peaceful methods of checking the encroachments of lawless power, and holding at bay the wild impatience of despotism roaring and gnashing for its prey. Such a mode is to interpose legal impediments, as did Hampden in resistance of taxation by royal prerogative, and by that resistance determined the advent of the great English Revolution, the mother of the American, and starting upon the same principle. But how trivial was this cause, in comparison with that of personal liberty and safety!
That the Personal Liberty Law is such a mode of resistance, and just as legal as resistance in a judicial court, we do not doubt Indeed, it proposes no other. The Fugitive Slave Bill precludes such resistance, robbing us of the common right of appeal. Among its deadly sins is the crowning one, that it does not permit its sins to be inquired into, and brought to the test of reason and the Constitution. They are to be sacred and inviolable, exempted from scrutiny and discussion, like the Holy Inquisition and "the peculiar institution."
The bill forbids us to go into a respectable court, like James Otis on the writs of assistance, and show the rights of free-born Englishmen, as we then were, and extort even from a Hutchinson the confession that "the court can see no foundation" for the writs; in other words, that the whole thing is founded in usurpation and despotic power. What the Fugitive Slave Bill unconstitutionally takes away, the Personal Liberty Law constitutionally restore: and it does not betray conscious guilt by throwing insuperable or any obstacles in the way of a trial of its own constitutionality. The opportunity for this has been open for six years to the counsel of claimants, and to the General Government, the general agent of the slaveholders. If our law had been believed by them to be unconstitutional and void, would they have neglected to blast it with nullity by a bolt from the supreme tribunal? Not one tithe of the effort which they have put forth to drive you to a repeal, would have been necessary for its annihilation by our own learned and upright judiciary, and by that of the United States, which is neither. Until it has been tested, and failed to stand the test, the Legislature, in the present division of opinion, is under no obligation, moral or constitutional, to touch it, even if that were not a void Act with which it is accused of conflicting. If that is a void Act, then there is nothing with which ours, even according to its enemies, does conflict; even they do not pretend that it conflicts directly with the Constitution but only with a law, which they claim that the Constitution authorizes.
But in the present dragonade to compel a compromise with treason, and amid the daily threats, the insults, and actual hostilities of traitors, their aiders, and comforters-when the rankest require-
<c03>
ments, looking to nothing less than our entire and unalterable constitutional subjugation, are boldly made-shall we basely succumb, and make a rush and "a mush of concession"? While South Carolina and almost every other insurgent State are maintaining, and have been maintaining, thirty to forty years, an inhuman enactment, pronounced thirty-eight years ago, by her own eminent juridical son and citizen, to be unconstitutional and void; and obstructed only by the club-law of South Carolina and Louisiana from being so pronounced by the highest tribunal known at that time in the land-and all this for the invasion and subversion of Personal Liberty;-shall Massachusetts repeal, or on the present evidence change a law, never pronounced by any court to be unconstitutional, never even arraigned as such before any court, and whose only sin, so far as we know, is that it aims to preserve and defend Personal Liberty?

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 1861.
TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF
THE AMERICAN A. S. SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on Tuesday, May 7, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7 o'clock.
The object of this Society is still-as at its formation-the immediate and total abolition of slavery wherever existing on the American soil, because of its inherent sinfulness, immorality, oppression, and barbarity, and its utter repugnance to all the precepts of the Gospel, and all the principles of genuine Democracy; its measures are still the same, -peaceful, moral, rational, legal, constitutional; its instrumentalities are the same,-the pen, the press, the lecturing field, tracts and other publications, &c., &c., disseminating light and knowledge in regard to the tyrannical power claimed, possessed and exercised by slaveholders, the actual condition of their miserable victims, and the guilty complicity of the people of the North, religiously, politically, governmentally, with those who "trade in slaves and the souls of men"; its spirit is still the same, -long suffering, patient, hopeful, impartial, benevolent alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, zealously intent on "promoting the general welfare and securing the blessings of liberty" universally, "knowing no East, no West, no North, no South," but embracing the whole country in its charitable and humane concern, and conflicting with nothing just, honest, noble and Christian in sentiment, practice or tendency.
Whether the American Union, therefore, be dissolved or not, so long as a single slave is left in his fetters, this Society will still have its work unfinished, and will still deserve the countenance and aid of all believers in the inalienable rights of man-of all who "despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, and who reject with indignation the wild and guilty fantasy that man can hold property in man." Four millions yet remain to be delivered from the galling yoke of a worse than brutal servitude. Christians and patriots! can we do a nobler work, one more acceptable to God or more serviceable to our country and the world, than to "remember those in bonds as bound with them," and to labor "in season and out of season" for their emancipation?
Let unusual efforts be made by the members and friends of the Society to be present at the approaching anniversary, that there may be no lack of wise counsel and efficient cooperation with reference to the consummation of its great purpose.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
CHARLES C.BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
In his replication to us, last week, Rev. Mr. Haven, referring to the anti-slavery action of the Methodist Episcopal Church with which he is connected, says:-
"That Church has contended ceaselessly and mightily for the great reform. In 1844, after ten years of faithful labor by a portion of her ministry and laity, she stayed the proud march of the Slave Power, sacrificing her, at that time, most influential section, rather than allow one, whose wife held slaves, to preside in her Conferences. It was a great victory, and resulted in the secession of the slavery-loving section"-&c.
We are not only greatly perplexed, but fairly staggered, by such a declaration as this. We can find no evidence whatever to sustain it, but any amount to prove it erroneous. If Mr. Haven were as ready to produce his proofs as he is to make unsupported assertions, we should be disposed to examine them with all eagerness and honesty; but he presents to us nothing in a tangible shape. Not so on our side: we have again and again occupied columns of the Liberator with indisputable evidence of the pro-slavery spirit and position of the Methodist Episcopal Church, as exhibited in her official conduct for the last thirty years, to say nothing of her course prior to that time. To our readers it would be a work of supererogation for us to go over that well-beaten ground once more. So far from that Church having "contended ceaselessly and mightily for the great reform,"-the abolition of slavery,-it has relentlessly and actively stood in the way to prevent its consummation. No General Conference has ever given the slightest countenance to the anti-slavery movement; not one of all the numerous Bishops has ever avowed himself an abolitionist, to our knowledge; and no "religious" paper in the land has been more decidedly hostile to our movement, or has published more malignant sentiments in disparagement of the abolitionists, than the New York Christian Advocate and Journal, the official organ of the Church. There has never been any unwillingness to admit slaveholders to membership and religious fellowship in that Church; none have ever been disciplined because they held slaves, whether for purposes of gain or convenience; and thousands of them, possessing tens of thousands of slaves for mercenary ends, have been readily received to her embrace. In the Border Conferences, (according to a letter from H. C. Atwater, a minister of the Providence Conference, published in Zion's Herald,)-
"They utterly abjure the name of abolitionists, or having any sympathy with the anti-slavery movements in the free States. It matters not how many slaves a man owns, it is no objection to his becoming a member of those mission churches. Thousands of slaves are held without a word of rebuke by the membership, in six of the Conferences of the Northern Church. Travelling preachers can have their houses filled up with slaves."
The editor of Zion's Herald says:-
"There never was a grosser mistake-to call it by no graver name-than that insisted upon at the last General Conference, and repeated earnestly since, that mercenary slaveholding does not exist undisturbed in some of the societies connected with the M. E. Church."
The Richmond Christian Advocate says:-
"Will Bishop Simpson, or Dr. McClintock, or any one else, undertake to deny that there are many slaveholders and slave-workers among the private members, and official members, and ministers of the Northern division of the M. E. Church? They will not try it: IT CANNOT BE DENIED. The preachers and people in the Northern division of the Methodist Episcopal Church hold slaves as truly as those in the Southern division."
Confirmatory of this, the Northern Independent,(Methodist,) published in Auburn, N. Y., referring to the Southern branch, says:-
"Slaveholding in the ministry is the rule, non-slaveholding the exception. We let all our preachers hold slaves, if they will consent to be local and unordained. We will consent to ordain them, and let them travel, slaveholders though they be, if wicked slaveholders are disposed to make a law forbidding emancipation.
<c04>
It is a well-known fact, that many of our local preachers are slaveholders. No intelligent man will presume to deny this statement. There never has been any objection to local preachers holding slaves: the practice is as free to them as to any other member of the Church. The question of principle does not divide the Church North from the Church South, so far as its practice is concerned. It is a question of quantity more than of quality-a question of retail versus wholesale. The Church South does a wholesale business in human slavery; the North, a retail business in this abomination. On the score of consistency, the South has decidedly the advantage. It says slavery is a divine institution, and consequently takes it to its bosom. The Church North says, 'It is the vilest thing that ever saw the sun,' and yet refuses to thrust it out of its communion!"
Now, mark!-these are not the assertions of Abolitionists, but the testimonies of those who, like Mr. Haven, are still connected with the Methodist Church North. We submit them as conclusive against his naked and very surprising declaration, that "that Church has contended ceaselessly and mightily for this reform."
Mr. Haven is not less deceptive in his reference to the division which took place in 1844, whereby the old Church was separated into two parts-North and South. He maintains that, "rather than allow one, whose wife held slaves, to preside in her Conferences," the Church was willing to "sacrifice her, at that time, most influential section." Is that a correct statement? Let us see.
The case here referred to was that of Bishop Andrew. The following was the action of the General Conference upon it-yeas 110, nays 68:-
"Whereas, the Discipline of our Church forbids the doing of any thing calculated to destroy our itinerant general superintendency; and whereas, Bishop Andrew has become connected with slavery by marriage and otherwise, and this act having drawn after it circumstances which, in the estimation of the General Conference, will greatly embarrass the exercise of his office as an itinerant general superintendent, if not in some places entirely prevent it; therefore,
"Resolved, That it is the sense of this General Conference that he desist from the exercise of his office as long as this impediment remains."
Referring to this action, the Rev. H. Mattison, of the Black River (N. Y.) Conference, truthfully says:
"No complaint is here made on moral grounds against episcopal slaveholding. It is solely on the ground that a slaveholding Bishop would not be well received in New England and other Northern States. Besides, the Bishop was left a Bishop still-aye, and a slaveholding Bishop, with his name in the Discipline and Hymn-book, and drawing his salary the same as other Bishops."
It is true, there was a secession on the part of the great body of the Southern delegates, in consequence of this decision; but it was as uncalled for, in fact, as was the recent secession of the Confederated States, on account of the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency. Nor is it at all probable that such a recommendation to Bishop Andrew would have been passed, if the result of it had been clearly foreseen by those who voted in the affirmative. To boast of this as "staying the march of the Slave Power,"-to claim it as "a great victory, resulting in the secession of the slavery-loving section,"-is certainly quite ridiculous.
But this is not all. "In 1848," says Mr. Haven, "she [the Methodist Church North] refused to recognize this seceding body as a Christian Church, and has so refused to this day, simply because of its submission to the Slave Power." Indeed! Here is self-righteousness in its selectest garb! "Thou that sayest, A man should not steal, dost thou steal?" No wonder that the editor of the Nashville Christian Advocate was emboldened to address Bishop Morris [of the Northern Church] in the following excoriating manner:-
"You have this day many large slaveholders in your division of the Church. You know that in Maryland and Virginia, you have hundreds, yea, thousands of members who hold slaves; that you have ordained deacons and elders in the ministry of your Church who are slaveholders. You yourself have ordained to the office and work of the ministry many a slaveholder. Why, then, in the name of our common Christianity, should the Southern Church be persecuted and denounced, because she does what your own branch of the Church constantly practises? Let us see. The Methodist Episcopal Church South has in her communion slaveholders. So has the Methodist Episcopal Church North. The Methodist Episcopal Church South has in the ministry ordained deacons and elders who are slaveholders. So has the Methodist Episcopal Church North. These slaveholders in the South were elected to the work and office of the ministry by the Annual Conferences of the South. So were those elected by the Conferences belonging to the Northern division. They were ordained by the laying on of the hands of the Bishop. Bishop Waugh, Bishop Morris, and Bishop Janes, to my certain knowledge, have each ordained slaveholders to the office of deacon and elder. Where, then, is the difference?"
The difference, truly, is not at all in principle, but only in degree. They are both under condemnation, and neither of them is deserving the Christian name. For the latest revelation on this subject, see the recent proceedings of the Baltimore Conference, on our last page. See the questions propounded to Bishop Scott, and his replies to them! What broader license could be given to slaveholding than is there conveyed? Touching the meaning of the "New Chapter" adopted last year at Buffalo, the Bishop is as slippery as an eel. Nevertheless, so disgusted with this equivocal course was the Baltimore Conference, and so determined to resent all advice and "admonition" on the subject of slavery, it voted to secede, two to one. It could have remained without emancipating a single slave, if it chose. Its action was voluntary, not disciplinary.
To screen the Church, as a whole, from condemnation, because there are slaveholding churches and conferences connected with it at the South, Mr. Haven says:-
"Each local society and its pastor has the sole power to try and expel its members; each conference of ministers the sole power to try and expel its members. Now, if the local society and its pastor refuse to enforce the discipline, and the conference of which that minister is a member will not punish him for it, how can the Church, as a whole, help it?"
What if these local societies and conferences persisted in receiving to their membership and communion those who openly rejected the doctrine of the trinity, or of endless punishment, or of plenary inspiration, or of the holiness of the first day of the week, would they still be allowed to appear by full delegation in the General Conference, not only without arraignment or reproof, but acceptably as those of "the household of faith"? Or,-doctrinal heresies aside,-what if they freely admitted to membership blacklegs, counterfeiters, pickpockets, and plunderers of hen-roosts, would Mr. Haven ask the question, "How can the Church, as a whole, help it?" Would it not quickly find a way to help it?
He inquires of us whether he shall leave the Church for the world? Who presents to him any such alternative? Let him abandon both, and, if need be, stand alone with God and right! "In my judgment," he replies, "the world is far more identified with this iniquity, as well as every other, than any branch of the real Church of Christ." That is precisely our opinion-only we beg to be understood as declaring our belief, that no "branch of the real Church of Christ" is stained with the blood of the slave, or takes to its communion those who traffic in human flesh. Moreover, we differ from Mr. Haven in regard to what constitutes "the real Church of Christ"-he manifestly giving it a papal interpretation, and making it a Methodist or some other outward corporate body, which can be voted up, or voted down, ad libitum. But this is opening a subject which we do not wish to discuss in our columns; and we therefore forbear. 
Such, then, is the position of the Methodist Episcopal Church North, on the tremendous question of American slavery. Our arraignment of her proceeds from no sectarian feeling, but only from a deep sense of justice. We cheerfully admit that there is an earnest minority of ministers and lay members connected with her, zealously laboring to make her wholly and actively on the side of the oppressed; and we are not insensible to what they have done, or propose to do. To this extent we hail them as co-workers, and shall greatly rejoice to be able to announce their entire success. "Credit to whom credit is due." But let us all be uncompromising in the cause of liberty.
<c05>
"TREASON."
RURAL, (III.) March 18,1861.
DEAR SIR,-I have read, with mingled regret and surprise, your editorial charge of "treason" against men just as incapable of perpetrating that crime as your noble self.
After giving your version of secession, you say:- "He who, intelligently conversant with them, does not brand them as the blackest treason, is himself a traitor at heart, and doubly to be detested if he pretends to have any concern for the Union."
I deny your ipse dixit, that the seceding States have perpetrated treason; and I also "pretend to have" some "concern for the Union"; and if these honest convictions of my own soul subject me to your charge of being "a traitor at heart," and to your "double detestation," be it so.
Though you are my accuser, thank God you are not my judge, either in this world, or in that which is to come. Yours for humanity,
W. L. GARRISON. B. G. WRIGHT.
REMARKS. This letter indicates a heated state of mind on the part of the writer which greatly surprises us, and for which we are sure there is no justification. Let us quote the exact language we used, and not as disjointed and quoted by our indignant correspondent:
"His [the President's] argument against Southern secessionists is compact and conclusive; for as they have no wrongs to complain of under the Constitution, and as they pretend to no conscientious scruples in regard to any of its provisions, they find no justification for their course, either on patriotic grounds, or in the martyr spirit which will not consent to unrighteousness. ALL THEIR TREASONABLE ACTS HAVE BEEN CONSUMMATED UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THEIR OWN CHOICE! This is undeniable. Such was not the revolutionary struggle of 1776. It has not been possible for the Republican party to do any wrong against the South, even if it had any disposition to do so, because the reins of government have but just passed into its hands. To break up the Union on a pretence or a suspicion of foul play,-perfidiously seize fortifications, arsenals, and millions of other property belonging to the United Status,-obstruct the collection of revenue, or use it for treasonable purposes,-fire upon a national steam-ship, and endeavor to sink it, while obeying legitimate orders,- strike down the American flag, and run up a State flag of defiance in its stead,-these are crimes of gigantic magnitude, which admit of no extenuation or atonement; and he who, intelligently conversant with them, does not brand them as the blackest treason, is himself a traitor at heart, and doubly to be detested if he pretends to have any concern for the preservation of the Union."
Now, let the logic or the ethics of this statement be invalidated, if they can be! Every word of it was carefully weighed, every sentence scrupulously moulded; and we have nothing to alter or retract. If, by every principle of patriotism, and by every rule of right, the Secessionists are not guilty of high-handed usurpation, the blackest perfidy, the most daring robbery, and the vilest treason, then we believe it impossible for any on earth to commit those crimes. If our correspondent chooses to transmute them into justifiable deeds, by his peculiar theory of government, we can only regret his confusion of mind in so plain a case.
"AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PROMOTION OF NATIONAL UNITY."
A pamphlet of sixteen pages, issued from the "Society Rooms, Bible House, Astor Place, New York," informs us of the organization, on the 6th ult., of the Society above named. Its object is to counteract the movements of "reformers" generally, and especially the ideas and action of "abolitionists."
The Journal of Commerce regrets that such a Society was not formed thirty years ago, in the infancy of the Abolition heresy, employing talented lecturers to precede or follow Abolition lecturers, and prevent or undo their work. No time should be lost in putting this idea into execution. It is never too late to mend. At every Anti-Slavery meeting, the presiding officers and the speakers have been accustomed to request opponents to come forward, and answer the statements made, or to present their own ideas for confutation. Sometimes they have chosen the latter course, and been confuted; but, generally, the opposers of Abolition carefully avoid meeting its advocates in argument. They find it a losing game. They find that, for their statements to retain even the appearance of plausibility, it is necessary to have a force of rioters at hand, to clamor down the replies of the Abolitionists, and prevent the influence of free and orderly discussion on the minds of the audience. It is certainly to be hoped that they will now try the other tack; and, until their new corps of lecturers get in training, let their Secretaries, Rev. Hubbard Winslow and Rev. Seth Bliss, discuss the merits of the question with Burleigh and Pillsbury, Phillips and Garrison. If the latter speakers could be quietly heard by the class of people who would come to hear the former, Anti-Slavery would make progress in the church as well as in "the world": it is the staying-away of church-members from Abolition meetings, and their acceptance of the calumnies of their pastors as a true representation of what is said there, that keeps the church in its present depth of darkness and corruption. It is perishing, smothering, for lack of reform; it needs free light and free air as much as any poor vegetable trying to grow in a cellar; and this ruinous stagnation must continue while its members "profess" religion merely, instead of practising it, and trust in pastors who use "reform" and "philanthropy" as opprobrious terms, gilding, meanwhile, the most atrocious wickedness with the dialect of piety.
Here are a few of the falsities put forth as truth in this pamphlet, which bears as the motto on its titlepage, "God is our Refuge and Strength"!
It represents the slaves as "incapable of self-care," as " indisposed to industry and foresight," and as "providentially committed to the hands of our Southern friends."
It represents emancipation as "rebellion against Providence," and as "destruction to the colored race in our land."
It represents the North as doing wrong "by assuming an attitude of hostility to Slavery."
It represents the position of the North as "sundering the bonds of State-fellowship";-thus ignoring two facts of directly opposite bearing, namely; that the Northern people are almost a unit in desiring the continuance of the Union, and making enormous concessions and sacrifices to that end, and that it is the Southern States which have formally severed the bond, and which triumph in its rupture.
It represents the slaves as "under a providential dispensation, lifting them up from the degradation and miseries of indolence and vice."
It represents their masters as "treating their slaves as humanity and religion demand," and as furnishing some of the brightest ornaments "of the church of God."
It represents that the slaveholders "freely concede to us our conscientious convictions, OUR RIGHTS, and ALL OUR PRIVILEGES," and asks why we should-not concede freedom of slaveholding to them; and, condensing mendacious impudence into three lines, as with a "forty-parson-power," it asks-"If the climate and institutions of the South are such that our fellow-citizens there can afford to take the onerous care of them [the slaves] in return for their services, should we not gladly consent?"
Even the Bible falls short of expressing the wickedness of the actively pro-slavery portion of the clergy of our Northern States. They use the arts of sophistical rhetoric not only to excuse the grossest robbery, but to represent it as charity. When Jesus singled out the Priestly and Levitical accomplices of robbery for rebuke, he found them doing no worse than "passing by on the other side"; our Priests and Levites plead the cause of highway robbers, and say-If they took the trouble and risk of placing the weary traveller in a recumbent position, and relieving him of the weight of his clothes and the temptations of his money, should we not freely concede their right to do it? "Why should we contend?" "Why paralyze business, sunder the best ties of affection that can bind these States together, and destroy our once prosperous and happy nation?"
<c06>
An appendix to this pamphlet contains five pages of names of persons "proposed" as Vice-Presidents, Honorary Members and Corresponding Members. The list of (intended) Vice-Presidents commences with the names of Rev. Doctors Gardiner Spring of New York, Thornton Stringfellow of Culpepper Co., Virginia, and Nathan Lord of Hanover, New Hampshire, and contains the names of all the surviving Ex-Presidents of the United States, all the Bishops of its Episcopal Church; the Most Rev. John Hughes, D. D., and many Catholic clergymen; with many other names eminent in the defence of slavery, such as Cass, Crittenden, Bell Breekindge and Douglas, Drs. South-side Adams of Boston, Heman Humphrey of Pittsfield, Thornwell of South Carolina, and Fuller of Baltimore. Hon. Edward Everett heads the list of (intended) Honorary Members.
We wait with great interest for the distribution of the promised tracts, and the addresses of the promised tracts, and the addresses of the promised lecturers, willingly accepting the compliment implied by the Society's imitation of our accustomed methods of operation.-C. K. W.

POLITICS.
ATHOL, March 28, 1861.
Of the body politic, in our country, it may well be said, "The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. From the sole of the foot even unto the head thereof, there is no soundness in it." It is undergoing a strong convulsion indeed, with palpitations of the heart and limbs. Dissolution has commenced; the fair structure is crumbling and falling away piece-meal. Its head has been beclouded and wavering; its right arm paralyzed; its virtue has gone out of it; its soul has departed, leaving it a distorted and unsightly thing: and unless the vital energies shall be speedily restored; unless its pristine or a better spirit shall take possession of it, and dwell there; unless it shall be animated by a living, all pervading soul, it must soon drop its present form, and disappear from the face of the earth. It is certainly in a transition state.
The Union is virtually dissolved-torn asunder by conflicting interests, and by the potency of antagonistic and irreconcilable ideas. Secession is a matter of course.
The ideas of Mr. Calhoun, so long a disturbing element in national affairs, are at length developing themselves in action-bearing their legitimate fruits in the tumults and commotion of civil and domestic strife. For a quarter of a century, at least, "the preservation, extension and perpetuation of slavery" have constituted the prevailing and animating spirit of the nation. To this end, especially during the last two administrations, the powers of the government have in a great measure been wielded. To this end, the efforts of our "distinguished public functionaries" have been directed;-and, during all this period, we say it emphatically, the nation, with all its momentum, has been drifting towards disunion; for, the moment slavery is likely to receive a check-the moment a new administration, with a change of policy, is anticipated, a dissolution of the Union is threatened; and before it has fairly assumed the national control, dissolution exists-the nation falls apart.
Seven States have formally declared themselves absolved from all allegiance to the general government; and, assuming an attitude of defiance, proclaim absolute independence, with no purpose or desire to unite with the Northern States, on any terms; while the border States, with the same right of secession, demand fresh concessions and further guaranties to the slave system, as an indispensable condition to their remaining in the Union.
The dissatisfaction of the "slaveholding lords of the South" was to be expected. They feel that the sceptre of power is departing from among them, and are making a desperate struggle to regain and fasten their hold upon it. With them, as I have said, "the preservation, extension and perpetuation of slavery" is an end, paramount to everything else; in the Union, if they can-out of it, if they must.
Secession, therefore, was, in my judgment, a preconcerted scheme-a foregone conclusion; at least among the ambitious, designing and desperate followers of Mr. Calhoun. They had been brooding over and preparing for it for years; and their failure in the late Presidential election was only the occasion and the pretext for it.
Assuming secession to be a Constitutional right, they are ready to defend their positions by force of arms. To this end, they have deliberately taken possession of the forts and arsenals along their coasts, hoping, and perhaps expecting, that Northern politicians will yield to their unblushing and insolent demands, and that the people will obsequiously bow down and conform to them.
Such is the danger now; and what power shall interpose to save us from so disastrous a result? Who is sufficient for these things? Politicians are apparently at their witsï¿½s end. True, in a speech made in the Senate, a little more than a year ago, Mr. Seward said, that the cries and threats of dissolution had ceased to intimidate and scare the North; yet in the present attitude of affairs, he indicates as much alarm as anybody. Now he counsels the surrender of all platforms, and, I think, all sentiments of humanity and religion, for the sake of the Union. Doubtless he conceives that the experiment of Constitutional liberty and self-government by the people are wrapped up in the Union-and if that vase fall apart, the experiment fails, hope is extinguished, and the sun of liberty goes down in darkness forever. Has not the experiment failed, failed utterly,"to establish justice, to insure domestic tranquillity, or to secure the blessings of liberty" even to ourselves?
What consummate folly it seems, then, out of the same incongruous and discordant elements, now exasperated, and wrought up to ten-fold virulence, <illegible> attempt to form a more perfect Union than the old!
But why should we despair? May we not rather hope, that by this shaking and quaking of the body politic, it may be purified; that the corruptions and extravagances of the government may be swept away, and that the nation (or at least a part of it) will set forth upon a career which shall command the respect and admiration, instead of the contempt and execration of the civilized world? Liberty, I believe, will rise again, and, shaking herself clear of the <illegible> and rubbish by which she has been temporarily over borne, she will reappear, and, assuming higher, purer and more glorious forms, leaning upon justice, her <illegible> failing ally, moving with fresh majesty and strength she shall find a "dwelling-place in all generations." I am not ready, therefore, and, with my present views. I never would consent, to make further concessions to offer fresh sacrifices to the heathen Moloch of slavery, though the Union were shattered, and its fragments could not be gathered up. Were I, then, politician, which I do not profess to be, the most I would say to the people of the South would be, <illegible> the Constitution as it is, with its acknowledged or unacknowledged guaranties of slavery, with all the chances and uncertainties of construction to which it has ever been subject, and trust the administration of them to the various departments of government, and to the intelligence and virtue, limited as they are of the whole people.
The people,-the thirty millions of people who constitute this nation,-have a right to be, and ultimately must be, consulted in this matter. They cannot justly, and therefore they cannot safely, be transferred from one jurisdiction to another, owe allegiance <illegible> new government, or be made amenable to its laws, without their consent.
Any change in the fundamental law of the land <illegible> be ratified by the Legislatures or Conventions of three fourths of the States which compose the Union, <illegible> best, therefore, it must be a long time before the political troubles and difficulties in which the people of this broad country are involved can be settled, their business relations reestablished, and, inspired with fresh confidence and hope, they can move on it a career of lasting prosperity and peace.
H. W. C.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CURE FOR SOUTHERN SECESSION.
It is hardly time yet to get at the real intentions of the President and Cabinet of the United States with regard to secession. However, all the movements thus far made force the opinion that peace for the country is to be obtained by the Government, by bringing back the seceded States either through attempted compromise with their leaders, or through a reaction in the minds of the people thereof by reason of abstinence from all controversy with them in speech or maintain friendly relations with them.
It is evident that the Border Slave States will be retained in the Union, if possible; and to this end the largest concessions are being made to the Slave Power there, by President Seward and Secretary Lincoln. The grand object is peace, and there the North, through the Administration, submit to treason, robbery, insult, and loss of honor by the South.
But it is peace for the white man that is sought, and only through the efforts of the white man; while the very element- the black - that lies at the bottom of all our country's troubles, is designedly lost sight of.
The black man is not considered in this crisis at all, except to rivet his chains closer and former. He must have no voice in the settlement of national affairs, but must submit to his life of slavery, and forget that he has rights, or that he has the power to save this country. Our national politics keep him down; disregard his claims for hearing; and behind the ï¿½Constitutionï¿½ run away from them. Only return to the beloved Union, says Mr. Seward to the South, and all your ï¿½constitutional rights shall be guaranteed." Come back to us once more, and we will love you, caress you, and you may kick us just as much as you please. Slavery is nothing. It is your institution, not ours; and who cares for a mere black man? You mistake, good sirs! we have no irrepressible conflict with you. Only return to the Union; we do not want to quarrel, for we love you. Let not brothers fight for a mere abstraction.
These remarks will apply to the Border States; for if they remain, and the Cotton States will not return, then the policy will be to submit gracefully, and study how to avoid civil war with the extreme South, and retain the friendship of the Slave Power in the Border States.
But people may think peace will return and harmony prevail, after the independence of the Confederate States is acknowledged by the North, and the Border Slave States consent to remain on ï¿½guarantee" of their ï¿½rights." This would be downright folly; for there would be that black element again in the new Union, the same conflict between the two system of labor, free and slave.
The fact is, the abolition of slavery is the real question to be acted upon by the country. Circumstances have forced it upon us, and we should not fail to recognize, in the present complication of affairs, that Providence which now requires us to emancipate from slavery 4,000,000 of our brothers, by virtue of the splendid opportunities that now exist.
The seceded States will not, on any account whatever, voluntarily
return to the Union. Why should they? They have been twenty-five years maturing; their plans to leave the North, and have assumed the risks and dangers incident to treason and open rebellion. By the help of traitors to the Union, and their own sublime audacity, they have-for the present-crippled the physical powers of the government, and defied it into submission to their will. The Southern leaders are men of determination-some honest, more dishonest, but all inspired by hatred of free institution, and by an inflexible purpose to found an aristocracy upon African slavery. Even so cool a man as Alexander H. Stevens, in his speech at Savannah, confesses it,-to say nothing of the dispassionate utterances of other men who at first disapproved of secession. The South is insane on this matter, and will carry the experiment to the bitter end. Will she now retrace her steps? No! Power she has had, power she will have, cost what it may, and if only for a day; and now that she stands at the dawn of the day that is to realize her dream of empire, will she consent to the humiliation which she would incur by reuniting herself to a government that would deprive her of power to do mischief in the future? Will she, in presence of the fact of seven States already out, forego her intent to dismember what remains of the old Union, and gradually bring each State there from to herself, and form a new confederacy, founded on the express idea of slavery extension and expansion? The trial she more than ever feels must be made. With every thing to gain, power, position, wealth and territory, she will never give up until all human means are exhausted in the attempt.
It is strange that our men in power at Washington do not, or will not, or fear to, see things as they are. They have had enough of compromise in the past, and they should know that, even if the Cotton States should give them peaceable possession of the Border States, the evil would not be eradicated, only palliated. Only renewed compromises and strongest guarantees would satisfy the slave States remaining, and thus would we have to suffer again and again, ï¿½Gentlemen may cry peace, peace," but there will be no peace while slavery and freedom try to subsist under one government, or under two governments on the game continent.
What, then, is to be done? The South, by her actions, has declared war upon the United States; therefore should she be subjected to all the rigors which warfare can suggest and create. The more deadly the weapons brought against her, the more speedily will the battle close. What, then, in the name of suffering humanity, and the highest interest of our common country, and the fair fame of this ninetieth century, is to prevent the North from taking the most decisive measures to terminate the struggle?
What is to prevent the government from placing the country, within a few months, in a position for aggressive war? If necessary, give up Fort Sumter now: but when we shall be again strong, retake it, and all the other forts that have been surrendered; then collect the revenues at every seceded port with cannon balls; then, finally, and lastly, proclaim liberty to the slaves, and put arms into their hands.
The negro is at the bottom of all our troubles, therefore he should
fight the battle. Insurrection would subdue the South, prick the great bubble of her pride, destroy her grand fantasy of a Southern empire, and give a check to the further triumph of despotism over the spirit of the age.
If the South goes out of the Union, she will hold her slaves just as securely as she now does; and, too, dissolution will not permit the North to live unmolested. The South will be content not with seven States, nor fifteen, none less than thirty-four (minus New England)-and taking advantage of divisions in Northern sentiment, and relying upon traitors there, (the Democracy,) she will be constantly fomenting trouble until slavery be established throughout the land. She will have as much to say and do by her secret agent in our politics as we ourselves.
If time is given the Cotton States to consolidate their strength, they will become a Power, to be feared and conciliated. Why not then crush her out of existence as a Slave Power by treeing her slaves, and thus break up the hell that has hovered over this Union since its formation? Why not hare war now, as well as in a few years hence, when the South will be stronger than she is now? She will never sell her slaves: on the contrary, she is even now enslaving her own poor whites by forbidding them a voice in public affairs. She is breeding an aristocracy for the free North to contend with within a few years. War is inevitable. Why not then kill both slavery and Southern aristocracy, now and at once, by that most effective and most horrible of all weapons that the South can imagine and confront-a successful slave insurrection? There are now no constitutional obstacles to exciting an insurrection if the North, led by Wm. H. Seward, will only acknowledge that there s such a thing as secession, that 
the Constitution has been violated, and the South is in open rebellion. INSURRECTIONIST.
<c02>
METROPOLITAN POLICE BILL.
In the Massachusetts Senate, on Monday last, Mr. Whiting, of Plymouth, presented the majority and minority Reports of the Joint Special Committee on the subject of a Metropolitan Police for the City of Boston. They were laid on the table, and ordered to be printed. The Reports are as follows:-

MAJORITY REPORT.
The Committee have devoted a peat deal of time and attention to the important subject committed to them. Many witnesses have been examined, petitioners and remonstrants have appeared before them by enamel, and ample opportunity has been given for the presentation of the views of all parties interested.
The Committee are of the opinion that nothing has been elicited by the investigation, which should impair the high character of the police of Boston, considered as a body, for intelligence, efficiency and integrity. On the contrary, it appeared that the ordinary details of police duty are at least as well performed here, and that property is as well protected here, as in any city of the United States. The claims made by those who represented the petitioners for a change were, that the police had failed to do its duty in prosecuting or punishing violations of the statutes in relation to the sale of intoxicating liquors; that on various recent occasions it had failed to suppress mobs which had interrupted meetings held for the purpose of public discussion of political and moral questions; that these failures were due, not to the inefficiency of the police itself, but to the weakness or perversity of the city authorities, which are now the appointing and controlling power; and that the power to regulate and control the police should therefore be taken out of the hands of the city authorities, and transferred to the State authorities.
The majority of the Committee do not find that the first of the above charges is sustained by the evidence before them. It is undoubtedly true that the laws in relation to the sale of intoxicating liquors are very imperfectly executed in many parts of the Commonwealth; that this deficiency of execution is found to exist more in the cities than in the agricultural towns; and that in Boston, as the largest city, these laws are more frequently and openly violated than elsewhere. But the evidence before the Committee went to show that the difficulty lies in parts of the system entirely beyond the sphere of the police; that the police, have been more ready to arrest, than juries to convict; and that a change merely in the appointing and controlling power of the police would not have any appreciable effect upon the evil complained of.
The second charge made by the petitioners appears to the Committee to be sustained by the evidence. On the third of December last, a meeting was called in the Tremont Temple to ï¿½mark the anniversary of the martyrdom of John Brown." On the 24th of January last, a meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society
was called at the same place. Both these meetings were interrupted by violent demonstrations of persons opposed to them, and in both the instances the persons interrupting succeeded in breaking up the meetings. Upon the evidence produced before us, we are satisfied that the police force of Boston was competent
to the protection of the meetings against any disturbing force actually exhibited at them; and we are also satisfied that there was failure on the part of the city authorities to give such protection as those who called the meetings had a right to demand. This failure cannot be excused by the suggestion that the doctrines expected to be promulgated at these meetings were disorganizing, or destructive, or dangerous to the well-being of the community. No public expression of opinion can be so dangerous as the organized suppression of utterance by self-constituted judges. If at this moment minorities were fully protected in every State of this Union in the expression of their dissent from the prevailing opinions, it is probable that many of the national dangers which threaten us might still be averted.
The fact, how ever, that the city authorities of Boston have, in the instances referred to, failed to do their duty, by no means brings us necessarily to the conclusion that the city of Boston ought therefore to be deprived of one of the most important features of self-government. The majority of the Committee cannot bring themselves to believe that in the long run the people of Berkshire or Cape Cod will be likely to manage the local affairs of Boston more honestly or more intelligently than they can be man-aged by Boston herself. The tendency of popular opinion has been to diminished rather than increased centralization. We have curtailed the executive power of appointment; we have within a few years caused clerks of courts, sheriffs, district attorneys, and county commissioners to be chosen by the vote of their localities, instead of holding their offices from the Executive. We have sought from time to time to bring power nearer and nearer to the people through and for whom it is to be exercised, rather than to remove it from direct responsibility to them. Nothing short of the presence of some great public exigency should induce us to reverse this course of policy. A fleeting public impulse, finding vent in isolated acts of violence, does not constitute such an exigency.
Whenever it shall appear that in this city property, liberty, and life have become generally insecure; that freedom of speech within legal limits is habitually and systematically refused; that an intelligent and upright minority has lost all reasonable hope of maintaining its rights against a brutal or corrupt majority, -then, but not till then, will it be expedient and proper that Massachusetts should apply to its metropolis the legislation which has been found necessary in Maryland and New York.
In our opinion, it is inexpedient to legislate on the subject-matter of the order committed to us; and we recommend that the petitioners have leave to withdraw.
A. P. BONNEY, Senate.
GEO. T. DAVIS,
A. H. BULLOCH,
D. G. LITTLEFIELD,
E. P. BROWN, -House.

MINORITY REPORT.
The undersigned, members of the committee appointed under the order of January 21, to consider the expediency of amending the charter of the city of Boston, so that its police shall be appointed by the State, and to whom was referred the petition of Samuel Rodman and 412 other citizens of Massachusetts for the same object, have not been able to agree with the majority, and ask leave to present some of the reasons which have brought them to a different conclusion.
The subject upon which we have been called to act is one of very considerable moment, not merely to the inhabitants of Boston, but to the people of the State, and to all who have an interest in good government, in free thought and free speech, in virtue and religious liberty.
No man in the service of the people, no official employed to make, define or execute law, has really a more responsible station than he who performs the duty of police officer in a town or city. He is the lookout at the masthead. He is the watch upon deck, who, by day and night, in fog, in storm and in sunshine, is set to give the alarm of approaching danger, and point out to the helmsman the rocks and quick-sands that he along the path. We can afford, it may be, sometimes, to have corrupt legislators, or judges, or governors. They are before the people. Their actions are open to public gaze. The stake they have in the part they play holds them in check. He who, in the silent watches of the night, when lust and envy and malice and unlawful desires do not rest, stands between the sleeping citizen and the steel of the assassin, the felonious assault and stealthy tread of the burglar, and the lurid footsteps of the incendiary, should be above suspicion. The man who follows vice into its secret dens, whose duty it is to penetrate the haunts of crime and bring the criminal to justice, who is appointed to preserve the peace, protect the rights of the people, and see that they are not molested in any lawful pursuits, of all men should be clear-headed, strong-handed and pure-hearted, and should have the best possible directions from the authorities above him in the duties he is called upon to perform.
We are told that the action contemplated in the order of the appointment of this Committee is of an extraordinary character, and extraordinary circumstances have given rise to it. The march of events, for the last few months, has shown that safety to person and property, and the just administration of law demand a more thorough, efficient and faithful organization and direction of the police force in this city. It may not be and as here to state some of the facts upon which this Committee was created, and has to some extent acted.
Very soon after the Presidential election last November, it became manifest that the extreme Southern States were determined to make violent resistance to the constituted authorities of the country; a portion of the mercantile interest of our large cities, Boston among the rest, with the newspapers in their control, began to give evidence of a determination to prevent any further discussion of the slavery question at the North. Threats were freely made that no more anti-slavery meetings should be held in the city of Boston.
At a meeting in the Tremont Temple on the 3d of December last, called to discuss the question, ï¿½How can American Slavery be abolished?" these threats were first attempted to be carried out A mob, led and controlled by some prominent men of the city, took possession, and, by usurpation and violent demonstrations of various kinds, prevented the lawful occupants of the hall from carrying on their meeting. The city authorities, instead of protecting them as they should have done in accordance with their oath of office, evidently sympathized with the mob, and at last turned the men who hired the hall into the street, and shut the door against them. It is true it is said the Trustees agreed to have the hall closed, but this was done only on the representation of the city officers that they could not protect them in the lawful use of their property.
<c03>
In the evening of the same day, a similar meeting notice for which had been given at the dose of that in the Tremont Temple, was held in the Joy Street Church, which, for some cause or other, was fully protected in its action by the police, although a mob of thousands from the purlieus of the city were gathered upon the outside. But nearly all that night, the persons and houses of the colored people in that vicinity were assaulted with impunity by the ruffians who had been called from their dens by the State and Beacon street mob at the Temple. No one was even arrested for these gross breaches of the peace, and these causeless invasions of personal rights.
On the 16th of the same month, an attempt was made to breakup the Sunday services of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society in Music Hall, which was suppressed by the Police under the direction of Alderman Clapp, who was then acting Mayor. But the spirit of violence and intolerance continued to increase, and there were rumors of combinations or organizations of men who were banded together, and sworn to put down all public expressions of anti-slavery sentiment in the city, and, if possible, throughout the entire North. A Senator elected to the Legislature from the county of Suffolk wrote to a friend in Georgia, that ï¿½no John Brown meetings could be held in Boston, any more than in Georgia, and that there was a powerful organization which would be heard from in due time."
In the midst of all this, the public were startled by a declaration, said to have been made by the Mayor, Mr. Wightman, that he would not protect the meetings of the Society worshipping in Music Hall, or the annual meetings of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, (which had been in operation for thirty years,) promised to be held in the Tremont Temple on the 24th of January.
On application for protection by Committees of these Societies and the Trustees of Tremont Temple, the Mayor said he would not only not protect such meetings, but, if any disturbance occurred, he should arrest those who got them up.
It thus appearing that the city was in the hands of a mob, at whose head was the Mayor, who either did not know the first principles of the government under which he lived, and the simplest and plainest duties of the office he had been chosen to fill, or, knowing, had expressed a determination to assume a dictatorship, and exercise a despotism in violation of all law-men began seriously to inquire whether it was not the duty of the State so far to take the government of the city into its own hands as to protect the people in their rights, and secure the enforcement of those laws which the city officials were trampling under their feet.
Hence the order under which this Committee was appointed. Before entering upon their duties, there came complaints against the police of a more general character, charging inefficiency, and corruption of members, which we deemed it our duty to inquire into.
The result of that inquiry has been to satisfy us that the general conduct of the members of the police, when under proper direction, has been in the main unexceptionable, and perhaps as good as could be expected from the nature of the service in which they are employed, the thousand temptations which beset their path, and the tenure by which their office is held. Indeed, the general complaint has not been against the police as individuals, but the department which controls them; not that they did not obey orders when given, but that they had not the right kind of orders.
It was indeed testified by one witness, that the police were good for nothing three months before the city election of each year, because they were uncertain what party would succeed, and so they were busy calculating their chances for re-appointment. This was denied by other witnesses; but we think that, in the nature of the case, political influences must have a great control over the action of a member of the police when he knows that the change of an administration, or the representation of an influential political agent, may at any time deprive him of the position which gives bread to himself and family. This is human nature; we cannot change it. But we can place an officer, upon whose good behavior and faithful performance of duty rests the safety of so many and such great interests, beyond the reach of pot-house politicians, offended keepers of grog-shops, and of those other places whose ï¿½steps take hold on hell."
The events which transpired at the Tremont Temple and vicinity, on the 24th of January, are too painfully apparent to require lengthened comment. The part which the city authorities, the Mayor in particular, took in those disgraceful scenes, is not so apparent to the public as it appeared in the evidence before the Committee. Enough is known to show that the Mayor was, perfectly aware of the intention to break up the meeting for days, if not for weeks, before it occurred; that, while pretending to wish for the preservation of the peace, and to protect the Anti-Slavery Society in its legal rights, he was secretly in alliance with the mob and under their control; that, while seeming to give orders to maintain the law and protect the meeting, not a step was really taken for that purpose; that, when he when he went to the hall in the afternoon, it was with the intention of turning the meeting into the street, though he was prevailed upon to change his course after he got there; when, on reading the letter received by him from the trustees, it became apparent to the audience that he had no authority from them to close the hall; that, according to his own showing, after promising the President of the Society protection for the evening, he finally closed the hall, because, as he told Col. Sargent, a mob of ten thousand persons was organized, with watchwords, to tear down the Temple and murder Mr. Phillips.
This mob, it would seem by the same testimony, was declared by the Mayor to be composed, in connection with the ï¿½roughs of North street," of some of the ï¿½most respectable people of Beacon and Mt. Vernon streets."
It has appeared in evidence before the Committee, that no time during the day was the mob, in numbers or force of any kind, so formidable but that the police force present could have quelled it at once, if they had been so ordered; and Mr. Ham (long Deputy Chief, and an officer of experience and energy) testified distinctly, that even if Mayor Wightman's apocryphal organization of two thousand, which was to ï¿½tear down the Temple, and kill Mr. Phillips," had come in the evening, he could, with fifty or sixty men, have kept them out, maintained the peace of the city and the order of the meeting.
But the mob ruled, the meeting was broken up. Freedom of speech was stricken down, and the lawful use of property, of tongue and pen, was denied in the Puritan city of Boston, in the free State of Massachusetts, while its Legislature was in session, whose authority was openly, boldly, defied and trampled on.
The evidence given before the Committee is far too voluminous to be incorporated in this report; but there are some portions of it which we have included in an appendix, to which we call the attention of the Legislature, and more particularly to the portion given by Col. Horace B. Sargent, one of the Governor's Aids. It is clear, compact, and completely impregnable; for no attempt was made to contradict it.
It alone is sufficient to show that, so long as the city of Boston places such men in the municipal chair, it is not to be trusted with the appointment of officers who are charged primarily with the duty of ferreting out crime, preserving the peace, and protecting the rights of persons and property within its limits. Not only is it true, that those persons against whom this mob violence has been directed have no protection from the law in this city now, but for the last thirty years they have been constantly subject to mob rule.
Their meetings have been many times broken up or seriously molested, so that, if they have ever held a meeting without disturbance, it has been more because the great and little boys, for the time, did not think it worth while to trouble them, than from the manifestation of any disposition on the part of the city to do its duty in their behalf.
It is true, Boston has never before had the effrontery to say that she would put them down, whether they were legal or illegal.
We once had a Governor who suggested that the Abolitionists might be ï¿½indictable at common law." But this they do not complain of. What they do ask is to be protected in their legal rights. If they are indictable at common law, or statute law, they are ready for trial; but they do object, strenuously, to the rule of King Mob, even though it may be headed by all the respectability of Beacon and ï¿½Mount Vernon streets, and backed by His Honor the Mayor.
We know it is said that these are exceptional times -that there is great excitement. Men's passions are aroused. There is great commercial distress; men are losing their property; bankruptcy stares us in the face; the nation is going to pieces. Men's hearts are failing them for fear of what is coining upon them. Fear has no patience, knows of no law but its own impulse, and asks, like the poor prisoner before the wife of Rob Roy, only for life.
If this plea is put in, it must be taken for what it is worth. The time when we need the protection of law is when men are disposed to violate it. Rights are to be protected when an attempt is made to invade them. The only value of civil government is, that it stands between the individual and the arm which seeks to strike him down. The Mississippi, in its ordinary flow, requires no levee upon its banks. A breach in its banks would do little if any harm then.
It is only when the rains descend, the snow melts upon the mountains, and its thousand tributaries pour in their accumulated floods, that men begin to look at their defences, and are anxious for the stability of their dykes. So, in ordinary times, the natural currents of social and political life sweep quietly, if not harmoniously to the great ocean. But when the storm of passion comes, when hate and prejudice and passion rule the hour, when the foundations of the great deep of politics are breaking up, and despotism or anarchy lets loose its ruffian bands to crush out the blood-bought rights of the people, then we are thrown tack upon the natural or artificial defences which government
<c04>
was established to maintain. If the machinery fails, then, it is surely of little use, and we had better throw it aside, not only as cumbrous and unwieldy, but as failing utterly in the great purpose of its creation.
But this refusal to obey the law of the State, and this connivance at crime, are not new on the part of the city. It is presumed that the State passes laws with the intention of having: them put in force, or, at least, that its agents shall attempt to secure obedience to them. Yet this city has openly bid defiance to, and has utterly refused to enforce, some of the most valuable laws of the Commonwealth. It has instructed its officers to wink at open violations of them. The city pays large bills for dinners,. &c., &c.,. at some of the most noted places where intoxicating liquors are sold. Nothing can be done in this city for the enforcement of the liquor law, while in the country towns the law can be executed by individual effort; it is not so in large cities. Here the execution of the laws requires a large organized force. Without the Police, in a city like Boston, not only the liquor traffic, but the Sunday traffic, public dance houses, obscene exhibitions, gaming houses, houses of prostitution, and every other form of licentiousness, would be open and unrestrained. The control of the Police is the control of most of the criminal laws. It has the power, not only of deciding how the laws shall be executed, but whether they shall be executed at all.
This power should be placed in impartial hands. It has no less influence certainly in the execution of criminal laws, than the judicial power, and like that should be placed in the hands of men ï¿½as free and impartial as the lot of humanity permits." Municipal officers stand in no such independent position. On the contrary, they are constantly and strongly tempted to permit violations of law, by those persons who live by pandering to the vices of large cities. These classes are numerous enough to hold the balance of power in municipal elections. They all act together, and usually succeed in electing such candidates as they suppose will do least towards executing the laws made against crimes by which they- live. The three thousand or more rum sellers or keepers of gambling hells and houses of prostitution must have a mighty and controlling influence in the politics of this city. Let us at least take the police, those primary and most essential conservators of the public welfare, out of their hands, and, as far as possible, from all political or party influences. The result cannot but be good to all healthful and lawful institutions and interests. It will open a new era in the administration of public justice, and will give security to the people never before realized in the affairs of a great city.
It is said the bill we recommend infringes upon the right of self-government. But this is not true in any just sense. Government was made for man, made by individuals for their benefit. Towns, cities, institutions of all kinds are organized and legalized for their use. When any of them fail of this end, it is the right of the people to amend, alter or abolish them at pleasure. This is clearly declared in the bill of rights. In the seventh article, we mid this most clearly and distinctly stated:-
"Government is instituted for the common good, for the protection, safety, prosperity and happiness of the people, and not for the profit, honor or private interest of any one man, family, or class of men. Therefore the people alone have an incontestable, unalienable and indefeasible right to institute government; and to reform, alter, or totally change the same, when their protection, safety, prosperity and happiness require it."
This city was incorporated for the good of the people. When the Legislature which created it in their interest is satisfied that some of its powers are not now well used, or can be more safely vested in other agencies, it undoubtedly has the right to establish them. It grows out of the very nature and legitimate uses of human government.
The law we propose is no new and untried scheme. In other cities, a system of State Police has already been organized with the happiest results. In New York and Baltimore, it is now in successful operation. The universal testimony is, that those cities have never been so well governed before. There has never been so little violence, crime, and disturbance of every kind as since the appointment and control of the Police has been taken from the city authorities, and placed in the hands of Commissioners appointed by the State. While Boston is ruled by a mob who, with the aid of the municipal power, have declared their determination to put down all speech against slavery in our good old Commonwealth, in New York city, the home of the ï¿½Plug Uglies," ï¿½Dead Rabbits," and others who live by violence and crime-in the very midst of the commercial revulsion growing out of the insane and traitorous course of the rebels at the South-the author of the Helper Book, so called, which has so stirred the foundations of Southern wrath, holds a meeting quietly in that city, while Henry Ward Beecher deals out his thunders against slave traders and secessionists without molestation, because the Police authorities volunteer to defend and protect him.
We therefore ask leave to report the accompanying bill, in the belief that it is demanded upon general principles growing out of the duties of government and the character of so large a portion of the population that swarms in, and exercises a controlling influence over, the politics of great cities.
This step is demanded for the preservation of free speech and a free press, and in order that the criminal law of the Commonwealth, intended to restrain vice and encourage virtue, may not be evaded or openly violated with impunity. We have the utmost faith, that with a brief trial of the system, provided for in this bill, will receive the hearty support of every honest holder of property in the city, and of all who have at heart the highest good of the whole people.
N. H. WHITING, of the Senate.
SAM'L S. DREW, of the House.
The Chatham, (U. C.) Planet, in noticing a recent lecture of John Brown, Jr., upon Haytien Emigration, mentions the following as a local peculiarity:-
"The Rev. W. P. Newman, formerly of Dresden, in this country, has resided in Hayti for some time past, and has mode himself very busy in gathering facts concerning emigration to that quarter.
In prosecuting his inquiries, he was very successful. But we are informed that in consequence of a difficulty arising between Mr. Newman and a large class of Haytians, he has concluded to return again to Canada.
The origin of this difficulty seems to be found in the fact, that on the occasion of some religious procession passing along the streets of Port au Prince. The State religion of Hayti is Roman Catholic. Mr. Newman being a Protestant, he did not elevate his hat in honor of the passing Host. Upon being requested to do so, he refused, when an officer forcibly took Mr. N's hat off.
Of course, Mr. Newman was indignant at this, and at once came in collision with the authorities, who fined him. As a result of Mr. Newman's conduct, the Roman Catholic classes hold strong feelings against him, which he considers impair his usefulness in that country. Hence his return to this Province. This is one side of the story."
HON. JOHN G. PALFREY. The vexed question of the Postmaster ship of Boston has been judiciously settled by the appointment of John G. Palfrey, of ï¿½Cambridge, to the office. No man has a higher personal reputation than Mr. Palfrey, and the appointment to so influential a position is a. proper recognition of his devotion to the cause of Freedom in the days when it cost something to be an Anti-Slavery man. As a Free-Soil Whig, and as the leader of the Free-Soilers of New England, Mr. Palfrey was honorably conspicuous for many years. He was a member of Congress from 1847 to 1849, and in 1851 was the Free-Soil candidate for Governor of Massachusetts. The same party supported him zealously in seventeen unsuccessful elections for Representative from the Middlesex District. After the triumph of Anti-Slavery principles was achieved in Massachusetts, Mr. Palfrey retired from politics to devote himself to- literature," and the result of his labors has been the publication of two volumes of a ï¿½History of New England," which have given him as enviable a position among American historical writers as his previous learned and able works had won for him among the theologians. His appointment cannot fail to be eminently popular in Now England, where no man is better known or more respected. -New York Tribune.
FOREIGNERS BETRAYED. The Charleston correspondent of the New York Tribune, in a recent letter, makes the following important statement:ï¿½ I wish to direct the attention of the Emigration Commissioners in New York and Baltimore to the fact that there are scoundrel lying in wait upon the arrival of every German packet, for the purpose of decoying ignorant, uneducated men, who do not know a single word of the English language, into enlistment for the Southern army. Seventy of these poor fellows recently arrived from Baltimore, all of whom had been induced through specious promises to ship for Charleston. They now lie bleaching in the son upon Morris Island, almost naked, with no beds and very little to eat. A true Union man, who is a German, obtained a pass, through the Captain of a German Company, to visit the Island and went (specially at my request) to communicate with these unfortunate men. They all solemnly declare that they had no idea they were enlisted against the government of the United States, and all agree that they were deluded by false representations made to them immediately upon their arrival. There are also a number who came by way of New York, and who give a precisely similar account of the means resorted to for the purpose of entrapping them."
GALVESTON, March 29th. The Texas Convention ratified the Southern Confederacy, there being only two negative votes, and adjourned fine the, without referring the question of its adoption to the people. All is quiet in Texas.
<c05>
A correspondent of the Graham Ville Enterprise writes front the town of Beaufort, South Carolina:
"Several letters addressed to parties in our midst, from Northern merchants, and many respectable houses in New York, have lately been communicated to us. They breathe but one spirit, that of bitter hostility against Seward, Greeley, Beecher, and the fanatic idiots who surround these leaders; and they utter but one sentiment, that of warm wishes for the prosperity of the Southern Confederacy. They complain, however, of the indiscriminate censure of the North, where, they say, the Seceding States have a large majority of firm friends. Not long since, a lady of our town sent an order to a publishing house in New York for school books. Her letter bore a printed design of the State flag. In due course of time, the books ordered were received, and with them a letter from which we are kindly permitted to take the following extract:-
'The heading of your letter pleased me mightily, for although of the North, our sympathies are with the South, not only in the expression, but the South can take our Capital, if she needs it, to sustain her independence. In closed you will find a tract that we put forth some years since as a hit at the Black Republicans,'"
ABOLITIONISM DEFINED. The editor of the Southern Literary Messenger, a monthly magazine published in Richmond, Virginia, and ï¿½devoted to Literature, Science and Art," defines an Abolitionist thus:-
"An Abolitionist is a man who does not love slavery for its own sake, as a divine institution; who does n worship it as the corner-stone of civil liberty; who does not adore it as the only possible social condition on which a permanent republican government can be erected; and who does not, in his inmost soul, desire to see it extended and perpetuated over the whole earth, as a means of human reformation second in dignity, importance and sacredness alone to the Christian religion. He who does not love African slavery with this love is an Abolitionist."
In Memphis, Tenn., last week, a man named David Banks shot a negro woman's nose off, while trying to kill a white woman. His punishment consisted in depositing $50 with a magistrate as security for his appearance at court. The woman he tried to kill was fined $10 for being disorderly, and the negro gets not a dime nor even a flogging for having her nose blown off.
DEATH OF PROFESSOR GIBBS OF YALE COLLEGE.-Josiah Willard Gibbs, L. L. D., Professor of Sacred Literature in Yale College, the in New Haven, on Monday, 25th ult., aged 71 years. Prof. Gibbs was a man of great learning, a renowned philologist, and one of the most distinguished of American scholars. He was the author of a valuable Hebrew dictionary, and of many other works of great merit.
DEATH OF REV. THOMAS WHITTEMORE, D. D.-Rev. Thomas Whittemore, long known as one of the leading ministers of the Universalist denomination, and editor of the Trumpet, there at his residence in Cambridge port on Thursday night, 28th ult.
DIED, at Albany, N. Y., Hon. Orville Luther Holley, aged 71-a brother of late Hon. Myron Holley and Rev. Horace Holley, of Hollis Street Church, Boston. He was greatly respected and honored.
DEATH OF CHIEF JUSTICE SHAW. Hon. Lemuel Shaw, ex-Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, died suddenly, at his residence in Mount Vernon Street, Boston, on Saturday morning, in the eighty-first year of his age. He had been failing gradually through the winter, and in addition to the infirmities of advanced age, had been affected with asthma and dropsy of the chest. He was a native of Barnstable, and son of Rev. Oakes Shaw, for many years pastor of the parish of Great Marshes in that town. He graduated at Harvard in the class of 1800, was admitted to the Suffolk Bar in 1805, was appointed Chief Justice in 1830, and resigned in September last.
A PREDICTION. A special dispatch from Washington to the Charleston Mercury, says:ï¿½ Ex-Attorney-General Black remarked yesterday that he would not be surprised to see President Davis and lady dispensing the hospitalities of the White House in less than ninety days.
EXCITEMENT AMONG STEAMBOATMEN AT NEW ORLEANS. The New Orleans True Delta, of Sunday, has the following: ï¿½The new law of the Confederate States, requiring steamboats for 'foreign' ports to take out clearances, went into effect yesterday, and created no little excitement and comment on the wharf. The moat important feature of it seems to be the fee which the custom-house officials never tail to exact"
JACKSON, Miss., March 30th. The State Convention has ratified the Constitution of the Southern Confederacy by a vote of 78 to 7.
The Sanitarium is the title of a new journal of moral, mental, and physical culture to be published monthly in Boston by C. M. Sanford, at $1 per year. It is the offspring of a Sanitarium Association recently formed in Boston, which proposes with a capital stock of $30,000 to establish an Institute for the Kindergarten system of educating children, and to promote general culture in other ways.
Hon. John Sherman has been elected Senator for six years from the 4th ult., by the Ohio Legislature, in the place of Hon. Salmon P. Chase, who resigned to take a seat in the Cabinet.
MORE OF JOHN BROWN. The Alexandria (Va.) Sentinel speaks of the discovery of two hundred hatchets which had been buried in Fairfax County, and explains as follows:-
"A soldier who served at Harper's Ferry, and became familiar with the weapons captured at John Brown's mountain depot, says that the appearance and the finish of these battle-axes, and of the handles to them, are precisely similar to those of Brown's pikes. Like them also, these do not contain the name of the atrocious manufacturer."
The Charleston Mercury boasts that all the Southern forts have fallen, whereupon Prentice adds, ï¿½Yes, fallen among thieves, like the poor man in the Bible."
CIRCULAR.-Through any connection with the NEW YORK INFIRMARY and the Clinical Department of the NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLIGE, as well as in the course of my private practice, I have been convinced of the fact that there are many invalid Lathes, who would gladly place themselves under the care of women physicians, could suitable accommodations be provided under their immediate supervision.
To meet this want, I propose this spring to open a private establishment in ROXBURY, near Boston, offering, to a certain extent, the advantages of country surroundings, where a few patients can be accommodated with all the comforts of a home, and receive the necessary medical treatment.
In critical cases, a number of distinguished physicians of Boston have kindly tendered their services in consultation.
The house will be opened as soon as the number of inmates shall have been secured, necessary to ensure success. The utmost care will be taken to render the society select and agreeable; and references will be required of all applicants not personally known to the undersigned.
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D., Resident Physician of the N. E. Medical College, Boston, April, 1861.
DIED-In South Bridgton, Maine, Feb. 13th, Rev. J. P. FESSENDEN, for nearly thirty years pastor of the Congregational Church in that place, aged 68 years. He was a man of earnest, independent thought and utterance. Clear and discriminating in his delineations, logical in argument, and singularly bold and pungent in expression-altogether, he was an impressive and powerful preacher. Sincerity, frankness, unvarnished truth characterized all he said and did. He was a man of deep religions sensibility, heartily engaged in all that pertains to human progress and reform, and a man of unflinching self-sacrifice. He laid himself on the altar of God for the spread of Christianity, the triumphs of truth, and the welfare of humanity. The purity of hi motives, and the honest nobility of all his movements, were universally acknowledged.
He devoted himself to the great enterprises of reform at an early period. Some thirty years ago, he gave himself to a life-warfare against American Slavery. He remembered those in bonds as bound with them. ï¿½I determined," was his remark,ï¿½ that I would do for the slave what I should wish him to do, were I a slave, and he a minister of the gospel.'' No one can doubt that he kept his word.
As a friend, he was gentle, confiding, affectionate and faithful to the last degree.
He was cautions in his intimacies, preferring no familiar intercourse with those of whose sincerity and truthfulness he stood in doubt.
He was no less the Christian friend and neighbor, than the Christian minister. Happy and hopeful in his mission of love, in his toils and sacrifices, be inspired in others his own kind and loving spirit A good man, a sincere, devoted Christian man. He has fought the good fight, he has finished his course, has kept the faith, and taken possession of his crown of righteousness.
<c06>

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
PLEDGES FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING, JANUARY, 1861.
Weymouth Female A. S. Society, $25.00
R. H. Ober, $ 20,00
J. G. Dodge, $ 5.00
RECEIPTS.
Collected by E. H. Heywood.
Fall River, 10.00
Collected by Mrs. K. E. Farnum, of Blackstone. Mrs. Nancy Hill, $3; Mrs. Williams, 2; Laban Bates, 1; Edward Harris, 2; Mrs. Jenks, 1; Estes Lamb. 5; Mr. Tucker, 1; Andrew Booth, 1; Wm. Kelley, 1; Three friends, 3.20; M". Saunders, 1; Caleb Thayer, 1; Airs. Fuller, 50c; friend, 50c; Dr. Wilder, 50c. 23.70
Mrs. S. H. Young, pledge, 5.00
Mrs. S.H. Young, Pledge January, 1861, 5.00
J. G. Dodge, Pledge January 1860, 4.00
Mrs. Geo. Vining, Pledge  January 1860 1.00

DONATIONS.
E. W. Twing, 3; Joseph Merrill, 1; J. O. Levett, 2; Maria Page, 1; Moses Phipps, 2.50; S. H. Cowing, 2; Francis H. Cowing, 1; Capt Zebina Small, 5; Mrs. Small, 1; friend in Portland, 1.

Collected by A. T. FOSS.
Bellingham, 1.24; West Wrentham, 4.85; Worcester, 8; Haverhill, 9.02; Milford,4.
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.

FOR KANSAS SUFFERERS. 1861.
Feb. 12. From Isaac Austin, Nantucket, Mass., $1.00
Mar. 5. Friends in Lincoln, Mass., by Mr. Leonard Webster, 44.00
Mar. 14. Miss Abby Goodwin, Tuckerton, N. J., 5.00
$50.00
Mar. 20. Sent to Dr. J. C. Weibly, El Dorado, Kansas, by C. 11. Brainard, $10,00
April 2. Pd. to Dr. Thos. S. Webb, Sec. Kansas Aid Soc., 40.00
$50.00
ROBERT F. WALLCUT. Boston, April 4., 1861.

HENRY C. WRIGHlT will speak at
Duxbury, Sunday, April 7.
Feltonville, Sunday, April 14.
Valley Falls, R. I., Sunday, April 21.
Manchester, N. H., Sunday, April 28.
A. T. FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Weare, N. H., Sunday, April 14.
North Weare, Monday, April 15.
Essex, Mass., Sunday, April 21.
Manchester, Mass., Monday, April 22.
Manchester, N. H., Sunday, April 28.

MRS. E. L. ROSE will speak in
Milford, Sunday, April 7.
Boston, (Mercantile Hall,) Wednesday, April 10.
New Bedford, Sunday, April 14.
A LECTURE BY MRS. ERNESTINE L. ROSE.-On Wednesday evening, April 10th, Mrs. ERNESTINE L. ROSE will deliver a Lecture in this city, at Mercantile Hall, No. 16 Summer Street, commencing at half past 7 o'clock.
Tickets-10 cents-to defray expenses, to be had at the Investigator office, and at the door on the evening of the lecture. Those who are disposed to assist in the sale of tickets, will please make early application at that office.
Boston, April 4, 1861.
In point of rhetorical ability, logical power of mind, and mental independence, Mrs. Rose has few equals. We hope she will have a full house.)-Ed. Lib.

MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Lather Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A.M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23-3m.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution, (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult eases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, fret of charge.
DIED-In Worcester, Mass., March 29, Mr. GEORGE PUTNAM, aged 65, formerly of Boston.

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) Term of the Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 1, and continue Ten weeks. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely chiefly upon the patronage of the more advanced and liberal portion of the public for support.
For particulars, send for Circular to the address of WM. S. HAYWOOD, 
ABBIE B. HAY WOOD, Principals. Hopedale, Milford, Mass., March 30, 1861. 4w $40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover A Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded as Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861., 3m.

The British Reviews, AND Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)

TERMS.Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwod and one Review, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews. 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews,. 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The price in Great Britain of the five Periodica above-named is $31 per annum. 
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT A CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York. Dec.28, 6m.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by 
AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
TO THE MOB-DEFYING ABOLIITIONISTS.
O, noble men and women,
With hearts as brave as true,
Ye quafled not at the tumult
Of the rude, misguided crew!
Warm hearts in our old England,
And eyes that shed glad tears,
Read how dear but unbeheld ones,
And friends unseen for years,-
Trusting in God and duty,
Duty to the oppressed,
From city, town and village,
From the east, north, and west,-
Disciples like their Master,
Met in his name to show
A brother's tender pity
For the slave's helpless woe.
"It was sublime," dear cousin,
To see, like thee, the young,
The aged, like thy father,
The learned, the wise, the strong-
Sit calmly through the tumult
Of that base, yelling crowd;
We honor such, in every land;
Their courage makes us proud.
Tenterden, Eng. JANE ASHBY.

RABBI RAPHALL.
[The following lines were elicited by the discourse of the Jewish Rabbi, Raphall, of New York, on the President's Fast Day, which the learned Doctor improved as a proper occasion for advocating the system of American slavery.]
Oh, son of Jacob! pleadest thou for this?
Hast thou forgot the sorrows of thy race?
The groans? and sighs that from the deep abyss
Of bondage echoed to God's holy place?
Upon thine abject sires, with lofty scorn,
Looked down proud Egypt's sons, sage, warrior, priert;
Who were they then, despised, enslaved, forlorn,
That God should hear their eriet and give then rest?
He that unto thy fathers freedom gave—
Hath He not taught thee pity for the slave?
To His command, in years of jubilee,
Did not thy land respond "The slave is free!”
When Israel, rebelling, spurned His sway,
And from His holy temple turned away—
Passing through fire, and grovelling in the dust,
To gods obscene, offspring of human lust;
When they who by his cloud and fire were led,
And by his manna in the desert fed,
Revelled at feasts profane, with perverse will—
With smoking altars upon every hill.
And lurid fires redd' ning the midnight sky,
Made the land reek with their idolatry,—
Offended Heaven withdrew its shielding arm,
And, lo <illegible> their plains with foes like locusts swarm:
Swift as the furious winds, destructions come 
On field and vineyard, tower and wall and dome:
He bids the conqu'ror forge his heavy chain,
And hurls; them back to slavery again.
Then when their groans had rung through sorrowing years,
And Babel's streams were bitter with their tears,
Again he heard their penitential cry,
And ended all their long captivity. 
Child of a thrice-delivered race, hast thou
No tears for those who still in bondage bow?
Bondage foretold! Tyrant's convenient plea!
Was there no misery foretold for thee?
Scorned and despised, to every land dispersed;
From all distinguished, and by all accursed;
Spurned like a dog, and spit on in the mart;
Branded a wretch without a soul or heart;
Knave, usurer, to gold's insatiate lust
An abject slave, a thing whom all distrust;
From many lands expelled, in most denied
The rights that make a freeman's boast and pride!—
Is not thy shame the theme of prophecy?
Yet doth Jehovah bid me hiss at thee!
No-for so sure as Palestine is trod
By Salem’s foes, the enemies of God,
Shall retribution dire descend on all
Who spurn her dust, and triumph in her fall;
For, like as scourging locusts in their flight,—
By instinct led,-on fruitful lands alight;
So the proud conqueror, urged by lust of power,
Swoops on the nations only to devour;
Nor thinks, in working his imperial will.
The mandates of the Eternal to fulfill.
And in that day when days shall cease to roll—
Earth's spangled curtain rent from pole to pole!—
The sun grown dim, the moon like dusky fire—
All nations quaking at their portents dire!—
The day of judgment!—will thy conscience then
Excuse this tampering with the rights of men?
May not the Judge demand—
"What edict gave
To thee the right to make or hold a slave?”
STAND FAST!
AN ENGLISH APPEAL TO FREEDOM'S FRIENDS IN AMERICA.
O, brother freemen o'er the sea.
Our English pride—our boast—
You whom, when here we name the free,
We love and honor most—
To-day, with eager ears and hearts,
With natures strangely stirred,
We hush to hear what from your marts,
Your homesteads, shall be heard.
To-day the war of hell and heaven
Is waged by each of you;
To-day to each of you'tis given
To either to be true;
Our English hearts well may we still.
While we this issue bide;
God's hopes and ours will you fulfill,
Or blench from Freedom s side?
In many a cause it well may be
Good men their way may miss;
But right and justice now can see
No way but one in this:
Here is no room for paltering doubts;
Each soul must, to its cost,
Weigh well the doom that conscience shouts-
Who wavers here is lost!
Guides of the present—hopes of earth—
The nations look to you,
Even as their freedom springs to birth,
To learn what freemen do.
Show them, by all that it your fame.
By your free fathers' graves,
Their sons this hour dare not the shame
Of faster fettering slaves.
Draw not one foot back in this strife!
To you is God's voice dumb?
On you depends the more than life
Or death of all to come!
Let the South rage—the devil plead
For mercy—MEN be ye!
But God but right but conscience head,
And stamp the future free!
Greenwich, Jan. 18, 1861. W. C. BENNETT.
THE BLIND KING.
Dedicated to Southern Secessionists.
A blind king sat on a burning throne,
His brew was red with ire,
And he fancied a fly was before his eye,
But felt not the growing fire.
He seized a bellows, and wildly blew,
Cursing the fly he would blow;
But the tube was bent, and each puff as sent
Was fanning the flames below.
The flames curled up with a ruddy wrath,
Around his beard they came;
But with face awry he would curse the fly,
Still fanning the greedy; flame.
And there he sits on his burning throne,
His fierce brow knit with ire, 
And he groans and blow, and never knows
He's fanning his funeral pyre. I. A. ERERHART.
<c02>
The Liberator.
[From the pamphlet "The People," by Karl Heinzen, 1853.]
THE PEOPLE AND THE STATE;
OR,
The Unitarian State and the Federative State.
[TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.]
Who form the State? You answer, the people. You will be further obliged to answer, the whole people; and, finally, you must add, the” one and indivisible" people.
We intend, to-day, to examine the question, whether the people, who cannot be thought divided from the State, ought to be divided by and for the good of the State; or, in other words, whether a people or nation can better reach its common ends in a Unitarian, consolidated
State, or in a Federative State. If the State is the people, we have to ask if one people should not also be one State, and whether the people is not divided if it divides the State. Contracted in shorter terms, the question, then, will be: Ought the State to be founded on Centralization or Confederation 
We should be honest enough not only to cast off errors perceived, but also to avow them; for errors openly avowed promote truth, while those covered up deprive it of the right and effect of its triumph.
These remarks premised may defend me from the reproach of inconsistency, when I mention that formerly I was a decided advocate of the Federative System, (especially in regard to Germany,) and had ever treated that question as a fixed and vital question of principle and liberty. Confirmed observation and mature meditation on points discussed farther below have, however, convinced me that said question is only a practical one, a question of time and place; in short, one depending on circumstances. I have been satisfied that, according to principle, only centralization, not federation, must be retained as the foundation of the proper formation of States, and as the true means of realizing the will of an enlightened, united and free nation. Federation, on the other hand, I have learned to regard as a product of accidental exterior conditions, and as a mere shift for maintaining in different State-individuals, on the one hand, a certain measure of freedom without separation, and, on the other, a certain unity without despotism through a period of transition. The value of the Federal System is strictly relative, conditioned by external relations, and all Federal States have, from the day of their union, within themselves, the necessity either of being converted into a Unitarian State, or crumbling again asunder; then to see the severed parts become different States, or swallowed up by adjoining States. To explain this, we subjoin the following reflections:—
First. In order to put our position to the theoretical proof, let us abstract from all historical complications, fancy away all existing State-formations, and suppose the case that in some territory,—for instance, the present 
United States of North America,—a politician should have to form a State from entirely new elements, out of a people recently immigrated, hence without regard to existing conditions, divisions, traditions and separate interests. Would it occur to him to cause that new State first to spring up in different, sovereign little States, in order to combine these different State individuals into a federal State at a later time? Surely not. On the contrary, he would first establish the outlines of the whole State as he would the outer walls of a house, and then articulate it into divisions and sub-divisions,—say provinces, counties and townships. But for what purpose? Not in order to form independent organisms of these several limbs, but in order to make, by means of such articulation, the good order and administration of the whole practically possible, and to assign to each single part its proper place and function in the general organism; that is, from mere regard for the State mechanism. So he would not establish the State New York, the State Pennsylvania, &c., but at most the province New York, the province Pennsylvania, &c. He would think he heard the spirit of discord or narrowness speaking, if somebody should advise him to divide the people that trusted him with the formation of its new polity, into different nations, calling themselves New Yorkers, Pennsylvanians, &c. He would say: We have come over as one people, we must also form one State.
One might oppose to this abstraction, that the States do not arise at once, as realised theories or ideals, but gradually, as products of historical conjunctures. This is quite correct, but it is no less correct that the further development of these products of history should always adhere to the original idea, theory, reason, and strive for its realization. Theory, then, will always remain right; and what its standard, the standard of reason, must reject, will not have duration in history;
hence cannot be set up as normal. States are no more rational from the outset than men; nevertheless, we demand of every man that he should try to approximate that ideal of man which reason shows up to him; and it does not occur
to us to regard his rudeness and imperfection as his destination, because it exists as the product of his education, (or history.) Shall we, then, put the demand of reason only to the individual, but recommend the irrationality of an accidental situation as a standard to a society of men? Let us now consider how far the abstraction set forth by us finds its justification in history.
The original States, as might be supposed, were all of them small, being formed by the union of a few persons or families at first, in the shape of a commune, by whose narrow circuit everybody was always enabled to share in the actions of the whole. Most of these small States, gradually increasing to the size of tribes or colonies, were lost by absorption, were incorporated
into stronger tribes, or by conquerors. Others, however, mostly favored by geographical situation, maintained themselves as republics, or first became republics after having rid themselves of the rule of conquerors. But the isolated position of such small States can never be maintained but for a certain time. They will soon be threatened by more powerful neighbors, and then feel the necessity of external alliances. It was thus that the system of federation arose. History also points out, in the first place, that only small States made a confederation, having each no sufficient resources to maintain themselves separately against the shock of oppression or conquest; and, secondly, that the original and real purpose of federation was always outward, and hence was no aim of the State in itself. History has proved this in Greece, Switzerland, North America, etc., and it makes no difference whether the States joined in a confederation had been independent a long or a short time before. Neither in Greece, Switzerland, nor North America, would the single republics or colonies have thought of federation, if they had not been threatened by a common enemy , or if they had been singly strong enough to maintain themselves against him. Still less, then, can the necessity of a federative division exist in large States, in great nations; for with those which are strong enough of themselves to resist external pressure, the object of federation drops away, and when, under transitory circumstances, the want of allies is felt, they make leagues or alliances with other States.
Thus a glance at history, as well as theoretical abstraction, convinces us that the State of itself, from its intrinsic objects, needs no federative division. Hence the States that need federation are defective States, and their defectiveness is still more apparent, after the accomplished union of the federal States. Federal States have no guaranty of permanency; for, with the independence or sovereignty of the several members, they foster the germs of disunion, and will maintain the diversity of interests, until necessity enforces an amalgamation or a hostile separation.
As we have seen, the object of union had originally. an outward direction. But as the same is usually permanent, and as the external ends of the State have the closest relation to the domestic ones, the United States will, of necessity, feel more and more obliged
<c03>
to treat jointly the internal affairs, as well as the external ones. While the Unitarian or Consolidated State, from the very outset, secures the accomplishment of its external ends with that of the internal ones, the Federal State will, conversely, come into the necessity of suffering itself to be led to the internal ends by the external ones. Hence, there must arise in the United States an entirely changed view as regards the internal development, and that view is from the first opposed to the original one of the single State. The views of the single State must first learn, by degrees, to become subordinate to the general one, which cannot be done without continued reluctance, disturbing frictions, and retarding interstices. Thus it happens that the greater freedom which the federal States had at first is so long hampered by the complicated process of their amalgamation into a unitarian State, that the backward Unitarian States must, at last, overtake, and afterwards outstrip them. The egoism of the single state-individuals is a perpetual obstacle to the pursuit of the general interests, and the complication of the general and particular ends introduces a permanent contradiction into the idea and development of the State. If the single States are nearly sovereign, they will hinder an internal development in conformity with general principles; but if they are sufficiently dependent on the federal government, they will lose their object as single States. That contradiction must, sooner or later, produce either an absolute centralization,—hence an abandonment of the inviduality of the single States;—or a secession of the latter from the Union;—and hence in the one case, as in the other, an annihilation of the federal State.
The future of the federative system may already be foreseen from the symptoms in Switzerland and North America. In Switzerland, before the inauguration of the new federal Constitution, the cantons were sovereign as for as possible. That cantonal sovereignty had always proved, in external as well as internal affairs, the most stubborn obstacle to the promotion of the general interests. It was the means of securing, when and where it seemed expedient, harassing tolls or duties, a troublesome difference of coins, religious quarrels, traitorous machinations with foreign powers, antiquated injustice,—in short, the preservation of every kind of irrationality and local or class egoism.
While one canton was making judicious laws, the next canton prided itself on the conservation of mediaeval barbarities; while one was building fine roads, the next one left them quite impassable; while one suppressed the rule of priestcraft, it was the more firmly established in the next adjoining. Thus progress in one section was always interrupted or checked by reaction in the other. At length, it was seen that these evils could not be removed without a stronger centralization. So the powerless "Vorort" (fore place,—that is, the alternately leading city or canton) was replaced by the Federal Council, which, no longer a single canton, dares resist in the principal affairs of the general administration, among whose prerogatives are the management of the general post, tax and police departments, &c., and whose power must necessarily grow larger and larger, unless abolished again by a revolution, and consequent civil war between the cantons. But if the single cantons, not only for the sake of the whole, but for their own sake, are constrained to surrender the most important political powers, the question forces itself upon us, why they should any longer act the part of distinct States?
In North America, the development of things must take the same course. Here, the Central Power would long ago have obtained a more controlling influence, and the necessity of greater centralization would have been more keenly felt, if the Union was not almost exempt from the fear of foreign aggression, when a more extensive power of the general government over the general forces and means would become indispensable.
That necessity, however, which no foreign enemy could impress upon the people, will be inculcated by the enemy within. The slave question merely will suffice gradually to induce the necessity of a compulsory central power, or a dissolution of the Union. Do we not, therefore, see, on frequent occasions, the central government in the alternative of either looking on powerless at the reckless doings of single States, (for instance, of the Secessionists in the South,) or contemplating an expansion of its power, (as was the case with Mr. Fillmore's attempt to get the two millions of militia soldiers at his disposal for the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law?
We admit that, in the North American Union, the” Model Republic," the sovereignty of the single States’ serves as a bulwark against the encroachments of the Central Power; but it is simultaneously the perpetual source of jealousy, and the conservator of evils which must ruin the best republic. Without the sovereignty of the single States, slavery would have been abolished long ago, and the slaveholders would not rule the republic. The preservation of the Union would not be the eternal care or pretext to which politicians sacrifice all principles and progress; the neglect of” internal improvements," the betterment of rivers and harbors, building of roads, &c., would have become a" democratic" expedient, to preserve the administration from undemocratic application of the public funds; the bill for the donation of the national lands to actual settlers would have been long ago made a national law; the government of the country, which, at present, requires the expenses for thirty-three Legislatures besides the Central Government, would not be as costly as a monarchical regime; the particular views of the single State would not rule most members of Congress in economical questions; the general rights would have been secured everywhere; while, now, for instance in the Southern States, there is neither freedom of the press, nor security of persons, as far as manifestations against the institution of slavery are concerned. In short, in North America still more than in Switzerland, the dualism of the Union and the single States is the sheet-anchor of wrong and the brake of progress; and we see here, in any period of unusual commotion, the ship of state: fluctuate between the efforts either of fortifying the single States for their protection against the central power, or of strengthening the central government for the carrying out of general measures.
But if the confederacy is seen more and more to tend towards centralization, it is not to be conceived why its form should be adhered to. In foreign affairs, the federative division is a cause of weakness and uncertainty, as for domestic policy it is not only superfluous, but a cumbersome evil, to relieve which, we must always appeal to centralization. That the federal system is equally superfluous and untenable will become fully manifest, if we imagine the single States to have progressed so far as to need no longer to maintain a separate egoism. Then, what interest could they have left, to prefer the perplexed mechanism of the federal State to the simple machinery of the centralized
State? None at all. Federation is, then, (apart from the desirable protection against encroachments of the central power, to be considered subsequently,) only the means of preserving a bulwark for the several egoisms of the federal States; hence to injure the general by particular interests.
Federative States have tried to adjust the conflict of their ends and interests by a double representation:
one for the whole nation of the Union, (in North America the House of Representatives, in Switzerland the National Council.) and another for every single State as such—(in North America the Senate, in Switzerland the States-Council.) That invention has been glorified as the non plus ultra of political wisdom. Now, it will not be questioned that, in the given circumstances, it was practical, nay, even necessary, in order to appease the egoism of the single States, and to bring about a Union. But whether it is., in other respects, necessary or serviceable for the domestic development, is the same question again, as that whether centralization or federation is the best form for domestic development For the two-fold representation is clearly a requisite of the federal State, while a single House of Representatives (or National Council) would be an expression and instrument of unity. The more the necessity of unity is felt, the less the federal State,
<c04>
and withal its representatives, (the Senate or States-
Council) will be necessary. The Senate is, after its original destination, nothing but a federative counterpoise against the possible expansion of the unitarian State; hence, it is also a conservatory of individualism, provincial esprit of a dead past
[To be concluded next week.]
GROWTH OF INTEREST IN THE CAUSE.
Extract of a letter from a highly intelligent lady in Western New York to a friend in Boston:-
"Many thanks for the incomparable speech of Wendell Phillips. Excellent indeed, because so just, so true. How cheering to know he had so many listeners—anxious and earnest listeners too, it is to be hoped. At this critical moment of our country's hopes and fears, every honest and loving heart must be longing for light and truth.
Some six or seven years ago, I was almost ready to cry with regret and vexation to see William Henry Channing get up is Corinthian Hall, and pour out his full and reloquent soul in the great cause of humanity, with not perhaps a hundred listeners; so few that he had to request them to come and occupy the seats near him; and even that little handful made up of those already convinced of all the truths he uttered! And our Mr. Furness, too, in Philadelphia have I not heard him breathe out his earnest pleadings in the cause of liberty, and relief to the oppressed, to empty seats and bare walls, because ears polite could not brook’ anti-slavery preaching'?
How have I longed to have the men and women in the chief places of the earth, and all even in die the highways and hedges, compelled to come in, that they might partake of even more than a wedding feast! But the day has come when these things are cared for. The people are awake and astir to hear the truth for themselves. The tide cannot now be rolled back, whatever may come of it. If the nation be split and shivered between the rock and the whirlpool, Truth and Righteousness must outride the storm."
From Weldon's London Register of Facts and Occurrences relating to Literature, the Sciences, and the Arts.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, THE ABOLITIONIST ORATOR.
The present days are joyful times of triumph for American Abolitionists; a great revolution is accomplishing itself on the American continent. The cotton States have seceded from the great Republic, avowedly because the Northern people are at length leavened with a slight leaven of anti-slavery principles. President Buchanan, in tracing the cause of this revolution to its source, fixes it in that obscure printing office in a back attic of a house in some purlieu of the city of Boston, whence, thirty years ago, William Lloyd Garrison issued the early numbers of the Liberator. It is not often that he who emits the ideas which afterwards become the parents of revolutions, is permitted to witness their realization. The Rousseau, the Montesquieu, the Voltaire, who produced the change in opinion which afterwards led to the re-organization of institutions, died while the old regime was still externally unimpaired. In America, however, the connection between the ideal and the actual is more intimate than in Europe; and it has been vouchsafed to the early champion of the Africa-American slave to witness the growth of the grain of mustard seed which he planted, into a mighty over-shadowing tree. A few words on the American Abolitionists, and the relations they bear to the society
in which they live, will not be inopportune at a moment when the fruits of their handiwork have suddenly become so apparent on the face of public events.
Europe is familiar with that form of heroism which, stimulated and cheered by the strong sympathy of masses of one's fellow-countrymen, courts the dungeon or the scaffold, and all the punishment which despotic or oligarchic power can inflict. She is less familiar with that other and almost opposite phase of heroism which, in the name of justice and humanity, boldly opposes itself to the most deep-seated passions and prejudices, and the vested interests, of one's own fellow-citizens, in behalf of a degraded and utterly alien race, who know nothing of what their champions are suffering in their cause. The first marks the patriot, the second the humanitarian. Kossuth and Garibaldi are illustrious examples furnished by the present generation to the long roll of historic patriots; William Lloyd Garrison, the chief of the American Abolitionists, is perhaps the most conspicuous living type of the humanitarian militant. Age is stealing over the intrepid old man (1) now. He gradually retires into the background, while the vigorous form and sonorous voice of a younger but middle-aged man, Mr. Wendell Phillips, is seen and heard in the foreground of the Abolition phalanx. The honorary leadership remains, and, during his lifetime, will ever remain, with Mr. Garrison; but the acting leadership is now transferred to the gentlcman whose name heads this article.
Mr. Phillips is a scion of an old Boston family of Puritan stock. He inherited from his father a sufficient amount of property to render him independent. He was educated at Harvard College, the foremost institution of the kind in America, and afterwards mastered the law. But he was not destined to give up to the management of private interests talents so admirably adapted for the discussion of public affairs. In 1837, some outrage on the right of free speech committed by the municipal authorities of Boston against an anti-slavery meeting, first brought the small and despised society of Abolitionists to the notice of the well-bred, easily-circumstanced, and orthodoxly-educated Mr. Phillips. Then, as it has been ever since, liberty was the idol of his soul. How dare any one offend against liberty on Boston soil, beneath the very shadow of Bunker Hill?
Were the Declaration of Independence, and all the fine, high-sounding speeches which, as a school-boy, he had declaimed as elocutionary exercises, simply so much sounding brass and tinkling cymbals, or were they living realities? He was determined to try the question in his own person. He threw himself into the breach, in defence of the unpopular minority, and soon became a convert to their doctrines. Since then, twenty-four” "years of public odium," to which he alludes with sardonic pride, have been his lot. He has drunk deeply of the bitter cup which is ever pressed to the lips of the advanced
Reformer who will make no compromises. Many a time has he faced a howling mob in Boston, in New York, in Philadelphia. It is a fine sight to see him conduct an unbroken chain of argument in the face of a running fire of insults and interruptions, hurled at him by half the audience. His eye never quails before the angry multitude. His powerful, penetrating, well-modulated voice never grows husky with emotion. Epigram follows epigram; never does his bright intellect shine more brilliantly. Stinging, trenchant, unsparing, defiant, scornful, Wendell Phillips is the very orator for a storm. In fine weather you would say he was not sufficiently soft, sunny, and genial. How different his compressed and bitterly satirical sentences from the rounded periods of Mr. Seward, who obstinately refuses to see anything but the bright side of things, or from the finished artistic rhetoric of the patriotic Mr. Everett! Yet Seward, Everett, and Phillips are the most highly esteemed public speakers in America; and of the three, in the opinion of many competent judges, the Abolitionist is entitled to the palm of superiority. He certainly has the finest voice. In the matter of his speeches, there is something which reminds you of Disraeli, with much that recalls the bluff humor of the Latter Day Pamphlets. His wealth of illustration, drawn alike from physical science and the literature of many ages and languages, is Emersonian in its copiousness, and more than Emersonian in its readiness.
If you wish to see an iconoclast, here is one who has made image-breaking a profession. "We are nothing if not critical," has been his motto. No sooner does a free soil politician acquire popularity with the people of New England and New York, than Wendell Phillips sets to work to expose the slender basis of anti-slavery principle on which the popular favorite stands. In this way, Daniel Webster and Henry Clay, Horace Mann and Edward Everett, William H. Seward and Governor Banks. Horace Greeley and Henry J. Raymond, Judge M' Lean and Abraham Lincoln, have in turn been publicly weighed in his balance of abstract principles, and, of course, found wanting.
It was inevitable that, from his stand-point, these (1)"Touch us gently, Time!"- Mr. Andre is laboring under a misapprehension in regard to the age of the parties here described. The difference between 55 and 49 year is not a very aged one-[ED. LIBERATOR.
<c05>
statesmen should be found wanting, since they are all Constitutionalists, while Mr. Phillips is a Revolutionist.
He is opposed to the existence of slavery; they are opposed only to its extension. They desire to abide by the original Constitution of the Union; he recognizes the validity of no law which makes one man another's property, and hates the Constitution because such laws are a part of it. Nay, he has struck even higher, and has uttered words which, in the ears of many of his countrymen, must have sounded as "flat blasphemy." He told them that John Brown,—the negro liberator, or the Harper's Ferry pirate, whichever you choose,—was a greater man, and a truer hero, than George Washington, the slave-owner.
It may be hoped that Mr. Phillips is not yet beyond the middle of his career. No one has yet collected his speeches and pamphlets, though they are certainly as well worth collecting as those of Webster, Clay, Channing, or Seward. They have one quality which grates harshly on European ears, and that is, the concentrated bitterness, the intense spirit of hatred, with which they are frequently suffused. In this respect, they remind you of the orations of pagan antiquity.
To combat a dominant democracy, year after year, is apt to make a man bitter and acrid, to turn his milk of human kindness into gall. It is perhaps as unreasonable to ask serenity and suave geniality of an athlete like Mr. Phillips, hot from the terrific combats of the arena, as to expect the address of a Chesterfield from an honest son of labor. We in Great Britain know nothing of the sort of public Mr. Phillips has to defy. The last time be spoke in Boston, for example,-it was since the commencement of the present troubles,—he had to be guarded on the platform by friends armed with revolvers, He was escorted home by the same friends and a strong posse of police, amidst the hootings of a mob literally eager to tear him to pieces, and it was found necessary to protect his house from attack for several days afterwards.
Let the catholic liberality of the opinions of this remarkable man make amends for an occasional excessive virulence in dealing with his antagonists. Mr. Douglas, representing the dominant sentiment of the American people, lays it down as a cardinal article of faith, that North America and the American
Republic were made for white men, for the European race only, and that the words of the Declaration of Independence,” all men are born free and equal," were used with reference to white men only; for, he argues, it is impossible that a convention which numbered so many slave-owners could have intended to mean literally that all men are entitled to equal rights, when, after having made this declaration, they continued to hold numbers of their fellow-creatures in bondage. Wendell Phillips would be the last to dispute the logic of this reasoning, as a piece of historical criticism; but his theory of what is the true destiny of the American continent is very different from that of Judge Douglas. He welcomes all races to America; the African, the Asiatic, the! Red man, the Polynesian, are to him all welcome contingents. He is willing to treat with all on a footing of equality, to give to one and all liberty of development, to allow each race to retain its individuality so long as it desires to do so; believing that in this way the temple of American civilization will be reared on a grander plan than if founded on the principle of the dominancy of the white race. This is the last dogma of American democracy, and to Mr. Phillips belongs the honor of having formularized it. The colored and mixed races in whose behalf he speaks know nothing yet either of the cause or the advocate, but the time will come when this brave man's name will be imprinted on their hearts as that of the pioneer who laid the first foundations of their freedom.
Although Mr. Phillips is best known as an Abolitionist leader, he has taken a part in other public movements. He is a warm friend of the cause of Temperance, and is also a prominent champion of the Women's Rights movement, for sex with him is no more a good reason for civil disabilities than color. Like a preux chevalier, he has waged many a battle in behalf of the ladies who head this movement in America; for the same city rabble who would turn an anti-slavery meeting out of doors, are always at hand to hiss down and insult with rude outcries the courageous, yet tender and cultivated women who venture upon the rostrum to plead for their sex's equality before the law.
P. F. ANDRE.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Wendell Phillips has made another of his peculiar orations in Boston on” " The Hour."
He goes into Seward, with what somebody has happily called a vengeanee; he salutes South Carolina with the kiss of fraternity; he makes a mock of this well-meaning Union, or the remaining fragment of it; and utters the usual number of abstract truths.
Phillips takes premises which we all grant to be true, and weaves upon them an enchantment of logic from which there is no escape.
He talks altogether too finally. Those simple, brief sentences of which his speeches are made up, form him a coat of mail, so cunningly and closely wrought, that no lance can pierce it. He says:—
"Disunion is Abolitionism. That is all I care for it. I care not for forms of government, but for its essence. The music of disunion to me is, that at its touch the slave breaks forth in jubilee. Disunion leaves God's natural laws to work out their own solution. Insurrection is the tyrant's check. Let us stand out of God's way, and his divine laws will have free course."
You are hurried along by reasoning like this, and cannot make a ready answer. The more you consider it, the more mercilessly logical it appears. It strikes deep, and pervades the ideas which you have cherished. Put in other words, the argument is this: Liberty is the essence of our government. When our government is no longer animated by liberty, it is time that the dead corruption of its forms should be swept away.
Wendell Phillips is thus the subtlest and stubbornest fact of the time. He cannot be denounced without denouncing the principle of liberty, which he represents in its absolute form. He cannot be approved without the adoption of the anarchical idea.
Altogether, the best way is not to meet him at all, but always to go round him.
He is shrewd, practical, direct, and yet he constantly reverts to the primal truths of his inspiration, as the nation did in the beginning. His culture is deep and generous, and all his knowledge close at hand for instant use. As an orator he is unsurpassed; his eloquence has a diamond glitter. For the present generation, he is a most dangerous agitator.—Ohio State Journal.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BALTIMORE CONFERENCE.
This Conference met on March 13th, at Staunton, Virginia, and was called to order by Bishop Scott. One hundred and forty members, all ministers, were present the first day. Immediately after organization,
Norval Wilson presented a memorial from the ” Laymen's Convention." held in Baltimore, December last, and moved that it be read, and made the order of the day on Thursday. A discussion arose, but the motion prevailed. On Thursday, the question on receiving the memorial of the Laymen's Convention was then taken 
up. Before the discussion began, the following questions were presented to the chair, and promptly answered:-
1. Is there anything in the Discipline which, in your judgment, would be a bar to the ordination of a local preacher holding slaves? Answer—No.
2. Anything in the Discipline which, in your judgment, would operate against the admission of a slaveholder into the church? Answer—No.
3. Anything in the Discipline that would justify an administrator in arraigning a slaveholder? Answer—No.
4. Is there any process authorized in the Discipline by which a member can be brought to trial who holds slaves for gain? Answer—I know of no such process.
5. Is the New Chapter to be regarded as containing the doctrine and belief of our church on slavery? Answer—The Chapter contains an admonition, and from its position in the Discipline claims to be regarded as expressing the doctrine of the church on slavery.
6. Is not every man a sinner against God, and the laws of nature, and the precepts of the Bible, who holds a slave in the sense of the New Chapter? Answer—
He is, in. the sense of the Discipline, whatever that sense is.
7. Is it not, under the Discipline, the duty of every member of the church to engage in active efforts for the abolition of slavery? Answer— Not more under the present than under the farmer Discipline.
<c06>
8. Are the interpretations of doctrine by our bishops authoritative? Answer—Certainly not. He was not aware, that he had given any.
9. By what constitutional power was the New Chapter introduced into the Discipline? Answer—By the same power by which any other matter is introduced which is not contrary to the restrictive rules.
10. Does not the action of the General Conference relate to slavery as it exists in the territory now embraced in this Conference? Answer—conference? answer- I am not aware that it does.
A. Griffith, (an aged minister and member of the last General Conference,) addressed the Conference earnestly against precipitate action. He did not wish to accept and adopt the Memorial, which would sever the Baltimore conference from the old Methodist Episcopal Church. He spoke with great feeling. Norval Wilson followed on the other side. He denounced the New Chapter, and opposed fraternity with the Northern Conferences. The New Chapter is a rod over our heads. The literasture of the church is abolitionist. The Baltimore Conference must secede, even though in a revolutionary way. E.P. Phelpa followed, and maintained that the Chapter was not law. They could stand it, and remain in the undivided church.
On the third day the subject was resumed. Rev. J. W. Bull propounded the following question to the Episcopal Chair:—" Does not the action of the late General Conference, as contained in the New Chapter, relate to slavery as existing in the Methodst episcopal Church?"
Answer, by Bishop Scott—"I am not sure that I understand the question. The action of the late General Conference relates, I suppose, to slavery as popularly understood to exist in the M. E. Church: but the New Chapter assumes that slavery, as defined in that Chapter, does not exist at all in the M. E. Church."
Rev. A. W. Wilson addressed the following question to the Chair:—" Has the Presiding Bishop authority to ordain any local or traveling preacher who says he cannot subscribe to all the doctrines of the church?"
Answer—" The Presiding Bishop must ordain all who are duly elected, and who take upon themselves the ordination vows of the ordination service."
Rev. Elisha P. Phelps opposed secession. He did not feel compelled by the church to circulate anti-slavery matter. He would not vote for withdrawal, because, therefore, the people would give the ministers higher salaries. His salary would not influence his vote. Father Griffith spoke again, urging. that the Chapter is not law, and they must ask for its repeal. The Conference must not tear away from its mother.
At 11 o'clock Saturday, the subject was resumed. Mr. Gilbert spoke, claiming that the Chapter without doubt pronounced slavery wrong, but slavery is right, therefore they should separate from those who” teach other doctrines." W. O. Lumsden is said by the Baltimore Advocate to have made a speech, apostrophising the American Eagle and opposing immediate separation; but Foushee Tebbs said all who wish to hug the General Conference wish to hug Abolitionism, of which it is the embodiment.
On Monday, the fifth day, the subject was resumed at 10 o'clock. George W. Israel made a strange and a strong speech. His positions were that the Baltimore Conference, and any other repudiating the New Chapter, are the only true M. E. Church. The act of the last General Conference was unconstitutional and revolutionary. The New Chapter is a doctrine, but the General Conference has no power to change the doctrines. He believed the non-concurring Conferences
to be the M.E. Church per se. He did not believe the New Chapter to be law, but far worse; the New Chapte is a new doctrine, a doctrine which forbids our ministers to take upon themselves the solemn ordination vows, by which they solemnly covenant to believe all the doctrines of the church. Only yesterday, Rev., Edward F. Hetrick declined the ordination orders, to which he had been elected. He could not conscientiouslu subscribe to a false doctrine, and returns to his people unordained. The doctrine of the Chapter is binding on your conscience and mine. We are called upon to say whether we will submit to a doctrine which emanates from our highest church council, declaring that the word of God does condemn the mere holding of slaves. He believed also that all slaveholders in the church are censured by the Chapter Isaac Gibson followed with a speech, taking the same ground.
The Baltimore Advocate of the 23d inst. does not report the action of the Conference any later. We judge that a majority of the Conference was favorable to adopting the course recommended by the Laymen's Convention, to secede in fact. We have learned by telegraph, since writing the above, that eighty voted for secession, and about forty against it. We suppose the minority, however, take the position of the East Baltimore Conference.—Zion's Herald.

BALTIMORE CONFERENCE LAYMEN'S CONVENTION.
A Laymen's Convention was held at Staunten, Va., at the same time with the Baltimore Conference. It was composed of delegates of Quarterly Conferences, elected generally to oppose the New Chapter in the Discipline, and to exert an influence upon the Conference. It met in the lecture-room, while the Conference met in the andience-room of the church. J. Corson, Esq presided, Dr. Moorman was Vice President, and J. A. Morgan,. Secretary.
Mr. Grant, of Severn, Md., moved the following:—
"Resolved, That:- whether the action of the recent General Conference, commonly known as the’ New Chapter,' be regarded as unsolicited advice or unauthorized mandate, we, in the name of the membership of our Conference, without any reservation, do unanimously, distinctly, and uttlerly epudiate it."
Mr. Davis, of Washington City, objected, unless something was substituted. The Discipline must disapprove slavery. The resolution was regarded as premature, tabled, and a Business Committee appointed. A motion was discussed to request the Conference to appoint a Committee to meet with a Committee of this body, but it was tabled. On Thursday the Convention met in the Baptist Church, and in the afternoon their Business Committee made a report, and the minority of the Committee also made a report.
The Majority Report condemns the Buffalo action, requests the Baltimore Conference to exercise all the powers of the Methodist Episcopal Church to sunder its present connection, and advises other Border Conferences to follow. The Minority Report disapproves the New Chapter prefers the Old Chapter asks for an extra General Conference to repeal the New Chapter and make provisions against any future change. The Convention sat four days, and finally a Memorial to the Baltimore Conference was adopted, of which the following is the substance:— "whereas, the late General Conference which assembled at Buffalo substituted, without proper authority, an entirely New Chapter on the subject of slaveholding, making, in the opinion of many of our people, a new rule of doctrine, namely: That slavery is a sin, contrary to the first restrictive rule, and therefore virtually making non-slaveholding a test of membership, and utterly closing all doors of entrance to the people against the preachers of our Conference, if they endorse or submit to it."
Following the above are four resolutions. The first declares that the General Conference by its action sundered the Baltimore Conference from the church. The second declared that the General Conference violated the first Restrictive Rule, and that thus the Baltimore Conference and others agreeing with it are now the only M. E. Church. The third says, that, nevertheless, if the Annual Conferences will call another General Confence before December 14, 1861, and undo all they have done, and put a fair share of the periodicals under the direction of the aggrieved Conferences,” "then, and not and then, will we reunite with them." The fourth resolution simply appoints a Committee to confer with the Baltimore Conference.—Ibid.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON conference.-ibid.
are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much admired.F8m tif SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE
seventh Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions <illegible>
theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture embodying most of the palpable and striking, self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold
by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, 05 6m A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
274 Canal street, New York.
