THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 46. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1710.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
BEECHER, THE SATANIC PARSON, IN ENGLAND.
One of the most beautiful stories of Holy Writ is that of the temptation of Jesus. St. Matthew tells us that Jesus was led by the spirit into the wilderness, and there the tempter came to him, but was repulsed and rebuked. "Again," says St. Matthew, "the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them, and saith unto him, All these will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the Devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him."
Nearly nineteen centuries after this wonderful event, we find this same Satan, in the form of a Brooklyn parson, troubling the world as he troubled Jesus upon the mount. His tail and his horns are concealed beneath the apparel of the period, but his infernal spirit is as evident as ever. He has caused wars and confusion, through the agency of this Brooklyn parson and other persons of that stamp, in this chosen land, which was once the most happy, the most peaceful, and the most powerful upon the face of the earth. Now, incarnated in the body of Beecher, he has crossed the Atlantic, and is trying to set all England by the ears. Selfishly speaking, we wish him success. While he is busy there, we may possibly be able to repair damages here. Satan is a hard worker; but he is not omnipotent, and cannot raise the devil in more than one country at a time, if God and good men are working against him. England has been tampering with evil for a long while past, and deserves all that Satan can give her. While she is in agony, we may be permitted to escape. It follows, therefore, that England's extremity will be our opportunity, and that the visit of Satan to London will aid the Union cause.
Mr. Beecher is a true satanic parson. His Christianity is a satanic humbug. His church is a satanic church. His followers are followers of Satan. His disciples go to a satanic school. He offers them the political world, and the glory of it, if they will fall down and worship him and his master. He is not, indeed, the Devil himself. That honor is reserved for Wendell Phillips. But the Devil possesses him, travels with him, and actuates him. The Devil bestows upon him that moving eloquence, that astonishing command of language, that ability to raise a row at any moment and in any place, for which his admirers give him so much credit. This explains his superiority as a diplomat to the Chevaliers Wikoff, Jewett and Weed, and even to his Grace Archbishop Hughes. These personages have been to Europe; but they accomplished little or nothing, because they did not have the Devil with them. Some of them were accompanied by Mammon, others by Mummery; but none of them had the real Devil. Beecher undoubtedly has. He detailed a little imp of Satan to manage his weekly paper during his absence, and took the genuine Lucifer as his travelling companion. His advent in England was marked by an earthquake. His first speech produced a moral earthquake. If he does not involve the British isles in some tremendous disaster before his return, it will be because the English are the most lucky people upon the globe.
One of the daily organs of Satan in this city ascribes to the satanic parson "intense passion," "marvellous power of illustration" and "great flexibility." These are satanic qualities. The organ also describes him as contending with "a raging sea" of opposition-"now soaring to overcome it, now sinking to undermine it, now dashing in its teeth." This is precisely the satanic style of warfare. We, in our kindness of heart, have previously spoken of Parson Beecher's "pluck." It is satanic pluck, which knows no fear because it has nothing to lose, and everything to gain. Milton praises Satan for the same quality. The London Times says that Beecher appealed to English selfishness. It is just this human weakness which Satan generally plays upon, and this is the chord he attempted to touch when he offered Divinity all the kingdoms of this world. Nor are the fruits of Parson Beecher's efforts unworthy of his satanic inspiration. He and such as he have wasted an ocean of blood already in their hypocritical defence of the rights of the black race. Desolate homes, widows' tears, the cries of poor orphans and the lamentations of mothers will be his welcome when he again sets foot upon our shores. They are his triumphs. He has assisted in causing them. Nay, he has done so under the guise of religion and philanthropy, and has thus added a new leaf to his blood-stained laurels. Every one may serve Satan if he will; but it is not every one who can serve him as Parson Beecher does, in the livery of God.
Still, in spite of all this, we have hopes that the visit of the satanic parson to England will help the Union cause. Indeed, this could scarcely be otherwise; for, by a providential arrangement, Satan continually trips himself up; his schemes work against each other, and the evil he does in one place counteracts the evil in another. So it will doubtless be with Parson Beecher. His visit has injured England a great deal, and may breed revolutions there; but all this will prevent foreign intervention in our affairs, and allow us to settle matters in our own way. Thus it is that the satanic parson in England helps to undo the work of the satanic parson in America.-New York Herald.

THE SECRET HISTORY OF THE REBELLION.
The following is a letter found among the intercepted correspondence of Jeff. Davis:-
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Nov. 18, 1856.
HON. JFFFERSON DAVIS-MY DEAR SIR:-I congratulate you on the victory recently achieved by the democracy of the nation. It is but a temporary triumph. The fanatical demons of the North in 1860 will again be in the field. Revolutions never go backwards. We are now in the midst of a revolution, passive it is true, but a decisive battle is yet to be fought. Our Constitution does not suit the North. The privileges of slavery guaranteed to the South is the bone of contention, and heaven and earth will be brought to bear for its abolition. We have a temporary triumph; let us profit by it; make the most of it. So constitute Mr. Buchanan's cabinet that the sinews of power will be available in the event of the election of a Black Republican in 1860 -available to the South. See to it, you Southern men about Washington, that the Departments of the Treasury and War, and even of the Navy, are retained in Southern hands; for if a Black Republican is elected in 1860, the government should not be permitted to pass into their power. A Napoleonic demonstration would, in that event, be called for- grab game the policy. Therefore, I repeat, let certain departments be given to true Southern men. Some such ticket as the following: Lewis Cass, Secretary of State; Howell Cobb, Secretary of Treasury;
<c02>
J. T. Rusk, Secretary of War;-Toucey, Secretary of Interior; F. P. Stanton, or O. W., of S. C., Secretary of Navy; General Richardson, Postmaster General; Hallett or Slidell (S. C.), Attorney General.
Douglas and Hunter of Virginia had better remain in the Senate. Gen. Quitman ought to go to Nicaragua. A. V. Brown, who will expect something, ought to be sent abroad; Mr. Marcy to France; D. S. Dickinson may go into the State Department, if Gen. Cass declines, or in the navy, if preferred.
The South is proud of you as a military man and as a statesman. You may have to act the Leonidas for the South. We may have to pass through a Thermopylse ordeal.
The crusaders-infuriated with religious fanaticism-will be down upon us. They will find a Saladin to welcome them to hospitable graves. The Richards and Phillips of the campaign will be glad to get back to their Yankee dens, to sicken and die with traitorous remorse.
Oh, that the South were wise-that she would become united! In the next campaign, the North will attempt to abolitionize, not only all the foreigners in the South and North, but through such men as Cassius Clay, J. Minor Botts, Raynor & Co., attempt to abolitionize all the non-slaveholders in the South. Houston, Bell, Benton, Blair & Co., will look on with complacency, and give indirect aid and comfort.
Long may our constitutional Union last! is the prayer of every Democrat. But give us equality, preserve our honor, or give us a new order of things.
Excuse the liberty of a stranger.
Yours truly in faith, SENEX."

COMPLETE AND ETERNAL SEPARATION.
To make sure that our separation, as two distinct political communities, be complete and eternal, it is perhaps needful that the war be fought out to the very end-that is to say, to the entire destruction of the Yankee nation. The longer they carry on the war, the more atrocious they make it, and the more impossible it will be that there should ever be any sort of union between us and that detested people. A year ago there were many "reconstructionists" in Virginia, to say nothing of other States-we mean a sort of partial reconstructionists, looking to a reunion with some of the select States of the Yankee nation, and, of course, on "honorable terms." Where are they now? The continued and still increasing brutality of our enemy in all the regions occupied by their troops, but more especially the distinct idea of entire subjugation, with the reduction of these States to Territories, universal confiscation, disfranchisement, disarmament, and a settlement of our lands by Yankee proprietors-this plain policy, announced by Lincoln, and adopted by Generals, Ministers, platforms of Republicans, and now deliberately sanctioned by the Ohio and Pennsylvania elections, has opened the eyes and nerved the hearts of thousands of weak and well-intentioned men, who dreamed of peace on "some terms," and who now know that they can have peace on no terms save surrender at discretion and abject vassalage to the meanest and most vulgar race of beings on all this earth. Therefore, say we, let Black Republicanism grow blacker; let every Yankee General be as a Milroy, and Butler, Rosecrans and Burnside; let the printing press of Chase rest not, neither by day nor yet by night; let Northern cities revel and run riot on paper wealth, based on the credit of lands in the Confederacy or in the moon; let the whole Yankee nation, drunk and mad with passion, rush along in their insane dream of conquest, and triumph, and pleasure, to the very edge of the abyss of perdition; and then, down with them all to the devil together!
It is wholesome for our people to look on and see that extraordinary nation, thus possessed by an evil spirit, and running violently down a steep place to the sea, like the swine in the country of the Gadarenes. There is small temptation to link ourselves to their fate and fortunes-next year there will be still less-and if there be yet living among us any soft-headed reconstructionist or submissionist, he will then be cured.-Richmond Enquirer.

JOHN BROWN.
A radical paper in Indiana says that, however much we may denounce the Missouri proposition for an abolition convention in this city on the 8th of January, we shall find that "the great soul of John Brown is marching on." That's exactly the idea of the Missouri projectors of the convention and their friends-John Brownism! But we can tell them that, if "old John Brown's soul," in its marchings on, shall march into this State, as old John Brown himself marched into Virginia, to incite the slaves to insurrection and massacre, those who dare to make their advent under its guidance will find their doom quicker than the wretched old fanatic of their idolatry found his at Harper's Ferry.-Louisville Journal.

IMPOSSIBLE TO RISE HERE.
There neither is, nor can be, any chance for the Negro race in this land to escape from its degraded social and political position. A few of them may become well educated, refined and wealthy; and still, even these are made to feel that they are an inferior race-that they can be nothing in Anglo-Saxon society, and in the educational and political affairs of the country. In sorrow, they must continue to sigh, and utter the prayer, 'O that we had been born white men, instead of black!' As a people, it is impossible for them to rise, while living in the society of the white race. Say, if you will, that the white man's prejudices against color, and the peculiarities of the Negro, are all wrong and unchristian; still, as a matter of fact, they exist, and are likely to continue.
Now, if the colored people can be induced to go to Africa, or even to be colonized by themselves anywhere, the slavery of caste will be removed, and the race will have an opportunity to rise to intellectual, social and political eminence. The great obstacle to their civilization will be removed-viz. contact with the more advanced and dominant white race, and the amalgamation of the two races, will be prevented-a process which is now going on.
On the whole, we are a thorough convert to the colonization of the Negro race by themselves, or where they shall be the leading dominant people, so as to make them free to rise and take their place of equality, by the side of the other nations of the earth.
We are convinced that it is better for each race of men to inhabit a country by itself, an independent nation; and we believe the time will soon come when the black race will rise in education and civilization, and that the now ignorant and barbarian tribes of Africa 'will stretch out their hands to God,' and in the ages to come, become a great people and a mighty nation by themselves. Even the great evil, slavery itself, will be overruled to elevate and civilize the negro race.-Christian (!) Repository.
<c03>
Selections.

FREMONT IN MISSOURI.
Would that State now be infested with Guerillas, if his policy had been carried out?
We feel regret whenever the Administration adopts a policy which dampens the ardor or interferes with the success of the Emancipationists of the Border States. There are, to-day, the warmest and most enthusiastic Union men of our whole country, and their efforts and example are Herculean strength to the Government as it grapples with the rebellion. Hence, we are sorry when the Government turns its back even to the slightest extent upon them, and we feel disposed to take side with the radical Union men of Missouri, who have lately addressed the President in complaint of the military administration of Gen. Schofield, the commander of the United States forces in that State, since the removal of Gen. Curtis. We know that these men are the head and front of the Union in Missouri, and we know that they cannot but be reasonable when they object to the distortion of State and Federal power to advance the interests of their opponents. Conservatism in the Border States is political Slaveryism-the natural friend and companion of Rebellion, just as the malarious swamp is that of the deadly fever.
Our readers may have seen the answer of the President to the protest of the Emancipationists. He does not view the matter as they do; and in reply to their assertion, that the condition of Missouri is more confused and disorderly than ever before, argues that it is no more so than under the military rule of Gen. Fremont, Hunter, Halleck, or Curtis. And here we must pause to criticise, and offer evidence. Knowing how warmly and completely Gen. Fremont was identified with the very movement which now wishes to regenerate Missouri, and strike hard for the Republic, and which, if not smothered by Government interference, will be grandly successful, we feel that he should have full and exculpative justice. We bring to light, below, a document which shows how completely Missouri might have been ridden of the guerillas and cut-throats who have made her borders a pandemonium, had the plans of Gen. Fremont been carried out. The following joint proclamation was issued by Fremont in command of the U. S. Army, and Gen. Price of the rebel forces, on the 1st of November, 1861:
Whereas, Major Gen. Sterling Price, commanding the Missouri State Guard, by letter, dated at his Headquarters near Neosho, Missouri, October 26, 1861, has expressed a desire to enter into some arrangement with Major General John C. Fremont, commanding the forces of the United States, to facilitate the future exchange of prisoners of war released on parole. Also, that all persons heretofore arrested for the mere expression of political opinions may be released from confinement or parole. Also, that in future the war be confined exclusively to the armies in the field, and has authorized and empowered Major Henry Williams and D. Robert Barclay, Esq., to enter into such an arrangement in his behalf;
And whereas, Major General John C. Fremont concurs with Major General Price;
Now, therefore, It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and between Major General John C. Fremont and Major General Sterling Price, as follows, to wit:
1st.-A joint proclamation shall be issued, signed by Major Gen. Fremont and Major Gen. Price, in proper person, in the following language, to wit:
2d.-Brigadier General Samuel R. Curtis, or the officer in command at Benton Barracks, is hereby authorized and empowered to represent Major Gen. Fremont; and Col. D. H. Armstrong, Col. J. Richard Barret and Col. Robert M. Renick, or either of them, are hereby authorized and empowered to represent Major General Price, and the parties so named are hereby authorized, whenever applied to for that purpose, to negotiate for the exchange of any and all persons who may hereafter be taken prisoners of war, and released upon parole, Such exchange to be made upon the plan heretofore approved and acted upon, to wit: grade for grade, or two officers of lower grade as an equivalent in rank for one of higher grade, as shall be thought just and equitable.
This done and agreed to at Springfield, Missouri, this 1st day of November, 1861.
By order of MAJOR GENERAL FREMONT,
J. H. EATON, A. A. A. G.
MAJOR GENERAL STERLING PRICE, by 
HENRY W. WILLIAMS, Commissioner.
D. ROBERT BARCLAY,} Commissioner.

PROCLAMATION.
To all peaceably disposed citizens of the State of Missouri, Greeting:
Whereas, A solemn agreement has been entered into by and between Major-Generals Fremont and Price, respectively commanding antagonistic forces in the State of Missouri, to the effect that, in future, arrests or forcible interference by armed or unarmed parties of citizens within the limits of said State, for the mere entertainment or expression of political opinions, shall hereafter cease; that families now broken up for such causes may be re-united, and that the war now progressing shall be exclusively confined to armies in the field.
Therefore, be it known to all whom it may concern:
I. No arrests whatever on account of political opinions, or for the merely private expression of the same, shall hereafter be made within the limits of the State of Missouri; and all persons who may have been arrested and are now held to answer upon such charges only, shall be forthwith released. But it is expressly declared that nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to bar or interfere with any of the usual and regular proceedings of the established courts under statutes and orders made and provided for such offences.
II. All peaceably disposed citizens who may have been driven from their homes because of their political opinions, or who may have left them for fear of force or violence, are hereby advised and permitted to return upon the faith of our positive assurances that while so returning, they shall receive protection from both armies in the field whenever it can be given.
III. All bodies of armed men acting without the authority or recognition of the Major Generals before named, and not legitimately connected with the armies in the field, are hereby ordered at once to disband.
IV. Any violation of either of the foregoing articles shall subject the offender to the penalty of military law, according to the nature of the offence.
In testimony whereof, the aforesaid Major General John C. Fremont, at Springfield, Mo., on this first day of November, A. D., 1861, and Major General Sterling Price, at Cassville, on the fifth day of November, A. D., 1861, have hereunto set their hands, and hereby mutually pledge their earnest efforts to the enforcement of the above articles of agreement, according to their full tenor and effect, to the best of their ability. JOHN C. FREMONT,
Major General Commanding U. S. A.
STERLING PRICE,
Major General Commanding M. S. G.
It will be seen that the rebel general solemnly pledged himself to assist in the suppression of irregular, irresponsible bodies of armed men, the very guerillas who sacked Lawrence under Quantrell, and are now the terror of the State. Fremont saw that in a State situated as Missouri, the natural result of the great division of her people would inevitably be a fierce, embittered, partisan warfare. And
<c04>
no one can doubt for a moment that, had the plan proposed been carried out, the State would have been free from the anarchy and disorder which have made it desolate. But the very next day after General Fremont had signed the proclamation, he was relieved by order of the Secretary of War, and one of the first acts of Gen. Hunter, his successor, was to revoke the whole proceeding.
There are other noticeable points in the proclamation which we must briefly mention. Both commanders agreed not to arrest citizens, merely for their political opinions, or the private expression of them, and promised to protect, as far as possible, all who would return to their homes. But it was agreed that their cases should be left to the disposition of the civil courts. This would have been entirely satisfactory to us in any cases of treason, for, in districts where we could arrest a man by civil power, the United States Courts could have had no bias in favor of the rebels. Both points seem to be great concessions from the rebel commander. Had such a humane treaty been allowed to stand, we say, the situation of Missouri would, to-day, have been very different.
Gen. Fremont signed the stipulation on the 1st of Nov.; on the 2d, the order was issued relieving him, and on the 3d, Gen. Hunter arrived to take command, and the whole arrangement was annulled. The Blair Conservatives were triumphant; Missouri was plunged into confusion; and, to this time, the honest Union men of the State have been fighting against odds. Feeling for them the warmest sympathy; believing, as we expressed it, that they are doing a great work for the restoration of Peace and Union, and for their permanent preservation, we regret to see any cold water thrown on their efforts.
Will the Government hold out its hand to the Radical Union men of Missouri? We join in their prayer for assistance.-Norristown Republican.

THE ISSUE AND THE DUTY.
"If you, Mr. President, felt that duty to your country demanded that you should unshackle the slaves of the rebel States in an hour, we see no earthly reason why the people of Missouri should not, from the same sense of duty, strike down with equal suddenness the traitorous and parricidal institution in their midst."-Address of the Missouri Delegation to President Lincoln.
This is one of the points in the address of the Missouri Delegation to President Lincoln, which he did not answer or refer to. It was probably one of the stumps in the cornfield which he found it more easy to plow around. It involves the whole matter at issue in this State, and its logic is inexorable.
The Radicals in Missouri, regarding the rebellion as the offspring of the institution of slavery; and the war of the South against their country as a war which would never have been waged as it has been, or commenced at all, but for the unholy purpose of spreading and perpetuating slavery; and finding that institution not only among them, but producing around their homes and at their very firesides the evils and horrors of civil war in its most aggravated forms; adopt as the fundamental principle of their action and their organization as a party, the immediate removal of slavery from Missouri. They began with the idea of gradual emancipation, but every day developed the utter inadequacy of that as a remedy for the pressing exigency forced upon the country by the aristocracy of slavery, here as well as in the South. All their previous views were favorable to gradual emancipation. But the current of events bore them onward like the swift stream of Niagara above the falls. If they believed slavery the cause and support of the war, and obeyed the dictates of patriotism, they were bound to put forth their strength to destroy slavery where it was within their reach. It was an eating sore, which only the knife could effectually remove.
No single thing gave a more powerful impulse to their opinions than the President's proclamation of emancipation. They saw in that measure the same principle of action which governed them, the same high resolve which impelled them to turn upon and rend the institution of slavery. He struck at it with the whole embodied strength of the nation, and they struck at it with all their power. He put forth his hand to its immediate destruction in the rebel States; they put forth theirs to destroy it here immediately. If he was right, they were right. That both were right, every day hereafter will continue to demonstrate, as every day heretofore, since the fall of Sumter, has abundantly demonstrated to every man who prays for the triumph of his country over the treason of slavery.
The utter inefficiency of gradual emancipation, in such circumstances as those in which Missouri has been placed, is most forcibly stated in the following lines from a letter of Hon. Charles Sumner to a gentleman in this city, in regard to the action of the Missouri Convention on Emancipation:-
"It seems strange that men can hesitate on a proposition which is as plain as that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points. Prospective emancipation, in order to help put down the rebellion, is a blatant absurdity. It is not worth the paper on which it is written.
In war, except in case of defence, you must strike quickly; the sooner and faster, the better. In peace, there is an opportunity for arrangement and gradualism. There can be no gradualism in any effective war measure."
Who does not recognize the truth of these words? And who does not see that the truth they contain was that which brought forth the President's proclamation? He saw that if he was to touch slavery at all, it should be with the touch of instant death. He knew that if he proclaimed the gradual or prospective destruction of slavery, the rebel States would have been jubilant over the feebleness and irresoluteness it betokened, and Europe would have poured contempt upon it as the brutum fulmen of all history. The Radicals of Missouri saw and knew, as to slavery in their State, what he saw and knew as to slavery in the insurgent States, and they acted accordingly. In this they expected, and were right in expecting his sympathy, encouragement and aid. They appealed to him in the words above quoted, and had good ground to look for at least an acknowledgment of the justice of their cause, based, as it was, upon the same views of duty as had governed himself. They were disappointed. No word of sympathy in, or recognition of, their noble efforts in the path he had, from his high station, marked out, graces his reply. He leaves them to fight their great battle alone; alone, but not unfriended; alone, but not disheartened; alone, but inflexible and resolved.
We make no denunciation of Mr. Lincoln for his course in this matter. We are willing to admit that he has acted upon his judgment of what was best for him, as President, to do. But he has made a mistake which has pained the hearts of tens of thousands of his friends in the land, as it has rejoiced those of tens of thousands of his enemies. He has averted his face from the Radicalism of which he set a renowned example, and turned it toward that Conservatism which in due time will repay his favor
<c05>
with neglect and animosity. And it is in this State, more than anywhere else, that this action of the President produces such effects upon his enemies most profusely. They exult over his reply to the Delegation from Missouri, as if it were the death-warrant of Radicalism over the whole country. Never was there a greater mistake. The principles of Radicalism are taking deeper root every day, in and out of Missouri. They are the very life of true loyalty. They will prevail here, and in every loyal State. Pennsylvania, Ohio and Iowa have espoused them, and Maryland is moving to her betrothal with them; and all are marching to the funeral of Conservatism, which is but the polite form of disloyalty, treachery and treason. Radicals of Missouri, the day of your triumph is near! Forward, march! -Missouri Democrat.

THE PRESIDENT'S REPLY.
The President's denial to the petition of the Union men of Missouri and Kansas is meeting with marked coldness, and in some instances with the most emphatic disapproval, by all the truly loyal men of the nation. They do not seem to look upon the ploughing-round-the-stumps policy, when dealing with questions which affect the vital interests of the Union men of one of the largest States of the Union, as being quite as good a joke as Mr. Lincoln does. Among others, we see that the Cincinnati Gazette, the leading Union paper of Ohio, takes hold of the subject quite resolutely, and deals with the President's action without gloves. We select the concluding paragraphs of a lengthy and very able leader in that journal upon the subject, which will show the spirit with which the subject is handled:-
"We derive from this statement of the President to the Missouri Delegation, and from his other expressions and policy, the idea that he regards the Slavery question is to be settled by theory rather than practice-by proclamation and not by performance. Thus he proclaims immediate military emancipation where he has no military power, and he opposes the people of Missouri for desiring to do it where they have the civil power. He declares emancipation as a military necessity, and excepts from it the district where we have military power to execute the military necessity. He recommends compensated emancipation as cheaper than war, and he opposes agitation to make it immediate. In this theoretical treatment he draws various theoretical distinctions, until the people who are unitedly supporting the prosecution of the war, with an idea that the crushing of the military power of the rebellion will bring everything out right, find themselves divided and classified into ring-streaked and speckled, like Jacob's cattle.
"We have an idea that the paramount object is to destroy the military power of the rebels, and that the military necessity in regard to slavery is comprehended in the means it can be made to furnish to military success. If the people stand by the President in the immense drafts he makes upon them to prosecute the war, it is unnecessary for him to classify their internal motives, or to imply that zeal for the Union is tainted with zeal for liberty.
"The people of Missouri know slavery and secessionism by personal contact with them; personal suffering by them. The President does not doubt the fidelity of the Radical Union men, and he must concede that they are the best judges of their own State affairs. They desire to apply in a modified manner the medicine he has administered so radically to the cotton States. What they ask is that the Administration will not put arbitrary power into the hands of their enemies to crush them. And we suspect that if the President disables the Unionism of those who are more in favor of the Union without than with slavery, he will confer his official power on those who are in favor of a Union with Jeff. Davis rather than Mr. Lincoln for President."

WHO ARE THE CANTERS?
BY PROFESSOR CAIRNS.
"England hates slavery much, but she hates cant more"-so say the friends of the South-she prefers, that is to say, the reality of evil to the affectation of good. The compliment is at best an equivocal one; let us examine the implied charge. Of "cant" in connection with these discussions on America, it must be confessed we have had more than enough; it may be worth while to consider from what source it has come. From the people of the Northern States? Not at least from the abolitionists. There is no proof of sincerity in the advocacy of a cause, possible for men to give, which the abolitionists have not given. It is not long since the Times described Mr. Wendell Phillips, as he made his tour through the Western cities, pelted with dead cats and rotten eggs, amid the hootings and yells of the populace- demonstrations in which the sympathising narrator seemed in spirit to join; and this is but a sample of what abolitionists have long endured. It is well-known-by none better than by their revilers-that for thirty years these men have deliberately accepted social and political ostracism for conscience sake -have persistently preached the creed of human freedom at the constant risk of property and life. It is not for the writers of the Times-the consistent backers of every winning cause, the steady worshippers of success-to charge with cant such men as these. But the abolitionists are a small sect: how stands the case with the masses of the Northern people? We may put aside the "peace democrats;" to them certainly the charge does not apply, nor is it intended for them. They-the avowed haters of the negro, and the firm allies of his tyrant-are, of course, the proleges of the Times and the Tory press of England. Nor need we speak of the more advanced republicans, who are now at one with the abolitionists proper. There remains the bulk of the Northern people-the composite mass of farmers from the Central and Western States, and artisans and traders from the Eastern cities-whether republicans who sent Mr. Lincoln to power, or war democrats who have since joined their ranks-the classes, in a word, who now form the fulcrum, of the war policy of the Government. It is against these, doubtless, that the charge of "cant" is levelled. Does it hit its mark? So far from this, it merely represents a blunder of the grossest sort; for it is nothing less than attributing the creed of a small and persecuted sect to the whole Northern people. The Northern people have never thought, nor said, that slavery was a sin; that, as such, it was to be renounced by all means, abolished at any cost-this is the creed of abolitionism. The Northerners, as a people, have never accepted this doctrine. Until recently they were content to tolerate slavery, and have very freely said so. Now, indeed, they are opposed to slavery; they have changed their view (and the change embodies the whole significance of Mr. Lincoln's election); but even now they are opposed to it, not because it is a sin, but because it is a nuisance. Had slavery been content to remain within its own borders, it might have flourished for ever, for aught it had to fear from the people of the North; but slavery would not, could not, remain within its own borders; it must grow or die; it must secure the "territories" as a reverse for its future needs; it must shut out for them the free farmer of the North; it must recruit its labor market through the African
<c06>
slave trade: it must pass Fugitive Slave Acts, which make the whole nation an accomplice in its crime: it must proscribe discussion even in the Free States: it must carry its human chattels through the length and breadth of the land: it must do all this; and in order to do all this, it must be supreme in the Union, or, failing of supremacy, it must break up the Union. It is thus that slavery has come to stink in the nostrils of the Northern people, as a social nuisance, as a political pest; and the Northern people are, therefore, resolved to be rid of it. They are learning their duty, as nations for the most part learn their duty, through the medium of their interests. The more advanced spirits-"the highest mounted minds," saw the result afar off, and prophesied what would come, but their warnings were unheeded; and those who refused to learn from the words of the wise are now learning from the harder teaching of experience. The education of the Northern people has now reached the point of understanding that slavery is incompatible with social and political well-being; the further step of recognizing its moral turpitude, it need not be feared, they will not be slow to take; nay, if all the signs be not deceptive, they are already in the act of taking. But if it cannot be said that, as yet, they have made the pure doctrine their own, no more can it be said that they have made pretence to it. It is scarcely a year since Mr. Lincoln, in reply to one who sought to commit him to abolitionist views, wrote these words:-"My paramount object in this struggle is to serve the Union, and is not either to serve or destroy slavery. If I could serve the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; and if I could serve it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could serve it by freeing some, and leaving others alone, I would also do that." These are harsh words-harsher, perhaps, than the truth required-harsher, certainly, than need now be spoken; but they are at least not the words of "a canter;" rather they are the language of a man who, scorning the profession of principles which he had not fully accepted-which he was not prepared in their integrity to carry out-with cynical deliberation selects in the justification of his conduct the very lowest grounds on which its justification can be placed. I think, therefore, we must acquit the North of "cant," and-always accepting the performances of its agents on this side of the Atlantic-I think we must also pronounce the South to be clear of the charge. In the plainest and strongest terms which language supplies-through the manifestoes of its conventions, through the mouths of its highest officials, through its bishops in solemn conclave, through its assembled clergy of all denominations, through a unanimous press-the South has told the world that slavery is the cause in which it has risen; it has announced to mankind what it conceives its mission to be-to hold aloft the banner of human bondage before the eyes of free, and therefore benighted nations -to propagate by every means-by example, by precept, by moral and by physical force-the "divine institution" through the length and breadth of the earth. There is no possibility of mistake as to the ideas and aims of the chivalrous and candid South. It would, indeed, be the height of injustice and of ingratitude to charge the South with "cant." Then who are the "canters"? I fear we must look at home. Amongst those here who lift up their hands in pious horror at the thought they should countenance slavery-and here we all do this-even the Times, while defending slavery on Bible grounds, affects to pronounce against it-are there not some who are never weary of palliating its enormities and eulogising its champions? Are there not people amongst us who, two years ago, were shocked that the North should have gone to war for any cause less holy than emancipation, but who now, when emancipation is the policy of the North, are shocked that emancipation should be accomplished by means so unholy as war?-people who, while the republican policy of limiting slavery, and thus providing for its eventual though gradual extinction, was possible and acted on, slighted it as half-hearted and temporising, but who now, when, through the obstinacy of the slaveholders, that policy is no longer practicable-now, when the alternative lies between immediate emancipation and a triumphant slave power-exclaim that they only approve of emancipation which is gradual?-people, who in their jealousy for the honor of the negro, have so little patience with the American prejudice against color, that the social slights passed upon the colored race in the Free States are in their eyes more heinous sins than the selling and flogging, and branding and burning, which are the incidents of their position in the South, yet who-these jealous sticklers for the negro's honor!-select for their especial favor that very party in the Northern States which is the chief agent in inflicting those slights on the negro-that very party which by its dastardly excesses in race antipathy has brought discredit on the whole Free States?-people who exclaim against a "fratricidal war," while they scarce conceal their anxiety to plunge this country into a war which would be far more truly fratricidal-a war with a nation, our kindred in ideas as well as in blood, fellow-laborers in the same work of social and political progress, animated by the same love of freedom as ourselves-people, I say, who exclaim against a "fratricidal war," while they openly exult over rapine and murder in the streets of New York, the butchery of unoffending and unarmed negroes, and the sacking of an orphan asylum? Perhaps the friends of the South may now perceive from what quarter the "cant" proceeds. "England hates slavery much, but she hates cant more." Then England may, without distraction, indulge her feelings by concentrating her indignation and contempt upon the same heads-the heads of the men who are at once the apologists of slavery and the illustrations of cant.

HENRY WARD BEECHER IN ENGLAND.
In London, as in Manchester and Liverpool, in Edinburgh and Glasgow-in the capitals of British intelligence and industry-the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has now witnessed the most impressive manifestations of popular sympathy with his loyal and liberty-loving countrymen. In each of these great cities he has spoken to thronging multitudes-spoken with plain, unshrinking fidelity to his national peculiarities-and has received an overwhelming expression of approval. If in each instance, he has been assailed with even premeditated insult and interruption, the assailants have succeeded only in giving the greater distinctness to the triumph of his appeals. The antagonism that took the unwonted form of personal attacks as false as they were violent, and that instigated by malicious slanders to the indecency of organized uproar, sustained in every case a signal defeat. The Liverpool Southern Club exhausted its resources of vituperation and violence in the vain attempt to prevent his being heard. A similar attempt was threatened in London. Our dead-walls and hoardings broke out yesterday into an irruption of scurrilous placards, containing mutilated and falsified extracts from sermons and speeches, some of them nine years old. If it was
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the object of such contemptible arts to diminish Mr. Beecher’s audience, they were as much too late at they were ill-calculated. Tickets of admission to his lecture had been already sold out, and twice us many were in demand. Exeter Hall was last night the scene of such a concourse and crush as could only be equalled by the Emancipation meeting held there in January last. The difficulty of getting admission for Mr. Beecher himself delayed his appearance till ten minutes after the hour announced—and the cheers of the excluded crowd, in an outside meeting, accompanied the voice of the orator through nearly the whole of his discourse. The effect of that discourse upon his hearers will be but feebly conveyed by the fullest report. To the majority we may presume it told little that was new—for every point was caught up with the enthusiasm of familiarity as well as of perception. Its great effectiveness consisted in its being an American’s presentation of an American question. It was the statement and appeal of a friend among friends,—but yet of a friend with whom there had been cause of difference. Mr. Beecher even exaggerated the degree of difference—or scarcely did justice to the amount of agreement subsisting. But his argument was on that account the more convincing. To Englishmen who have persistently and warmly sympathized with the North, from before the commencement of the contest, it is not an un-mixed pleasure to hear such an unanswerable address as that of Mr. Beecher’s. It is almost a humiliation that any portion of our countrymen should have needed to be thus instructed in things obvious or easily accessible to all. Only an American can be expected to understand the minutiae of the controversy between the North and South,—the intricacies of the question between State rights and Federal authority. But the broad outlines of the matter are so bold and clear, that foolishness itself cannot err, if only honest. The several stages of the great movement which has now reached the third year of a gigantic civil war—the development of a moral contest into a political, and then into a military one—have been accomplished in the face of all the world. England, above all other nations, was concerned with this great transaction. And while it is certain that the nation, as a whole, watched its progress with ardent and enlightened interest, it is no less true that to many its steps were darkened by invincible prejudice. Some such there were in Exeter Hall last night, but they underwent a visible process of conversion. The dissentient voices dwindled away under the influence of the orator’s resistless logic,—and at the close, only three hands, in a meeting of at least three thousand, were lifted up against the resolution which conveyed, through Mr. Beecher, a message from England to his Northern kinsmen.
 It is the fit reward of honest labor such as Mr. Beecher has performed, to be the bearer of that message. He has worked for and won the honor. In every speech, and especially in that of last night, England has been no less his theme than America. His anxiety has been, to justify his country in the eyes of the fatherland,—to show to intellects, consciences and hearts, educated in English sentiment, the actual facts of the American contest; or, at least, the facts as they appear to the American of the North. His continual appeal has been to our examples, our principles, our mode of action. At every step of the narrative he asks. Would you have done otherwise had you been in our place? To every objection he answers, Is that an objection which befits you Englishmen? It is surely a tribute of homage to our national character that an American—a representative member of a nation said to have gone mad with vanity—should thus studiously solicit our good opinion. And the tribute is the more flattering because the appeal is without servility. In asking England to approve and encourage his countrymen in the great contest they are waging, Mr. Beecher disdains to leave it open to supposition that if England refused, America would pause. We shall be heartily glad of your moral succor, he says— but do not think we are dependent upon it; our cause is good enough to go alone to any distance. And, more than that, he says—If you are so perverse as to interfere with us, we will fight you too. This is a tone and attitude that Englishmen ought to applaud. They, if any people in the world, can appreciate the combination of independence and friendliness, of self-reliance and good-fellowship. By these bold and manly declarations, Mr. Beecher has done far more to win the cordial esteem of his hearers and readers than he could have done by an obsequious demeanor and a flattering tongue. He has not only presented the case of the North against the South with unrivalled clearness and force, but has impersonated the spirit of the North towards England. Even among those of us who are most familiar with the fact that Southern statesmanship, diplomacy and journalism is the parent of American ill-feeling towards this country, there is an occasional fretfulness at things said and done in the North. The coquetry of the New York municipality with the Russian fleet is one of these untoward incidents. Mr. Beecher has given them their true significance. He has taught us to see the rankling of wounded affection in these words and acts of apparent animosity. He is a man of influence enough in his own land to give him a representative authority in this. Truly he has been a messenger of peace and goodwill to us. We rejoice to believe that he will not less happily and faithfully reflect in America the state of feeling he has found in England. He will bear witness, not only that he left our Government honest in its neutrality, and our people cordial in their sympathy, but t hat he found them so. And in bearing this honest testimony, he will greatly promote that alliance of the two nations in belief and sentiment which is the best hope of universal freedom, international peace, and human progress.—London Evening Star.

WENDELL PHILLIPS IN ENGLAND.
 PHILLIPS’S SPEECHES.—A good deal has been said in England about the bunkum talk in American speeches, the incessant flattery that their orators pour on their hearers, and the necessity they are under of glorifying the material greatness of the States. Not less has been said of the rabid fanaticism of the Abolitionists. We were prepared, then, for some exaggeration, some bad taste, some pandering to popular passion, in the speeches of "the rebel fanatic. Wendell Phillips," as we have often heard him called. But what do we find? Take a sample from the speech on Lincoln’s election, dated November, 1860:
"The saddest thing in the Union meetings of last year was the constant presence in all of them of the clink of coin, the whir of splindles, the dust of trade. You would have imagined it was an insurrection of peddlers against honest men. Mr. Everett at Faneuil Hall, when he sought for the value of the Union, could only bewail the loss of our’commercial intercourse,’ the certainty of’hostile tariffs,’ and danger to’the navy.’ And this is literally all the merits of the Union which he catalogues! No; I do him in justice. He does ask, trembling in case of disunion, ‘Where, O where, will be the flag of the United States?’ Well, I think the Historical Society had better take it to their Museum.... But I must confess, those pictures of the mere industrial value of the Union make me profoundly sad. I look as, beneath the skilful pencil, trait after trait leaps to glowing life, and ask at last—Is this all? Where are the noble elements of national purpose and life? Is this the whole fruit of ages of toil, sacrifice, and thought?—those canning fingers, the overflowing lap, labor vocal on every hillside, and commerce whitening every sea—all the power of one haughty, overbearing race. The zeal of the Puritan, the faith of the Quaker, a century of Colonial health, and then this large civilization, does it result only in a workshop—fops melted in baths and perfumes, and men grim with toil? Raze out, then, the Eagle from our banner, and paint instead, Niagara used as a cotton mill? Oh, no; not such the picture my glad heart sees when I look forward! Once plant deep in the Nation’s heart the love of right, let there grow out of it the firm purpose of duty, and then from the higher plane of Christian manhood we can put aside, on the right hand and the left, these narrow, childish and mercenary considerations."
Are these the words of a fanatic? May they not be the words of a strong-hearted, clear-sighted man, of whom we can think that, whatever may be the peculiarities of his creed, and whether they can be accepted as they are or not, he is a teacher of his nation, and a plot of some of its thoughts through the storm? Or look at his portrait. It is that of an able, gentle, cultivated Englishman, with those deep-set, far-looking eyes, that your sea-side physician picks you out a pilot by the head of the a good, wise man, reminding one of Charles Darwin’s, shall we say? Not a man, surely, to talk twaddle or bunkum, but to see distinctly the port he himself thinks safe, and make straight for it, and tell his crew in plain and simple words how to get there. The man s faith, too, in the power of ideas; his cer<illgible> that if Northern belief and freedom and Nor-
<c02>
thern intelligence,—with all their drawbacks,—are left side by side with Southern slavery and ignorance, they must prevail and conquer; have a certain superbness in them, coming as they do from one who looks back on thirty-two years of persecution, or till lately, of seemingly resultless toil. He knows the want of his country:—
“You cannot save men by machinery. What India, and France, and Spain wanted was live men; and that is what we want to day—men who are willing to look their own destiny or their own responsibilities in the face. ‘Grant me to see, and Ajax asks no more? The intelligent, thoughtful, or determined gaze of twenty millions of Christian people—there is nothing, no institution wicked and powerful enough to stand against it."
 The whole of Mr. Phillips’s anti-slavery speeches, before the breaking out of the war, are moral-force speeches; but when the South chose war, then the tune changed, and the Abolitionists said, “Let them have it; but no ninety days’ nonsense—gird yourselves for battle to the death!” The following passage from a speech “On the State of the Country,” delivered in the spring of the present year, has a ring in it that will impress all the readers who can look at the American straggle, not necessarily as partisans for the present of North or South, but at a long range of history:—
“This war will never be ended by an event. It will never come to a conclusion by a great battle. It is too deep in its sources, it is too wide in its influence, for that. The great struggle in England between democracy and nobility lasted from 1640 to 1660, taking a King’s life in its progress, and yet failed for the time. The great struggle between the same parties in France began in 1775; and never till the outbreak of the French Revolution concentrated the attention of the monarchies of Europe was this country left in peace; and it will take ten or twelve years to clear off the scar of such a struggle. Prepare yourselves for a life long enlistment. God has launched this Union on a voyage whose only port is Liberty; and whether the President relucts, or whether the cabin boys conspire, it matters not—absolute justice holds the helm, and we never shall come into harbor until every man under the flag is free.”
 Mr. Phillips sees clearly that what the North has to overcome in the South is not only Lee’s army, but the confirmed Southern state of mind. He sees that the war for an idea—Southern independence—has raised the slave breeders and buyers in to something like nobleness and real life, and that so far peace would be a loss to them. But, nevertheless, he maintains, freedom must be established, and slavery annihilated; and, therefore, if the North can conquer the Southern army, it must hold the Southern States till they have learned the lesson of free schools, a free press, and equal justice. As to Mr. Lincoln’s scheme of exporting the blacks, that he says would be depriving the North of the material it most needs to work with. The black is the working man of the South, the brother mechanic of the Yankee—are you to send away the very man you cannot do without? No—the South must be colonized by the North. The land, says Mr. Phillips, must be confiscated, if necessary—sold with a guaranteed title to the Massachusetts man or New Yorker—and ploughshares, seeds, schools, sewing machines, and the men who mean equal rights for black and white, must follow. We confess that the problem, as so stated by Mr. Phillips, does not look very inviting to us, who have heard so much of Southern chivalry and Northern bragging vulgarity; but the reply from the Abolitionists would doubtless be that any man, who had manliness enough left to value an honest man, though vulgar, above one with refined manners, who would sell his own daughter or mistress, will not shrink from accepting all the turmoil of the issue. Mr. Phillips does not think the work an easy one. Suppose the South conquered, and slavery abolished—that, he says, will be but the beginning of the problem:—
“There remains behind the still greater and more momentous problem, whether we have the strength, the balance, the virtue, the civilization, to absorb six millions of ignorant, embittered, bedeviled Southerners, and transmute them into honest, well-behaved, Christian mechanics, worthy to be called brothers of New England Yankees."
The way and means to this end, on the part of the North, are, according to Mr. Phillips, to do as England did in 1640—that is, get rid gradually of those men in public places who do not believe in progress, but mean to live in the past, and in their stead bring to the front men who are earnest in the present. Layer after layer of the superficialities and offcialities of the Northern body politic must be peeled off as useless, until, as be expresses it, you get to the sound core “of civil and military purpose, the earnest belief, the single-hearted, intense devotion to victory, the entire belief in justice which can cope with Stonewall Jackson. Never until then shall we succeed.” Meanwhile, he concludes, let the legislature take one step further, and pass “an act of Congress, abolishing slavery wherever our flag waves."
Even those who can like neither this book nor its author, and who will still regard his influence as that of a fanatic, will be helped, we believe, to a truer estimate of the cause of the war, and of the complexity of passions which it involves, by reading speeches so full of fervid conviction and eloquent prophecy.—London Reader.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13,1863.
CELEBRATION OF THE THIRD DECADE
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
 At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New York, in May last, it was unanimously
Resolved, That in accordance with usage, and from reasons of obvious fitness, it is proper that the completion of another Decade of the Society’s existence should be marked by a special public meeting devoted to a general review and survey of the cause; and that therefore this Society, when it adjourns on this occasion, will adjourn to meet in the city of Philadelphia, on the 3d day of December next, then and there to celebrate, in an appropriate manner, the thirtieth— and we would fain hope the final—anniversary of its formation."
 In accordance with this vote, the Executive Committee hereby announce that the THIRD DECADE of the Society will be held in Philadelphia, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863.
Historically, it will be an occasion of thrilling interest and joyous congratulation, unequalled in the eventful career of the Society since its formation. Unquestionably, it will be largely attended by the friends of universal liberty, representing every section of the country loyal to the Government. Who among them will need any stronger appeal than the simple announcement of the fact to induce him to be present, if circumstances should permit? Let them make their arrangements accordingly. “Whosoever will, let him come”—come in the spirit of justice and love—come as remembering those in bonds as bound with them—come as one abhorring “the guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man"—come to put down the rebellion by helping to exterminate the hideous system from which it has legitimately sprung!
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be in attendance.
[Further particulars hereafter.]
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, )
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for November, is received. The following is the table of contents: 1. Renan’s Life of Jesus. 2. Ulric Von Hunter. 3.Henry Taylor. 4. Some New Attempt at Conformity. 5. Wendell Phillips as an Orator. 6. Modern Rome.7. Cambridge and Kingsley on American Affairs. 8. English Expositions of Neutrality. 9. Review of Current Literature. Several of these titles show that the Examiner is, as usual, fresh and seasonable in its able discussions of important questions.
 The people of Maryland have done nobly in their Congressional election. They have sent four emancipationists to Congress out of five.
<c03>
SEWARD’S PRESENT POSIOTION.
Some years ago, Mr. Seward thought it would serve his purpose to speak of an" irrepressible conflict" as existing between liberty and slavery. It was expected that one so utterly a man of calculation, one so thoroughly free from the disadvantages of sympathy and impulse, would proceed further in the path thus foreshadowed; would speak more frequently and more strongly upon the subject of slavery; would begin to take part in a conflict involving the good or ill future of his country. These expectations, however, have not been realized. Although, since that time, circumstances have been constantly giving more and more promise of success to an assault on slavery, although Mr. Seward has, for more than two years, held a position which gives him, individually, the power to demolish slavery with a single blow, and to make every State of the Union a Free State, he refrains from doing it. Nay, his action and his inaction (for these are nearly equally powerful in the hands of a Secretary of State,) have been inclining more and more in the opposite direction, so that he seems to have espoused the other side in the irrepressible conflict And his last utterance, in a speech delivered at Auburn, N.Y., on Monday evening, November 2d, seems precisely to accord with this supposition. Then and there, it appears, he thought it would serve his purpose to say, "This question of slavery is their [the slaveholders’] business, not mine."
The November number of the Christian Examiner, in a mercifully severe article on Charles Kingsley’s position in regard to American affairs, gives some extracts from his letters on Modern History in the University of Cambridge, in which these passages occur: “Slavery is a thing with which the Southerners alone have anything to do." “It is their business, and must be left to them.” Then we suppose, the writer of this article continues, “that the African slave trade is a thing with which African slave traders alone have anything to do.” And after speaking, in affecting terms, of the melancholy apostacy of this man,and of his sacrifice of common decency and self-respect, in thus giving the lie to a noble past, the writer adds—"The very day after we first heard him, we beheld the author of’ ‘Two Years Ago,’ at a great dinner, seated, as a compliment, next at table to the author of the ‘Fugitive Slave Bill’! The compliment was fitly paid!"
 If such accompliceship with slavery should make infamous the name of one who has been an advocate of reform, even where the evil influence he exercises is only external and incidental, what must be the character of Seward’s direct indulgence to that system, while he holds the power immediately to crush it, and forever to terminate “the irrepressible conflict?" “He who allows oppression shares the crime,” even when its continuance is not wholly dependent upon him. But the man who chooses to prolong a system like slavery—chooses to decide, as supreme arbiter, in its favor—chooses, while its destiny is trembling in the balance, to throw the immense weight of his position and influence into its scale—this man may properly be classed in infamy with the author of the Fugitive Slave Law.
 If in any one month of Mr. Seward’s administration, he had chosen strenuously to urge upon Abraham Lincoln the abolition of slavery throughout the country on the ground that the conflict is irrepressible, and that peace and welfare can come to us only over the grave of slavery, that most beneficent act would have been done, and the war would have ended in our victory within six months thereafter. If, on the other hand, the influence of so many bodies and so many classes of men, as those which have gone up to the White House against slavery since Mr. Lincoln’s inauguration, had not met there the adverse power of Mr. Seward’s influence, it cannot be doubted that an act of universal emancipation, under the war power, would long since have been issued by the President. It is to Seward that we owe it that slavery still blocks the wheels of the nation’s progress.
 Thurlow Weed boasted, it is said, before the last Presidential election, that whoever might be voted in, William H. Seward should be the actually governing President. Have we not found it so?
Men are beginning to think who will be our next President. Many men are thinking that the old rail-splitter, honest Abe, will be quite as suitable, and quite as available, as any one that is likely to turn up. Many a man who would indignantly refuse his vote to a crafty, unprincipled lawyer, will incline to choose Old Abe as his candidate. Every such man will do well to consider, judging by what takes place between now and the election, whether a vote for Old Abe will not choose Seward to be again acting President.— C. K. W.

FRIENDLY CRITICISM, PRO AND CON.
 The Christian Examiner for November, taking occasion from the recent publication of a volume of speeches, lectures and letters, bestows high, very high, the highest praise upon “Wendell Phillips as an Orator.” With this, it makes two criticisms on Mr. Phillips’s career of reformatory eloquence.
To prepare the way for one of these points of criticism, the Examiner declares the proper position of an orator to be conservative, “strictly conservative”; and it defines this epithet by saying—"He appeals to men in behalf of old and established principles."
The Examiner proceeds to describe that political and social condition of our nation which called forth Mr. Phillips’s eloquence, as follows:—
 “Our nation had assumed as its basis a doctrine of rights inherent in human beings simply as human. We built our national edifice on assumed principles of universal justice. We baptized these principles in the blood of battle; and having been victorious, we came forth from the crimson consecration to represent these principles before the world, and to perfect their application in our interior politics. And the nation was at the outset warm, hearty, intrepid in the faith it professed.
On the other hand, here was the alien element, slavery, foreign from our faith, antagonistic to our principles, odious to our feeling, but well nested among our institutions and traditions, having that possession which is’ nine points of the law’; having the prestige of wealth, of power, of proud manners; having means to bribe commerce, to bribe place-hunting ambition, to bribe partisanship; having means equally to overawe timidity, to win the lovers of peace and ease, and to war against assault. Greedy, encroaching, insidious, and utterly subversive of the whole spirit and significance of our national life,—lured by the prospect of a virgin continent upon which to spread itself, and of a power that should overtop the world and dazzle the eye or silence the tongue of criticism,— it furnished occasion for patriotic alarm, such as history never has surpassed, and perhaps never may surpass."
 If we admit the Examiner’s definition of the word “conservative,” we may fairly claim that Mr. Phillips occupies the position which it holds that an orator should do. He has certainly always appealed to men in behalf of “old and established principles”—as we in this new world count age and stability—political principles fully eighty-seven years old, fortified by the cooperation of religious principles more than eighteen hundred years old.
But this definition is inadmissible. The word conservative (unless limited by its connection) invariably implies the keeping of things as they are or have been; a resistance to change of any sort, whether in principle or practice. And practice has occupied quite as much of the attention of conservatism as principle. Indeed, in actual life, conservatives have always occupied the position ascribed to them by the witty author of the “New Gospel of Peace.” When they have got into hot water, they make it a point “to keep in, lest they should be scalded."
 Now, it appears from the very statements of the Examiner, above quoted, that the practice of this nation has always been not only diverse from, but diametrically opposed to, its own principles, expressed alike in the Constitution and in the Declaration of Independence. Just as much as we have talked liberty, trumpeted it, bragged about it, clothed ourselves with it as an outer garment, just so much we have practised slavery, maintained it, fortified it, extended it, made it an essential part of the character
<c04>
and policy of the nation. The people who properly call themselves conservatives wish to conserve what we have always had, talk and assumption about liberty, combined with a practical maintenance of slavery. Until the shot against Sumter startled this nation from its slumbers, the great mass of the people practically held position with these conservatives. Therefore he who, like Phillips, wished to have the principles of freedom take flesh and dwell among us—be reduced to actual practice instead of being kept to the ear and broken to the hope—must of necessity take the position of protestant and reformer; and when these failed of success, the position of revolutionist. Thus he judged himself, and he judged rightly.
 Slavery, says the Examiner, (p. 406,) “was foreign, intrusive.” No such thing! It had been firmly settled in this country long before political freedom arrived here, and its friends have always called it their “domestic institution.” When political independence came, slavery prevented it from taking the form of individual freedom throughout the land; and it was able thus to check the practical operation of free principles precisely because it already had possession of the whole country. So far from being foreign and intrusive, it sat quietly at home, and saw liberty arrive, a stranger; and, the serious question at once arising (in 1787) which of these should give way to the other, slavery offered this compromise, which liberty was fool enough to accept, namely, that we should all use the language of liberty, maintaining at the same time the fact of slavery. The conservatives, properly so called, are satisfied with this state of things, and wish to preserve it. The reformers or radicals take an opposite position, and wish slavery utterly extirpated; first, because it is vicious and unjustifiable in itself, and next, because it prevents the proper expansion and development of liberty; prevents our national life from agreeing with our national language.
Having made the preparatory explanation above stated, the Examiner comes to its first criticism upon Mr. Phillips’s original position and subsequent career. “His proper position was that of a patriot, a friend and preserver of his country.....Mr. Phillips did otherwise. He threw away this vast advantage. He chose to assault the fortress from without, rather than to defend it from within. He appeared as the foe of national institutions."
 The answer to this is, that he had no choice in the matter. Slavery was one of the national institutions; well-nigh the greatest of them. It had priority and seniority among American institutions. It was the first-born, the elder brother; and when the Constitution came to light the verbal claim of freedom for the whole nation, slavery insisted on the introduction of some disqualifying clauses, which so effectually neutralized it that freedom has been waning and slavery waxing ever since. Just as far as Mr. Phillips upheld the principles by which the nation pretended to live, just so far he must be in stern opposition to the life it actually led. Patriotism means standing by the nation as it is, not as it might, could, would, or should be. A pretended agreement on his part, either with the actual position of the nation, or with the practical working of the “doctored” Constitution, would have been false and monstrous. Only by opposing the nation’s chosen course, only by opposing the nullifying clauses forced by slavery into the Constitution, (and adjudged by Congress, the Executive, and the Supreme Court, to be the spirit and essence of the Constitution,) could he take a position either true to himself, or intelligible to his countrymen, or effective for the slave.
 We believe, therefore, that Mr. Phillips faithfully used his advantages, and threw away not one of them. The Constitution having been adjudged pro-slavery by the highest authority legally authorized to interpret it, and the choice and action of the nation, both government and people, agreeing thereto, he had no choice but to assail it. The very position which he chose to occupy, the side of justice, morality, humanity and the rights of man, required him to assail it.
 But, the Examiner proceeds, he needlessly took upon himself a greater task, instead of a less; “for the men of the North could have been persuaded to extinguish slavery far more easily than to break up the Union.” The critic mistakes, forgetting that that experiment was fairly tried, and that it proved a failure. Only after a patient trial of many years to induce the North to do what it legally and constitutionally could towards the abolition of slavery, and only after the utter failure of that trial, did the Abolitionists take the ground of formally opposing further union with the slave States. The result has proved the wisdom of their course. It was right for them first to appeal to the North, and endeavor to arouse its united action against a thing so base, so anti-democratic and anti Christian, as slavery. This trial failing, it was right for them to denounce both North and South, and to make public proclamation that the Union which connected robber with accomplice against an innocent victim was itself a crime; and that justice and righteousness called upon men to come out from such a Union, and be separate. It is self-evident that this course was right; but the result has proved its expediency. The anti-slavery assault upon the Union did what the previous course of the same persons had failed to do. It aroused an intermediate party, the Republican party, which could speak and act to a certain extent against slavery, and yet hold itself aloof from the hated Abolitionists. The Abolitionists remained, as they always had been, few in number. But the Republicans, a natural and necessary product of the anti-slavery movement, increased so fast as to drive the slaveholders into secession. And when death and hell had formally withdrawn from the Union, Wendell Phillips could again become its friend and advocate.
The second complaint of the Examiner against Mr. Phillips is “that he uses personal criticism and invective in excess.” Acquitting him entirely of native bitterness and acridity, conceding his “total and singular want of malign feeling,” the Examiner considers his severities of censure to be “partly the product of pure moral indignation, (and, so far, legitimate,) and partly of a theory that personal criticism is a more efficient agent in reform than any other.” Conceding that Mr. Phillips’s adoption of this instrumentality "is part and parcel of his uncompromising, unselfish, chivalrous devotion to the. grand objects of his life,” the Examiner still thinks it erroneous. Yet, attempting to trace, and correctly tracing, the origin of this course of the anti-slavery leaders, the critic seems to admit its rectitude and wisdom up to a certain point. He says, pp. 408, 9-
 "When the Abolitionists began their great enterprise, the multitude of men who esteemed them pernicious sought at first to crush and extinguish them, by means of mobs, halters, social exclusions, opprobriums,—in fine, by a general chorus of hiss and menace. The attempt failed. One plain man, who had a genius for being sure of his own will, said, “I will speak, and I will be heard.” Something in the tone shook the confidence of assault. Then Respectability had a bright thought. It said, smiling, “Speak, then, if you will; but as for being heard, that is another matter; your tongue is your own, but our ears are ours.” Anti-slavery was to be ignored. Its orators might orate to one another till their ears were deafened and their tongues outworn: who cared?
 Then it was that anti-slavery oratory began experimenting at cures for deafness. We must admit that it experimented to purpose. It made ‘the greatest medical discovery of the age.’ It caused the ears of men to drag their unwilling owners within the sound of hated voices. It quickened their auditory powers till they could hear through walls of <illegible> thickness. And it did this by resorting to stinging personal criticism. Twang went the bow, the barbed arrow flew, and the callous ear suddenly awoke into astonishinig powers of apprehension.
Audience was obtained. Now let there be a change of tone. Now let these people learn that we resorted to severities unwillingly; that our permanent purpose is not to wound, but to guide."
 Audience was obtained,” says the critic But was this the final object of the opposers of slavery? Did they desire audience, except as a means for producing repentance and reformation? Why should the workman abandon his most effective method of operation before the work is accomplished? If the advocate of justice and freedom has ever the right to single out by name the chief supporters, open and secret,
<c05>
of the worst possible system of legalized tyranny, and publicly call them to account for acts unworthy not only of Christians, not only of Democrats, but of decent human beings—if he has ever the right to tear the mask from the author of plausible sophistries which are beguiling the multitude into the support of such tyranny—he has a right to do this until such wickedness ceases, and such tyranny is overthrown. If the plain severity of truth in regard to Daniel Webster and Rufus Choate was right, how is such severity less right, or less needed, in regard to William H. Seward and Thurlow Weed?
 Yes. Severity of denunciation, strictly kept within the bounds of truth, but applied directly and openly to those who, in public or private, are the chief supporters of a continuance of slavery, is needed as much as ever. Until every slave shall be free, beyond the possibility of legal reclamation—until every one of the United States shall be a Free State—until every one of those ambiguous phrases in the Constitution which now allow slaveholders to claim it as their authority shall be amended or erased—Bay, until the Constitution shall receive an amendment absolutely forbidding slavery in any State of this Union—until then, may Wendell Phillips not spare to hold up to public detestation the individual upholders of the infernal system of wickedness called slavery.—C. K. W.
 
PROGRESS OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE.
WASHINGTON CITY, (D. C.) Nov. 1st, 1863.
 A quarter of a century ago, when the Martin Luther of the Anti-Slavery Cause in the United States wrote the stirring lyric,
“I am an Abolitionist,
I glory in the name,"
he little thought, notwithstanding his invincible perseverance and lively faith, that a creed at that time so hateful and so persecuted, so vilified and so abused, would, before the close of his own life, be predominant in the land; and that he would in his own flesh see the work upon which he staked his life, his reputation, his incessant labor, and all his means, crowned with success. Yet so it is to be. The city wherein he was dragged through the streets, and put into a jail to save his life, is now, and has been, a citadel from whence has emanated the boldest doctrines for reproof and instruction, and where political and religious opinions, in all their various latitudes, have all had liberty of unrestricted expression. Lately, too, in Baltimore, a city where this pioneer in the cause of the slave suffered incarceration in a slavemonger’s dungeon, public meetings have been held, where Secretaries of the Treasury, members of Congress, and other prominent and able men were present, and spoke freely, boldly, and conclusively in favor of the abolition of slavery—not one of them being afraid of the formerly hated name of Abolitionist. Such is the reward of patient, determined, persevering, inexorable warfare upon wrong!
 The Union music is pervading the whole country. In every State where elections have recently been held, THE PEOPLE have recorded their emphatic verdict against traitors, rebels and copperheads. From all quarters comes the stern and unflinching determination of the masses, that this war is to be prosecuted till the rebellion is subdued, and till traitors lay down their arms, and unconditionally recognize the full authority of the government. “To this complexion it must come at last.” The recent elections so proclaim it in tones of deep and settled meaning, and they announce it in such significant language that he who runs may read. Every day the madness and impolicy of the slavemongers become more and more apparent. What philanthropists wished to do, and could not, these imbruted slavemongers have themselves done. What constitutional guarantees prevented Abolitionists from effecting, the traffickers in human beings, by their own acts, and in a blind and malignant rage, have accomplished. The Constitution was in the way of crushing slavery in the slave States, by congressional or executive power, but the slavemongers trampled the Constitution under their feet. The Union was formerly a barrier to exterminating “the patriarchal institution" by United States law, but the slave oligarchy spurned the Union, and deprived themselves of its advantages, if the word advantages may properly be used in connection with such an infamous system as human bondage. The President had no authority, in times of peace, to “proclaim liberty throughout the land to ALL the inhabitants thereof”; but the men-stealers and men-buyers inaugurated a state of war, which placed the freedom of four millions of people within the power and will of our Chief Executive Magistrate. Hating Abolitionists, mobbing them, murdering them, and offering, in the style of absolute and oriental despotisms, rewards for their heads, the slavemongers have become themselves the most efficient of Abolitionists. They have made their seditious and infernal rebellion the very means of near and speedy emancipation to an oppressed race, which otherwise might have dragged their chains and been torn by the cruel lash for another century.
 Thus does good come out of evil. Thus does violence work its own destruction. Thus does iniquity fight against itself. The night of oppression is fast waning to a close. The morning of freedom, such as is portrayed in the Declaration of Independence, is breaking brightly for all. This is “a consummation devoutly to be wished,” and it will certainly come. Nothing can prevent it. Blunders in high places, inexplicable tardiness among those having authority, wrath, madness and arms among the rebels, treachery, hypocrisy and treason among the copperheads—these things may delay, but they cannot roll back that course of events which is to annihilate slavery forever. The friends of liberty must press on with undoubting steps, assured of complete and ultimate triumph.
 The President has recently decided adversely to the request of the late Missouri delegation; and this decision may, for the moment, seem to be inauspicious to the radicals of that State. Their memorial was a masterly exposition of the wrongs perpetrated by Gamble and Schofleld, and in rhetoric and logic must take rank among the ablest of State papers. How the President could fail to be convinced by it cannot be adequately conceived; but so great is the confidence which the bulk of the nation reposes in Mr. Lincoln’s purity of purpose, and devotion to the good of the whole country, and his willingness to advance as fast as he is convinced, that they will yet expect to behold him shake off Gamble, Schofleld, and the Blairs, as he did McClellan and his compeers. It was a long time before he rid himself and the country of “little Mac;" but it came at last, and Gamble, Schofield, and the Blairs will, if the same justice is meted out, by and by experience a similar deserved fate. The President, encumbered with the last named trio of conservatives, would be weighed down as dolefully as was Bunyan’s Christian before he was relieved of his burden at the cross, or Sinbad when his shoulders were oppressed by the Old Man of the Sea.
 This is said with the most profound respect for Mr. Lincoln. The original and radical anti-slavery men have ever been, and will continue to be, his firmest and most unwavering supporters in all those immortal features of his administration which will hereafter give it character, and illuminate the pages of history. But it is no part of sincere esteem and friendship to withhold the truth; and if the President wishes to execute the clearly ascertained will of his constituents, faithful and true criticism, which expresses that will, is certainly meritorious.
Mr. Lincoln came to the Presidential chair with a decided preference for gradual measures in the removal of slavery, and was in favor of colonizing the colored people to relieve the sensibilities of the haters of negro freemen; for such persons never had any antipathy to negro slaves. These ideas have exerted a noticeable influence on his official acts, and the inexorable necessity of events has alone modified his course. His original predilections gave him confidence in the McClellans, Hallecks, Blairs, et id genus omne, who have been so many incubi on the wheels of progress and emancipation. But, though the President has not awakened that electrifying enthusiasm which follows.
<c06>
bold and prompt decisions in critical exigencies-though he lacks those Jacksonian characteristics which combine the ability to judge rightly with the power of acting quickly—though he has not that energy of will, and that instantaneous comprehension of the necessary and the timely, which like lightning and thunder flash and strike together, yet his attributes of caution, coolness, prudence and dispassionateness always ensure a patient consideration for all measures, and guard against hasty and reckless action. His conservatism has not, hitherto, degenerated into obstinacy, and we see him moving,—slowly though it be,—in the right direction. These facts justify the conclusion, that his proclamation of freedom in the insurgent States will yet be followed by acquiescence in the radical policy of removing slavery in the Border States, even if not by his own definite and approving recommendation.
Moreover, we well know that he has in his Cabinet men who have never bowed the knee to Baal—men whose life-long devotion to freedom and to equal rights for all mankind constitutes the cardinal principle of their whole political and social conduct. Such a man is most emphatically SALMON P. CHASE, the Secretary of the Treasury. It is no fulsome eulogy towards him, and no injustice to the honored and revered dead, to say that no preceding Chief of the Treasury Department, either in this or the parent country, has more eminently evinced all those rare and admirable qualities which constitute the financier and the statesman. In times of the greatest peril and difficulty, he has proved equal to every emergency; and quietly, but effectively and masterly, his intellect, like those forces in nature which, without noise or friction, keep plants and suns in their proper spheres, has performed services, without which our armies could not have waged this war successfully, or the United States continued its prosperity as a nation. Amid the smoke and turmoil of battle-fields, these great services are not duly considered; but posterity will mark them, and bestow merited honors upon the man who has created and inaugurated a financial policy as original in its conception as it is opportune, vast and beneficial in its operation.
But it is not now my purpose to either present or elucidate Mr. Chase’s financial operations and successes; though as merits of this nature, important as they are, rarely receive their due popular appreciation, I may recur to the subject in a future letter. I was now only intending to observe that, among all the prominent men in the country, there was not one who had been more faithful to the principles of radical antislavery than Mr. Chase, or more, in this particular, “without variableness or shadow of turning." Negro Phobia has never stamped its imprint upon him. He has never been animated by that enlarged philanthropy which recognizes the same natural rights for all human beings.
“Fleecy locks and black complexion
Cannot alter nature’s claim;
Skins may differ, but affection
Dwells in white and black the same."
In all public action, in all private expression of opinions, and in all cabinet conferences and discus sions, it is not too much to say that Mr. Chase has, in every instance, been true to those sentiments he so nobly and eloquently asserted in his letter to O’Connell twenty years ago, and which he illustrated during his whole senatorial career in the most able speeches and documents. To him, more than any other man in the cabinet, are we indebted for the President’s proclamation, and the other executive acts which have struck the diabolical system of slavery. The fact, that a man of his power of mind and promptitude of action is in the Cabinet, and that his voice will never be found wanting in the cause of universal freedom, and in favor of the complete subjugation of the traitors now in arms, encourages the strong belief I have expressed, that the President will ultimately repudiate the Blair, Gamble and Schofield programme. Mr. Chase, of all the members of the Cabinet, was the only one who avowed his undisguised and cordial sympathy with the loyal radicals of Missouri. The patriotic speeches he delivered during his recent visit to Ohio show that the years he has spent in pursuits unallied to public speaking, have not detracted from that oratorical readiness and logical force which distinguished him as a lawyer and a senator. As an indication of the radical anti-slavery predilections of Northern Union men, it is gratifying to notice the spontaneous marks of respect and the popular instances of personal regard which the people of Ohio, and others along the route, paid him during his late journey to Cincinnati, and his return to this city.
I had intended to speak of Mr. Chase’s efficiency in the complex diurnal duties of his office, “the wear and tear "of which no one can know who does not witness them, and of his urbanity and courtesy to that "never-ending, still-beginning" tide of visitors who through him continually, and none of whom, I venture to say, have an interview with him without feeling that they are in a superior presence.
But fearing already to have been too long a trespasser on your columns, these matters, together with some literary topics I wished to discuss, and some speculations concerning public affairs I desired to present, I must omit, should I determine to let the world wag on in ignorance thereof, or postpone should I be unwilling to hide such light under a bushel-leaving to you the addition of a qualifying adjective to light!
ORION.’

MILFORD CONVENTION—THE RIGHT SPIRIT.
I am glad my esteemed friend, Ezra H. Heywood, took my criticism in good part. If. I was misinformed respecting the character of his remarks at the late meeting at Milford, no one can be more glad than my self to stand corrected. The most and best that we can desire now is, to put forth a united effort, with the Napoleonic remark that the “Old Guard may die, but can never surrender."
I am glad also that my friend has corrected a mistake which I saw at a glance, respecting the resolutions of Adin Ballou. I think the error was not mine—though it may be—as I knew the resolutions passed as a whole, not part. As a necessary adjunct of a printing office is the devil—a very convenient personage—perhaps I had better make that chap responsible. At any rate, I had at the time the presumption to believe that all who were present at the meeting referred to would come to the same charitable conclusion of friend H. that the error was unintentional, and so I “let it slide.”—[It was our blunder.—Ed.]
There is one apprehension of my friend, entirely without foundation; he might as well “carry coal to Newcastle" as cherish it; that is, a fear that some persons might infer that the meeting was inharmonious. Not at all. There was harmony and spirit, and no sign of disagreement. All this I said in my hasty notice, and I meant it too. When we have another session of a like character, “may I be there to see"
My friend sees proper to refer to my labor and hospitality in the Anti-slavery cause. I deserve no thanks, since I feel that Anti-slavery has done far more for me than I have ever done for it. All my labors—poor at best-have proved like “casting bread upon the waters;" after many days I have found an abundant reward. My regret is, that I have done so little, and done it so poorly. No better investment can he made than to take such stock as we have the means to purchase in the cause of Anti-slavery.
And in conclusion, I am happy to assure the brethren, that the quarterly meeting at Milford has left its mark, and that the good seed sown did not all fall on stony ground. The words of S. S. Foster were never more benign and effectual. All is well that ends well.
 G. W. S. 
Mayor Macbeth of Charleston, on the 13th ult., issued an order for all free negroes in the city to re port on the next day for thirty days’ labor on the fortifications, or be impressed into service. He also gave notice to the slave-owners that each should be fined $200 for neglecting to send his slaves to work on the fortifications. Northern Copperheads will please take notice, and hereafter hold their peace! 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE TOTAL ABOLITION OF SLAVERY.
Abolition the only Death of the Rebellion, and the only Life of the Republic-the Decision of-the U. L. A.
BATTLE CREEK, October 30, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON:
“Glory, Halleujah! John Brown’s soul is marching on!” Governor Yates, of Illinois, has come out, square, and declared, within a few days, that “Slavery is the only cause, and Abolition is the only cure, of the rebellion and civil war”-that “the rebellion can never be crushed till slavery is abolished.” Gov. Morton, of Indiana, has recently uttered, most emphatically and earnestly, 
the same sentiment, in nearly the same words. Gov. Todd, of Ohio, and Brough, Governor elect of the same State, and Gov. Blair of Michigan, have all planted themselves squarely, and in unmistakable terms, on the same ground. There are more than 500,000 voters in the above named States, and in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Iowa, already enlisted as a Home Guard in the U. L. A. [the Union League of America.] This is not a guess, but a knowledge-so far as statistics can give knowledge. These Leagues, in all these States, plant themselves on the sentiment-Slavery the cause, Abolition the cure of the Rebellion.
The U. L. A. is to have a great Convention of delegates in Washington, in December. I see that Gen. Butler is to be a delegate from Massachusets. 
He takes the ground that the rebel States, by their own act, annihilated themselves as States; that, in them, slavery has ceased to exist, legally, under the Federal Government; that when they come back into the Union, as States, they must come as free, and not as slave States; and that the Federal Government will never assume their debt, incurred to get means to destroy the Republic. The delegates of the entire Northwest, in that Convention, will endorse the views of Gen. Butler in these matters. This is the creed of the Detroit Advertiser and Tribune, of the Chicago Tribune, and of all the loyal papers of the Northwest. The simple issue in the pending presidential struggle is-Shall Freedom, or Slavery, die? That one or the other must be crucified by Northern ballots, in November, 1864, is now nearly a universal conviction in the Northwest. I believe that in six months it will be the universal conviction of the North.
Do arrange to send A. T. Foss into Indiana and Illinois, and to keep him hard at work till the election. He is just the man for the place. Deeply do I regret that Parker Pillsbury cannot enter this field next year. His eloquence would arouse the loyal men, and crush the Copperheads. One hundred lecturers, of the right stamp, in New York, Pennsylvania, and the five States of the Northwest, during the coming year, would settle the question of slavery in the nation and on the continent in all coming time.
Yours,
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

CUMMINGTON CONVENTION.
An Anti-Slavery Convention was held in Cummington, (Mass.) commencing Saturday, Oct. 31, and ending Sunday evening, Nov. 1. It was a meeting of much interest, and we trust will be of ultimate benefit to the cause of universal liberty. Parker Pillsbury, Charles C. Burleigh and Ezra H. Heywood addressed the Convention, each speaking with earnestness and eloquence for the aid of every lover of true freedom, in their labors for the universal emancipation of our race from the sin and curse of slaveholding. While all the speakers seemed agreed in the course that anti-slavery men and women should follow in laboring to awaken our nation to a knowledge of its sin and the duty of repentance, there was enough difference in the hopefulness of the equally earnest advocates of freedom to give us, who listened to them, a graphic view of the blackest side of the cloud that now hangs over our country, and of its silver lining.
The following resolutions were adopted by the Convention, in connection with a portion of the resolutions adopted at the Milford meeting:-
Whereas, The rebellion and civil war which afflict the land are the natural consequences of that preceding rebellion against the divine government, of which the nation was guilty in upholding slavery, and so is the divinely ordered retribution for the nation’s sin; therefore,
Resolved, That it is idle to hope for escape from the chastisement while the transgression is persisted in.
Resolved, That the true “military necessity” of the present crisis is the necessity to obey God’s law, by proclaiming liberty throughout 
all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.
Resolved, That rebellion and treason having wrought a legal forfeiture of the instruments employed therein, and the powers of the State governments of the rebel States having been so employed, and therefore so forfeited, there is in 
those States no local government which any loyal subject of the Federal Government can recognize as legitimate; and, consequently, no legitimate government there, except that of the Union, or such as derives its authority from that.
Resolved, That slavery having no legal warrant but what it derives from the local law, and the validity of that having failed by forfeiture of the power that enacted it, slavery is no longer legal in any rebel State; and it becomes the right and the duty of the Federal Government to declare it illegal, and require all its subordinate agents, civil and military, so to regard and treat it, recognizing as freemen all who were heretofore held in such States as slaves.
Resolved, That the exigencies of the crisis have conferred upon the Federal Government adequate legal power to abolish slavery in the “loyal” slave States, as a measure necessary to the preservation of the nation’s life.
Resolved, That it is always the duty of a government to use all its legal and constitutional powers on the side of justice and humanity; and, therefore, the instant it becomes the legal right of the government to abolish slavery everywhere, it is its duty to exercise that right.
Resolved, therefore, That we ought to hold the Federal Government responsible for the longer continance of slavery as a recognized legal institution 
in any part of the country, and to press upon it its duty to proclaim or enact its immediate abolition.
Resolved, That our work as Abolitionists is still what it ever has been, to wield the power of the truth in persevering efforts so to mould public opinion that it will demand the abolition of slavery throughout the land, not merely as an act of policy, but as a duty to God and man, and will make the longer continuance of the system a moral impossibility, whether governments and their agents do or neglect their duty.
LEVI KINGMAN, President.
NELSON BROWN, Secretary.

ANTI-TOBACCO JOURNAL. The October and November number is, like its predecessor, filled with spicy, readable articles, well calculated to promote the success of the worthy cause it labors to advance. The contents are as follows:-
Reasons for Publishing this Journal; Memoranda of my War on Tobacco; A Dream; A Word from the Doctor and his Wife; Startling Calculations; A Voice from Dr. Jewett; A Lady’s Appeal to the Smoker; The Young Tobacco-Chewer Cured; A Noble Tar resolving to take the Pledge; Schools and Teachers; The Pulpit Divorced from the Temperance Cause; In Memoriam; The Army and Navy Tracts.
REBEL BLOODHOUNDS. Bloodhounds were used to hunt Union men in the recent rebel raid upon Mayfield, Kentucky, and these poor, hunted loyalists were frequently brutally murdered. The marauders threw a railroad train off the track, fired upon the passengers, and robbed them of their valuables. They carried off $18,000 worth of horses.
For the climax of “Satanic” impudence and scoundrelism, see the article of the New York Herald on Henry Ward Beecher in “Refuge of Oppression.”
<c02>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
A Good Man within the Veil-Dismembered, but not Dead-Incisible, but not Absent.
BATTLE CREEK, (Michigan,) Oct. 28, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON:
I have just returned from a scene that has a wakened in me many deep and earnest thoughts and feelings. I reached here from Chicago yesterday. I have been here often the past eighteen years, and have ever made, my home with Joseph and Phebe Merritt. I started from the station to go to that home of love and humanity-”where God delights to dwell”-but before I reached the house, I learned that Joseph Merritt had entered “within the veil.” This he did, last Saturday, Oct. 24th. He was 71 years old. I cannot say his work is done-I do not believe it is. He has much to do yet to save this country from slavery, war, intemperance, wrong and outrage-and he will do it. To this end he has labored long with a devotion, an earnestness, boldness and consistency, rarely equalled, and never surpassed-his life being judged by his opportunities. But his work in the exterior, corporeal life is all done, and well done. Joseph Merritt was a good man. He was great in goodness. So loving, so gentle, so tender, so kind, patient and forgiving to all; so true and so devoted to God, as made known in the depths of his own soul; so unostentatious in his goodness, and so self-sacrificing! His spirit surrounds and fills his home. His wife, not merely his widow, and his children, feel that he is not dead, but lives; they feel, not that he is departed and gone, but that he is still in their midst, to bless them with his love and gentleness. With him it is and ever has been a living truth, that the soul is fed and made rich by giving itself out in love and sympathy-while we starve our souls by keeping them to ourselves.
And you, dear Garrison, have been an object of love and reverence in all your life’s great and victorious conflict with slavery, and all that has sustained it. No man has labored more earnestly in the Anti-Slavery cause than Joseph; and though “within the veil,” he still labors for the redemption of the slave, earnestly and honestly; and his sympathies are no less active than they ever have been. You have seen him in his family and in your own, and never have you given your esteem and hospitality to a truer and more earnest friend, nor to a more upright and truly noble man-his goodness and integrity being his only patent of nobility, direct from God. For many years the Liberator has been his text-book, bringing its weekly sustenance to nourish his soul in all that is true, just, humane and earnest. He heard the death-knell of slavery before he left the body. He saw in the rebellion an Act of Emancipation to four millions of slaves, and in the Proclamation a pledge of the “civil and military power of the republic” to secure and maintain their freedom. Few men were endowed with so clear an intuitional knowledge of the true, the great, and the noble, and with so keen a perception of moral beauty, as he was. His power to see and feel the moral conditions of all who came near him was truly great. But he was confiding as a child, and it pained him to distrust any one.
Joseph Merritt was born a member of the Society of Friends-was trained to their modes of thinking and worship, and had been for many years a faithful and earnest minister among them. Yet Progression has long been his life’s motto and law, and he was not only true to his present light, but ever had his mind open to receive new light, from whatever source it might come. His soul had long been freed from the trammels of external authority, and true only to internal conviction. His own soul was the manger in which his Savior was born; and he felt that no thing or being, outside of himself, could ever be of use to him until born within him. He worshipped God as revealed in his own soul, and felt that no power could help him to a truer and nobler life till it became a part of himself. He expected to find what he carried, wherever he went, and felt that he had no reason to expect any more. He never expected to find any other God or heaven than the God and heaven he carried within him. He hoped for no heaven except the heaven which he himself carried and deserved. I know the interior life of Joseph Merritt, and his spirit-presence inspires me to say these things of him. Joseph Merritt had a beautiful soul; beautiful in simplicity, in tenderness, and in goodness, and hence in self-abnegation. He was and is a living sacrifice for others’ good.
Said one to me, “Joseph Merritt was a good man.” “Was a good man?” I answered. “Why not say he is a good man?” “Why, he is dead,” said the other, “did you not know it?” “No,” I said, “I do not know that he is dead, but I do know that Joseph Merritt-the man, the husband, the father, the abolitionist, and ‘the friend of publicans and sinners’-lives, and that he is now, though within the 
veil,’ just as good a man as he was before entering there.” Why should we think or speak of him as dead, when we believe he lives? Why think or speak of him as absent, when we know he is present? Why think or say he was a good man, when we know he is now a good man? Why think or say he was an abolitionist, the friend of the friendless and oppressed, when he is now a living, earnest, active abolitionist and friend of freedom? Joseph Merritt would rather have his family and friends think and speak of him as living and present, than as dead and absent. Who would not? May those who love me think and speak of me-after I have entered within the veil-as living and present, and never as dead and absent. It would add greatly to my heaven to know that my friends-after I enter within the veil-think and speak of me as living and present, and still one of their number, while they are battling for a truer and nobler life for themselves and others while in the body.
The body of Joseph Merritt was taken to the meeting-house, where J. M. Peebles gave an address peculiarly adapted to the occasion and the man. Thence it was taken to the cemetery, and laid in its appropriate place. “Trust in God and in me”-a sentiment uttered by Jesus-was the basis of the discourse. Joseph Merritt believed and lived out the idea that to love man is to love God, that faith in humanity is faith in God, and that what he did to man he did to God. He only gives his heart to God who gives it to man.
I have seen many dead human bodies; but, as I looked on the lifeless form of Joseph Merritt, lying in its usual clothing on a lounge, his face so serene, so sweet and peaceful in expression, I felt like exclaiming, in the language of 
another-”O Death! where is thy sting? O Grave! where is thy victory?” “I could not make him dead.”
HENRY C. WEIGHT.
H. C. W’s tribute to the memory and character of Joseph Merritt we cordially approve.]-Ed.
FRATERNITY LECTURE. The third lecture of the Fraternity course, originally assigned to Gen. Butler, was delivered by Theodore D. Weld. His subject was “The Higher Law,” and it was treated with his usual keenness of analysis and elaborateness of illustration. Want of space this week prevents any attempt at a report, further than to say that the lecturer used slavery as an illustration 
of the retributive action of the higher law. Human nature, he said, is a magazine of self-retributive weapons. The wrench by which a man distorts his fellow dislocates himself. Curses curse the curser before they reach the victim. Slavery, the sum of all villainies, brings war in its train. It brings war upon us, its accomplices, but wreaks its worst vengeance upon the slaveholder. The reaction of the broken law strikes him first-him constantly.
The Declaration of Independence and the Preamble to the Constitution of the United States were conspicuous manifestations of the Higher Law. These, however, were but the heralds of the perfect day; and that day will be ushered in when complete and universal emancipation is perfected.
The next lecture is to be given next Tuesday evening, by Henry Ward Beecher.-C. K. W.
<c03>
ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition-a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner 
as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing-the object is godlike-the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.

A FRIENDLY LETTER OF INQUIRY.
To MR. JOHN J. DOLAND:
When you left your legitimate business to become a politician, did you count the cost? Did you, for one moment, sit down, and seriously consider the sacrifice you must make to become, at this time in our country’s history, a democratic politician? Had you any idea of the dirty work you would have to do?-that you would have to call this rebellion a war for the “nigger”-collect a crowd about you at the corners of public streets, on Sunday afternoons, and abuse and slander Mr. Sumner, Mr. Wilson, President Lincoln, and every other public man who ever spoke a word for liberty? And when in the crowd you caught the eye of one of your Irish constituents, you would repeat the stale joke, and use the lowest slang of party, to still farther prejudice the Irish against a down-trodden and enslaved race, by such arguments as the following:-
“Set the niggers free, and they will come North, and get all the work from you. Do you want to work side of a nigger? The nigger is in his right place now! You can’t make a white man out of a nigger! A nigger is a nigger!”
Merciful Heaven! is there an Irishman in this city, be his skull ever so thick-is there one elector who would vote for you any the sooner, because you take it upon yourself thus to abuse and vilify an unoffending and wickedly oppressed race? Did you suppose that you should have to slander and abuse every officer and soldier who volunteered to put down the slaveholders’ rebellion-accuse 
Gen. B. F. Butler and Maj. B. F. Watson of volunteering in the war from sordid motives, to get office and steal what they could get from the Administration? All this, and more-and for what? Why, to be elected a member of the Massachusetts Legislature!
And now, let me ask you, where did you learn all this? Is this the doctrine of the “Central Orthodox Church,” to which you belong? Did your former master who owns the church instill pro-slavery sentiments into your mind? Was it a part of the contract when you entered his employment? Is it not the same damnable spirit that drove the lamented Foster from his pulpit and from our city, because he prayed from the fulness of his heart for poor bleeding Kansas?
You may have learnt your pro-slavery slang and Vallandigham Democracy in the church of which you are a member; from the man on whom you were dependent for your bread; but you never learnt it from the meek and lowly Jesus. You cannot read it in the New Testament; you cannot find it in nature. You learnt it not from the lips of your pious mother; it did not float in the free air of your native New Hampshire; you did not learn it when a child. No, no!
And now, Sir, will you not pause in your career long enough to ask yourself the following questions:-
“Am I for the right? Am I doing all that I can for liberty? Is my course approved by the virtuous and good? Does God look down upon my political and social life, and say, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant!’” Hereafter, I pray you, “take the right”-act honestly to your God, and to man, and to yourself. I pray you, for the sake of humanity, and for the sake of freedom, everywhere, do not lend your influence any longer to the side of oppression. And then you can pray for the bondman; you can ask God to break the bonds of the oppressor; you will not have the fear of man before your eyes; when you retire to your couch, you can sleep. You will be at peace with your God-with the world-with your own heart-and it will make but little difference whether you are ever again a member of the Massachusetts Legislature.
LAWRENCE.

ANOTHER GENEROUS RESPONSE.
To the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society:-
DEAR FRIENDS,-We are glad to learn that you are to put into the lecturing field as many Agents as the funds of the Society will warrant. We feel that especially now is the time to proclaim to this nation the duty of the immediate and unconditional emancipation of all who are in bondage, as its only hope of continued existence. We also believe that, from your standpoint as enunciated by your Platform of Principles in 1835, your testimony will be heard, and the influence you exert will be much more effective than any other organization. Therefore, we cheerfully pledge to you ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS per month, for at least five months. Enclosed, you will please find a check for one hundred dollars for November.
Yours, for the oppressed,
E. D. & ANNA T. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Nov. 7, 1863.
This is characteristic of our esteemed friends, who, for many years, have shown a generous and unfaltering interest in the Anti-Slavery cause.]-Ed.
In a private letter from Rochester, N. H., Mr. Foss writes:-
“We had a large meeting on Saturday evening, two miles out of town, at another village. Our friend ‘the coachman,’ (Jeff. Davis’s) did finely, and seemed to give entire satisfaction.
On Monday, we go to Barrington Town-house; on Tuesday, to Strafford, Wednesday, to Great Falls, Thursday, to Milton, and Friday, to Farmington.
Yesterday we had a large gathering in a schoolhouse, three miles from Rochester,-a fine, intelligent audience. Last night we had a perfect jam, every sitting and standing-place occupied.
‘The coachman’ drives beautifully; having at three different places appeared to great advantage, quite throwing me into the shade.”

GEN. BUTLER IN COMMAND. Gen. Butler has been assigned to the command of the 18th army corps, Department of Virginia and North Carolina, in place of Gen. Foster, who is ordered to report to the Adjutant-General. Circumstances indicate that Gen. Foster will have command of the defences of Washington.
Secretary Seward authorizes the gratifying announcement that the French Government, upon the remonstrance of Minister Dayton, has promptly 
and most honorably arrested the six iron-clads rams which were building at Nantes and Bordeaux.
No less than five attempts at negro insurrection have been made in Georgia since the month of July last. As a terror to the slaves, some were shot, others hung, and seven or eight were burned, one of the latter being a pregnant female!
<c04>
SPEECH OF SECRETARY SEWARD.
Hon. William H. Seward, Secretary of State, made a speech in Corning Hall, Auburn, on Monday evening, the 2d inst., to a crowded audience, on matters of public import. In its course he elaborately argued that there could be no satisfactory peace arrived at between the North and South which was not preceded by submission on the part of the rebels. He also made some very truthful but severe reflections on the conduct of disloyal citizens, in abandoning, natural and moral instincts, and sympathizing with men who had the destruction of their country, its institutions and liberty, as a reigning motive in their rebellion. Of such disloyal men and their perverted ideas, he said:
“They are afraid of the loss of individual liberty and of State Rights, and they therefore saw continually on the string of arbitrary arrests and suspension of the habeas corpus. They do not see that the country is in a condition of civil war-exposed to foreign invasion; that arrests are a weapon of war which must be wielded by the military power of the State, and not by its courts and constables. The dangers they fear are future-they overlook the present danger 
which, if it prevails, will leave the country no future. They mourn the public peace lost, so piteously, that they have no heart to restore it in the only way it can be restored, by contest with the enemies in arms who have destroyed it. They sigh for peace in the future, and thus invite the insurgent to invade our own homes and firesides. They are troubled to know the terms upon which you, will give peace to the insurgents. The answer is a simple one: There can be no peace to the insurgents in arms, until they have submitted and accept Abraham Lincoln as the President of the United States; then, and not before, will be the time to speak of the terms of peace.”
Concerning the consequence of rebel submission, and the future of slavery, Mr. Seward said:-
“The abettors of the rebellion are troubled for fear we shall not leave to the rebels, when they have submitted, enough of slavery and slaves. They want to know what we propose about that. My answer is that, if they had submitted to Abraham Lincoln, at the beginning, they would have retained the whole. They have lost by resistance, on an average, ten thousand slaves a month. Each month of prolonged resistance increases the loss, and they are verging upon the time when submission, coming too late, will leave neither slavery nor slaves in the land. This question of slavery is their business, not mine. So long as they propose no surrender, they are entitled to ask no terms. What has happened to slavery thus far has been the legitimate fruits of their own crimes; but it was fruit ordained, not by man, but of God. Without seeking to divine His ways, I think that the future will be like unto the past. The insurrection will perish under military power, necessarily, and therefore lawfully exercised, and slavery 
will perish with it. Nevertheless, I am willing that the prodigal son shall return. The doors, so far as I am concerned, shall always be open to him. The longer he is content to feed upon husks, the sooner he will hunger. The longer he is content in his dalliance with the harlot of rebellion, the greater will be his ultimate disgust with her embrace. The greater his hunger and his disgust, the deeper will be his repentance, and the more lasting his reformation. I shall send no invitations after him; and yet, speaking not for myself, but for you and the whole American people, I express the conviction that neither man nor angel can prevent the fatted calf being slain for his welcome, when he docs come hack, saying penitently, ‘Brothers, I have offended, and I desire reconciliation.’”

REBEL VIEWS OF THE LATE NORTHERN ELECTIONS.
The Richmond Enquirer of Oct. 24th contains the following comments on the recent elections at the North:-
No sensible person in the Confederate States has been at all surprised at the result of the late elections in Ohio and Pennsylvania. The issue between Mr. Vallandigham and the Government was of a nature so unequivocal, that the defeat of the former was a foregone conclusion. Bayonets and money easily carried the day against a timid people, who felt a personal interest in their candidate for Governor, but cared nothing whatever for the principles he avowed. Give them their choice, and the people of Ohio would infinitely prefer to beat the South into submission rather than win it back by conciliation. The same may be said of the Northern States.
The election of Pennsylvania was of no importance to the South, since the defeat of the Administration candidate would have only given us an honest and decent enemy, in place of a low swindler and vulgar fanatic.
In Ohio there may be a very few residents of Southern descent and affiliation, who, in their hearts, detest the war in any aspect, whether “for the Constitution and the Union,” or for and with the negro; but in Pennsylvania scarcely a man, woman or child can be found who does not glory in every atrocity committed by the Abolitionist leaders. The Democratic party in that State was never proof against bribery, for it never had the shadow of principle.
Some little curiosity is felt in regard to the future of Mr. Vallandigham. What will he do? where will he go? Will he remain in Canada, practice law, and bide his chances for the candidate two years hence? We think it not impossible. His leisure moments, during this interval, may be usefully employed in speculating upon his chances in the event of the failure or success of the South, and in determining the true position of every defender of State rights in this quarrel. Every sound mind perceives that the sincere advocate of constitutional liberty is out of place elsewhere than in the Southern army. But Mr. Vallandigham 
dreams about a restored, glorious, all-powerful, free and happy Union. He will be fully awakened before he becomes Governor of Ohio.
The Richmond Examiner is bothering its brains over the singular phenomena of this war. “We are always beating the Yankees,” it says, “always taking their cannon, killing and capturing their men, and coming off the most decided victors, and yet we never regain any territory.” It must be confessed that this result is strange. That the rebel battles should always be the gain of a loss, like the jump of a toad out of his hole, one foot upwards and two feet backwards, is among the greatest novelties of history. Other people, when they win great and uniform successes, have something to show for it; but these poor rebels have nothing to show but a great decrease in territory. The more they whip the pestilent Yankees, the more they are hemmed in; and we should not be surprised if, before the end of it, they should carry their victories to such a dreadful height as to find themselves cooped up in the single State of South Carolina.

THE ORIGINAL EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
In response to a personal application, on behalf of the ladies, made by Hon. I. N. Arnold, during a recent visit to Washington, President Lincoln has sent to the ladies of the Sanitary Fair, now in progress in Chicago, the original manuscript draft of the Emancipation Proclamation. It is accompanied by the following letter:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, October 26, 1863.
To the Ladies having in charge the Northwestern Fair for the Sanitary Commission, Chicago, Illinois:
According to the request made in your behalf, the original draft of the Emancipation Proclamation is herewith enclosed. The formal words at the top, and the conclusion, except the signature, you perceive, are not in my handwriting. They were written at the State Department, by whom I know not. The printed 
part was cut from a copy of the preliminary Proclamation, and pasted on, merely to save writing.
I had some desire to retain the paper, but if it shall contribute to the relief or comfort of the soldiers, that will be better.
Your obedient servant, 
A. LINCOLN.
The Proclamation will be on exhibition during the Fair, and sold for the benefit of the soldiers. The Chicago Historical Society is now making up a large fund with the design of purchasing it for the archives of that institution.
Charles A. Shaw of Biddeford, Me., has telegraphed to the Commissioners of the Northwestern Fair, at Chicago, offering them $2000 for the original draft of the President’s Emancipation Proclamation.
It is stated that an agent of the British Museum offers $2500 for the manuscript copy of the President’s Emancipation Proclamation.
THE SHELLING OF CHARLESTON. Three or four shots were fired at St. Michael’s Church spire on Wednesday last, one of which fell short; the others are said to have burst in the city. The story is not at all improbable, as Gregg is nearly six hundred yards nearer the city than the Marsh Hen, and no trouble was found in shelling the city from the latter point. Since Tuesday, no shots have been fired at the city, nor is it likely that any more will be, unless a certain contingency should arise not at present imminent.
During the bombardment of Sumter, the rebel flag was twice shot away, and again hoisted. That ragged ensign must have fallen to the ramparts at least six times since General Gilmore’s batteries first opened.
The terreplein of the fort may now be seen over the ruins of the southeast face, and our guns will soon have full sweep over it and against the rear of the face looking towards the city.
The Morris Island correspondent of the Tribune, writing on the 3rd inst., states that Block Island is occupied by our troops. It is nearer to Charleston than any other point held by us, with the exception of the extreme north end of Morris Island.
<c05>
MARYLAND.
Major John Lee Chapman presided, and Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte, (one of the Bonaparte-Pattersons, or descendants of Louis Napoleon’s uncle Jerome,) was first Vice-President of the great Union Emancipation meeting in Baltimore, recently. The following resolutions were adopted by the vast assemblage;
Resolved, by the Unconditional Union men of Baltimore, in mass meeting assembled. That the war for the preservation of the Union ought to be prosecuted until the authority of the Government is acknowledged, and its flag waves unsullied over every inch of the national territory.
Resolved, That we support the whole policy of the Administration for the suppression of the rebellion, and for guaranteeing a republican government in the States in rebellion after the rebellion is suppressed; and that the members of Congress from this State ought to enter and abide by the Administration caucus for Speaker, and give a cordial support to the National Administration.
Resolved, That we hail with joy the result of the election in Pennsylvania and Ohio, and we extend to the supporters of Curtin and Brough the hearty congratulations of the loyal people of Baltimore.
Resolved, That we are in favor of Emancipation in Maryland by a Constitutional Convention, and that the Convention ought to meet and conclude its labors, that the Constitution may be finally ratified, at least by the next Presidential election.
Resolved, That traitors who do not acknowledge the Government whose authority protects the ballot-box, have no right to meddle with the elections.

THE GREAT ORGAN AT MUSIC HALL.
A full description of this organ would require more space than our limits will allow. We take the following extracts from the Boston Post:-
“The ‘Great Organ’ was inaugurated at Music Hall, Monday evening. This instrument, of which so much has been written and about which so much has been talked,-which, in fact, has formed a leading topic of conversation in musical circles for months,-will undoubtedly rank among the first in the world. The completion of the instrument, and its exhibition to the public, constitute an era in the musical annals of our country; and from this time forward it may be that the art of music will assume a higher position among us. The audience was one of the finest ever gathered in Boston, and probably contained more genuine musical culture, intelligence and refinement, than ever before assembled on the continent. Some ten or twelve States of the Union were represented, and by those who made a special pilgrimage to Boston for the purpose of attending the inauguration. Not less than two hundred were present from the city of New York, one hundred from Philadelphia, and as many more from Baltimore and Washington. Parties were also present from cities as distant as Chicago and Detroit; while delegations came from all parts of New England.
The great organ of the Music Hall is a choir of nearly six thousand vocal throats. Its largest windpipes are thirty-two feet long, and a man can crawl through them. Its finest tubes are too small for a baby’s whistle. Eighty-nine stops produce all the various changes and combinations of which its immense orchestra is capable, from the purest solo of a singing nun, to the loudest chorus in which all its groups of voices have their part in the full flow of its harmonies. Like all instruments of its class, it contains several distinct systems of pipes, commonly spoken of as separate organs, and capable of being played alone or in connection with each other. Four manuals or key-boards command those several systems-the solo organ, the choir organ, the swell organ, and the great organ, and the piano and forte pedal-organ. Twelve pairs of bellows, which it is intended to move by water power, derived from the Cochituate reservoirs, furnish the breath which pours itself forth in music. Those beautiful effects for which the organ is incomparable, the crescendo and diminuendo-the gradual rise of the sound from the lowest murmur to the loudest blast, and the dying fall by which it steals gently back into silence-the dissolving views, so to speak, of harmony, are not only provided for in the swell organ, but may be obtained by special adjustment from the several systems of pipes, and from the entire instrument.
The structure is of black walnut, and is covered with carved statues, busts, masks, and figures in the boldest relief. In the centre, a richly ornamented are contains the niche for the key-boards and stops. A colossal mask of a singing woman looks over from its summit. The pediment above is surmounted by the bust of Jonathan Sebastian Bach. Behind this rises the lofty central division, containing pipes, and crowning it is a beautiful sitting statue of St. Cecilia, holding her lyre. On each side of her a griffin sits as guardian. This centre is connected by harp-shaped compartments, filled with pipes, to the two great round towers, one on each side, and each of them containing three colossal pipes. These magnificent towers come boldly forward into the hall, being the most prominent, as they are the highest and stateliest part of the facade. At the base of each, a gigantic half-caryatid, in the style of the ancient her <illegible>, but finished to the waist, bends beneath the superincumbent weight, like Atlas under the globe. These figures are of wonderful force, the muscular development being almost excessive, but in keeping with their superhuman task. At each side of the base, two lion her <illegible> share in the task of the giant. Over the base rise the round pillars which support the dome, and enclose the three great pipes already mentioned.
Never did any structure we have looked upon so justify Madame de Stael’s definition of architecture as ‘frozen music’. The outermost towers, their pillars and domes, are all square, their outlines thus passing without too sudden transition from the sharp square angles of the vaulted ceiling and the rectangular lines of the walls of the hall itself into the more central parts of the instrument, where a smoother harmony of outline is predominant. For in it the great towers, which step forward, as it were, to represent the meaning of the entire structure, the lines are all curved, as if the slight discords which gave sharpness and variety to its less vital portions, are all resolved as we approach its throbbing heart. And again, the half fantastic repetitions of musical forms in the principal outlines the lyre-like shape of the bases of the great towers, the harp-like figure of the connecting wings, the clustering reeds of the columns-fill the mind with musical suggestions, and dispose the wondering spectator to become the entranced listener.
The cost of the great organ, which includes its foundation, a structure of masonry, the restoration of the hall, and the incidental expenses, we understand to be about $63,000. The organ proper cost $58,000.
A CARD.-The undersigned, in behalf of the Directors, would thank the noble and generous patrons of the John Quincy Adams National Farm Home for Invalid Soldiers, for past favors. No one any longer asks if this Home is needed. It is the only Farm Home in the United States. Every merchant says it is just what is needed to resuscitate and recruit those who have gone out to protect our gold and silver, and our homes. Gentlemen of every shade of politics are becoming interested. This is no experiment-it is a success. It is already in operation, feeding and employing all who go there. There are about 400 acres of land; and if those who feel interested in this movement will call at 19 Charlestown Street, upon Samuel Poor, Jr., Vice President, they will get full particulars.
We beg ladies and gentlemen to help us prepare to make those noble and brave men comfortable for the coming winter. Lieut. GEO. W. CALEFF is constantly laboring for them. While he was a prisoner in the hands of the rebels for more than a year, his mother was thrown into a decline, lingered along until the 16th ult., and died. It is supposed that her over-anxiety hastened her decease, while he was suffering hunger and nakedness, suffering for bread many a day for thirteen long months within the walls of Charleston jail and Libby prison.
True, others are sufferers; many a brave woman is ebbing out her life-blood in prayer, as she did, for only-sons in the army. Many a heart has been made sad, many there are whose cheeks have paled as they went out to meet returning regiments, welcomed by cheering thousands, and who were answered, “He died upon the field,” or, “He died a prisoner.” Let those of us who remain at home do all the good we can to our brave returned soldiers.
Sergeant NICHOLAS LAWLESS, minus a leg and some of his fingers shot off, is the gentlemanly Superintendent. The Farm is in Weston, three miles from Auburndale. JOHN MEADE, Jr., at the latter place, will direct all visitors to the Home.
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President,
19 Charlestown street.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE COLORED REGIMENTS.
The Committee appointed to procure funds for the 54th and 55th regiments appeal to their friends for further aid.
For well-known reasons, these soldiers have received no pay; we are therefore frequently called upon to furnish aid to their families. Our treasury needs to be replenished for this purpose. We also desire that some suitable present may be given to the members of these regiments on Thanksgiving day.
Their courage and conduct entitle them to every mark of esteem; and reminding you of the blood so bravely shed at Fort Wayne, we ask for such aid as shall enable us to provide something for the comfort of these noble men, and for the support of their wives and children.
J. H. STEPHENSON, Treasurer for the Committee.
12 Arch street, Nov. 9, 1863.
<c06>
BIBLICAL QUARTERLY of Religious and Moral Science, and the Reconstruction of Biblical Theories according to the principles of all Science. No. I. Daniel with its Apocryphal additions, newly arranged and translated, with a critical introduction, in which its age, authorship, character and interpretation are considered, and the principal questions concerning the book attempted to be finally resolved. By LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
This Quarterly will endeavor to apply the principles of all science to the sciences of religion and morality, then of all history to sacred history, and then of all interpretation to Biblical interpretation. The second or third number will commence the critical examination of the New Testament.
Terms, $2 a year; single numbers, 60 cents. The first number is in the press, and will appear shortly. Orders and subscriptions are respectfully solicited through all the United States and Canada, and may be addressed to Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Boston.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-Those who want an easy, pleasant and profitable business should send for 
“FIFTY METHODS OF MAKING MONEY”;
a book containing over fifty valuable secrets. Sent, post paid, to any address on the receipt of 25 cents.
Address, F. A. FOSTER, Troy, N. Y. 
NOV. 13.-3t

ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE.-Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price,-three dollars each. The work covers a period of more than ten years, ending with May, 1863. 4t 
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.-The invaluable Trust, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled 
“The Right Way the Safe Way,” can be had at the Liberator office, wholesale or retail. Price-$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.
LYCEUM LECTURES.-Literary Associations and Lyceums, desiring lectures for the present winter, may be served on reasonable terms with any or all in the following list:-
1. Eighteen Months at Port Royal, S. C., as Superintendent of abandoned Plantations; and the solution of the question, “What shall be done with 
the slaves freed?” 
2. War and Peace.
3. The Progress of the Mechanic Arts, and its effect on Social Science.
4. The Poet and his Art.
5. Shakespeare.
6. The Merchant of Venice, (a Critical Reading.)
7. Hamlet, (a Critical Reading.)
8. Macbeth, (a Critical Reading.) 
9. Milton. 
10. Burns.
11. Coleridge.
12. Wordsworth.
Testimonials of a high order, from eminent gentlemen connected with Lyceums in the West, where has been the lecturer’s field hitherto, may be seen by any who desire it.
Address Prof. J. C. ZACHOS, Boston, Mass.
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark’s, School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
MEETINGS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE. A. T. Foss and WM. A. JACKSON (Jeff. Davis’s coachman) will attend meetings in Portsmouth, on Sunday next, 15th inst., in New market, on Tuesday evening, 17th, South Newmarket, Wednesday, 18th, and in Exeter, on Thursday, 19th.
It is hoped and expected that most of the principal towns in Eastern New Hampshire will be visited in the course of a few weeks, and that all the friends of Universal Emancipation will cheerfully co-operate to make the meetings as effective as possible. Of the importance of entire Emancipation, as the way out 
of the war, and for the security of a permanent peace and a harmonious and lasting Union, there can be but one reasonable opinion.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.-AARON M. POWELL and WENDELL. P. GARRISON will address meetings in the following places in the State of New York:-
Pittstown, Friday Nov. 13.
Middle Granville, Saturday Nov. 14. 
Middle Granville, Sunday Nov. 15.
Saratoga Springs, Monday Nov. 16.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Florence, Nov. 15 and 22.
HOPEDALE.-PARKER PILLSBURY will give a lecture in the new church at Hopedale, on Sunday evening next. Subject-The Mysteries and Meanings of the War.

OBITUARY.
Sergeant EDWIN A. WHITCOME, of the 105th Ohio Regiment, and only son of Dr. JAMES B. WHITCOME, of Brooklyn, Ct., was slain in the late sanguinary battle at Chickamauga. His age was 25 years.
Thus has another sacrifice been laid on Freedom’s sacred altar; and from the depths of bleeding, agonized hearts, the bereaved can say, “The altar sanctifies the gift,” and find peace.
This young soldier fell, with the aspiration for “LIBERTY TO ALL” fresh upon his lips, as earnestly breathed forth in his last letter to his sorrowing parents. Slowly, but surely, is the God of justice and peace answering that yearning cry, which is now going out from millions of human hearts.
Let us, then, work on-wait on-and, if need be, sacrifice on-until “LIBERTY TO ALL” shall resound from every hill-top and through every valley, and “none shall molest or make afraid.”
DIED-In this city, on Sunday last, AARON F. P. GRAHAM, grandson of AARON F. and ELIZA PHILLIPS, of California, aged 7 years and 6 months.

BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50; People’s edition, $1.
II. HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE: a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH’S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. $1.00.
V. HENRY WARD BEECHER’S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 15c.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown. $1.00.
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications sent to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price.
R. F. WALLCUT,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES, 
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas <illegible> of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention, given to Lighting up for Parties. 
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowells Prevision Store 132 Charles Street, Boston.
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly

BRAID PATTERNS 
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET, 
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct 23, 1863.
POETRY
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ODE,
Delivered by Miss Charlotte Cushman at the Dedication of the Great Organ in Music Hall, Boston, on Monday Evening, Nov. 2d, 1863. Written by a Lady.
I.
Listen to the invocation!
Now awaking, praiseful breaking, 
It shall bear the heart of a nation, 
Rising in vast convocation,
Full of honor, full of song,
Upward to the Source of Praise, where harmonies belong.
II.
It rises from our city by the fragrant sea,
Where, young, laborious, brave, and free,
She stands in her prosperity.
Our fathers clutched the wild shore stark and cold,
Saying, This strand shall be our home,
And let no despot hither come; 
Strong of purpose, strong of bone,
We will govern it alone.
Yet Mercy’s height our fathers could not gain;
Nor perfect Justice did their hearts contain;
They sinned their sins; the tale is not untold.
And bitterness of arrogance
And wily hate and ignorance 
Heaped their poisoned agony 
Upon the young-browed colony;
But still the people grew and strengthened as Time rolled.
The towers rose, the bells were swung,
And rifted stone assumed new grace,
While up and down the children sung,
Bringing their sunshine to the place.
After long years, their children's children grew,
And wandered into foreign lands,
And other nations knew
And saw them bound in cold, despotic bands.
At last, in thankfulness, they said,
We will choose from out our own
Those who early loved and reverent laid 
Their listening ear to the harmonic shell;
Let them seek in many an antique town
To find in what recesses dwell
Art’s divinest melodies.
Voiceless, shall we as the dead
See the morning spread
Over us her rich surprise?
See the evening’s golden tale
Written on each floating sail,
And no people’s song arise
Tuneful for our home, our earthly Paradise?
We have sinned, and need a psalm for sadness;
We have joyed, and should find voice for gladness;
We will build an organ vast,
It shall sound a noble blast,
And wear a stately form;
It shall tell of mountain streams,
Until we hear their quickly-flowing dreams,
Ringing to music for our waking hours;
It shall rehearse the tale of pine-strewed woods,
Until their pensive moods
Shall haunt the common street with their weird powers;
They who dwell in inland homes
May learn the murmur of the sea
Through its tumultuous tone,
Surging, as when the north-wind comes,
After a storm, while yet the fierce waves moan,
And drives the herded clouds across the crystal lea.
Nature in every form that soothes our pain 
Shall come to us again,
As when in childhood’s hours of rest
We lay -upon her breast;
 The organ then shall lead the quivering soul
Onward to worlds where unheard anthems roll.
III.
At length the people sought and found
A builder foremost in his art,
Who held his work dear unto his heart,
The child of his old age.
Tender as a monk of old
Slipping down the scale of years,
Who paints his last stroke on th’ enamelled page,
So wrought he on this organ for the Free.
At last the long laborious hours were told,
Ended their costacies and fears,
Struck by the master’s hand, there leaped a sound
From these fresh wells of secret melody.
Bring the wood of choicest grain,
Dyed with hues of richest stain,
Cried the builder old;
And choose a worthy architect,
Whose eye can skillfully select
The subtlest curve in leaf and branch and wave;
Let his obedient hand engrave
Whatever form his busy thought shall name,
Worthy to bind these silver spires within their sculptured frame.
Art-brothers then in answering concord came,
With fancy glowing in the flame,
And flashing upward to their high intent.
The soul of one an instrument
Where Beauty’s hand her influence lent,
Until hard lines by him were blent,
And fluted columns lightly sent
To greet the upper air,
Crowned with the forest’s leafy hair.
Lost on the convolutions of his work,
We seem to hear the stir of summer wind,
Or rustling birds who lurk
In hidden nests we seek, but never find.
Another, of athletic mind,
Brought two strong sons of Atlas, doomed to stand
Forever holding up, with strained hand,
The world of varied pipes and carvings rare;
Caryatids, gloomy-browed,
By his power were allowed 
Again to leave the silent halls of Greece,
And listen in their toil to Music’s voice of peace.
And many were the figures from his soul
Which fled to form, and answered his control;
Chief of them all, the master soul of song
Follows with jealous love the keys along.
Last, highest, as if just alit,
See divine Cecilia sit;
She has found our far dominions
On her wide, melodious pinions:
From her wrapt lyre it seems she drops
Sweet wandering notes to guide the swelling stops,
While circle into circle breaking,
Wider circles still awaking, 
Every sphere can swinging hear
The ripples of our atmosphere,
The growing circles of our prayer;
Circling beyond all time, all place,
And breaking with its finite grace
Upon dim shores of God’s illimitable space.
IV
While thus with strenuous eagerness they wrought,
Thither the black-winged echoes sailing brought
A heavy noise that quelled each rising thought:
A wailing as of "War,"
Now near and now afar,
Darkened' the star-sown firmament of Peace,
Wherever men should look to find release:
Black was the sky, and blacker still it grew,
While Faith alone the unread future knew.
Still the work was bravely sped,
Though in faint. souls Hope was dead,
Or distant as a murmur from the midnight summer sea.
Onward surely went the labor,
While the sharpened clash of sabre 
Echoed in the workmen’s ear,
Listening yet for Victory.
V
A voice for weeping, 
And a bell for tolling,
Wakeful dreams in place, of sleeping,-
Shall we tell no other story
Of our country’s hard-won glory?
The organ shall its noble triumphs spread
Hasten, builders young and builders hoary,
Let its first notes tell the eloquent story
 Of fresh desires like autumn lustre shed, 
The willing tribute of our faith and glory.
Now the offering stands completed,
Be its joyful advent greeted!
<c02>
Lift ye up each mourning head!
It should sound the heroic dead!
And if the notes must tell of Beauty fled
From this earth-bound portal
To the gate immortal,
Thence, on radiant wing, their resonant might shall bring
Fairer Beauty born of Duty,
Beauty fled, but never dead,
The mortal and immortal wed.
0, sweet joys vanished!
0, life-hopes hung on broken thread!
Hearken to-day,
And hear a people say,
"Not for their homes alone
Our martyrs' light hath shown,—
Broad as the land its rays are known;
Too generous to wait till set of sun,
They saw the bitter strife begun,
Rejoiced to know their innocent course was run,
Since with their death the enslaved tasks were done.
Ye, and such as ye, we hold our pledge of Victory!
Ere yet our tears are dry,
We hear the wide-resounding cry,
The coming roll of victory,
And Freedom walks beside her stately car."
Let the musician come,
Fresh from that star where Genius has its home,
Whose sympathetic soul
Sways, like the wind-swept grain,
To human joy or pain,
And yet no passions trample to their base control.
His hand shall vibrate the responsive strings,
Rising on supernal wings
Of Music's wondrous mystery:
Now, at his touch, unveiled are hidden things,
Now falls oppression, now decay false kings,
Through all the tones the voice of Freedom rings
The choral chant, one song of Praise, A NATION'S VICTORY!

THE LIBERATOR.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "cousin Frank’s Household."
CHAPTER VI.
THE ARRIVAL.
"They've come at last!" said Miss Forsythe, rising, and systematically placing her embroidery on the work-stand near which she had been sitting in the parlor, and taking off her pretty little gold thimble, and placing it in the very heart of the rose she had wrought so life-like with her magic fingers. Then opening the door, she passed lightly through, and greeted Mr. Nelson at he was handing Lelia up the steps.
Mr. Nelson's inquiries after the health of the governess were not simply conventional, but hearty and sincere, for his respect for her was unbounded. But she was not as self-possessed as usual, and nervously blushed as she responded; then looked inquiringly at the young lady who accompanied him, whom Mr. Nelson at once introduced as his ward Lelia.
The quick scrutiny of the two seemed mutually favorable, and Lelia and Miss Forsythe kissed cordially.
Miss Forsythe had heard good accounts of the ward through Mr. Nelson's letters, and the governess had been highly commended to Lelia as a lady of the best culture and heart-qualities, and the orphan stranger felt inexpressible relief in finding that her guardian's representations were not overdrawn. 
"I cannot help loving her, "thought Miss Forsythe, and so thought Lelia as she was ushered in by the kind, graceful lady.
"Bless me! what a long road 'tis from Boston!" said Mr. Nelson, as he seated himself. "They ought to have built the city nearer Powhatan. Too far north, decidedly."
The governess smiled, and said she thought Powhatan was in about the right latitude.
"Just right, "replied Mr. Nelson. "There’s no place like home, and I’ve had a touch of home-sickness ever since I've been away. I wouldn’t live North for all the property north of Mason and Dixon’s line. I wouldn’t, indeed!"
"You're a genuine Virginian," replied Miss Forsythe, "and I think a love for one’s own country is not only pardonable, but commendable."
"And that's why you love old England so, is it not? "said Mr. Nelson, pleasantly.
"Perhaps so, "rejoined the governess. Then suddenly recollecting herself, she added, "Excuse me a moment, and I will see if breakfast is ready, "and hastened to the dining-room in search of Frink. He was not there. She rang, but he did not come. Going to his room, she found him the picture of chagrin and despondency, sitting on the floor, his head wrapped in a towel, and resting on his knees.
"Come, Frink, "said the governess, "we must give Mr. Nelson some breakfast as soon as possible. But what's the matter? Have you hurt your head? "and stepping up and removing the towel, she raised her hands in mute astonishment. Then exclaimed,—
"How did this happen? Who cut your hair so cruelly?"
"It was a mistake, missus!" said the servant, "a mistake!"
"A mistake! How could that be? Come, Frink, I'm your friend; tell me all about it; perhaps I can help you."
"It's what can't be helped now!" said Frink, mournfully. "De har can't be put on agin!"
"No, Frink, it cannot; but what has happened?"
"You see, missus," replied Frink, still hanging his head, "I reckoned I just give massa a surprise, as he was comin' home, and he likes me to be neat and genteel,—so I just shave my head and wear de wig! "
"You did!" said Miss Forsythe, "pray, where is it?"
"I loss it in de river, missus!" replied Frink; "and what I's to do now? "he added; "can't 'pear so-disgrace myself?
"Well, Frink, as you say," rejoined the lady,. "it won't do for you to make your appearance in this plight, but I can make you a pretty turban; they are often worn, and are becoming. Let me see, where is your scarlet scarf?"
"Here 'tis, here 'tis!" said Frink, more cheerfully, taking it from the hat-box.
"This will make a very nice head-dress," said Miss Forsythe, as she twisted and wound it into the requisite shape, and placed it on his head.
"Very much obliged, missus," said he, bowing with his usual grace, "you have helped me out of dis trouble."
"You are very welcome, Frink," said Miss Forsythe, "and now I want you to promise me one thing, and that is, never to be ashamed of your hair again."
"How's I to help it1? "asked the serving man, demurely.
"By keeping in mind," said Miss Forsythe, "that your hair is prettier for you than any other could be. It suits your complexion and eyes, as no other would. You made a great mistake in cutting it off."
"I reckon I did, missus. I was dat foolish; but how was I to know better, when we poor slave people are down and despised like de dogs-de white folks are so much above us! I's been studyin' about it since I come home."
"Well, well, business now!" replied Miss Forsythe, evasively, "breakfast it is being brought in,"—,"-and as, in leaving, she cast a penetrating glance at Frink's face, she knew that a change had come over him; there was an expression of thought and intelligence, such as she had not seen before.
"Cooks William and Patsey have done wonders this morning," said Mr. Nelson. "They shall be remembered for this."
As for Frink, his master deigned him not a word,—not even an order; towards him his manner was silently severe.
It was no farce to Mr. Nelson, seeing the looks of his dead father so strikingly reproduced in the person
<c03>
of the slave. Had Frink run away, it could scarcely have been a greater offence. The reflections that the incident at the river forced on his attention were anything but agreeable. The veil that covered the hideousness of slavery had suddenly been lifted, and he felt no more kindly towards the innocent disturber of his peace, for being obliged to ponder the fact, and its associations, that the lowly, degraded, fawning dependent, that waited on him day by day, was his own brother. As for Frink, volatile, and vain as slavery had developed him, a new light was dawning on his mind,—,-a consciousness of manhood and of his wrongs was already awaking, and as he stood nervously in his slippers, behind his master’s chair, or mechanically flitted to and fro like a shadow, passing the coffee, his soul was kindling to a flame.
"How is Amelia getting along?" asked Mr. Nelson, after a pause.
"She is not quite as much interested as I could wish," replied Miss Forsythe.
"But why does she not come in to welcome us?" inquired he.
"She went to ride," rejoined Miss Forsythe, "thinking she would be back before you arrived."
"Ah, here she comes!" exclaimed Mr. Nelson, cheerfully, looking from a side window which commanded a view of the court; the "she manages her pony well, too. We must have you ride, these fine mornings, Miss Lelia,", "he added: "what do you say to that!"?"
"I enjoy riding very much, and I am greatly obliged to you," she replied.
"If you are good, I shall sometimes take you to ride with me," said he, playfully.
Lelia, of course, had to say that she would try to be good.
Miss Forsythe was famous for equestrianship, and many a happy hour had she ridden by Mr. Nelson’s side, and she now promised herself much additional pleasure, with Lelia in company.
Mr. Nelson added, "Miss Forsythe and I have scoured the country for miles around-it is my custom to introduce our lady visitors to everything of interest in our vicinity. I find my amusement in amusing others." Lelia smiled her thanks, and Miss Forsythe giving the signal for leaving the table, they entered the parlor just as Amelia came in, flushed with her morning exercise.
"How d’ye do? Amelia, how are you?" exclaimed Mr. Nelson, kissing her.
"O, uncle, I am glad to see you!" returned Amelia.
"Miss Lelia, Miss Amelia," and the young ladies expressed themselves very happy to meet.
"Bless me!” cried the uncle, "Amelia, how short you've grown! Miss Forsythe, what shall be done to help her awkward figure? She is positively dumpy, and her shoulders are as round as a hoop!"
"Please don't," pleaded Amelia, "don't call in Miss Forsythe to help trouble me. I'm half killed already with calisthenics, and walking with a book on my head."
"Hut, tut," said her uncle, "now is the time for you to help your figure. You would really be very pretty if you would carry your head as Lelia does, for instance.
"I've tried my best," replied Amelia, pouting, "and it's just no use."
"Nonsense, puss," rejoined her uncle, "you can be as straight as any one, if you choose. Miss Forsythe will tell you if you lived in England, your stooping shoulders would exclude you from good society. You could not mingle in aristocratic circles."
"I'm thankful I do not live in England, then," retorted Amelia.
"It might be better for you to live there," was the reply; "you would see the necessity of exerting yourself. Let's see, Miss Forsythe, it's Almack's, London, a fashionable place of resort, where no persons are admitted, unless they are perfect in figure?"
"Frink would pass, then," said Amelia, "he's straight as an arrow."
"You know what I mean, Amelia," returned her uncle, somewhat excited; "people entitled to an aristocratic standing, are not admitted to their own circles, ofttimes, if faulty in figure. The English lay great stress on this,—I think justly."
"'Ah, well," replied Amelia, persistently, "that may do very well for the English, but we Americans lay stress on color instead of figure. One's standing depends on complexion in this country."
"You talk nonsense, Amelia," rejoined Mr. Nelson, with an injured air; "the point is, that an erect figure influences the character. One who stands erect, other things being equal, is more upright in conduct, more courageous and efficient. Is it not so, Miss Forsythe?"
"I regard it so," she replied. "
"I never have any peace of my life!" exclaimed Amelia, the tears starting; "it's improve here, and improve there, nothing but improve!"
"Ah, well," replied her uncle, "improvement is the main thing, to-be-sure; and we'll give you the credit of doing pretty well, considering everything. But we wish you to remember that your prospects in life, your happiness and influence, depend much on your education; and that, as Miss Forsythe has often told you, includes the cultivation of the mind, body and heart."
"Come, young ladies, "continued Mr. N., "let's take a stroll in the garden: you can amuse yourselves while I look after the gardeners. Miss Forsythe will accompany us,"—and while a servant was despatched for three white cape bonnets, he added, "We wish you to be quite happy here, Miss Lelia."
"Thank you!" replied the young lady, gratefully, and as they passed through the lofty hall into the columned vestibule, in which a multiflora rose had been skillfully trained, she exclaimed, "O, how beautiful! Why, it's a perfect arbor!"
"Yes," said Miss Forsythe, joining her, "and see what a wreath of buds and roses! This spray, isn’t it perfectly wonderful?"
"It is the most luxuriant thing I ever saw!" said; Lelia, "I could never weary admiring it."
"We must thank Miss Forsythe for this," said Mr. Nelson, "it is her pet rose, and as you are getting absorbed, you will excuse me," and he hastened into the garden.
"And here is a dear little bird's nest!" said Miss Forsythe, gently moving aside some leaves and flowers of the multiflora, and exhibiting a robin's nest with four little eggs. "
"How pretty! said Lelia; "how did you coax birdie to build here?"
"Simply by keeping quiet," said Miss Forsythe, "and leaving crumbs within his reach. I haven't allowed the birds to be fired at since I came here, and they are our good friends in consequence."
"See, here is another bird's nest, a red-bird's habitation, almost out of my reach; and there are three more overhead! The birds usher in the day-dawn with their songs-I am awakened every morning by their sweet notes; my room is above, and I have a window open that I may hear them."
"Robin Redbreast is a fine singer," remarked Lelia; "I'd like to make his acquaintance. I was not aware that he spent his summers here."
"It is seldom that he does," replied Miss Forsythe, "but by some accident he was left behind in the emigration,—possibly my arbor-charmed the pair into spending the summer with us. It is always cool here, even in the fervent days, the shade is so deep, and by opening the doors through the house, we are always sure of a current of air."-and Miss Forsythe passed down the steps to examine a favorite Oleander.
"I'm always quarreling with Miss Forsythe about the multiflora!" said Amelia to Lelia.
"Ah!" said Lelia, with a look of surprise.
"I think she might leave 'well enough' alone. This multiflora is an English notion, and I wonder uncle permits it. Just you see what a swamp it makes of this colonnade! It is really shocking! I wish the multiflora was out of doors where it belongs! I mean to set uncle against it"
"Too are jesting, surely?? What possible harm can it do? "said Lelia. 
<c04>
"It's always shedding its leaves," said Amelia, whose pleasure it was to be on opposite side; "and it's more than one servant can do to sweep after it. There, don't you see? there are two leaves fallen already! Then, the birds are so noisy; they wake me every morning, when I ought to be enjoying my sleep. It’s outrageous! "
At this instant Miss Forsythe beckoned to them, and they joined her, and made the circuit of the, garden.
Mr. Nelson, confiding in Miss Forsythe’s taste, had empowered her to make any orders she chose about the garden and grounds: the consequence was great improvements. Ever orderly and on the alert, she had the gardener do things in their seasons. The arbor-vitae hedges and the yew trees were trimmed, and the setting out of bulbs, and the planting of seeds were in their time. During Mr. Nelson's late absence, she had a raised walk built on one side of the garden, with turfed perpendicular sides.
"Upon my word!" exclaimed Mr. Nelson, meeting the governess and the young ladies., as they reached the terraced walk referred to, "Miss Forsythe, you plan admirably!"
"Just spoilt the garden, hasn’t she, uncle?"1"asked Amelia. 
"This is charming, Miss Forsythe, perfectly charming! why did I not think of this before?" exclaimed Mr. N., taking no notice of the remark.
"Perhaps the deer never suggested it to you," quietly replied Miss Forsythe; they were continually getting into the garden on this side. I saw no alternative but a fence, and I had it built in this form."
"A grand idea," replied Mr. Nelson—"it serves a double purpose,—being useful as a fence, and it is the finest walk in the garden. I always admired that, English idea of having the fence a terrace. And then these new views," continued Mr. Nelson, "the vistas you have opened through the trees, are magnificent! You've chosen the finest points, too,—with an artist's eye. Here we have glimpses of the river, with the boats passing up and down-I really wouldn’t change Powhatan for any place on the river! The place was run down and neglected when you came here, and you have made it your care to bring it back to its pristine beauty; for which trust so ably executed, I can never be sufficiently grateful."
"I am very happy if my endeavors have been successful," replied Miss Forsythe, with emotion.
"Most eminently successful!" echoed Mr. Nelson, enthusiastically.
It was a happy moment with Miss Forsythe: the approval of the lord of Powhatan amply rewarded her for her pains-taking exertions.
"Do you know," said Amelia, as she took Leila's arm, and sauntered down the walk, "I've long been of the opinion that Miss Forsythe is a witch!" Lelia was exceedingly pained, and strove to draw Amelia's attention to the plants and flowers bordering the walk.
But Amelia went on:—" Uncle is so devoted to the governess, and she to him,—,-and I make sure it’ll be a match!"
"And a very suitable match it would be, if I can judge," replied Lelia.
"Miserable, most miserable!" rejoined Amelia. "Uncle would degrade himself if he married a foreign lady; and who knows what her family pretensions are? I've no idea she has a coat of arms. At least, I never heard she had, and she would have mentioned it. We first families in Virginia do not marry everything, and no one is more particular than uncle; and if she does get him, I shall have proof enough that she is an English witch!"
"I have formed an elevated opinion of Miss Forsythe," replied Lelia, "and cannot associate anything unworthy with her."
"Ah, well," replied Amelia, "you do not know her as well as I do. She is the trial of my life, and yet she is so pleasant! That's what aggravates me!"
"It seems to me," rejoined Lelia, "that you indulge a prejudice against Miss Forsythe, that poisons your mind. I'd try to think well of her and love her, if I were yon,—you 'd be so much happier. I am sure she is really lovable,—I find it very easy to love her."
"Oh, dear me!" cried Amelia, in vexation, "it's always so! I thought when you came, we would have good times, that I would have somebody to sympathize with me in my troubles; but I'm doomed to be disappointed in my plans. Everybody is against me. You've no idea how hard the governess is; she has regular hours of study for me, and if I complain of her lessons, insists that I shall set my own lessons, and get them, too. Why, I'm drilled like a soldier; and nobody in the wide world pities me, unless it is old marm Rixby, and who cares for her?
"If I go to uncle, his heart is turned into stone, and he goes into new raptures about my excellent governess. Never was such a woman! I've heard him say that she is such a wise woman that she would be a good counsellor for a king. He says the emperor of Russia employs talented ladies in the affairs of the empire, and they are sometimes sent to other courts; and if you'll believe me, uncle is that wild, be he thinks governess Forsythe is equal to any of them!
"It vexes me past endurance that he puts so much authority in her hands. You saw that great awkward bank of a walk she had thrown up there, like a fort. I really thought that would open uncle's eyes, but it hadn't the least effect, only to increase his blindness."
"But you haven't told me about your ride," said Lelia; "did you have a pleasant time?"
"O, yes," replied Amelia, pleasantly, "and where do you think I called?"
"I cannot guess," said Lelia, "I am not acquainted here, you know."
"Well, then," said Amelia, "I called just where I knew Miss Forsythe would wish me not to,—at overseer Rixby’s. The governess, you know, is very aristocratic and precise; she maintains that it will injure my manners to be on intimate terms with the Rixby's. So partly to tease her, and partly to have my own way and amuse myself, I go there occasionally. It's just a pretty morning ride, and away I gallop, and draw pony up before the wee little establishment of Chincapin Hill, run in, and help dish up the news. It's fun alive to see old marm Rixby perform. They were from the low whites,—not the very lowest, but low enough, you'd say.
"She saw me coming, for her calico night-cap flapped its wings out the window, and in it flew again, while she wiped her spectacles to make a sure stare; and having satisfied herself, then there was such a confused sound within the house!
"O, Plumy Ann! Plumy Ann!" shouted she to her daughter, "come, make haste and wash yer face! Here's miss Amelur come to call on you, an' you aint half dressed! O, black Ann! O, black Ann! wonder where that lazy jade can be now!. O, yaller Ann! O, yaller Ann! come, stir yourself, an' help clar up!" But not one of her Anna came to her help, and I heard her hustling things about, stamping round with her great creaking shoes, while I sat on my pony in the shade of a large chincapin bush, waiting for them to come out and help me off."
"But where were her Anns?" asked Lelia, laughing, "had they run off?"
"No, indeed!" replied Amelia, "I saw black Ann and yaller Ann both peeping out of the kitchen. They heard Mrs .Rixby, but such is their contempt for her, that they do not hear her when they are out of sight. And between you and me, I think they show their sense. I don't blame them for not obeying anybody that isn't anybody: indeed don't I It's a shame for uncle to degrade his house-servants to serve the Rixbys,—I mean to tell him so. It keeps them sour and ill-humored, and out of sorts. They want to live in some style, the same as the other house-servants; and wait on somebody that is somebody."
"You must have had your patience tried waiting so long on your horse, under the chincapin," said Lelia. 
"O," rejoined Amelia, "I didn't stay there all the time. It was dull music sitting on pony; so I tied him to the bush, and slid softly around the house, to take a look at marm Rixby's flower beds. She has
<c05>
little forests, of sunflowers, four o’clocks, and, marigolds, not to mention thickets of weeds and Roman wormwood. In my researches, I found myself alongside the kitchen. And now, you poor little Northerner, I must stop and explain. In most Southern houses, the kitchen is a small out-house by itself, a little distance back of the main building; unless, indeed, the mansion is large, like Powhatan, when the kitchen is in one of the wings. I was on the side of the little one room kitchens which had no window, so I sat down among the tall weeds to hear black Ann and yellow Ann give their opinions. Servants will talk when they can get a chance, you know. I could see them plainly through the chinks, and hear every word. Black Ann was making up yeast bread; and calling out, she said,—
"Yaller Ann, you des han' me dat are dishwater! 
It'll wet up dish sher bread mose amiable, he! he! he! he!"
"Dat it will! he! he! he!" replied yellow Ann, passing it.
"Dish sher bread is bound to be sublime," continued black Ann, still laughing. "Missus she leave out de milk to mix de bread, but what’s we had to eat? We‘s dat starred, we mus’ drink de milk, and mix de bread with dish water! Oh, missus, she nebber know de odds!"
"Oh, black Ann! O, yaller Ann!" I heard Mrs. Rixby call from the house.
"Laws," said black Ann "she aint folks! I's bound to let tings go ebery-which-way. I's no consarnment working for marm Rixby. Can't come till dish sher bread disposed of, no way. Dar, dar, 'pears like it's mixed; now I must mole it into shape, he! he! he! I does my work ‘cordin’ to de people I works for. If dey is right smart genteel, I is bound to have my work correspond; but when dey is dish yer mis’rable poor whites, I makes no bones intrudin’ on‘em a heap!"
"Des so!" said yellow Ann, "dey don't know de odds! Serve 'em right, too, trying to be what dey can’t. How dey does 'stress demselves! Dey des no ‘count!"
"Don't call' em' ‘spectacle, no way," said black Ann, emphatically. "If a body try to do dere best, an’ don’t go into fits to show off what dey aint got an’ can’t git, den I's bound to have respect for ‘em; an’ if maasa hires me out to ‘em, I’ll try to do des as well for ‘em as for massa Nelson,—des as well, ‘cause I 'spect dem dat’s ‘spectable, an’ I’m bound to be ‘commodatin’. But dem dat haint got nuffin, and can't be nuffin, an' allers pertendin' to be what dey aint, don't git much out of me, dat's clar!" and black Ann, rubbing the dough off her hands, as she finished moulding the bread, put it on the kitchen hearth to rise,—when marm Rixby, getting fairly roused, came out of the house half way to the kitchen, and called,—"O, black Ann! what’s got into you that you can’t hear? You're deaf as an adder! Come right in, and clar up! "!"And as they went into the house by one door, I ran around and appeared at the other, and then such a to-do in welcoming me! I thought Mrs. Rixby would shake my hand off.
"Is Plumy Ann at home?" I asked, taking her rocking chair.
"Laws, yes," simpered Mrs. Rixby, "Plumy Ann, she’s to hum!" Then stepping to the chamber door, she called out,—
"Come, Plumy Ann, Miss Amelur's come! shell out here!" and turning to me, "Sakes alive! beats all 'bout Plumy Ann’s larnin’! She‘s the ‘markablest child ever I see. She can read and spell like a hoss, and she makes nothin' of saying the multaplecation table. Sakes alive! if on’y larnin’ ‘cumed as naturel to me as ter Plumy Ann, I wouldn't be without it more'n than I would without snuff!" and here she took a pinch for the third time since I came in.
"Won’t you take a pinch?" said she, passing her box.
"No, I thank you," said I, "but if you have a paper of snuff, I’ll dip!"
"Dip?’" asked Lelia, ‘"what is that?’
"Don't you know?" returned Amelia, laughing; "how green you Yankees are! Well, when I was in Carolina, visiting at my uncle's, I learned the art from some fashionable ladies. It's a substitute, for taking snuff’, and it keeps-the teeth white as pearls. You see they have a little ash stick about as large as a penholder, the end of which is pounded or chewed till it is brush like. And then to 'dip,’ all you have to do is to put the end of the stick into the snuff, and rub it on the teeth;—a little of it is, of course, swallowed, and invigorates one like tobacco. If ladies once get the habit of ' dipping,' it is hard to cure, and Miss Forsythe has a great horror of it, and begs me never to do it But the spirit of mischief overcame me this morning, and I yielded to the temptation.’
"I do not see how you could endure the thought of it!" said Lelia.
"I reckon I could not," replied Amelia, ‘"if I had not seen those fine ladies do it; but now I like to ‘dip,' and I'm not ashamed of it, and I'll teach you, some time.’
"You'll wait till I ask you, will you not?" said Lelia, smilingly.
"O, surely," replied Amelia, ‘"but you are not like most girls, if you haven’t the curiosity to try it. I make sure you will!
"But to go on with my adventures. At last, Plumy Ann came down, dressed in red silk, mussed and crumpled. When she saw me dip,' she wanted to do so too, and teaching her has nearly cured me, I make sure. O, it makes all the difference seeing well-bred people ‘dip,’ and those that are not well-bred! Mrs. Rixby took to it like a duck to water, and felt so genteel, that I was convulsed with laughter. It was so droll that I should go there, and teach them that refinement of civilization! I assure you I felt like a little missionary, only I was not quite sure I was doing good.
"But to proceed. When the old lady got well under way ‘dipping,' she was more sociable than ever, and began asking me about our affairs. I did not make her much answer; for although I like to hear the news, I don’t approve of being questioned too much. She said Plumy Ann told her that Miss Forsythe made me study awful, and asked me if it didn’t break down my constitution. She said it was too bad; her darter shouldn’t be treated so, indeed shouldn’t she! She made sure that uncle and Miss Forsythe would be a match; but for her part, she thought ‘he'd be mighty quar if he stooped down to marry a governess: she couldn’t think of' sociate with her! She’d hearn tell of such things, but they was mighty quar. Then she asked lots about you; who was your father, and who was your mother, before you went to uncle Robert’s, and who you really was, and if you had any property, and how long you would stay here, and she thought it was mighty quar, all round! I tell you, she’s a real quiz.’
"She has cured you of calling there, hasn’t she?" asked Lelia.
"Yes, indeed!" replied Amelia, laughing," if I did not lack fun, and was not a little contrary. I want to show Miss Forsythe that I can call there, and not be spoilt, either. I shall give you an invitation to ride over there, and see them, it will be such fun."
"I am much obliged," replied Lelia, "but 1I think we can find amusement without seeking it there."
"O, but you don't know what a queer thing Mrs. Rixby is, she is so devoted to Plumy Ann! She holds and rocks her like a baby, and she is saving everything for her—won't use anything herself. A little while ago, she bought a new cotton umbrella, and took it with her when she went to spend the afternoon at Dr. Land’s.. It rained pouring when she went home, but instead of using it, she took off her large calico apron, and carefully wrapped it around the umbrella! Some one asked her what she was doing. 'O.’ replied she, ' I aint gwine to let this ere new umbril git spilt! I’m gwine to save it for Plumy Ann!’"
DEATH OF GEN. BLENKER. Brigadier-General Blenker, who took an active part in our war in 1861-2, died on the 7th ult., at his residence in New Jersey. 
<c06>
THEOLOGY IN COURT -INTERESTING CASE.
At the Circuit Court, still in session in this city, the case of Leicester Ambrose Sawyer versus Charles. Van Wyck was called on yesterday morning, The plaintiff is the well-known author of a new translation of the New Testament, and other Scriptural translations and theological works of doubtful Orthodoxy. The defendant is the publisher of the Christian Intelligencer, a New York paper devoted to the interests of the Reform Protestant Dutch denomination. The plaintiff charges the defendant with publishing in his paper libellous words, in a notice of his book entitled "Reconstruction of Biblical Theories, or Biblical Science Improved,", "and claims damages amounting to $10,000. The counsel appearing for the plaintiff was Le Grande Marvin, of Buffalo; for the defendant, Henry. A. Foster, of Rome, and William. H. Waring, of New York. Several of the leading clergymen of the city had been summoned as witnesses, and were present during the day. The alleged libellous notice in question called the contents of the book "balderdash" and "twaddle," and had the following sentence, on which the prosecution was chiefly based:".
"On looking over it (the book) we first supposed it to have been written by some lunatic, but recollecting that its author was first a renegade Unitarian from Congregationalism, and then a renegade infidel from Unitarianism,. we suspected the existence of a method in his madness."."
Mr. Sawyer was the first witness called, and was questioned as to his books, especially his book on the "Reconstruction of Biblical Theories:"- Its circulation, his contract with its publishers?, etc. Also as to his past and present religious and denominational associations, In the course of the cross-examination, Mr. Foster proposed to show that Mr. Sawyer was a "renegade Infidel.” Judge Morgan inquired what an Infidel was, and Mr. Foster replied that he was a person who did not believe in the authenticity of the Scriptures. The Judge thought the term indefinite; every man in this free country has a right to his opinions on the subject, and opinions were various; the jury were the proper persons to decide in the case as to the meaning of the term; he would therefore allow evidence to show what Mr. Sawyer’s sentiments were, but not evidence to show that he was a "renegade Infidel."
Mr. Sawyer stated some of his beliefs. He thought that the Pentateuch was not written by Moses;-that the Bible was written by inspiration from God, but not by infallible inspiration; that the Pentateuch contained many allegories -it was not untrue, only allegorical; that many of its passages, as commonly translated and understood, were puerile and ridiculous; he did not believe in Swedenborg’s doctrine of an "interior sense" in the Bible. 
Mr. Marvin wished Mr. Sawyer to have an opportunity to justify his opinions. He was learned in the Hebrew, Syriac, Egyptian, and other ancient languages; had delved into them from his youth, and understood them as few men in any age had. Mr. Marvin proposed to allow him to prove that he (Mr. Sawyer) was right, and those who differed from him in error. The Judge ruled that Mr. S. might show his religious faith, but not his authorities. Mr. Sawyer declared his belief in the doctrines taught by Christ. When his testimony was finished, the prosecution rested their case.
Mr. Waring opened the case for the defence, and said that they proposed to prove that the allegations of the article declared libellous were strictly true-that the terms "renegade:" and "Infidel," taken in their usual and accepted signification, were true.
Mr. Van Wyck, the defendant, was called to the stand, and testified as to the character, circulation, etc., of his paper. 
The next witness was Rev. Dr. E. S. Porter, .the editor of the paper. Both Mr. Porter and Mr. Van wyck stated that they had never seen Mr. Sawyer before yesterday. The book was sent to him (Mr. Porter) to be noticed, and he noticed it, as he believed, according to its merits. He had no malice against the plaintiff. The question whether Mr. Sawyer, judging from the book in question, was Infidel in the sense used by Orthodox Christians, was ruled out.
Rev. Dr. Fowler, of this city, was next called. He testified that in a conversation with Mr. Sawyer, he had told him that he discarded entirely the prevailing Orthodox views in regard to the atonement and regeneration. He also stated that he agreed substantially with Bishop Colenso, but went farther; the Bishop destroyed, but the both destroyed and built up. 
Further to prove Mr. Sawyer’s belief, the defence read lengthy selections from the book on the "Reconstruction of Biblical Theories."."
Mr. Sawyer was recalled by the prosecution, and questioned as to his views on regeneration. He said he had no debate with Christendom on this doctrine; he believed it consisted in a great and radical change of character. He thought Dr. Fowler had not correctly remembered his conversation with him. He did not believe in the received doctrine of the atonement -thought it was not vicarious. Regeneration was an act of the human mind, and was instantaneous. Faith in Christ did not make men holy, but often consisted with great wickedness. He did not believe in original sin in the common sense of the term; the fall of man meant the opposite of the general understanding of the doctrine -it was a blessing instead of a misfortune. 
And now Mr. Marvin said, as the opposing counsel had read selections from the book to prove that its contents were "balderdash" and twaddle," etc., he wished to read further selection, to show that they were not. As he had not made his selections, and it seemed necessary to a proper understanding of the book that it should be read through, he asked permission to do so. The opposing counsel did not object, and the Judge told him to proceed; and so he commenced with the preface and table of contents, amid the laughter of the bar and other listeners. Mr. Marvin and Mr. Sawyer took turns, and continued the reading for about an hour. This was tedious, and all parties repented the turn things had taken. At length the Judge ruled that the entire contents of the book might be received in evidence without further reading, and the business ceased by mutual consent. 
Mr. Foster summed up for the defence in a speech of an hour and a half, criticising the author and his work severely on Evangelical grounds in justification of the terms that had been applied to him by the plaintiff. 
Mr. Marvin followed for the plaintiff, in a plea some what longer, and went pretty deeply into the theological and philological merits of the questions that had been raised, and Mr. Sawyer’s book. His veneration for received authorities and Evangelical doctrines was manifestly small, and it was also apparent that he had a profound regard for his client and his client’s opinions. Mr. Sawyer must have selected his counsel with reference to his religious views as well as his legal ability. 
The case was ready for the Judge’s charge about half-past nine o’clock in the evening. He distinguished between actions for libel and slander. Slander was oral; libel was written slander. To hold a person up in writing to unjust ridicule and suspicion was libellous. It had appeared from the evidence that Mr. Sawyer was formerly a Congregational clergyman; and had withdrawn from the Oneida Congregational Association on account of peculiar theological views, and established himself as an independent Congregationalist. He did not now belong to any Orthodox denomination. He had written several works, among them the work which had occasioned the alleged libelous article. The law allows fair editorial criticism, and sometimes men are very lenient, and allow the critics wide latitude of very lenient, and allow the critics wide latitude of expression; yet one has no right to hold another up to unjust ridicule. No attempt was made to blacken the plaintiff’s character –the defence had not assailed his moral character; and as far as the article in question refers to his moral character, it does not seem to be fully justifiable, unless the fact that his seem to be fully justifiable, unless the fact that his views are not in accordance with received tenets reflects upon his character. The word Infidel has no technical or legal signification in this country. In England it had, because England had and established Church. The simple fact of calling the plaintiff an Infidel is not libel. If there is a libel, it consists in holding the plaintiff up to unjust and malicious ridicule or opprobrium; yet in this respect editors should have some latitude. In a case like this, the opprobrious terms should be deducible from the character of the work noticed, and it was for the jury to say whether they were or not. Those who criticise an author should not abuse him unnecessarily. The amount of damages in the case is left wholly to the discretion of the jury, and will depend upon the motives which they attribute to the defendant. If the article in question was libellous, it was rather in calling the plaintiff a "renegade" and a "lunatic" than in calling him an "Infidel" and his book "twaddle."."-Utica (N.Y.) Morning Herald, Oct. 23.
