<C01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS–Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:–WENDELL PHILIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMIND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDEST OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL,servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to early on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." –J.Q. ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL, XXXIV. NO. 25. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 17,1864. WHOLE NO. 1741.
Selections.
BRITISH AND FOREIGN ANTI–SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Annual Meeting of this Society was held at the London Tavern, Bishopgate Street, London, on Friday, the 20th of May. Samuel Gurney, Esq., M. P., in the Chair. Amongst those who took part in the proceedings was the Rev. Samuel Crowther, a negro dergyman, who has just been appointed by the Queen to a Bishopric in West Africa.
The Twenty–fifth annual report, an abstract of which was read by the Secretary, stated that since the Act passed by the Netherlands Government in 1862 for freeing the slaves in the Dutch West India colonies, had come into operation, 40,000 men, women and childern had been restored to liberty, while more than 1,000,000 of the slave population of the Southern States of America had either emancipated themselves by flight, or had been liberated by the United States armies. These events made an important era in the history of the antislavery movement, and would not fail to encourage its friends in the belief that the final triumph of the principles they advocated could not long be delayed. The report then proceeded to speak of the slave trade, in contraction with the following places:–Cuba, where it was asserted that last year the number of negroes introduced from Africa reached 40,000; Egypt and the White Nile, and Peru and the Polynesian group. The report next adverted to the number of slaves existing, so far as was known, in different parts of the world. Commencing with the United States, the last census returns gave in round numbers 4,000,000 in the Southern States, upwards of 1,000,000 of whom were said to have gained their liberty in consequence of the war. In Brazil, the number exceeded 3,000,000; in Cuba, there were above 1,000,000; the annual increase in Spain being at the rate of 2 percent. Throughout Madagascar, Turkey, (Asiatic and European,) and portions of Asia and Africa, there might perhaps be in all 1,000,000 slaves, making a great total of 9,000,000. 
The report concluded by giving a record of the events hearing upon the question of slavery which had taken place in America, Brazil, Russia, the West Indies, and the Dutch Colonies. Speaking of America, the committee view with undiminished concern and sorrow the continuation of the civil war. At the same time, they did not hesitate to cast the responsibility of it upon the leaders of the rebellion, who deliberately, and with malice aforethought, commenced it, and were mercilessly prosecuting it, for the avowed sole object of extending, conslidating and perpetuating a system of servitude the most degrading, demoralizing and odious of which history furnished any example. The report said the movement in favor of emancipation in so many of the States of the Union. however, must be accepted as the manifestation of a widespread feeling that slavery was incompatible with the preservation of the Union, and with the prospect of permanent peace, and therefore that it must be exterminated. In connection with home proceedings, the committee had been chiefly confined in watching the efforts of the partizans of the recognition of the South, and endeavoring to counteract them.
The Rev. Mr. Kennedy moved the adoption of the report. He said:–
It was to be regretted that the civil war in America was raging, yet it was a fact for them to rejoice over that, in consequence of the war, 1,000,000 slaves had feed themselves. Mr. Kennedy then proceeded to speak of the fundamental principles of the society. These principles were–first, that so long as slavery itself existed, there was no reasonable prospect of the annihilation of the slave trade; that slavery, in other words, furnished such opportunities for the prosecution of the slave trade, that not all the power which could be brought against it would be sufficient to crush and exterminate it. It was the fundamental principle of the society, to strike its blows at the root of the evil—slavery. The other principle was that the abolition of the slave trade would be attained most effectually by moral and religious means. But there was another principle, which he believed nine–tenths of the people who encouraged and supported the society endorsed, but which was, perhaps wisely, not inserted in the constitution, and that was that slavery was sinful thing, and essentially and without qualfication an evil. Although this was not inserted in the constitution, yet it was the conviction of three–fourths of the people who were connected with this society, and he himself implaintly believed it. Mr. Kennedy then proceeded to argue that, even supposing the Southern States, of America gained their independence, it would not be right for England to recognize them. He admitted that England was in the habit of recognizing de facto Governments; but the Southern States sought to establish themselves with slavery as their cornersome, and for this reason he thought the English Government would be justified in refusing to acknowledge them. The object of the South was to take slavery perpetual—(hear, hear)—and if they had perpetual slavery, they would have a perpetual slave trade. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Samuel Bowley, in seconding the resolution, rejoiced to find that the hearts of the American people he had been thoroughly roused on this great antislavery question, and if it were necessary, meetings could be got up in England from one end of the country to the other, which would have a powerful influence on the Government, whatever it might be, against England recognizing a nation which sanctioned slavery. (Hear, hear.) He hoped they would continue to support the committee in their efforts. Some people asked what good it was talking about his matter, that foreign Governments would take no notice of them. He believed the time was rapidly coming, when the expression of certain opinions on the part of good men would have a most powerful influence all over the world, far more powerful than any cannon or polished steel; public opinion would make the tyrant tremble as he exercised his unlawful influence; and be sincerely trusted they would go on with the good work and if he could be of any use to them he should only be too happy to render them assistance.
The Chevalier De Almeida supported the resolution in a short speech, in which he stated that the inhabitants of his own country—Brazil—were universally in favor of the abolition of slavery throughout the country, but considering the small resources that Brazil presented at the present time, it was impossible that such a step could be taken all at once, but the Parliament were favorable to it, and they had brought forward measures to ultimatley extinguish slavery. He should not wish, however, the extinction of slavery to be limited only to Brazil. He would like it to be extinguished in all parts of the world. In Russia slaves had been sold for a barrel of oysters, but in Brazil they were treated in a different manner. Man and wife were not separated
<C02>
in that country—(hear, hear)—and they were allowed to work extra hours in order to raise a little capital of their own, which they could put to any use they wished, and the master was quite willing to give them their liberty for a small sum. By doing so they brought to the slave a desire to work. The chevalier quoted an instance where a man of color had attained a very high position in the Brazilian navy, and this showed that Brazil was not actuated by a desire to keep up the abominable slave trade. They wished to allow colored men to raise themselves as much as possible. The resources of Brazil were only £10,000,000 sterling, which had to go to support the army and navy, and it was impossible out of this sum to vote anything for the emancipation of the slaves. But the Government were pledged to other means, and he hoped the effect would be such that it would merit their entire approval.
The resolution was then put and carried.
The Rev. S. Crowther, Bishop designate of the Niger, proposed the second resolution, which was as follows:—” That, in view of the continued prosecution of the African slave trade by Spain, and of the failure of the attempts of her Majesty's Government singly to induce that Power to carry out her treaty obligations for the suppression of the wicked commerce in human beings, this meeting encourages the committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society to pursue its endeavors to influence her Majesty's advisers, by Parliamentary action and other constitutional means, to take the initiative to secure the co-operation of the Governments of France, Portugal, Holland, the United States, and of any other country, in a joint remonstrance against the connivance of the Spanish authorities in a traffic which the civilized world brands as piracy, and in a demand upon it for the adoption of measures that shall ensure its immediate cessation-” The Rev. gentleman entered at some length into the question of slavery in Africa, and said that, in looking back to the great efforts made by this nation and this society for the abolition of the slave trade in Africa, the names of Clarkson, Wilberforce, and Buxton presented themselves to his mind, and he, as the representative of the country, now begged to express the. gratitude of Africa for such men having been raised up to use their beneficial efforts on their behalf. He had heard it said that the African women bred up their children for the purpose of selling them into slavery. Now, this was an entire untruth, and if the ships of America, Cuba, Brazil, or any other slave-trading country, were to line the coast of Africa, they would have to wait a very long time before the mothers of Africa brought their young offspring to sell as slaves. (Cheers.) The slaves of Africa had been treated as beasts and chattels, but they were not so in their disposition and feelings. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Crowther described with considerable pathos his own career as a slave boy, and his being torn away from his parents at an early age, and carried into bondage.. With regard to the general question of slavery, it was not whether the slaves were comfortable or rich, but whether they were their own masters. (Hear, hear.) The Rev. gentleman considered that a great deal might be done for abolishing the slave trade by introducing legitimate trade into the interior of Africa, such as the cultivation of cotton, by means of which they could raise more money than if they were engaged in the slave traffic. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Gerard Ralston, consul-general of Liberia, in seconding the resolution, said that nothing could be more important than that active measures should be taken to influence Spain to give up the slave trade, and the present was a peculiarly favorable time for action, because it could not be doubted that the present civil war in America was to a great extent abolishing slavery, and a mighty influence would be exerted on the system in the neighboring island of Cuba. A united remonstrance from France, Portugal, Holland, and America, in co-operation with England, would certainly cause Spain to give up this opprobrium of the age—the slave trade. In reference to the small State of Liberia which he represented, he had pleasure in stating that it was animated by a sincere desire to do anything in its power to effect the abolition of the slave trade. In the several treaties he had been instrumental in making with many nations, he had always striven to have the slave trade denounced as piracy, but could never succeed until be met Mr. Dubois, the Minister of the Republic of Hayti, who consented to denounce the slave trade as piracy, and to punish it accordingly. In the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation lately concluded between the two republics of Hayti and Liberia, there was an article which stated that “The slave trade is assimilated to piracy; it is rigorously prohibited, and the vessels of the two States which may be engaged in this nefarious traffic shall be judged and punished according to the laws in force in their respective countries against piracy.” Liberia had expelled the slave-trade from all portions of her territory, where formerly it was rife and carried on with energy, and a cruelty which was disgraceful to humanity. (Hear, hear.)
The resolution was put and carried.
The Rev. Dr.Massie proposed the third resolution, which was as follows:—“This meeting would record its satisfaction at the progress the cause of negro emancipation has made during the past year, as manifested in the restoration to freedom of all the slaves in the Dutch West-India colonies, in the self-emancipation of a million of slaves in the United States, and in the legislative measures which have been adopted and are projected by the Government of that country, to effect the total abolition of slavery throughout the American Union; and. sympathizing in the efforts made to minister to the relief of the freedmen of the slave States, would commend their cause to the friends of freedom in all lands; and further, in view of the attempts of certain parties in this country to promote a recognition of the Confederate slave States, this meeting would most strongly protest against any recognition of a confederacy avowing slavery to be’the corner-stone of its institutions,’ and it emphatically affirms that such a step would not only be in the highest degree inconsistent and culpable on the part of the British nation, which has sacrificed upwards of seventy millions sterling in efforts to abolish slavery and the slave trade throughout the world, but would give strength to an institution revolting to humanity, outraging to civilization, and scandalizing to professing Christendom.” Dr. Massie, in the course of an able speech, contended that the object of the Southern States in the present war was to maintain slavery, and to promote and extend it—(hear, hear)—but every battle that had been a disaster to the Northern States had been, in fact, a blow to slavery, and had added strength to the anti-slavery movement. (Hear, hear.) He rejoiced at the progress America had made in respect to this question, and he hoped England would support her in the good work.
The Rev. J. Long, of Calcutta, in seconding the resolution, described the emancipation of the serfs of Russia as one of the greatest philanthropic measures of the last fifty years, and be highly eulogized the
<C03>
present Emperor for the bold stand be had taken in reference to this question. 
The resolution was-then put and carried, and the proceedings terminated with a vote of thanks to the chairman.
GERRIT SMITH ON THE PRESIDENTIAL QUESTION. 
PETERBORO’, JUNE 6TH, 1864.
MRS. E. CADY STANTON, NEW YORK:
MY DEAR COUSIN:—I have your letter. It would be too great labor to answer all who seek to know my choice amongst the Presidential candidates. But I must answer you.
I have no choice. The first of September will be time enough for me and for every other person to have one. Intermediate events and changes will be indispensable lessons in our learning who should be the preferred candidate. To commit ourselves in time of war to a candidate, one month before it is necessary, is worse than would be a whole year of such prematureness in time of peace. Then there is the absorbing, not to say phrensying, interest, which attends our important elections. That it is phrensying is manifest, from the scornful reproach and wild invective which the Press is already heaping upon Lincoln and Fremont—both of them honest and able men, and both of them intent on saving the country. How unwise, nay, how insane, to let this absorbing and phrensying interest come needlessly early into rivalry with our interest in the one great work of crushing the rebellion! For more than half a year have I frequently and faithfully, both with lips and pen, deprecated the premature agitation of the question, who should be the chosen candidate. If, therefore, the Cleveland and Baltimore Conventions shall have the effect to divide the loyal voters, so far as to let a pro-slavery and sham Democrat slip into the Presidency through their divisions, I, at least, shall not be responsible for the ruin that may come of it.
My concern whether it shall be Lincoln, or Fremont, or Chase, or Butler, or Grant, who shall reach the Presidential chair, is comparatively very slight. But my concern to keep out of it a man who would make any other terms with the rebels than their absolute submission is overwhelming. For any other terms would not only destroy our nation, but lessen the sacredness of nationality everywhere, and sadly damage, the most precious interesrs of all mankind.
Since the rebellion broke out, I have been nothing but an anti-rebellion man. So unconditionally have I gone for putting it down unconditionally, as to make no stipulation in behalf of my most cherished objects and dearest interests. And so shall I continue to go. I love the anti-slavery cause. Nevertheless, I would have the rebellion put down at whatever necessary expense to that cause. I love the Constitution; and deprecate the making of any, even the slightest change in it. Nevertheless, I make infinitely less account of saving it, than of destroying the rebellion. I love my country. But sooner than see her compromise with the rebels, I would see her exhaust herself and perish in her endeavors to defeat their crime—that greatest crime of all the ages and all the world. I do not forget that many of my old fellow-Abolitionists accuse me of having been unfaithful to the anti-slavery cause during the rebellion. My first answer to them is—that to help suppress the rebellion is the duty which stands nearest to me: and my second answer—that in no way so well as in suppressing it can the anti-slavery cause or any other good cause be promoted. There is not a good cause on the earth that has not an enemy in the unmixed and mighty wickedness of this rebellion. 
You will rightly infer from what I have said, that my vote will be cast just where I shall judge it will be likely to go farthest in keeping a disloyal man out of the Presidency. My definition of a disloyal man includes every one who would consent to obtain peace by concessions to the rebels—concessions however slight. Should the rebellion be disposed of before the election, I might possibly refuse to vote for any of the present candidates. When voting in time of war, and especially such a fearful war as the present, for a Governor or President, I vote for a leader in the war, rather than for a civil ruler. Where circumstances leave, me free to vote for a man, with reference mainly to his qualifications as a civil ruler, I am, as my voting for thirty years proves, very particular how I vote. In 1856, Fremont was in nomination for the Chief Magistracy. I honored him—but I did not vote for him. In 1860, Lincoln was nominated for it. I had read his Debate with Senator Douglas, and I thought well of him. But neither for him did I vote. To-day, however, I could cheerfully vote for either to be the Constitutional head of the Army and Navy. I go further, and say, that to save the Presidential Office from going into the hands of one who would compromise with the rebels, I would vote for a candidate far more unsound on slavery than the severest Abolition critic might judge either Lincoln or Fremont to be. But were there no such danger, I would sternly refuse to vote for any man who recognizes, either in or out of the Constitution, a law for slavery, or who would graduate any human rights, natural or political, by the color of the skin. 
This disposition to meddle with things before their time is one that has manifested itself, and worked badly, all the way through the war. The wretched attempts at “Reconstruction” are an instance of it. "Reconstruction” should not so much as have been spoken of before the rebellion was subdued. I hope that by that time all loyal men, the various doctrines and crotchets to the contrary not withstanding, will be able to see that the seceded States did, practically as well as theoretically, get themselves out of the Union and nation— as effectually out as if they had never been in. Our war with Mexico ended in a treaty of peace with her. Doubtless, our war with the South will end in like manner. If we are the conqueror, the treaty will, I assume, be based on the unconditional surrender of the South. And then the South, having again become a portion of our nation, Congress will be left as free to ordain the political divisions of her territory, as it was to ordain those of the territory we conquered from Mexico. Next in order, Congress will very soon, as I have little doubt, see it to be safe and wise to revive her old State lines. Nevertheless, I trust that such revival would never be allowed until Congress should see it to be clearly safe and wise. We hear much of the remaining Constitutional rights of the loyal men of the seceded States. But they, no more than their rebellious neighbors, have such rights. It is true that the rebellion is their misfortune instead of their crime. Nevertheless, it severed every political cord, as well between the nation and themselves, as between the nation and those rebellious neighbors. The seceded States embarked in a Revolution which swept away all the political relations of all their people, loyal as well as disloyal. Such is the hazard. which no man, however good, can escape from. If the major part or supreme power of his State carries it to destruction, he is carried along with it. A vigilant, informed, active, influential member of
<C04>
his body politic does it therefore behoove every good man to be. 
In his haste for “Reconstruction,” the President went forward in it—whereas he is entitled to not the least part in it, until Congress has first acted in it. In the setting up of military or provisional governments, as we proceed in our conquests, his is the controlling voice—for he is the military head of the nation. But in regard to the setting up of civil governments in the wake of those conquests, he is entitled to no voice at all until after Congress has spoken.
Another instance of meddling with things before their time is this slapping of the face of France with the “Monroe Doctrine.” I was about to say that doing so serves but to provoke the enmity of France. There is, however, one thing more which it provokes—and that is the ridicule of the world. For us, whilst the rebels are still at the throat of our nation, and may even be at her funeral, to be resolving that we will protect the whole Western Continent from the designs of the whole Eastern Continent is as ludicrous a piece of impotent bravado as ever the world laughed at.
And still another instance of our foolish prematureness is the big words in which we threaten to punish the leaders of the rebellion. It would be time enough for these big words when we had subdued the rebellion and captured the leaders. In the meantime, there should be only big blows. Moreover, if we shall succeed in getting these leaders into our hands, it will be a question for the gravest consideration whether we should not beg their pardon instead of punishing them. What was it that stirred up the rebellion? The spirit of slavery. That alone is the spirit, by means of which Southern treason can build up a fire in the Southern heart whose flames shall burst out in rebellion. Slavery gone from the South, and there will never more be rebellions there to disturb the peace and prosperity in which North and South will ever after dwell together. Which was the guiltier party in feeding and inflaming that spirit? The pro-slavery and preponderant North. The guiltier North it was, that had the more responsible part in moulding the leaders of the rebellion. Does it then become this guiltier North to be vengeful toward these her own creations—her own children? —and, what is more, vengeful toward them for the bad spirit which she herself had so large a share in breathing into them? —for the satanic character which she herself did so much to produce in them?? But I shall be told that the North has repented of her part in upholding slavery, and thereby furnishing the cause of the rebellion; and that the South should have followed her example. But if her repentance did not come until after the rebellion broke out, then, surely, it came too late to save her from responsibility for the rebellion. Has it, however, come even yet? I see no proof of it. I can see none so long as the American people continue to trample upon the black man. God can see none. Nor will He stay his desolating judgments so long as the American Congress, instead of wiping out penitently and indignantly all Fugitive Slave Statutes, is infatuated enough to be still talking of “the rights of slaveholders” and of this being “a nation for white men.” Assured let us be, that God will never cease from his controversy with this guilty nation until it shall have ceased from its base and blasphemous policy of proscribing, degrading and outraging portions of his one family. The insult to Him in the persons of his red and black children, of which Congress was guilty in its ordinance for the Territory of Montana, will yet be punished in blood, if it be not previously washed out in the tears of penitence. And this insult too, whilst the Nation is under God’s blows for like insults! What a silly as well as wicked Congress! And then that such a Congress should continue the policy of providing chaplains for the army! Perhaps, however, it might be regarded as particularly fit for such a Congress to do this. Chaplains to pray for our country’s success whilst our country continues to perpetrate the most flagrant and diabolical forms of injustice! As if the doing of justice were not the indispensable way of praying to the God of justice! It is idle to imagine that God is on the side of this nation. He cannot be with us. For whilst He is everywhere with justice, He is no where with injustice. I admit that He is not on the side of the rebellion. From nothing in all his universe can his soul be farther removed than from this most abominable of all abominations. If we succeed in putting it down, our success, so far as God is concerned, will be only because he hates the rebellion even more than he hates our wickedness. To expect help from him in any other point of view than this is absurd. Aside from this, our sole reliance must be, as was the elder Napoleon’s, on having “the strongest battalions." I believe we shall succeed—but that it will be only for the reasons I have mentioned—only because we are a stronger party, and that God is even more against the rebels than he is against us. How needful, however, that we guard ourselves from confounding success against the rebellion with the salvation of the nation! Whether the nation shall be saved is another question, than whether the rebellion shall be suppressed. In the providence of God even a very wicked nation may be allowed to become a conqueror—may be used to punish another wicked nation before the coming of its own turn to be conquered and punished. But a nation, like an individual, can be saved only by penitence and justice. Affectionately yours,
GERRIT SMITH.
THE PAY OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
Congress, in equalizing the pay and bounty of white and colored troops, has maintained the honor of the national uniform. There is no longer an inferior grade in the army. Actual inferiority of race could have nothing to do with military organization, for all men fit to wear the uniform of this country, to fight under its flag, to die in its defence, must be, we hold, equal in the formal estimation of the Government. A colored soldier and a white soldier enlist for the same object, are put to the same service, assume the same risk, and should have the same reward. Ethnological theories have nothing to do with military status, and if all that the adversaries of the bill in the House have said of the natural inferiority of the black race were doubly true, it would have no effect upon the practical question decided so justly on Saturday. If the inferiority of the black man prevents him from being a good soldier, be should not be permitted to enlist; if he is able to fight at all, be is entitled to the ordinary pay. The mere matter of dollars is secondary; but the principle Congress has affirmed is of the first importance.. The black troops in our service will be encouraged and strengthened by the consciousness that full justice has at last been rendered them, and as the Government has declared the equality of all its soldiers, it can with more emphasis demand from the rebels that recognition of equality they have insolently refused. We are to see now if the enemy will respect this demand. Already, retaliation is a duty; but
<C05>
another massacre will make retaliation a part of our common military law, as thoroughly a necessity as the provision of food and powder. We have but one grade of soldiers, and if, by the slaughter of those of color, the rebels attempt to force upon us a difference we repudiate, we must teach them that in murdering our troops, they earn the death sentence for themselves.—Philadelphia Press.

EMANCIPATION IN KENTUCKY.
SPEECH OF DR. BRECKINRIDGE AT THE UNION STATE CONVENTION, MAY 21.
At the conclusion of regular business during the Convention at Louisville, Rev. Dr. Breckinridge, the progressive leader of Kentucky, was unanimously called upon for a speech. The meeting had declared “That, having confidence in the honesty, wisdom, and patriotism of Abraham Lincoln, we are in favor of his reelection to the position he now occupies.” Dr. Breckinridge had first been elected a delegate to the Baltimore Convention, and he rose and said:—
As you have appointed me one of your delegates to the Baltimore Convention, I should be glad to know what is the opinion of the meeting in regard to the Presidency. I do not want instructions, so I will give you my opinion, and if you do not like it, you can substitute another man in my place. It is my honest conviction that Abraham Lincoln is not only the man we ought to nominate, but he is the only man in the United States that there is any certainty Kentucky can unite upon. (Great applause.) I will go further, and say that if I shall be a representative in that Convention, it is not clear in my own mind that I would be willing to vote in that body for divers of those who have been nominated in the papers. I would be glad to feel authorized to vote for him all the time, and for nobody else. I believe we can give the State of Kentucky for Mr. Lincoln, (applause,) but have grave doubts whether we can give it to anybody else. I even doubt whether we ought to give it to anybody else. 
I want now to say something on the slavery question. I have had it in my mind a long time, but have never found an opportune time to say it to the people who would be favorable hearers; for there is about as much depends on the hearer as the speaker, whether any good results from speaking.

A LIFE LONG EMANCIPATIONIST.
In 1859 I was a candidate on the Emancipation ticket for the Convention to alter the Constitution of Kentucky, and was beaten, as probably some other respectable men, who would not like to acknowledge it, were beaten at the same time. And in the sense of the Emancipation party of Kentucky I wrote three letters: First, one to Mr. Sumner, in answer to a speech he made; second, one in answer to a speech of Seward’s, and the third in answer to a speech made by John Breckinridge, on being elected Senator. They were all written in the sense of an Emancipationist; and I say to-day, without endorsing every sentence I have ever uttered—for there is probably no man whose opinions have less weight with me than my own when I have found out they are wrong—on this subject I have made no change, for I have been an Emancipationist all my life. The first thing I remember in my boyhood is that, while playing with a little negro boy that was given me to kick and cuff, I wondered, and asked myself why it was not I who had been given to the negro to be cuffed; and I have never been able to solve the question to this day. (Laughter, and cheers.)

NEVER TECHNICALLY AN ABOLITIONIST.
I never was technically an Abolitionist. And let me tell what I mean by that word. In 1831, they put Garrison in jail in Baltimore, and he had just got out when I moved there. He was the originator of the special ideas you call the abolition theory, and they embrace three propositions: First, the instantaneous and universal abolition of slavery, irrespective of their consequences; but I was always in favor of a system of gradual emancipation. The second point was, that the hostility against color was a prejudice, and ought to be abolished, and the negro ought to be admitted to equality with the white race, according to his merits; that is, if he was a man of more sense or better culture than a white man, he ought to have the preference in any given case, as for office or social position. I have always considered this an utterly impossible state of society, and have opposed the idea, and do now oppose it. You ask me now to let negroes vote in Kentucky. I answer no; it is impracticable. The prejudice as to color is natural. In the West Indies, where the blacks predominate, they will not allow a white man to vote unless he has a certain amount of black blood in him. The third principle of the Abolition party was utter and unmitigated hatred of colonization. They thought the removal of the freed negroes was the perpetuation of slavery. But I have been the warm and constant supporter of the establishment of a free State in Africa by the colonization of negroes from the United States. There never was a civilized State in the tropics, and I believe the change that would make the greatest impression upon the world would be the establishment of a civilized free black State within the tropics.

THE POWER OF THE GOVERNMENT.
Now, as for any change on my part: In the course of this Administration, many things have been done that I would not have done. I believe the power which is vested in the Government of the United States is far greater, more thorough, and more capable of being used for good or for ill, than seems generally to be admitted by even our own party Wherever power has been vested in the Government, it is said further that they who administer the Government shall have power to do whatever is necessary to be done for the general defence and welfare of the nation. What more power can there be conceived of?. The only question that has arisen in my mind has been as to the mode of doing the things necessary for the nation’s welare.
The Constitution of the United States, in giving the popular branch of the Government exclusive power to make war, renders it impossible that war should be made except by the concurrence of the majority of the American people. And my own opinion is that whenever a people want to have war they ought to be allowed to have it; and whenever they don’t want to fight, nobody ought to make them fight.
And you cannot make peace without the President and two-thirds of the Senate, which is, in fact, two-thirds of the States, are in favor of making it. If the people choose to make war, they have to carry it on until two-thirds want to make peace. Now, when you say they shall have power to make war and to declare peace, you do what is done in your State Constitution, when you say: “Trial by jury shall be held sacred.” That is all you say, but the words involve the form of trial, and everything es-
<C06>
sential to the trial. So here, when you give to the popular branch of Congress the power to make war, it involves the right to kill people and do all other things necessary for the successful prosecution of the war.
I have said, in talking with my Yankee brethren, that it would be better for them and for the nation, and for mankind, to fight out this war until New England was reduced to the one hundred and twenty who came over in the Mayflower, and start afresh, than to allow the horrible, the destructive principle of secession to be established, and these children of the devil domineer over them. (Applause.)
ON AMENDING THE CONSTlTUTION.
I received, the other day, a letter from my old friend, Reverdy Johnson, of Baltimore, who has made a speech in favor of amending the Constitution. He asked me to write what I thought about it, and I will give you the substance of my reply.
Taking the posture of the negro question as it is, and the nation as it is, my conclusion is, that the Government of the United States is absolutely bound, by every consideration of statesmanship and of safety, to do one of two things: It is bound to use its whole power, both of war and of peace, to put back the negro, as far as possible, into the condition he occupied before the war; or it is bound to exterminate the whole institution, by all the powers the Constitution gives it or that can be obtained by an amendment of that instrument. If I were a proslavery man, I would say: Put back the negro to his former position. But as I am an anti-slavery man, I say: Use the whole power of the Government to extinguish the institution of slavery, root and branch. (Applause, long continued.) 
There is no legal, effectual mode of patting slavery in the United States out of existence, but by the amendment of the Federal Constitution, and the power to make that amendment lies with the people, not in Congress; and for my own part, I sincerely hope they will make that amendment. (Great applause.) I think the best thing you, as a party, can do, is to say you hope they will do it. You may get beaten by saying it, but your children will gain by it. I have been beaten many times, and I know how one feels under such circumstances. 
But as to dodging, and throwing dust in people's eyes, lest you be beaten, I have nothing to say against it, and if I can see any advantage resulting from it after it is done, I will use it, but I will not he for the sake of obtaining it.

AN EMANCIPATION PROPOSITION
But there is a reason why you should not pass such a resolution. While I love America better than I love any other country in the world, I love Kentucky better, as the best part of America. Now what can Kentucky do to get out of this difficulty, as a matter of policy? Thirty years ago I undertook to prove, and I think did prove, that under the present Constitution of Kentucky, the power of the State is absolute over those persons born after the passage of a law in regard to them; that is, that slavery attaches on birth and not before, and that the unborn child is not a slave in that sense that it is beyond the power of the Constitution. The word slaves, in the Constitution, means only those beings that are in existence at the time, and those that the law will allow to come into existence with the condition of servitude attaching to them in an absolute manner. If the legislators choose to allow them to come into existence absolutely as slaves, or if they choose to prevent their coming in as slaves absolutely, slavery attaches in such manner only as the legislative power may determine under the Constitution. What you might gain by this view of the case is, that if you can send to the Legislature men who will give that interpretation to the Constitution, you can abolish slavery in this State, at the end of the present living generation.
But supposing my interpretation wrong, you have another left, you, for you can take the slaves and pay for them, irrespective of the will of the owner, by giving a just compensation.
Mr. Breckinridge then spoke of a scheme that might be consummated, by which the General Government would grant the State say fifty millions of acres of public lands with which to pay for the emancipation of slaves in Kentucky.
We are in great peril in Kentucky. The State is divided into three equal parts. About one-third are secessionists; one-third are loyal, and may be relied upon to the last extremity; the other third are more dangerous than rebels, for if they can make a combination with the Secessionists, and are allowed to vote, they will beat us. If those who are disfranchised by law are prevented from voting, we shall beat them. I am in favor of allowing every man to vote who is entitled to, but no others. They have another Governor and another Congress. They had a son of mine sitting in their Congress, the meanest thing, I think, he ever did. Let them go there; they have no business voting for our Governor or members of Congress.
In conclusion, I do not intend to live, and if I can help myself, will not die in any other Government than that of the United States; and, as long as a party one-half as large as yours appears to be exists in Kentucky, I believe she will remain there also.

EAST TENNESSEE
EMANCIPATION—THE PEOPLE ALL RIGHT.
The Knoxville Whig of the 18th ult., edited by a Southerner and a slaveholder, contains some highly interesting and encouraging information in regard to the progress of Emancipation sentiment in East Tennessee. The loyal portion of our State is for destroying slavery, while the rebel portion of it is for holding on to the negro. The Whig says:
Several persons, subscribers of ours in years gone by, have said they would like to take our paper, but decline on the ground that we are for emancipating the negroes. They correctly represent us, and if they wish to read a paper whose editor is determined to hold on to the negro, in preference to the Union, they had better look elsewhere for a newspaper, and have as little to do with us and ours as possible. No man can or shall misunderstand our position, who can read our large type, and understand plain English language. This infernal war was brought about by the unprincipled Disunionists of the South, on account of the nigger, and there will never be any peace in the country while the cause of the rebellion, which is slavery, exists.
Those who think the real people and the patriotic masses of East Tennessee can be deluded into the work of organizing a third party, or a conservative party of copperheads, to enable a few interested men to hold on to their negroes, mistake the signs of the times altogether, and the material out of which our people are made. The mad-dog cry of abolition and nigger got them into one war, and has overwhelmed them with their present difficulties. They will not likely go into a second rebellion to fight for the slaves of a few aristocrats, when they have none themselves, and really don’t want any.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
We receive a great many letters from men in different counties of East Tennessee, whose good sense, respectable positions, and general knowledge of men and things, we can underwrite for. That these gentlemen reflect the sentiments of their neighbors we have no doubt. One of them, writing from Mossy Creek, in Jefferson county, concludes his letter thus;
"Nearly all of the Union men in this county are with you on the negro question. We believe there can be no permanent peace, or a peace worth having, until this disturbing element is finally disposed of, and no true Union man will hesitate for a moment what course to pursue, when the question comes up of a government of law and order without negroes, or one of corruption and tyranny with negroes, such as Jeff. Davis is trying to get up, is made the issue."
A gentleman of fine sense, and a slaveholder, writes after this fashion from McMinn county:
"Since the late Knoxville Convention, the copperhead element of this county, whose leaders are in Athens, have been busy on the streets, talking and electioneering with the country people as they come in, shaping their course for the building up of a sort of third party, to act with the rebels in holding on to the nigger. They are mistaken in the Union voters of this county. Let candidates come out for the Convention or Legislature, as they will do, and make the issue of emancipation, and the people of this county will put an end to the nigger question. We are sick of it, and have had enough of it to put the matter to rest."
From Blount, a gentleman writes for our paper, including the money, and adds:
"P. S. For the first time you and I are together. Though a Democrat, I have been a slaveholder on a small scale, but always a Union man. I am now with you for the Union, and for getting rid of the cause of all our troubles, the everlasting nigger. There are a few of our former Whig and Democratic leaders, in this county, who cling to the negro, and talk out against the; Lincoln Government, but the genuine people are for Lincoln, they are for Johnson, and they are for Brownlow and Maynard."
The Whig also has the following:
LOSING OUR NEGROES.-We feel no sort of sympathy for a rebel who loses his negroes, his other property, or even his life, provided he was concerned in bringing on this rebellion. And our border States Union men, who lose their negroes, are not so much to pity, as is generally supposed. In March and May, and July, 1862, President Lincoln made earnest and successive appeals to the Border States to accept compensated emancipation, which simply meant the giving of them a fair consideration for their negroes in dollars and cents. Our Union friends and the rebel sympathizers alike declined the proposition, although every man of sense then saw that the time was rapidly approaching when the Border States would have to surrender the Union or their slaves.
The time has come when the government feels itself called upon to lay its strong hand upon the negro, and to appropriate him. As the others declined to take pay, they must now go for nothing.
"As "the Southern leaders brought on the war because of slavery, it will be a just retribution to destroy the institution, and with it the leaders in the wicked work. Therefore we say, down with the institution, and down with its rebel worshippers."
So goes glorious East Tennessee. The fanatics of Middle Tennessee had better take warning in time. Slavery shall be destroyed in Tennessee, and free labor established, if it cost the life and property of every rebel in the State.

THE RESULTS AT BALTIMORE.
Mr. Lincoln's re-nomination to the Presidency by the Convention that has just closed its labors at Baltimore was so universally expected that it takes nobody by surprise. Whatever may be said of his character, of his administration of the government, it is not to be denied that he enjoys the favor and confidence of the people. In their conviction of his complete integrity, of his homely good sense and honesty of purpose, they overlook his defects, they pardon his mistakes, they are prone to forgive even his occasional lapses into serious and dangerous abuses of power.
It would be easy to find among our distinguished men, they say, persons who are capable of a more comprehensive, consistent and dignified statesman ship than Mr. Lincoln; there are those who possess more vigorous and rapid executive abilities; there are those who have a quicker perception of the real character and interests of the hour, a nobler ideal of its duties, a more refined discernment and a more heroic courage; and who more truly fulfil the old traditional notions of leadership among men; but there are few or none who reflect more closely the average intelligence and average virtue of the American people, or who are likely to maintain a stricter fidelity to the great general objects they have in view in the prosecution of this war.
Mr. Lincoln is slow, they admit, and suffers the best opportunities to pass; without knowledge of men, he gets about him unworthy persons like Cameron, and he clings to useless instruments like McClellan, long after their uselessness has been shown; and without profound political convictions, or a thoroughly digested system of policy, he listens too patiently to mere schemers, or men of management and intrigue, and he either drifts into the right course or assumes it with an embarrassed air, as if he took shelter in it as a final expedient. There is nothing high, generous, heroic, in the tone of his administration. Nevertheless, the defenders of Mr. Lincoln contend that he does contrive to reach some of the very best ends. He was a long while in finding out the issue of this war, which the whole world saw to be slavery; he was tender in touching it, he kept up friendly relations with its defenders in the border States, he was averse to the employment of the blacks as soldiers, averse to declaring their emancipation, averse to concentrated and vigorous military movements; and he has often worn out the patience of his more energetic and discerning supporters; but he has still come up to the mark in the end. While he has refused to guide public sentiment, he has not refused to allow himself to be carried onward by it. In this respect, as many of the most earnest admirers of democratic government assert, he has but illustrated the spirit of our institutions, which requires that the people, and not their rulers, should give tone and direction to public policy.
But no charge of a want of decision and energy is likely to be brought against the second candidate of the Unionists, Mr. Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee. Like Mr. Lincoln, he is a man of the people-a workingman, indeed, but of even superior merits and claims to regard. Born in the midst of an aristocratic society-an orphan who was apprenticed to a trade by the Poorhouse Commissioners, who could not read until after he was married, and was then taught by his wife by the light of pine-knots, who made his way from the Carolinas to Tennessee with no other property than he carried in a bundle on his back; but who. thus destitute and friendless, worked his way to the highest preferments of his State, and finally into the Senate of the United States, where alone of all the Southern Senators he rebuked and denounced treason, exposed the malignity of slavery, and upheld the banner of the Union, with masterly eloquence and invincible determination; such a man. we say, needs no words of approval; his career declares his character, his whole life is his best eulogy. No public man in the civil walks of the nation has done more to maintain its integrity and honor, and no one better deserves the highest rewards that the people can bestow. If Mr. Johnson's name, indeed, had been the first, instead of the second on the ticket, the public, we are sure, would not have thought it a too extravagant estimate of his merits and services. Always a democrat in the best sense, and always a supporter of the war, he is peculiarly entitled to the respect of that large class, growing larger every day, who are proud to call themselves War Democrats.
The resolutions adopted with such vehement enthusiasm by the Convention are explicit, direct, uncompromising, and up to the level of the crisis. They declare that the war must be prosecuted to the end of an unconditional submission by the rebels in arms; they appreciate the glorious services of our noble heroes in the field and on the ocean; they insist that slavery, the cause of the war, shall be forever prohibited by an amendment of the Constitution; they re-assert the doctrine of Monroe, that no monarchical powers shall establish themselves on this Continent; they approve the employment of the blacks as soldiers, and hold them entitled to the same treatment and the same redress, in case of wrong done, as any other troops; they favor immigration, and the furtherance and protection of it by the government; and they demand vigorous taxation and economical expenditures as the means of meeting the requirements of the public debt. These are all important and timely objects, and such as the most
<c02>
profound and radical sentiment of the people dictates. We do not see that the "radical Democracy" which assembled at Cleveland has gone a whit beyond the Convention at Baltimore, in the thoroughness and comprehensiveness of its creed.
In one respect alone they differ, and that is in their references to the arbitrary arrests and other illegal proceedings of the Administration. These were condemned at Cleveland as wholly unjustifiable. They were approved at Baltimore as temporary expedients forced upon us by the exigencies of a state of war. But it is very clear from the whole temper and spirit of the proceedings at Baltimore, that the majority of the men there were just as devoted to the true principles of liberty as the men who gathered at Cleveland. They did not discourteously fling their objections into the face of the candidate whom they were about to nominate; but they did tell him, in various ways, what their opinions were of some of his mistakes. By their cavalier treatment of the school of Weed, Cameron, and the like, they told him pretty plainly to keep away from such fellows in the future; and we hope he will heed the warning. By the tremendous vote of 440 to 4 in favor of the admission of the radical delegates from Missouri, Mr. Lincoln was also told what his supporters think of his connection with the Blair malcontents, and of his singularly perverse management of affairs in the West. Finally, the passage of the resolve which re-affirms the Monroe doctrine, coupled with the resolve which asserts that "those only are worthy of public confidence and official trust, who cordially endorse the principles proclaimed in these resolutions is a blow right between the eyes of the Secretary of State.
Mr. Seward has done whatever he could to suppress the agitation of the Monroe doctrine; when it passed the House by a unanimous vote he hastened incontinently to explain it away in the mind of the French despot and burglar; but now that it is accepted as a fundamental principle in the creed of the Union party, he must either adopt it in his management of foreign affairs, or subject himself to the imputation which the Convention has levelled at "those who do not cordially endorse, these resolutions, as unworthy of official trust." It is not often that a political convention speaks more explicitly and frankly to the candidates it proposes, than this convention has spoken to Mr. Lincoln and his Cabinet, which is delicately, but all the more severely, rebuked for its want of unanimity and concert of action.-N. Y. Eve. Post.
GARRISON ON PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Among all the old Abolitionists, there are none who have exhibited more patriotic sense since the war began, than William Lloyd Garrison. While Wendell Phillips and others like him descend to the business of common scolds, and carp at everything, he stands nobly by the President. At a late meeting in New York, he said:-
"No man is now so detested by the rebels as Abraham Lincoln, and hence he thought the people would let him 'run the machine four years longer. 'Granting that justice had not been done to the negro, were the people a hair's breadth in advance of the President? Was not the President, after all, a little in advance of them? In view of the dreadful state of public sentiment at the North, of the perils that surround the Chief Magistrate, of the fact that the President had stricken off the chains from three millions of slaves, and expressed a desire for the total abolition of slavery, implored the border States to get rid of it, armed a hundred thousand blacks, recognized them as soldiers, recognized the independence of Liberia and Hayti, struck a blow at the slave trade; the speaker did not feel disposed, when we had reached near the culmination of the struggle, to say anything very harsh against Abraham Lincoln."-Centralia (Ohio) Sentinel.
The St. Joseph, (Mo.) Weekly Herald comments on the above, as follows:-
"This speech of Mr. Garrison's indicates that a cooler judgment is working among the radical Abolitionists, and that many of their chief leaders are able now to see the justice and wisdom of the President's policy.
With the great majority of the nation upholding the President firmly, the opposition of small bodies could be well endured. It is far pleasanter to see a growing concurrence in his policy, and a more complete popular vindication of him and it. The statements of Mr. Garrison have a broad latitude, and commend themselves to the reflection of those, if such there are, who think that the progress of the war has not been accompanied by, or directed towards, those incidental ends which they would desire to see realized."
A SCENE IN THE LOUISIANA CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
The New Orleans Delta, of the 12th inst., says:
"One of the most pleasing incidents yesterday in the Convention was the defining of their position by young Thomas M. Wells and Robert W. Taliaferro. Mr. Wells, as is well known, is a young, dashing, and chivalrous Louisianian; born and bred in Rapides Parish; is the son of the Lieutenant Governor, and belongs to the grandest family of the State. The Wells family, previous to this war, were not only the most noted, but the most wealthy in Louisiana. They owned more negroes and race-horses-Lexington and Lecompte, for instance-and raised more cotton, and were the greatest old line Whigs that we ever had among us, and we have known some of them well. Since the war broke out they have been noted for their adherence to the Union, and have stood staunch by it up to the present time, suffering loss of negroes, cotton, and all else, save honor. But a few days since, Dick Taylor burned two thousand five hundred bales belonging to Mr. Wells's father. Yesterday young Thomas M. Wells rose in the Convention and defined his position. All were attentive, for a representative from the country, having a greater interest in the question of negro emancipation than any man in the city of New Orleans, was about to speak, and all eyes were turned to the speaker, who, though young in years, was old in experience. He said he was no speaker, but as he had been called upon by his friends from the country to give his opinions, he would briefly state that he was in favor of immediate and unconditional emancipation; and that, further, he was in favor of educating the negro, because he thought education would make him more useful. This was the substance of his remarks, and they were received as coming from an oracle. It was the testimony of a house owning hundreds of slaves, against the institution.
Young Wells was followed by the younger Taliaferro. This is a name well known in this State. The old man, a native of South Carolina, published a weekly paper in the parish of Catahoula, and at the time of the election for delegates to the Secession Convention he was elected on the cooperation ticket. When the ordinance which took Louisiana out of the Union, at Baton Rouge, was on its third reading, the old man rose, and commenced reading his protest; amid the noise and confusion that prevailed, and the efforts that were made to drown his voice, he calmly and quietly read it through, and demanded that it should be spread upon the minutes; he then turned upon that mad, wild body of fanatical men, and prophesied all the woes and ills that have befallen Louisiana, by the introduction of the ordinance of Secession. It was his son that yesterday rose in the Convention, and said: 'I am in favor of immediate emancipation, and of the education of the negro. I was born in the interior of Louisiana, and was never beyond the boundary of the State. I am with Mr. Wells.' Comment is unnecessary."
ALL WHITE.
If there were no people of color on earth, what body of men, in forming an organic law for a State or nation, would think of inserting a provision to restrict the right of suffrage to white men. There are no colored people in Montano, and therefore to restrict the right of suffrage, in the act of organizing that Territory, could be designed only to shut out colored men from that Territory-to exclude the class who are now fighting to preserve our free government. And the fact that there are no colored men there makes such restriction a gratuitous insult. Senator Doolittle's labored speech in favor of excluding them from the polls is a wanton exhibition of the same diabolical prejudice which the satanic New York mob displayed in stoning, hacking, beating, hanging burning, torturing, and butchering the inoffensive blacks in the streets of that city, last summer. And what renders the wickedness of the thing more glaring is the shameful fact, that a Christian Senator from the free State of Wisconsin is guilty of this ineffable meaness-Milwaulice Daily Life.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 1864.
PRESCRIPTIONS BY THREE DOCTORS.
We have now before us three political platforms, issued by three bodies seeking to mould and direct public sentiment in the existing Presidential campaign.
The first of these in order of time is the series of resolutions adopted by the Cleveland Convention, published in the Liberator of June 3d. This body wishes to be named "The Radical Democracy," perhaps intimating the fact that it hopes to unite the widely differing parties heretofore known as "Democrats" and "Radicals." It is owing, no doubt, to the checks and balances required by this union of diverse materials, that these resolutions seem tame and spiritless in their general effect, that they contain some irrelevant and some objectionable matter, and that they do not contain such vigorous terms of specification of the course of action our nation needs, as were naturally looked for from the callers of the Convention. Nevertheless, the Cleveland platform proposes one measure more thorough-going and wide-reaching than any proposed by either of the other bodies, namely, such an amendment to the Constitution as shall not only abolish slavery, but "secure to all men absolute equality before the law." This, after all, is the great thing our country needs.
The second of these documents was issued at Baltimore by "The Grand National Council of the Union League of America." It may be seen in another column of this paper. It consists of six resolutions, densely and strongly stated, and its brevity and energy make it seem the most radical platform of the three. Its most salient point, and a very important one, is the urging of a prompt and vigorous enforcement of the confiscation acts of Congress, and the allotment to our soldiers "and others" of homesteads out of the forfeited lands of rebels. The confiscation and distribution of rebel land are coldly approved, instead of being urged, by the Cleveland Convention, and are in no manner alluded to by the third platform, next to be mentioned, that of the Republican Convention at Baltimore. An unfortunate and ominous omission.
This third series of resolutions, though longer than either of the others, is written with much spirit and vigor, and really contains more expression and suggestion of reformatory measures than an abolitionist would expect to proceed from so large a body of men, assembled to promote the election of Abraham Lincoln.
It speaks with great energy against slavery, demanding its utter and complete extirpation from the Republic, and proposing such an amendment to the Constitution as shall for ever prevent its reestablishment; it gives special approval to the Proclamation of Emancipation, and to the employment as Union soldiers of men heretofore held in slavery; it suggests, as essential to the public welfare, that harmony should prevail in the national councils, and that those only are worthy of official trust who cordially endorse the ideas above stated, (a hint which seems directed at the President's intimacy with Seward and the Blairs;) and it maintains that the Government owes full protection, and redress against unwarrantable injuries inflicted by the enemy, to all men employed in its armies, without regard to distinction of color. These are excellent suggestions. It is to be hoped that Mr. Lincoln may be induced by them to advance in the line thus marked out, even before the expiration of his present term of office. He may certainly trust, so decided a majority of the Republican party have united in this expression of opinion, that more vigor in this direction will alienate none of them, while it may draw to his party many who now seek a more radical president. At any rate, Mr. Lincoln can no longer hold back from more energy of action against slavery on the plea that the people are not ready, and will not follow him. The people who elected him have now got in advance, and are urging him forward.
There appears some inconsistency in the Convention's proceeding-immediately after referring their anti-slavery action to the facts that slavery was the cause of the rebellion, and now constitutes its strength, and must be always and everywhere hostile to the principles of republican government-to uphold and maintain those acts and proclamations of the President which expressly provided for the continuance of slavery in certain portions of the Southern States, some of them the very portions where the government was best prepared to assail it; and to applaud the "practical wisdom" of Mr. Lincoln, and his fidelity to "the principles of American liberty," in the acts which included such provisions. This, however, is a minor matter. Much more serious is the omission of all reference to two other subjects of the highest importance, one of prospective, the other of immediate interest.
The Baltimore Convention should have declared itself in regard to the confiscation of the lands of rebels; a movement doubly needful, both as our protection against the power and influence of the partisans of secession after their arms shall have been wrested from them, and as the means for establishing loyal landholders, white and black, on the very soil formerly held by the enemies of the country. Reconstruction demands a heartily loyal voting population; and there seems no means of obtaining this, in the Southern States, but by the policy here indicated. It was highly desirable that the Convention should express, directly or indirectly, a disapproval of that worst and most foolish of all the acts of President Lincoln, the Act of Amnesty; and this might have been done without discourtesy, either by urging the recal of that Act, in view of the disregard, by the rebels, of its too liberal offer-or by urging an assignment of the lands of rebels, justly forfeited by their former owners, to loyal men, black and white, as occasion may arise.
But above all was it important that this Convention should interpose its powerful influence to shield the black man, alike as soldier, laborer and citizen, from the injustice which this Republican Government has been constantly inflicting on him. It has raised its voice (in the seventh resolution) against the silent allowance of injuries in violation of the laws of war inflicted by the enemy. But the chief injuries which these much-enduring people suffer are from them of their own household. The refusal, originally, to commission black officers, was excused by the fact that no black man had experience in military command. But the continuance of the refusal to this day shows that a different reason was the effective one. The refusal to give colored men the customary pay of soldiers has been prolonged in a manner which shows the willingness, if not the desire of the Government, that they should still be stigmatized as inferior. The reasonable request of the intelligent and refined colored men of New Orleans that they should be allowed the ballot, not merely as a right, but as a necessary defence against enmity and vindictiveness which their loyalty had brought upon them, was refused by the President, and refused with reasons which were gross insults. The oppressions which Banks has established over the agricultural population of Louisiana remain undisturbed, though the military failures of that officer gave excellent opportunity for his removal. The President does not wish to lose battles and armies in Texas, so he appoints Gen. Canby to conduct the military operations; apparently, he does want the odious black code continued and enforced, so he appoints Banks military Governor of Louisiana, in spite of the pretended existence there of a civil Governor, chosen in the manner which he had himself provided. And, most disgraceful of all, when a black sergeant was found with manliness enough to claim his rights as a man and a soldier, and to take the ground that the prolonged and persistent refusal of the United States to perform her part of the contract made with him, vacated the obligation on his part to remain in her service, this man, brave and faithful as the best up to that point, was
<c04>
shot by command of the President, under pretext of mutiny. In my judgment, the blood of Sergeant Walker rests on the head of President Lincoln; of President Lincoln, whose policy, in the cases of white men, has been to bestow pardons profusely upon offenders of every grade.
Neither of the three bodies whose proceedings we have been reviewing has chosen to claim a concession of the rights of men to the colored population of this country. It seems to me that each of them should have done this. But it the Baltimore Convention (which gave Mr. Lincoln his nomination) had done it, this action might well be expected to have a strong influence upon the President, and to give the national policy a strong impulse in that direction. The failure of so many to do this piece of justice, and even to think of doing it, shows how far we are yet from such national exaltation as righteousness brings.-C. K. W.

THE BALTIMORE CONVENTION.
NOMINATION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
At 11 o'clock on the morning of Tuesday, June 7, the doors of Front Street Theatre, Baltimore, were thrown open for the holding of the "National Union Convention," for nominating candidates for the offices of President and Vice President of the United States There was a great rush of spectators to the galleries, which were soon crowded to overflowing. The band of the 5th Ohio regiment, from Fort McHenry, played a grand overture before the business commenced. The scene was brilliant and impressive.
Ex-Governor Morgan, Chairman of the National Union Executive Committee, appointed at Chicago in 1860, called the Convention to order, and made an introductory address, of which the following is the most striking passage:-
"It is not my duty nor my purpose to indicate any general plan of action by this Convention, but I trust I may be permitted to say that, in view of the dread realities of the past, and what is passing at this moment, the fact that the bones of our soldiers are bleaching in every State of the Union, and with the knowledge of the further fact that this has all been caused by slavery, the party of which you, gentlemen, are the delegated and only representatives, will fall short of accomplishing its great mission, unless among its other resolves it shall declare for such an amendment of the Constitution as will positively prohibit African slavery in the United States (prolonged applause, followed by three cheers)."
Mr. Morgan nominated for temporary President of the Convention the Rev. Robert J. Breckinridge, D.D., of Kentucky, who, on being conducted to the chair by Mr. King of New York, and Mr. Randall of Wisconsin, addressed the Convention at some length. We have room only for an extract or two:-
"I am bold to say that, notwithstanding the outcry about our violations of the Constitution, this present living generation and this present Union party are more thoroughly devoted to that Constitution than any generation that has ever lived under it (applause). While I say that, and solemnly believe it, and believe it is capable of the strongest proof, I may also add that it is a great error, which is being propagated in our land, to say that our national life depends merely upon the sustaining of that Constitution. Our fathers made it, and we love it. I intend to maintain it. But if it suits us to change it, we can do so (applause; and when it suits us to change it, we will change it (applause). If it were torn into ten thousand pieces, the nation would be as much a nation as it was before the Constitution was made-a nation always-that declared its independence as a united people, and lived as a united people, until now-a nation independent of all particular institutions under which they lived, capable of modelling them precisely as their interests require."
After observing that he would not recite, either for condemnation or approval, the measures by which the government had been brought to its present position in relation to slavery, he went on to say:-
"We are prepared to go further than the original Republicans themselves are prepared to go. We are prepared to demand not only that the whole territory of the United States shall not be made slave, but that the general government of the American people shall do one of two things, and it appears to me that there is nothing else that can be done, either to use the whole power of the Government, both war power and peace power, to put slavery as nearly as possible back where it was (for although that will be a fearful state of society, it is better than anarchy), or else to use the whole power of the government, both of war and peace, and all the practical power that the people of the United States will give them, to exterminate and extinguish it (prolonged applause). I have no hesitation in saying for myself that, if I were a pro-slavery man if I believed that this institution was an ordinance of God, and was given to man, I would unhesitatingly join those who demand that the government should put it back where it was; but I am not a pro-slavery man. I never was. I unite myself with those who believe it is contrary to the highest interests of all men and of all government, contrary to the spirit of the Christian religion, and incompatible with the natural rights of man. I join myself with those who say, away with it forever (applause)-and I fervently pray God that the day may come when, throughout the whole land, every man may be as free as you are, and as capable of enjoying regulated liberty. I will not detain you any longer...I know very well that the sentiments which I am uttering will cause me great odium in the State in which I was born, which I love, where the bones of two generations of my ancestors and some of my children are, and where, very soon, I shall lay my own. I know very well that my colleagues will incur odium if they indorse what I say; and they, too, know it. But we have put our faces toward the way in which we intend to go, and we will go in it to the end. If we are to perish, we will perish in that way. All I have to say to you is, help us if you can; if you cannot, believe in your hearts that we have died like men (great cheering)."
Prayer was offered by the Rev. Mr. Riley, of the Methodist Church, who did not forget to pray for the abolition of slavery.
The roll of delegates was called, including those from rebel States and distant Territories, but the right of the latter to seats was referred to a Committee on Credentials, composed of one from each loyal State, except Missouri, which, having two sets of delegates, in conflict with each other, was excluded. Committees of one from each State were also named to select permanent officers of the Convention, and to prepare resolutions. The Convention, at 3 P. M., adjourned till evening.
In the evening, the Committee on the nomination of officers made their report, and the Hon. William Dennison, of Ohio, was appointed President. Vice-Presidents and Secretaries, one from each loyal State, except Missouri, were also chosen.
Gov. Denuison, on being conducted to the chair, made a brief address, in which he said:-
"The loyal people of the country have authorized and expect you to renew on their part the pledge of their faith to support the government in the most vigorous prosecution of the war to the complete suppression of the rebellion, regardless of the time or the resources required to that end; and they equally expect and call upon you to declare the Cause and support of the rebellion to be slavery, which, as well as for its treasonable offences against the government, as for its incompatibility with the rights of humanity and the permanent peace of the country, must, with the termination of the war, and as much speedier as possible, be made to cease forever, in every State and Territory in the Union."
The Committees not being ready to report, Parson Brownlow was called upon for a speech. He responded in a characteristic address, pleading for the admission of the delegation from Tennessee, and for the nomination of Andrew Johnson as the candidate for Vice President. At the close of his remarks there were loud calls for Garrison, who was known to be present, but he did not respond, and the Convention adjourned to meet on Wednesday, at 9 A. M.
SECOND DAY.
The Committee on Credentials, made their report in substance as follows: 1. That the Union Radical delegation from Missouri be admitted, and the "Claybanks" (Blairites) be excluded. 2. That the delegates from Virginia, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Arkansas, be admitted to all the privileges of the floor, except that of voting. 3. That the persons presenting themselves as delegates from the State of South Carolina are not entitled to the rights of delegates on the floor. Two minority reports were presented.
An exciting debate followed, which ended in the admission of the Radical delegation from Missouri, by a vote of 440 to 41; in the admission, with full privile-
<c05>
ges, of the delegates from Tennessee, Louisiana. Arkansas, Nebraska, Colorado, and Nevada; and in the exclusion of the delegates from South Carolina, Virginia and Florida.
H. J. Raymond, of New York, from the Committee on Resolutions, submitted the following, the reading of which was received with the wildest outbursts of enthusiasm. especially the emancipation and anti-slavery sentiments. The resolutions were adopted by acclamation.
THE PLATFORM.
Resolved, That it is the highest duty of every American citizen to maintain against all their enemies the integrity of the Union and the paramount authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States; and that, laying aside all differences and political opinions, we pledge ourselves as Union men, animated by a common sentiment, and aiming at a common subject, to do every thing in our power to aid the government in quelling by force of arms the rebellion now raging against its authority, and in bringing to the punishment due to their crimes the rebels and traitors arrayed against it. (Prolonged applause.)
Resolved, that we approve the determination of the Government of the United States not to compromise with rebels, or to offer any terms of peace except such as may be based upon an "unconditional surrender" of their hostility and a return to their just allegiance to the Constitution and laws of the United States; and that we call upon the Government to maintain this position and to prosecute the war with the utmost possible vigor to the complete suppression of the rebellion, in full reliance upon the self-sacrifices, the patriotism, the heroic valor and the undying devotion of the American people to their country and its free institutions. (Applause.)
Resolved, That as slavery was the cause, and now constitutes the strength of this rebellion, and as it must be always and everywhere hostile to the principles of Republican Government, justice and the national safety demand its utter and complete extirpation from the soil of the Republic, (applause,) and that we uphold and maintain the acts and proclamations by which the government, in its own defence, has aimed a death-blow at this gigantic evil. We are in favor, furthermore, of such an amendment to the Constitution, to be made by the people in conformity with its provisions, as shall terminate and forever prohibit the existence of slavery within the limits or the jurisdiction of the United States. (Applause.)
Resolved, That the thanks of the American people are due to the soldiers and sailors of the army and the navy,(applause,)who have perilled their lives in defence of their country, and in vindication of the honor of the flag; that the nation owes to them some permanent recognition of their patriotism and their valor, and ample and permanent provision for those of their survivors who have received disabling and honorable wounds in the service of the country; and that the memories of those who have fallen in its defence shall be held in grateful and everlasting remembrance. (Loud applause.)
Resolved, That we approve and applaud the practical wisdom, thd unselfish patriotism and unswerving fidelity to the Constitution and the principles of American Liberty with which Abraham Lincoln has discharged, under circumstances of unparalleled difficulty, the great duties and responsibilities of the Presidential office; that we approve and indorse, as demanded by the emergency and essential to the preservation of the nation, and as within the Constitution, the measures and acts which he has adopted to defend the nation against its open and secret foes; that we approve especially the Proclamation of Emancipation, and the employment as Union soldiers of men heretofore held in slavery; (applause;) and that we have full confidence in his determination to carry these and all other constitutional measures essential to the salvation of the country into full and complete effect.
Resolved, That we deem it essential to the general welfare that harmony should prevail in the national councils, and we regard as worthy of public confidence and official trust those only who cordially indorse the principles proclaimed in these resolutions, and which should characterize the administration of the government. (Applause.)
Resolved, That the government owes to all men employed in its armies, without regard to distinction of color, the full protection of the laws of war, (applause,) and that any violations of these laws, or of the usages of civilized nations in the time of war by the rebels now in arms, should be made the subject of full and prompt redress. (Prolonged applause.)
Resolved, That the foreign migration which in the past has added so much to the wealth and development of resources and increase of power to this nation, the asylum of the oppressed of all nations, should be fostered and encouraged by a liberal and just policy.
Resolved, That we are in favor of the speedy construction of the railroad to the Pacific.
Resolved, That the national faith pledged for the redemption of the public debt must be kept inviolate, and that for this purpose we recommend economy and rigid responsibility in the public expenditures, and a vigorous and just system of taxation; that it is the duty of any loyal State to sustain the credit and promote the use of the national currency. (Applause.)
Resolved, That we approve the position taken by the government that the people of the United States can never regard with indifference the attempt of any European Power to overthrow by force or to supplant by fraud the institution of any republican government on the Western Continent; (prolonged applause;) and that they will view with extreme jealousy, as menacing to the peace and independence of this our country, the efforts of any such power to obtain new footholds for monarchical governments, sustained by a foreign military force in near proximity to the United States. (Long-continued applause.)
The Resolutions having been unanimously adopted, the Convention, after a brief discussion as to the way of taking the vote, proceeded to ballot for a candidate for President, with the following result:
For Mr LINCOLS-Maine, 14; New Hampshire, 10; Vermont, 10; Massachusetts. 24; Rhode Island, 8; Connecticut, 12; New York. 66; New Jersey, 14; Pennsylvania, 52; Delaware, 6; Maryland, 14; Louisiana, 14; Arkansas, 10; Tennessee, 15; Kentucky, 22; Ohio, 42; Indiana, 26; Illinois,32; Michigan,16; Wisconsin,16 Iowa, 16; Minnesota, 8; California, 10; Oregon, 6; West Virginia, 10; Kansas, 6; Nebraska, 6; Colorado, 6; Nevada, 6-Total, 497.
FOR GEN. GRANT-Missouri,22.
Mr. Hume of Mo. (acting, doubtless, for his colleagues as well as himself) moved that the vote be declared unanimous. The enthusiasm was indescribable, the whole Convention being on their feet shouting, and the band playing "Hail Columbia."
Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, by a large majority, (afterwards made unanimous,) was nominated for Vice-President.
The Convention, after choosing a National Committee to serve during the next four years, adjourned without day.

UNION LEAGUE.
This body held a meeting in Baltimore simultaneously with that of the Union Convention, and passed the following resolutions:
1st. Resolved, That we will support the Administration in the vigorous prosecution of the war, to the complete and final suppression of the rebellion, and to this we pledge all our energies and efforts.
2d. Resolved, That slavery, being the cause of the rebellion and the bond of union among traitors, onght to be abolished without delay; and it is the sense of this organization that slavery in all forms should be prohibited by an amendment to the Federal Constitution.
3d. Resolved, That we hereby approve of the principles involved in the policy known as the" Monroe doctrine."
4th. Resolved, That the confiscation act of Congress should be promptly and vigorously enforced, and that homesteads on the lands confiscated under it should be granted to our soldiers and others who have been made indigent by the acts of traitors and rebels.
5th, Resolved, That every person who bears arms in defence of the national flag is entitled, without distinction of color or nationality, to the protection of the government he defends to the full extent of that government's power.
6th. Resolved, That we hereby tender our thanks to the soldiers of the army and the sailors of the navy.

INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT.
On Thursday, the 9th, at two o'clock, the Committee of the Convention, with President Dennison and Secretary Shaw, waited upon Mr. Lincoln at the White House, where they were received by Mr. Nicolay, the President's private Secretary, and shown into the blue drawing-room. Meanwhile, several hundred other gentlemen entered the east room. Mr. Lincoln presently came in and took a position in the centre of the room. The committee of the Convention were then introduced, and ranged themselves in a semicircle in front of the President. Governor Dennison then said:-
"Mr. President: The National Convention, which closed its labors in the city of Baltimore yesterday, appointed a committee consisting of one delegate from each State, with myself as chairman, to inform you of your unanimous nomination at that Convention for reelection to the office of President of the United States 
<c06>
That committee I now have the honor of informing you is present. In its behalf I also have the honor of presenting you with a copy of the resolutions,or platform, adopted by that Convention as expressive of its sense, and of the sense of the loyal people of the country which we represent, of the principles and the policy that should characterize the administration of the Government in the present condition of the country. I need not say to you, sir, that the Convention in thus unanimously renominating you for re-election, but give utterance to the almost universal voice of the loyal people of the country, and to doubt of your triumphant election would be little short of abandoning the hope of the final suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of the authority of the Federal Government over the insurgent States. Neither the Convention, nor those represented by that body, entertain any doubt as to the final result under your administration, sustained by that loyal people and by our noble armies and gallant navy. Neither did the Convention nor do the committee, doubt the speedy suppression of this most wicked and unprovoked rebellion. I should add, Mr. President, what had escaped me, that it will be the pleasure of the committee to communicate to you in the course of a few days, through one of its most accomplished members-Mr.George W. Curtis of New York-by letter, more at length the circumstances under which you have been placed in nomination.
Mr.Lincoln took the offered resolutions, and then responded in a distinct tone, saying:
"Gentlemen of the Committee: I will neither conceal my gratification, nor restrain the expression of my gratitude, that the Union people, through their Convention, in their continued effort to save and advance the nation, have deemed me not unworthy to remain in my present position I have no reason to doubt that I shall accept the nomination tendered, and yet, perhaps, I should not declare myself definitely before reading and considering what is called the platform. I will say now, however, I approve the declaration in favour of so amending the Constitution as to prohibit slavery throughout the nation, when the people in revolt, with a hundred days of explicit notice that they could within those days resume their allegiance without the overthrow of their institution, and that they could not so resume it afterward, elected to stand out. Such amendment of the Constitution as now proposed becomes a fitting and necessary conclusion to the final success of the Union cause. Such a law can meet and cover all cavils. Now the unconditional Union men North and South perceive its importance and embrace it. In the joint names of Liberty and Union let on labor to give it legal form and practical effect."
The inevitable hand-shaking followed, Mr. Lincoln saying many pleasant things. A South Carolina delegate expressed his regret that, after coming so far to vote for Mr. Lincoln at the Convention, their delegation had been left out in the cold. "Never mind" responded Mr. Lincoln; "you come from a hot State, and will soon be all right again.."
THE PRESIDENT AND THE UNION LEAGUE
After the President had replied to the Committee of the Convention, he received a deputation from the National Union League, the Chairman of which addressed him as follows:-
Mr. President: I have the honor of introducing to you the representatives of the Union Leagues of the loyal States, to congratulate you on your re-nomination, and to assure you that we will not fail at the polls to give you the support that your services in the past so highly deserve. We feel honored in doing this, for we are assured that we are aiding in re-electing to the proud position of President of the United States one so highly worthy of it, one among the least of whose claims is, that he was the emancipator of four millions of bondmen.
The President replied:
Gentlemen: I can only say in response to the remarks of your chairman, I suppose, that I am very grateful for the renewed confidence which has been accorded to me both by the Convention and by the National League. I am not insensible at all to the personal compliment there is in this, yet I do not allow myself to believe that any but a small part of it is to be appropriated as a personal compliment. The Convention and the nation, I am assured, are alike animated by a higher view of the interests of the country for the present and the great future, and that part I am entitled to appropriate as a compliment is only that part which I may lay hold of as being the opinion of the Convention and of the League, that I am not unworthy to be entrusted with the place I have occupied for the last three years. I have not permitted myself, gentlemen, to conclude that I am the best man in the country; but I am reminded, in this connection, of a story of an old Dutch farmer, who remarked to a companion that "it was not best to swap horses when crossing a stream."
The prolonged laughter which followed this characteristic remark should have been heard-it was tumultuous.

THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS.
The friends of the abolition of slavery, and of the ultimate enfranchisement and elevation of the colored race on this continent, may derive the sincerest satisfaction from the contemplation of passing events, as well as the most abundant encouragement in the continued prosecution of their object From a review of what has been accomplished, they are amply justified in the belief that the consummation of their work draws near. Nevertheless, political affairs are in that state, when more perhaps, than at any other conjuncture, it is necessary for the upholders of the true principles of abolition to be vigilant, active, and quick to take advantage of favoring circumstances, and the breaking up of the fallow ground, to sow the incorruptible seed of truth, and to disseminate the principles of impartial and uncompromising justice.
By way of marking the progress of the anti-slavery cause, and also in order to indicate the present duty of Abolitionists, let us go back for a period of four years, and compare the Republican platform of 1860 with the platforms which have been adopted by two political parties, that within the last fortnight have met for the purpose of nominating the next PRESIDENT.
The Chicago platform, on which Mr. Lincoln was elected, went no further in an anti-slavery direction than to announce the intention of the party to resist by all legitimate means the practical enforcement of the Democratic pro-slavery dogma that the Constitution, of its own force, carried slavery into the Territories; to appeal to Congress to take measures for the total and final suppression of the Slave Trade; and to secure the admission of Kansas as a free State. Under the overwhelming pressure of events, the party that succeeded to the control of national affairs upon this platform have not only prohibited slavery in the Territories, and suppressed the slave trade, and brought Kansas into the Union, but have abolished slavery is the District of Columbia; have proclaimed freedom to all slaves in the rebel districts; have enrolled colored soldiers in the army of the United States, and partially, at least, have recognized the citizenship of persons of African descent These are accomplished facts. In addition to these, we find the loyal slave States moving of their own accord toward the abolition of slavery, and zealously cooperating to effect the universal extinction of the system.
In such circumstances two conventions have been held for the nomination of President and Vice President of the United States.
The first assembled at Cleveland on the 31st of May, and took a new name in the history of American political parties-that of the "Radical Democracy. "This party declares in its fifth resolution,-
"That the rebellion has destroyed slavery, and the Federal Constitution should be amended to prohibit its re-establishment, and to secure to all men absolute equality before the law."
The Convention, having unanimously nominated for President John C. Fremont, a Committee, appointed for the purpose, tendered to the acceptance of the General the nomination he had obtained, and in doing so said,-
"The Convention represented that great mass of the nation which holds, in practice as well as in theory, to the fundamental doctrine of its founders,-that all men have the inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; and that slavery and caste are incompatible with its enjoyment, and ought not to be suffered to exist."
General Fremont in his letter of acceptance, says:-
"The object of the war is to make permanently secure the peace and happiness of the whole country, and there was but a single element in the way of its attainment. This element of slavery may be considered practically destroyed in the country, and it needs only your proposed amendment of the Constitution to make its extinction complete. Here, then, we have a political party, which, whatever be its strength, is pledged to exert its power for the complete and universal extinction of slavery and caste throughout the United States. The man it has nominated declares that the principle above set forth.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
as, in part, the basis of its platform, has his “unqualified and cordial approbation.”
We now proceed to notice the National Union Convention, which met in Baltimore, on the 7th instant. We question whether at any Convention ever held by the American Anti-Slavery Society, or its auxiliaries, abolition sentiments of a more radical nature have been uttered. Certainly, none have been more enthusiastically applauded, or more unanimously adopted on referring to the proceedings, (a summary of which we have given else where,) it will be seen that slavery was the exciting and absorbing topic in the Convention, and that the extinction of slavery was the object and desire of all present whether delegates or spectators.
Governor MORGAN, on calling the Convention to order, declared his conviction that the delegates would fall short of the accomplishment of their great mission, unless they resolved that, by an Amendment of the Constitution, slavery should be positively prohibited throughout the United States.
The venerable Dr. R. I.  BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky, while acting as temporary president of the Convention, declared himself in favor of the employment of the whole power of the government, both of war and of peace, together with all the practical power of the people, for the utter extermination of slavery.
The Rev. Mr. RYLEY, a clergyman appointed to offer prayer in behalf of the Convention, presented to the supreme Being an earnest supplication or the overthrow of slavery.
Governor DENNSION, on assuming the chair as President of the Convention, reminded the delegates present, that the loyal people of the country authorized and expected them to declare, that slavery was at once the cause and the support of the rebellion; that it was treasonable; that it was incompatible with the rights of humanity; and, therefore, must be made to cease forever in all the States and Territories of the Union.
These sentiments, which called forth the approving acclamations both of the delegates and of the immense audience of spectators, were embodied in the third Resolution of the series which constitued the platform of the party. That resolution declares slavery to be the source and strength of the rebellion; hostile to the principles of Republicanism; and that justice and the national safety demand its complete extirpation, by means of an Amendment of the Constitution which shall terminate, and forever prohibit, slavery within the limits or jurisdiction of the United States.
The Resolutions of the Convention were presented to Mr. Lincoln by a committee as the platform on which he had been unanimously nominated for reelection. The President, while he declined to declare himself upon the platform, as a whole, without previous consideration, unhesitatingly avowed his opinion on the resolution relating to slavery, and said,—
“I APPROVE the declaration in favor of so amending the Constitution as to prohibit slavery throughout the nation. Such an amendment would be a fitting and necessary conclusion to the success of the Union cause, and would meet and cover all cavils.”
“In the joint names of UNION and LIBERTY let us labor to give it LEGAL FORM, and PRACTICAL EFFECT.”
Thus, from two political parties—and one of them the great national Union party of the nation—the word has gone for the “Let slavery be utterly abolished, and forever prohibited within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States.” The word so spoken can not be revoked. The wise, the good, the loyal, the patriotic throughout the land, have already said, “Amen” to the righteous decree. This is progress indeed! It is more than progress, it is moral revolution. It is, besides, the prelude and the promise of yet better things to come, when the stronghold of inquiry shall have been laid low.- It does not call for the exercise of any high degree of faith to believe, that a people, who within so short a time have been brought to desire and demand the sweeping away of slavery as a pestilential abomination from the face of the country, will be brought to perceive, also, the expediency, the duty and the necessity of complementing the good work of abolition, by conferring upon those made personally free, the civil rights secured to other classes of the community; in other words, and in the language of the Cleveland resolution, will give to the freedmen “absolute equality before the law.” The same people, we believe, may be brought to ‘demand to reconstruction of States as speedily as possible, on the basis of every loyal man, white or black, staring the land and the ballot.” The presidential campaign which has already opened, and which will be continued through the next five months, will afford of the opportunity of discussing before the people these, and all other question relating to the rights and future states of that injured race, whose fortunes, for better for worse, are inseparably linked with the destinies of the nation. According to their treatment of that race will the American people be judged both by mankind and God. Not only must the bands of wickedness be loosed, and every yoke be broken, but the poor that have been cast out must be brought into the house. The negro must be invested with the rights belonging to his manhood, and acknowledged before the world a citizen of the United States.—G. T.

WHAT SORT OF A MAN ANDY JOHNSON IS.
If any one has any doubt on this subject, says the Boston Journal, in view of the responsible position to which Mr. Johnson is evidently destined, he has but to turn to any part of the noble Tennesseean’s record since the outbreak of the rebellion. In his famous reply to Senator Lane of Oregon, in the first debates on the subject, when asked what he would do were he the President of the United States, he said:
“The distinguished Senator from Oregon asks me what I would do with the rebels, were I President of the United States? I would have them arrested, I read <illegible> have them tried, and if found guilty, by the ETERNAL GOD I would have them EXECUTED.”
This was no hasty ebullition of feeling, but the language of deliberation, as is shown by the unvarying course of Mr. Johnson ever since. During the last spring the addressed his old neighbors of East Tennessee in a speech from which we take the following extracts:
“The time has arrived when treason must be made odious, when traitors must be punished—impoverished; their property taken from them, whether it be their horses, their land or their negroes, and given to the innocent, the honest, the loyal, upon whom the calamities of this unprovoked and wicked rebellion have fallen with such crushing weight.
What has brought this war upon us! Let me answer in one work, let me speak it so loud that the deafest man in this multitude can hear me—slavery! (Hundreds of voices: 'That's so, that's a God's truth.) Men talk about the Constitution and State rights. They sneer at the Emancipation Proclamation, and call it a tyrannical assumption of authority, a despotic <illegible> of power. Listen to what I now say: all such talk is the language of treason.
 Sometimes the clouds appear dark and lowering—sometimes I confess to a feeling of gloom; but when I remember that there is a 
God, I am encouraged. Though not as religious as I ought to be, I sometimes walk by faith, and I have found it a convenient way of walking when it is too dark to see. And on the whole, though our suffering has been great, our blessedness will be all the greater when the day of our triumph shall come!” 
NEW MUSIC. We have received from the publishers, Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston, the following pieces of new music:—
Chanson a boire, (Drinking Song) pour piano, par J. Leybach.
La Danza d’ Amore, (The Dance of Love) music by Lucantoni.
Cousin et Cousine, (The Cousins) Schottisch <illigible>, par Jules Egghard.
Slumber Song, music by Kucken, words by George Lisley. 
Slumber Song, music by W. Taubert.
The New York papers reckon the arrival of 250,000 emigrants at that port this year.
<c02>
WASHINGTON WILKS, ESQ. 
During the last three years, the cause of Union and Emancipation has had no more able advocate in England, either as a speaker or a journalist, than the gentleman whose name we have placed above. Mr. Wilks is the principal writer of the editorial articles which appear in the London Star, and the author we believe without exception, of those that have discussed American affairs since the breaking out of the war. A collection of these articles would prove that no English journalist more completely understands the great issues involved in the present contest between the North and the South, or more entirely sympathizes with the objects which the North is seeking to accomplish through the restoration of the States to their original integrity. Outside the walls of the British Parliament there is no more accomplished popular platform orator than Washington Wilks. Of all the public speakers we have ever known he is the most ready, Do many occasions we have seen him called upon to address large audiences when we knew he could have had no opportunity for preparation; yet he was invariably effective, and never in any instance failed to throw additional right upon the subjects under consideration at the time. We have again and again listened to him while he has been discoursing on the American ican question in its various aspects, and have not been more surprised by the extent of his knowledge, than delighted by his eloquence, and the enthusiasm he displayed while vindicating the American people, and the institutions they are striving to preserve and perpetuate. 
We have now before us a copy of the Alliance News containing a report of a magnificent oration delivered by Mr. Wilks in the presence of an immense crowd assembled in the Free Trade Hall, Manchester, on the 23d ultimo, in support of a Legislative measure for the suppression of the sale of intoxicating drinks. The speaker had been preceded by an American gentleman, (the Hon. S. L. Carleton,) connected with a body in this country known by the name of the.” Sons of Temperance.” This circumstance will account for the following beautiful sentences in the opening of the eloquent gentleman's address.
Washington Wilks. Esq., was called on to move the second resolution. He said: Before I read the motion committed to me, allow me to offer for myself, and I am sure it will be for you all, a few words of response to the truly fraternal address we have just heard. Our friend says he is not exactly an Englishman. I can reply, I am not exactly an American (hear); but there is so little difference, except that of birthplace, between the Englishman and the American, that I count him a most stupid observer of human nature who does not recognize our unity—(hear.) and I count him the worst foe of human interests who would put enmity between them and us. (Cheers.) Always, and at all times the American is to me, whatever his race or color, whatever the State from which he may happen to come, something more than a man or a friend—most truly, in all that is most essential to humanity, a brother—(Cheers); one with us in all that we most cherish, in all that we most boast of and most love; one with us in the glorious heritage our fathers have bequeathed to us; one with us in all the struggles of this present time; and one with us in all the hopes of a better future. (Applause.) And now that we see a dark cloud resting on their vast and fair land; now that the tempest of hail, of iron, and of fire beats upon their soil—now that the plague of the sword ravages their people, and the Angel of the Lord chastens them for their past sins, and goads them into a noble career, shall we not say to every American whom we may meet, “Friend and brother, God be with you in this fiery trial, and cause the flag of your republic to shine forth more glorious and beautiful than ever—the symbol of freedom, of unity, and of blessings for the human race!” (Loud cheers.) 
The fact that sentiments like these have awakened applauding echoes in meetings, attended by hundreds of thousands of the British people, may serve to show that, whatever the feelings of the aristocratic, commercial and monied circles of society are, the great middle and industrial classes are just and kind towards the people of this country.—G. T. 
RUSSIA AND THE EMANCIPATION OF THE SERFS. 
On Tuesday evening, the 7th instant, the officers of the Russian fleet were entertained at a magnificent banquet given by the citizens of Boston at the Revere House. In the course of the speeches that were delivered on the occasion, there were frequent references to the noble act of the Emperor of Russia—the emancipation of the serfs. 
Mayor LINCOLN, who presided over the festivities, said:—
“Diverse in their political organizations and their forms of government, Russia and the United States are both progressive nations, fostering, as time goes on, liberal sentiments, and each promoting by rational means the elevation of the great mass of the people. There is a contrast and also a remarkable coincidence, in their history during the last three years. While one, by the will of its sovereign, and the approval of the most enlightened of his people, has peacefully emancipated and given freedom to twenty-two millions of its subjects, (applause) the other, although it knew it not at its commencement, has been engaged in a struggle which will accomplish, we trust, the same results for its own inhabitants held in bondage. 
The present Emperor may have inherited titles and honors from his predecessors; but no act will render his name so famous in history, or cause his reign to be regarded with more grateful emotions by posterity, than his proclamation of freedom to the serfs in his dominions. It will give him a title more illustrious than any of his predecessors, that of “the Liberator of his people.” (Great applause.) 
Admiral LESSOFFSKY, (the commander of the fleet) in responding to the health of the Emperor and Empress of Russia, said:—
“The intelligence will be heard by you with feelings of pleasure, that since emancipation has been proclaimed by His Majesty, the Emperor, not less than four thousand schools have been established by the people themselves. (Applause.) These serfs, who I regret to say were a short time ago but little more than beasts of burden, have made, of themselves, without support of the government, four thousand schools.” (Applause.) 
The Hon. EDWARD EVERETT said:— 
“Sir, the Emperor Alexander II. is not only a wise and prudent, but he is A kind-hearted and benevolent prince. By his autocratic word he has performed the most magnificent act of practical philanthropy philanthropy ever acheived by man or government. * * * * That he will do all in his power to improve the condition and promote the welfare of his Polish subjects, may, I think, safely be anticipated of a sovereign who, by the word of his mouth, and from the impulses of a generous heart, has spoken twenty two millions of serfs into freemen and citizens.”
The Hon. ROBERT C. WINTHROP said:— 
“The Emperor's late noble act of emancipation at home, and his kind and generous words conveyed in the dispatch of Prince Gortschakoff to our own government, have struck a sympathetic and responsive chord in every American heart, as directly and as effectively as if those magnetic wires which are even now in preparation had already been stretched across the Siberian desert, had already been strung along the banks of the Amoor, had already vibrated over Behring’s Straits, and as if the living spark had leaped at a bound from the palace of the Czar to the hearts of the American people.” 
In responding to the toast, “the health of the Grand Duke Constantine,” the General Admiral of the Russian Navy,” Lieut. LUTKE said:—
“I thank you in the name of my Chief for the honor you have done him whose name is proposed Having been in close intercourse with the Grand Duke, I know his ideas of the American nation. I know him to have been one of the few princes of imperial blood who have been excellent members of the government That Prince has been in the great act of the Emperor the most active member—the man who supported him the most in the idea of emancipating his serfs (applause)—the man who has been President of the Committee who worked out the question of emancipation.”
How true is the promise! “Loose the bands of wickedness: Undo the heavy burdens: Let the oppressed go free: Break every yoke. Then shall thy light break forth as the morning; and thine health shall; spring forth speedily; thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward.”
The latest developments in Congress seem unfavorable to the establishment of a Freedman’s Bureau at Washington, and also to such an amendment of the Constitution as shall prohibit slavery throughout the United States. 
<c03>
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I shall be obliged if you will allow me the space which may be necessary in your columns, to bring under the notice of your readers, in this country and Great Britain, a few facts of recent occurrence, calculated to show the position now occupied by the religious bodies of America, in relation to slavery and the colored population generally. 
Let me first refer to the action of the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, during its late sitting in the city of Philadelphia.
The Committee on Slavery, appointed by the Conference, made a report, of which the following is the essential part:—
“Loyalty to the Government leads us to accept emancipation whenever and wherever the President proclaims it, or the States decree it; and devotion to truth and to God impels us to bring the controversy to an end in the Church, by adopting a Rule which casuistry cannot distort into a licence for slavery.”
With a view to the accomplishment of this end, the Committee recommend to the adoption of the Conference, and of the body at large, such an amendment of the General Rule on Slavery as will have the effect of excluding from membership all persons guilty of.”
“SLAVEHOLDING, BUYING OR SELLING SLAVES.”
The yeas and nays were taken on the adoption of this Report amid the breathless attention of the multitude present on the occasion, and the motion was carried by the votes of 190 to 8. The Bishops were instructed to submit the Resolution of the General Conference to the Annual Conferences at their next sessions, and when the requisite number of votes are obtained, they will be reported to the Book Agents, who are directed to insert the new Rule into all subsequent editions of the Society's Discipline. Thus, in the language of a member of the Conference, the largest religious body in the country “will be cleansed from the pollution of slavery, and an effective blow struck at the rebellion and those who sympathize with it.”
The General Conference of the African Episcopal Church being also in session in Philadelphia, the Conference of the white clergy sent a deputation to heir colored ministerial brethren, with fraternal greetings, inviting a like deputation in return. A correspondent of the Independent, writing on the 13th May, says—
“To-day, the colored deputation was formally received and greeted by the white men. Five rather fine looking black men walked up the broad aisle of the church, led by a Committee of the Conference, and were successively introduced to Bishop Morris, who in turn introduced them to the Conference, all standing upon their feet. Next came the addresses of the deputation, which it is no undue praise to say were models of their kind. The Conference at first heard them with dignified respect, then with admiration, and at length with enthusiasm, cheering them to the echo. I am not among those (if there are any such) who esteem the negro a specimen of humanity a little in advance of all others, but I am free to say that I have seldom or never witnessed a like scene, in which all the seakers displayed more good sense and correct taste than did those three colored men who addressed the Conference. For the time, they were masters of the situation; and men not accustomed to praise the black man's intellect confessed the excellent character of these addresses, and the unexceptionable bearing of the men. Surely, the world moves, and the Methodist Church may congratulate itself in view of the honor it has achieved in this affair.”
Let me now notice the action of the Old School Presbyterian General Assembly, which was held in the city of Newark, N. J. On the 24th of May, Judge Matthews, from the Committee on Overtures, presented an able Report on the subject of Slavery, “the reading of which produced a profound sensation.” It concluded with the following words:—
“It is our judgment that the recent events in our history, and the present condition of our church and country, furnish manifest tokens that the time has at length come, in the providence of God, when it is his will that every vestige of human slavery among us should be effaced, and that every Christian man should address himself with industry and earnestness to his appropriate part it the performance of this great duty.”
“In view, therefore, of its former testimonies upon the subject, the General Assembly does hereby devoutly express its gratitude to Almighty God for the great deliverance he has prepared for our country from the evil and guilt of slavery; its cordial approbation of the measures taken by the National and state authorities for its extirpation, as the root of bitterness from which has sprung rebellion, war and bloodshed, and the long list of horrors that follow in their train; its earnest belief that the thorough removal of this prolific source of evil and harm will be speedily followed by the blessings of our Heavenly Father, the return of peace, union and fraternity, and abounding prosperity to the whole land; and recommend to all in our communion to labor honestly, earnestly and unweariedly in their respective spheres for this glorious consummation, to which human justice, Christian love, national peace and prosperity, every earthly and every religious interest combine to pledge them.”
The New School Presbyterian General Assembly, which sat at the same time at Dayton, Ohio, passed strong resolutions on the subject of slavery. I regret I am not at present able to supply these.
During the sitting of the Assembly, Dr. THOMPSON and Dr. BRAINERD of New York, and Dr. BUDINGTON of Brooklyn,—who had just returned from visiting the army of the Cumberland, where they had been brought into direct contact with the rank and file,—bore their testimony to the clear apprehension entertained by the soldiers of the great questions at issue in the war, and of their growing hatred of the accursed system which had brought upon the nation the horrors of a sanginary civil conflict. The reverend gentlemen enforced the duties which would devolve upon the clergy and people of the North, when the slaves and poor whites of the South should be delivered from the despotic rule of those who had been their tyrants and oppressors. The North would have to engage zealously in the work of sending the gospel to these neglected portions of the population, and of fitting them for the discharge of their functions as members of the great commonwealth. 
At the invitation of the Assembly, Dr. Thomas, of the Old school Presbyterian Church in Dayton, made a speech, in which he referred to the slowness of the people to learn the lessons which God in his providence had been teaching the nation. Thirty-five years before, the Synod of Cincinnati had pasted resolutions on the subject of slavery as strong as those which would be passed by the Assembly at their present sitting. But the people could not then understand what it was the Lord would have them do. They could not see that lying and hypocrisy were bad things. The eyes of the nation had been opened, from the President down to the lowest citizen. The bayonet had been the rough instrument employed for the purpose. There was yet much prejudice against the colored skin, and this must be overcome, for black and white were alike the sheep of the Great Shepherd. 
And all this took place in the town which was the home of the arch-traitor Vallandigham,—where, thirty years before, the life of a minister was threatened for daring to speak on the subject of slavery in the lecture-room attached to the church in which the Assembly was then sitting. Some of the gentlemen of the town—the supporters of Vallandigham, intended to remove to Canada, under the impression that when the Ohio soldiers returned from the war, it would not be comfortable for them to remain in the same town.-
On the 12th of May, I had the pleasure to attend, by invitation, the Annual meeting of the American Congregational Union, held in Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, at which speeches were made (amongst other eminent clergy men) by Dr. Leonard Bacon, of New. Haven, and Dr. Kirk of Boston. 
Dr. Bacon in the course of his address said, that the condition of the country had rendered it necessary; that such a war as that which is now raging should take place; and then proceeded as follows:—
“It must needs have been. For, by this prolongation of the conflict, God has been educating the nation to the full recognition of the unity of the human race; he has been educating the nation to the fall recognition of the principles on which our institutions of government are founded; he has been educating the nation, withal, to a righteous abhorrence of that type and style of Christianity which undertook to make the Gospel sanction the vilest forms of oppression. We had a Christianity in this country, dominant in some parts of it, which made Christ the minister of sin we
<c04>
had Christian ministers writing books and essays and dissertations to show that Christianity was better than infidelity, because it required a positive revelation against the natural instincts and the natural conscience of mankind to justify slavery. That while infidelity could not justify slavery, Christianity could, was a regular piece of instruction in the churches of the Southern States—and not in the churches of one 
denomination only, but in the churches of all denominations that were found there. It was Presbyterian a orthodoxy; and at the time of the schism, the question, in the South, between the Old School and the New School, was a question as to which of the two was the most loyal to the grand institution of slavery. And not only the Presbyterian churches, but the Episcopal churches, the Methodist churches, the Baptist churches, and all other sects or denominations that existed in the South, existed there on condition of their swearing allegiance to slavery, and proving by holy texts of Scripture that God had created the accursed race of Ham to be the slaves of the white men, and expressing devout thankfulness to God for his benevolence in creating negroes for white men's convenience! Now, when God had permitted this war to begin, was it possible for it to end, think you, till such time as the entire nation should have been educated into an intense and everlasting abhorrence of that kind of Christianity.”
Dr. Kirk said, that in addition to the terrible conflict which was saturating the soil of America with blood:
“There is a great moral battle going on. And let every man, woman, and child, in the presence of their God, and in the light of a coming eternity, take their stand, and say where they mean to be found. You cannot remain neutral. The principles at war are too profound, too vast, too vital, to admit of that. Every person in this country must say whether he is an aristocrat or a democrat—a democrat, I mean, in the Bible sense of the term. We are coming to have a new democratic party—a democratic party that believes in man and in manhood: not a democratic party that believes in using power to crush the weak; not a democratic party that loves to put the negro, or any other human being, underfoot; but a democratic party that believes in educating and elevating a man, and then clothing him with all the rights that God has given him, and making a society of free men, and not a society of whom a part shall be oppressors and a part shall be slaves.”
“In another part of his speech the reverend gentleman said:—
A word, now, on a point that Mr. Thompson alluded to. It is one full of solemn responsibility. The battle we are fighting in the field is but a plow share. The sowing-time is to come. There will be on the hands of this people a vast work of reconstruction. My earnest entreaty is that enlightened men will disseminate right principles on the whole subject all over the land. Let us, in prayer, weigh the question of what we shall do with the negro, and ask intelligent men to go through the length and breadth of the country, and tell the people about it. And, in closing, let me say, the negro must vote; a political career must he opened to the negro; and then America will rise to her true place among the nations of the earth.”
I will conclude with a quotation from the Message of his Excellency, Governor Wm. A. Buckingham, to the Legislature of Connecticut, May 4th; a message, which, for the nobleness of its sentiments, deserves the highest admiration.
“Slavery is not dead. Its life is in the custody of its friends, and while it shall so remain there will be no peace.
The events of the past, urge us to adopt some measure which shall temmate in favor of freedom that controversy which must ever exist so long as a part of the nation remains free and a part enslaved. 
This duty is pressed upon our consideration under circumstances which admonish us that it cannot be neglected without danger; and that it can now be performed without violating any vested rights, in the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution, according to the provisions of that instrument, which will secure to the National Government supreme control over the whole subject of slavery.
We know not the design of God with reference to the future of our nation; but when we look at the position of gathered armies of American citizens who, while we are in the midst of our deliberations, may be contending in death-struggles for the preservation or the dissolution of the American Union; and when we call to mind the principles of equity and righteousness which lie at the foundation of his government, and the order with which it is administered; we may believe that he is now giving us a rare opportunity of enforcing the claims of law and order by conquering a peace, and a favorable occasion to establish justice and form a more perfect union.
Let us embrace this opportunity and perform these duties with humble confidence that, under the guidance of the King of kings, this revolution will carry the nation onward in the path of prosperity, intelligence, and influence, and upward to a higher level of freedom, civilization, and Christianity, where every citizen, whether high or low, rich or poor, learned or ignorant, of whatever tribe, or race, or nation, shall be protected in all the inalienable rights which God has given him, under our national emblem of liberty, union, and power.”
The events I have recorded will, I think, be regarded by the friends of the slave as encouraging “Signs of the Times.” GEORGE THOMPSON.
Boston, June 13, 1864.
REPEAL OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
Thanks to the persevering earnestness of a few noble and earnest men in the present Congress, we seem to have arrived at the day and hour when the Fugitive Slave Law is to die. The action of the Senate on its repeal, several weeks since, was favorable; yet the Senate refused to touch the old law of 1798. On Monday last, the question came to a vote” in the House of Representatives, with the following result;—but let us first give the House bill, as voted on, and it will be seen that two sections of the law of 1793 are included, and that the repeal of those sections and of the execrated law of 1850 was carried, by 82 yeas to 58 nays,—a majority of 24 for the bill:—
“Be it enacted, &c, That sections 3 and 4 of an act entitled ‘An Act respecting fugitives from justice and persons escaping from the service of their masters, ’passed February 12, 1793, and an act entitled ‘An Act to amend and supplementary to the act entitled “An act respecting fugitives from justice and persons escaping from the service of their masters,” passed September 18, 1850, be, and the same are here be repealed.”
The vote was as follows, as we find it recorded in the daily papers,—Democrats being in italics: 
Yeas—Messrs. Alley, Allison, Ames, Ashley, Baldwin, (Mass.,) Baxter, Beaman, Blaine, Blair (W. Va.,) Blow, Boutwell, Boyd, Brandegee, Ambrose W. Clark, Freeman Clarke, Cobb, Cole, Creswell, Davis (Md.,) Davis (N. Y.,) Dawes, Dixon, Donnelly, Driggs, Eckley, Eliot, Farnsworth, Frank, Garfield, Gooch, Griswold, Higby, Hooper, Hotchkiss, Hubbard (Iowa,) Hubbard, (Ct.,) Hulburd, Ingersoll, Jenckes, Julian, Kelley, Kellogg (Mich.,) Littlejohn, Loan, Longyear, Marvin, McClurg, Mclndoe, Miller (N. Y.,) Moorhead, Morrill, Morris (N. Y.,) Amos Myers, Leonard Myers, Morton, O'Neill (Pa.,) Orth, Patterson, Perham, Pike, Price, Rice (Mass.,) Rice (Me.,) Schenck, Schofleld, Shannon, Sloan, Spaulding, Starr, Stevens, Thayer, Thomas, Tracy, Upson, Van Valkenburgh, Webster, Whaley, Williams, Wilder, Wilson, Windom, and Wood bridge—82. 
Nays—Messrs. J. C. Allen, W. J. Allen, Baldwin (Mich.,) Bliss, Brooks, Brown (Wit.,) Chandler, Cofforth, Cox, Cravens, Damson, Dennison, Eden, Eldridge, Edgarton, English, Finck, Ganson, Grider, Harding, Harrington, Harris (Ill.,) Herrick, Holman, Hutchins, Kalbfleisch, Keenan, King, Knapp, Law, Lazear, Le Blond, Mallory, Marcy, McDowell, McKinney, Miller (Pa.,) Morris (Ohio,) Morrison, Odell, O'Neill (Ohio,) Pendleton, Pruyn, Radford, Robinson, Rollins (Mo,) Ross, Smithers, Steels (N.J.,) Stiles, Strouse, Stuart, Sweat, Wadsworth, Ward, Wheeler, Chilton A. White, Joseph W. White, Fernando Wood—58.
What shall be said of the fact that, at this day, after more than three years of war levied by Slavery, with the purpose to subvert and destroy our government and country, fifty-eight representatives of the people can be found to vote against the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law? Those men, it will be seen, with a single exception, call themselves Democrats; and we may infer what the country is to expect from that party, if it should ever be suffered to obtain ascendancy again, under its present leaders, or others of the same infamous stamp. It will be observed that not one solitary Democrat, so called, voted for the repeal!
But the party, and character, and object of the vote it manifest enough. In view of the near approach of the Chicago Nominating Convention, it would never do to suffer the party ranks to wear a divided appearance; and hence the cheerful readiness with which these fifty-eight knaves or tools—for under the one character or the other is every one of that base group to be reckoned—come up to the black work demanded of them. Heaven send them defeat and life-long ignominy; to be abhorred, distrusted, and rejected by the county, as they now are by all honest men.
<c05>
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW REPEALED.
The House of Representatives, Monday, passed the bill repealing the fugitive slave law by a vote of eighty-two to fifty-eight. The bill had already passed the Senate, and now only awaits the signature of the President to become effectual. Viewed in all its aspects the fugitive slave law was probably the worst law ever enacted by the American Congress. There is no light in which it can be made to appear justifiable. It was an act of unmingled baseness and cruelty. It assailed the conscience and insulted the pride of half the people in the country, who protested, but were compelled to submit to the humiliation. This was one of many causes, which quickened the public sentiment of the free States to a sense of the atrocity of slavery, and aided in concentrating and organizing it into a formidable, and ultimately triumphant political form. The repeal of the law marks an important step in the progress of legislation upon the subject of slavery. It anticipates but a little the passage of that crowning act of justice and national union, by which slavery will be made impossible under the federal constitution.—Worcester spy.
A PUZZLE IN PHILOSOPHY.
It is reported from New Orleans that General Banks, relieved of military command by General Canby, is to be military governor of Louisiana. It is only two or three months since General Banks caused Michael Hahn to be installed civil governor, amid the roar of cannon and the playing of Hail Columbia. Does Banks now mean to take away from Hahn what he gave him then? or is Hahn expected to give back his power into the hands whence he received it? or can there be civil and military governors, both in authority at the same time? and if so, which is the higher power? and what about the election held by General Banks, in which Governor Hahn was chosen?
If that election was genuine, and the work of the people, then General Banks would commit an outrage upon them by accepting the post of military governor; if it was a sham, then General Banks, who was its author, is certainly not a tit man to send as military governor, a position in which sound judgment, and sober, mature statesmanship are required. 
Meantime, the question remains, which is the true Dromio in this new Comedy of Errors—which is the Governor of Louisiana—Governor Hahn, or Governor Banks? The unlucky people of New Orleans owe, it would seem, a divided duty; unlike the personages in Shakspeare’s play, who were puzzled by the likeness of two servants, these Louisianians find themselves unable to distinguish master from man, and know not whether Dromio is Antipholus or Antipolus Dromio. N. Y. Evening Post.

MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.

Receipts into the Treasury, from Jan. 1 to June 1, 1864. 
1864. 
Jan. 1
Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge, $100 00
Jan 1 wendell Phillips, donation, 130 00
Jan 1 Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam, Salem, to re-
deem pledge, 5 00 
Jan 1 Collection at Old Colony Anti-Slavery 
Society, Plymouth, 3 50 
Jan 1 Wey mouth Female Anti-Slavery So-
ciety, on account of pledge, 20 00
Jan 1 E. R. Place, Boston, to redeem
pledge, 1 00 
Jan 1 Mrs. M. M. Brooks, Concord, Mass., 20 00 
Jan 1 George J. Adams, Providence, for two
pledges, 10 00 
M’ch 1. R. W. Henshaw, Boston, 10 00 
M’ch 1 Samuel May, Jr., to redeem pledge, 50 00
M’ch 1 W. P. Garrison, 2 00 
M’ch 1 24. Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester, 2 00
M’ch 1 Dr. J. Lewis, Waltham, 56 00
M’ch 1 Benj. Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 25 00 
M’ch 1 Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, 20 00 
May 4. Mrs. Mary May, Boston,.to redeem 
pledge, 50 00 
May 31 For collections and donations at the 
New England A. S. Convention. 408 89 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, June 1, 1864.
DONATIONS 
At New England A. S. Convention, May, 1864.
W. W. Dutcher, Hopedale, $25 00 
Mrs. M. A. Dutcher, Hopedale 25 00 
Benj. Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 25 00 
J. M. Aldrich, Fall River, 20 00 
Martha Smith, Plainfleld, Ct, 20 00 
David L. and L. Maria Child, 20 00 
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester, 10 00 George Thompson, Esq., 5 00 
Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I, 5 00 
William Ashby, Newburyport, 5 00
Perley King, Danvers, 5 00 
Ab’m Folsom, Boston 5 00 
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 5 00 
S. R. Urbino, Boston, 3 00 
M. H Pool. Abington, 8 00 
Robert R. Crosby, Boston, 2 00 
A. B. Francis, 2 00 
C. C. McLauthlin, 2 00
Friend, 2 00 
A. P. Putnam, 1 00 
J. P. Harriman, Illinois, 1 00 
Susan Anthony, 1 00 
“To help kill Slavery,” 1 00 
H. Damon, 1 00
PLEDGES 
At New England A. S. Convention, May, 1864. 
E. D. and Anna T. Draper, Hopedale, $100 00 
Wendell Phillips, 100 00 
Mary May, 50 00 
Jane Wendte, 25 00 
Clark Greenman, Mystic, Ct. 20 00
Edmonia Lewis, 5 00 
Harriette M. Carlton, 5 00 
G. Julian Harney, 2 00 
A. M. McPhail, Jr., 2 00 
Noah Shaw, 2 00 
George W. Stacy, 1 00 
Charles C. Sawyer, 1 00 
Maria B. Clapp, 1 00

COLLECTIONS

By Finance Committee of New England A. S. Convention, May, 1864; for expenses of same.
Perley King 1 00 Hannah S. A, 1 00
Mr. White 1 00 Z. H. Spooner 1 00
Josiah Hay ward 1 00 S. G. Gilmore 0 50
A. Stanwood 1 00 Rodney Moore 1 00
S. May, Jr., 1 00 B. J. B. 0 25
Joseph Willard, Jr., 1 00 John V. 1 00
Ira Adams 1 00 Wm. Boynton 1 00
Ellis Allen 1 00 Earl Boynton 1 00
E. J. Smith 0 50 Joseph Merrill 1 00
Wm. Sparrell 1 00 John Howe 1 00
Calvin Putnam 1 00 Susan Anthony 0 50
E. and H. M. 5 00 H. W. Anthony 0 50
M. M. R. 0 50 Miss Day 2 00
S. Barrington 1 00 Mary C. Sawyer 2 00
Mary May 2 00 Phebe A. Cartland 1 00
Sarah R. May 1 00 E. H. Merrill 1 00
S. H. Cowing 1 00 A. B. Morey 1 00
Eliz. B. Chase 1 00 Two friends, 2 00
J. Buffum 1 00 Mr. Willis 1 00
Edwin Thompson 2 00 P. C Wheeler 1.00
James Hutchinson,Jr. 1 00 John Whiting 1.00
J. T. Sargent 1.00 Joshua Coolidge 1.00
S. R. Calthrop, 1 00 A. M. Chase 1 00
Abby Hutchinson 1 00 Mrs. C. Bannister 1 00
Edmund Quincy 10 00 J.T.Everett 1.00
E. D. Draper 1 00 A. B. R. 1 00
Parker Pillsbury 1.00 A. A. Gifford 1.00
Caroline R. Putnam 1 00 S. Turner 1 00
Edmund Q. Putnam 1 00 Henrietta Sargent 1 00
Elijah Hobart 1.00 Melzar Sprague 1.00
Lucinda L. Jameson 1 00 Sarah Jane Easton 0 20
Sarah J. Nowell 1 00 A. G Morton 1 00
Sarah W. Magill 0 50 W. M. Tyler 1 00
Abby A. Bennett 1 00 N. Page, Jr 1 00
Rebecca Howland 1 00 Mrs. A. W. Clapp 1 00
M. B. Richards 1.60 L. H. Bowker 1.00
A. B. 0 50 Geo. Adams 1 00
M. H. Pool 1 00 Mrs. Bacon 0 30
Jacob Leonard 1 00 Geo Fred. Sumner 1 00
H. Damon 1 00 S. Dodge 1 00
Geo. C. Pratt 1 00 S. A. Tarr 0 50
John Starratt 1 00 A. F. Young 0 50
B. W. Gage 2 00 R. C. Waterston 1 00
Edmund Jackson 1 00 J. Waters 0 50
J. Butterfield 1 00 S. N. Breed 1 00
—Sanger 1 00 Jos. Kingman 1 00
John B. Bailey 0 60 L. W. Reed 0 50
Simon Mears 1 00 Susan B. Mason 0 50
Ab’m Folsom 1 00 L. B. P. 1 00
C. Robinson 1 00 Maria S. Page 1 00
C. Johnson, Jr. 0 50 Edw’d B. Perkins 1 00
F. G. Hartshorn 1.00 A. Allen 0 50
Lewis Ford 1.00 F. H. Henshaw 1.00
Two friends 1.00 B. F. Hutchinson 1.00
Elizabeth Jones 1.00 A. Fairbanks 1.00
F. S. Cabot 1 00 Jehle Claflin 1 00
M. H. Prince 1 00 C. K. Whipple 1 00
A. E. Foster 1 00 Abner S. Taylor 1 00
M. W. Chapman 1 00 Mrs. John Francis 1 00
Caroline Weston 1 00 E. D. Andrews 1 00
Susan H. Cowing 0 50 Moses Wilmarth 1 00
James F. Chase 0.20 M. Halliburton 1 00
Mary Willey O.050 M. Paine 1 00
A. K. Foster 0 50 Ada Whiton 1 00
E. & E. H. Richards 2 00 Amicus 1 00
Elbridge Sprague 1 00 Geo. W. Carnes 1 00
Mrs. Jackson 1 00 Hannah C. Holmes 1 00
Rebecca Bradford 1 00 Bourne Spooner 1 00
J. E. C. 0 10 Sarah J. Davee 1 00
H. M. Carlton 0 55 Nath’l B. Spooner 1 00
C. F. F. 1 00 J. B. Pierce 1 00
C. L. Barbadoes 0 25 E. H. Heywood 1 00
E. G. Lucas 1 00 W. L. Garrison 1 00
A. D. Manson 1 00 Cash, and “Friends,”
H. H. Brigham 1 00 in various sums, 43 45
<c06>
GROVE MEETING IN MICHIGAN.—The friends of reform will hold a meeting in G. K. Wilbor’s Grove, one mile south-west of the village of Farmington, Oakland Co., Michigan, on Saturday and Sunday, the 2d and 3d days of July next, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., each day.
H. C. WRIGHT of Boston, Mass., G. B. STEBBINS of Rochester, N. Y., and MOSES HULL of Battle Creeks, Mich., are expected to attend.
A general invitation is hereby given. Homes will be provided for strangers.
In behalf of the Committee,
NORTON LAPHAM,
A. L. POWER,
G. K. WILBOR,
and others.

NOTICE—The friends of Reform and Progress will hold a meeting in king’s Grove, near Burton Square, Geauga Co., O., commencing the last Saturday in June, and continuing through the following Sabbath.
We should be glade to see some of our radical reformers from the East on that occasion. R. H. OBER.

A. T. FOSs will speak In Harwich, on Sunday, 19th, and in the <illegible> during the week 
In North Dennis, on Sunday, 26th.
OBITUARY.
Died, in the city of New York, May 5, at the residence of his sons-in-law, (Dr. J. P. Mann and Mr. C. E. Adams,) Mr. ROBERT FURMAN, aged 67. His remains were carried to his late home for interment.
As one of the earliest, most consistent, and whole-hearted anti-slavery men that has lived among us, this notice in the Liberator may not be amiss. knowing him as I did, I do not believe that any anti-slavery truth was never presented to his mind a second time before it was heartily accepted.
He loved his church and the favor of his friends and neighbors, but he loved the cause of the oppressed more. The poorest fugitive was always received at his house with a welcome fir for a king or a conqueror.
He belonged to the old “Liberty Party” of Western New York when the voters might be counted on one's fingers. Not being a public speaker or writer, he was never conspicuous at anti-slavery meetings, but no truer friend of the slave ever lived and died in our ranks. Another characteristic very prominent was his business integrity. He would have gone hungry and cold rather than fail to meet any pecuniary obligation that he had incurred, whether bound legally or not.
Men who did not like the organized church very much have frequently said he was the only honest church-member they ever knew, and that he really some times “beat the golden rule.” Another one remarked when he died, that he “thought about the last of that kind of men had gone, and there was heaven in him.”
No one not knowing him intimately could understand the loving, forgiving spirit which always animated him. Even when greatly injured, and his confidence most cruelly betrayed, as it was in several  instances in his life, and his honest earnings wrested from him under the garb of friendship, he never indulged a bitter thought, but went on in his own honest way, giving a helping hand wherever he could to those who needed, and blessing all by his loving and gentle spirit.—Communicated.
Rev, SAMUEL J. MAY, in an interesting delineation of the character of Mr. Furman, published in a Syracuse paper, says:-
“Mr. Furman was a true philanthropist. He longed to see the human family delivered from ignorance, vice and misery. He hated tyranny and oppression of every kind, and was one of the earliest, most consistent and devoted anti-slavery and temperance men.
He was an ardent lover of his country. The impious attempt of the Southern aristocrats to take the life of our republic filled him with horror. The first call of our President for volunteers to protect the capital of the nation roused him, forgetful of his age and infirmities, to rush forward and enroll his name at the head of the list of patriots that were ready to offer their lives in the cause of Union and Liberty. The wish of his heart was, that he might live to see the overthrow of this rebellion, the entire subjugation of the wicked men who had instigated it, and the extirpation of slavery—the bitter root of all this evil—slavery, which has quenched the love of country in the bosoms of the Southern lords and their retainers, utterly depraved their morals, and made them capable of the blackest crimes, that have ever been perpetrated by man.
But the chief excellencies of Mr. Furman were conspicuous in private life. He was one of the most unselfish of men, single-hearted and manly. He despised all shams, and was incapable of doing anything merely for effect or applause. His hospitality was most generous; friends, acquaintances and strangers were cordially welcomed to his house. They could hardly come too often or stay too long.
But it is was his great delight to be in the bosom of his family. Never did an unkind word, scarcely an impatient one, escape him there. He ruled his household by love. His attachment to his children grew stronger to the last. often did he exclaim, ‘It seems as if no man was so rich as I am I have an unbounded store of wealth in the love my children show to me, and the love I feel for them!’ And he was permitted to have all his loved ones about him during his last distressed sickness.
Thus has departed another of the fathers of our city. May the sons emulate their virtues; not fall below them in any; if possible, excel them in every respect.”

Portrait of William Lloyd Garrison.
THE subscriber has in preparation a large and elegant lithographic Portrait of Mr. Garrison, from an original crayon drawing by Thomas M. Johnston, which he believes he is safe in asserting will be, in all respects, the most satisfactory portrait of this distinguished advocate of impartial freedom ever offered to the public.
Size of print 21 by 27 inches. Price $1.50 for India Proof copies, which will be sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of price.
A liberal discount to agents.
CHARLES H. BRAINARD.
May 20.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
May 20.

TWO VALUABLE PAMPHLETS.
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for the year ending May 1, 1861.
PROCEEDINGS of the American Anti-Slavery Society at its Third Decade, held in the city of Philadelphia, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863. With an Appendix; and a catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863.
Just published, and for sale at the Anti-Slavery Officer, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
Price, Fifty cents each pamphlet; for which a copy of either will be sent by mail, as may be directed.
May 20.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & co’s, new Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is not prepared to do all manner of 

JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro Hotel,. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & stowell’s Provision Stores, 132 Charles street, 
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—ly.

BOARDING.
MRS. R. A. SMITH would inform her friends and the public generally, that she has taken house No. 42, Grove Street, Boston; where Board, transient and permanent, may be obtained on reasonable terms. A shares of the public patronage is respectfully solicited.
Boston, May 7.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
100 THE LIBERATOR JUNE 17.
Poetry.
SHAKSPEARE. 
APRIL 23,1864.
BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. 
"Who claims our Shakespeare from that realm unknown,
Beyond the storm-vexed islands of the deep,
Where Genoa's deckless caravels were blown? 
Her twofold Saint’s-day let our England keep; 
Shall warring aliens share her holy task?"
The Old-World echoes ask. 
O land of shakspear! Ours with all thy past, 
Till these last years that make the sea so wide; 
Think not the jar of battle's trumpet-blast 
Has dulled our aching sense to joyous pride 
ln every noble word thy sons bequeathed
The air our fathers breathed!
War-wasted, haggard, panting from the strife, 
We turn to other days and far-off lands,
Live o'er in dreams the Poet’s faded life. 
Come with fresh lilies in our fevered hands
To wreathe his bust, and scatter purple flowers,— 
Not his the need, but ours!
We call those poets who are first to mark
Through earth's dull mist the coming of the dawn,— 
Who see in twilight's gloom the first pale spark, 
While others only note that day is gone; 
For him the Lord of light the curtain rent 
That veils the firmament. 
The greatest for its greatness is half known, 
Stretching beyond our narrow quadrant-lines,—
As in that world of Nature all outgrown 
Where Calaveras lifts his awful pines,
And cast from Mariposa's mountain wall 
Nevada’s cataracts fall. 
Yet heaven's remotest orb is partly ours,
Throbbing its radiance like a beating heart;
In the wide compass of angelic powers
The instinct of the blindworm has its part; 
So in God's kingliest creature we behold
The flower our buds infold.
With no vain praise we mock the stone-carved name 
Stamped once on dust that moved with pulse and breath,
As thinking to enlarge that amplest fame 
Whose undimmed glories gild the night of death; 
We praise not star or sun; in these we see 
Thee, Father, only Thee! 
Thy gifts are beauty, wisdom, power, and love; 
We read, we reverence on this human soul,— 
Earth's clearest mirror of the light above,— 
Plain as the record on Thy prophet's scroll, 
When o'er his page the effluent splendors poured, 
Thine own, "Thus saith the Lord!"
This player was a prophet from on high,
Thine own elected. Statesman, poet, sage, 
For him Thy sovereign pleasure passed them by,—
Sidney's fair youth, and Raleigh's ripened age,
Spenser's chaste soul, and his imperial mind 
Who taught and shamed mankind.
Therefore we bid our hearts’ Te Deum rise, 
Nor fear to make Thy worship less divine, 
And hear the shouted choral shake the skies, 
Counting all glory, power, and wisdom Thine,— 
For Thy great gift Thy greater name adore, 
And praise Thee evermore! 
In this dread hour of Nature's utmost need,
Thanks for these unstained drops of freshening dew!
Oh, while our martyrs fall, our heroes bleed,
Keep us to every sweet remembrance true,
Till from this blood-red sunset springs new-born
Our Nation’s second morn!

THREE SONNETS. 
FIRST SONNET. 
She has gone down! They shout it from afar, 
Kings, Nobles, Priests—all men of every race,
Whose lingering clogs Time's swift, relentless pace.
she has gone down! Our evil-boding star! 
Rebellion, smitten with Rebellion's sword, 
Anarchy, done to death by slavery— 
Of Ancient Right arrogant enemy, 
Beneath a hideous cloud of civil war—
Strife such as heathen slaughterers had abhorred. 
The lawless band, who would call no man lord,
Spurning all wholesome curb, and dreaming free 
Her rabble rule's licentious tyranny, 
In the fierce splendor of her insolent morn,
she has gone down, the world's eternal scorn! 

SECOND SONNET.
She has gone down! Woe for the world and all 
Its weary workers looking from afar 
To the clear rising of that hopeful star— 
Star of redemption to each weeping thrall 
Of Power decrepit, and of Rule outworn! 
Beautiful dawning of that blessed morn, 
Which was to bring leave for the poor to live, 
To work and eat, to labor and to thrive, 
And righteous room for all who nobly strive. 
She has gone down! Woe for the panting world,
Back on its path of progress sternly hurled! 
Land of sufficient harvests for all dearth,
Home of all highest hopes—Time's richest birth; 
Woe for the promised land of the whole earth! 

THIRD SONNET.
Triumph not, fools, and weep not, ye faint-hearted; 
Have ye believed that the divine decree
Of Heaven had given this people o'er to perish?
Have ye believed that God would cease to cherish
This great New World of Christian liberty? 
And that our light forever had departed?
Nay—by the precious blood shed to redeem 
The nation from its selfishness and sin, 
By each true heart that burst in holy strife, 
Leaving its kindred hearts to break through life; 
By all the tears that will not cease to stream 
Forever, every desolate home within, 
We will return to our appointed place,
First in the vanguard of the human race! 
FRANCES ANN KEMBLE. 
London, 1864. 
A LAYMAN'S CONFESSION OF FAITH.
BY THEODORE TILTON.
As other men have creeds, so I have mines
I keep the holy faith in God, in man, 
And in the angels ministrant between.
I hold the one true church of all true souls; 
Whose churchly zeal is neither bread nor wine, 
Nor laying on of hands, nor holy oil,
But only the anointing of God's grace. 
I hate all kings, and caste, and rank of birth; 
For all the sons of men are sons of God;
Nor limps a beggar but is nobly born;
Nor wears a slave a yoke, nor czar a crown,
That makes him less or more than just a man.
I love my country and her righteous cause; 
So dare not keep me silent of her sin;
And after Freedom, may her bells ring Peace! 
I love one woman with a holy fire, 
Whom I revere as priestess of my house; 
I stand with wondering awe before my babes, 
Till they rebuke me to a nobler life;
I keep a faithful friendship with my friend, 
Whom loyally I serve before myself;
I lock my lips too close to tell a lie;
I wash my hands too white to touch a bride;
I owe no man a debt I cannot pay,
Save only of the love men ought to owe.
Withal, each day, before the blessed Heaven,
I open wide the chambers of my soul,
And pray the Holy Ghost to enter in.
Thus reads the fair confession of my faith;
So crossed with contradictions by my life,
That now may God forgive the written lie!
Yet still, by help of Him who helpeth men,
I face two worlds, and fear not life nor death.
O Father! lead me by Thy hand! Amen.
Spirit of the Fair.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S RENOMINATION.
EDITOR LIBERATOR—I have, as one of the people, objections to President Lincoln; objections that seem to me fundamental, in morals and in government.
Abraham Lincoln came into office with a faith that has vitiated his administration during the whole term of office. 
1. He believed that although slavery is morally wrong, yet that wrong was to be repented of gradually. Hence his opposition to immediate emancipation in Missouri, and in all the border States. He does this stubbornly in view of the fact that immediate emancipation has been a success everywhere; and should this notion of his encourage gradualism in Kentucky, that gradualism will be to us a great calamity. The lingering curse protracted, the minds of the people will continue to be corrupted, the capitalist and enterprising mechanic will pass over our State to go where the curse is removed, and where enterprise will quickly spring up. 
2. He believed that in this country the colored man, however loyal, faithful and courageous, ought not to have equal rights with the white man. This has given birth to abortive policies of expatriation, and helped keep up an ungodly prejudice against the colored man in the army and among the people at home. The slaveholding prejudice follows the poor man to the camp, the kraal, the plantation, to the grave. Can we ask a Christian people to support a man whose teaching and policy corrupt society, and that too in the point of natural justice? Is this the "honest Abe"(?) who will not give to an innocent man the just desert of his honest deportment?—such as he would give to another man with the circumstance of a lighter complexion? 
3. He believed that, under the Constitution of the United States, the slaves of the master ought to be returned or delivered up, and that, therefore, in his own words, "the South ought to have a Congressional Fugitive Slave Law." Perhaps this notion of his is one strong reason why our present Fugitive Slave Act is not repealed, and we are kept a nation of slave catchers. 
4. He believed, and now believes, that, under the Constitution, the master has a right of property in the slave, and if that slave is called into government service, the government ought to give compensation to the master. 
This notion of his, and his offer of compensation, actually keep up the price of slaves, and the strength of slavery, here in Kentucky, beyond what the natural effects of the war would produce. Perhaps some one will say, "What if these things do follow—is not the President right?" I think not. I believe the framers of our Constitution did do that which they knew would let the slave trade live twenty years. They thought they could not prevent that—they did not intend to give it any legal sanction. So they did not intend to give slavery in the States any legal sanction—they intended, that if the slave escaped, the master should get him as his escaped horse—by his own efforts, and at his own expense; and in time of a national call, the slave (if any such were held) should be like the apprentice, subject to the national call, and no more compensation for the one than the other.
Nor should there be any hesitatancy in calling out the one more than the other; for when the thirteen articles of confederation were abolished, and with them State sovereignty, the design was, that the "firm national government" should have power to call out every "person" in the nation of suitable age and strength. 
Suppose it be true that, the President is a sincere man: yet, if he is tied by false notions, and emasculated by deference to the Slave Power, is it wise to suffer a whole nation to be wrecked in waiting upon a man who cannot foresee and guide, but who, from imbecility, has to drift with events? Such is not the President we need for such a time as this.
JOHN G. FEE.

FRUITS OF FREEDOM.
ST. HELENA ISLAND, May 23, 1864. 
DRAR AND REVERED FRIEND—Having been on this island some six weeks, (in the employ of Mr. E. S. Philbrick,) long enough at least to get a superficial view of affairs, I felt moved to write you a few lines, not doubting that you might like to hear even my view of matters in this vicinity. 
In the first place, I felt quite astonished on finding myself in South Carolina. The idea that I, a Garrisonian Abolitionist, should be quietly moving about in this home of the hottest of all the fire eaters—where dwelt the Calhouns and the Rhetts and the Brookses, with all their minions—was really quite marvellous to me. Four years ago, and even less, I had no hope of living to see the day when such as I could live in this region. But thanks to Him who rules the destinies of men, the change has come; and I despair not of yet seeing the father of the great movement which has wrought this mighty change—even yourself—freely uttering his sentiments on this soil. 
It has occurred to me several times, of late, that it would afford you great happiness to look on the present changed, happy and hopeful aspect of affairs here. My observations have been limited, of course; but on the plantations immediately surrounding me, the negroes seem the happiest people I ever saw. I know it would rejoice your heart to look on them. Their perfectly jolly faces and incessant jesting, when congregated together, are really refreshing. Many of their countenances show great natural intelligence and nobility of character. I have been very agreeably disappointed in their appearance in these respects. I am told, however, that they appear very differently from two years ago—that their improvement has been almost miraculous. I began to wonder how men of so much dignity and energy could be kept in slavery. The answer I received was, that they had greatly changed since slavery. Of course, they are still very ignorant and debased in many respects; yet a greater aptitude for learning I never saw. And, after all, it is quite laughable to see that conservative trait, so common everywhere, showing itself among this people—I mean the aversion to change old habits and implements for new and improved ones. Their agricultural tools are of the rudest and clumsiest kind, yet it is very hard to make them believe they are not the very best. Time and example alone can overcome this. They express great admiration at results that follow in the train of a Yankee laborer and mechanic. They have for so many generations worked blindly, and without inducement to see, that they are vastly behind New England people in all, or nearly all, manual operations. It will help them greatly in these respects to have Northern people settle among them. Then the whole agricultural management here is so bad—wasteful to the soil, and comparatively barren in results—that I long to see Northern skill and shrewdness applied to the cultivation of the soil. With all our faults in Massachusetts—and they are not few or small we are so far ahead of South Carolina as to be justified in assuming the dignity of missionaries.
I hope the time will soon come when I shall have the pleasure of seeing you here on her soil, to improve her people in almost every attribute of human character. I hope the better class of our Northern people will find inducements to settle here; and I think they will in many cases. The men who are here in Mr. Philbrick’s employ are very fine specimens of the Yankee character—very considerate, humane, and would be valuable members of any good society. Yet they are young men, and inexperienced in agricultural matters—and have not attempted many changes from the old mode of cultivation. When those come among us who are skilled in agriculture, and prepared to make changes in modes of cultivation, I hope they may be as considerate of the welfare of the colored people, and that we shall find good character combined with enterprise and skill.
<c03>
Mr. Philbrick seems to have been the subject of considerable criticism, of late, because he thinks it not best to sell to the negroes large quantities of land at a smaller price than to others, and because he pays them smaller wages per day than laborers get in New England. After such observations as I have been able to make here, I am satisfied that the negroes are quite as well paid for the same work as our Northern agricultural laborers, and in some cases better. In fact, what he pays them is mostly over and above the means of living which he gives them besides—in the shape of perquisites—such as land to cultivate, houses to live in, pasture for animals, manure for land—use of animals and implements to cultivate their land, milk for all their families, cheap goods, or goods at cheap rates, &c. &c.; besides the free schools which he furnishes, and the school-houses which he is about to put up. I feel respect and gratitude for and to Mr. Philbrick whenever I think of the many things which he has done for this long-oppressed people. His views may be right or otherwise in regard to selling the negroes large tracts of land at less than market price. If it would be better for the negroes to have the land given them, if it would in any measure be a restitution for past oppression, I would certainly be in favor of it. But it seems to me it would be much like giving our children unlimited means without their knowing the value thereof. If the land should be so disposed of, I have no doubt that those Yankees who are anxious to have it would be able to get it from the negroes at less than they could buy it for at auction; and that much of it would soon pass out of their hands, and really do them little good. I believe Mr. Philbrick's plan is to secure the negroes homesteads, and land enough to secure them a living, and then let them take their chance in the market if they wish for more.
To be sure, it may be said this plan is the result of the love of money on the part of Mr. P.; and I know that Yankees are sometimes influenced by such considerations; yet I like this plan the best; I think it would be best for me or my children were we in the places of the negroes.
Faithfully yours,
FRANCIS HINCKLY.
"BREAK UP YOUR FALLOW GROUND."
The following is an extract from a sermon by Rev. H. W. Beecher, delivered at Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, Sunday, April 10, and reported in the New York Independent:—
It is true that in regard to nations it would be better if there could be such education that one step of improvement should develop out of former attainments. It is true that all national improvement is gradual. Improvement cannot be brought to pass by rude wars, nor by revolution. And when we inculcate war, or justify revolution, we never do it as though that was an instrument of growth. No man ever supposed that the plow was the cause of growth. The office of the plow is to prepare the seed-bed; and when that is prepared, growth takes place by the influence of the soil and of the sun. It is only in preparing the conditions which are necessary to growth, that the plow is useful. And so we do not hold, in national life, that you can educate people by war, or that you can increase the immunities of a people, and their sense of justice, by revolution; but we do hold that when nations are hide-bound, when they are fallow, when the surface of society is matted with wiry roots, wars and revolutions are of the nature of plowing, and serve to prepare a state of community out of which afterward justice may grow, and immunities may thrive.
The French nation was so bound up in the feudal system before the French Revolution, that there was no chance for reformation if the people desired it—as they did. And when wise men sought out methods, and attempted to make changes against vested interests in mild ways, it was found that the process would be so slow that a hundred years would be required to do what was accomplished in ten. And although revolution was an evil, the state not revolutionized was a greater one, a thousand-fold. Although the murders and the shedding of blood by war made the nations of the earth stagger with horror; and although the amount of suffering which was caused was terrific; yet the suffering which otherwise would have succeeded during the next hundred years would have been infinitely greater than all the momentary suffering of the revolution. This process of plowing with the red-hot plowshare of war prepared the nation for improvements; and it has been making them, until to-day France is one of the most prosperous of nations, and has as auspicious a future as any country or nation in Europe. And its bright career started with the French Revolution, which was a terrible punishment, but which was a punishment that had blessings in its train. 
Russia has not been ignorant of this divine example. We can either plow for ourselves, or be plowed, just as we choose; and the Czar of Russia is now plowing his own field. Changes he saw must come; and it was only a question of whether be should inaugurate them himself at once, or whether he should hold back and leave them to be forced upon the nation by violence. He chose the better course. He has set his serfs free. He is seeking to make the peasants of Poland free. He seems, as well as an absolute monarch could be expected to do it, to be studying the prosperity of all his people, and especially of those that are lowest down. Thus he is avoiding revolution, by taking away the causes of it. And he is exhibiting a model of wisdom to all nations. We, ourselves, might have taken lessons from this emperor. But we would not. We were too proud. We knew too much. We were besotted with our prosperity. We had mischiefs, we had faults, we had terrible weeds, that needed turning under; there were terrific brambles and thorns growing in our midst that needed uprooting; but we would not plow our own ground, and so God is plowing it for us. We are in the midst of a plowing now. And although it is terrible; although it drains the land of its wealth, and drains it of life; and although it carries many possible dangers and threats of danger; yet all these dangers, if they should be fulfilled, would not be so great a mischief as the simple existence and perpetuity of such organized and legalized wrong as afflicts this nation. There is no calamity that can befal the exterior fabric of society so great as benumbing the national conscience, deadening the spirit of humanity, degrading mankind, and teaching men to be contented with the degradation of mankind. That which lowers the sacredness of man is the greatest evil that can visit a nation; for a nation is made rich by its manhood, and is poor when manhood in it is at a discount. Nothing can be worse for a nation than to stand on the degradation of humanity; and all the prosperity that comes out of it is like the prosperity of weeds growing on dunghills. Although wisdom should have taught us to have plowed our own field, and subdued our own weeds, we were not wise, and now God is doing it for us. We should have held our own plow, if we did not want such a Plowman. God is a good Husbandman, and—thanks be to him —when he puts his hand to the plow, he never looks back. He takes a straight line, and goes from end to end of the field; and where once he has turned over the sod, it will not stir again. God's plowshare, hot, is scorching the very roots of slavery; and I do not think they will grow in his furrows. And so, although agitations are in some respects bad, yet, where the evils which they are designed to overcome are worse, agitations become indispensable. And the best thing that has happened to this people in all its whole history, is this war and this revolution, under the disintegration of the state of society of the South.
I declare to you that, so far as we now can judge, we are going to gain by the sword more conscience and more humanity than we have gained by all the printing presses, and all the Bible Societies and Tract Societies on this continent, for the last thirty years. We are going to gain more by the cannon than we have gained in twenty-five years by the pulpits of this nation. It may be a sad thing to say; but what has been the moral delinquency of a nation and an age when it is true that physical convulsions really lift its people higher than moral influences administered by faithful men?
FREEDOM TO OLD VIRGINIA. Ten of the leading citizens and slaveholders of Norfolk, Va., including the Mayor and the principal Councilman, obtained permission, by formal petition to Gen. Wild, to fire 100 guns in honor of the passage of the ordinance of immediate abolition, by the Constitutional Convention at Alexandria.
<co4>
THE ROLL CALL OF THE STATES. 
Let this be a grand Examination Day of the States, before the High Court of Public Opinion; and let the worthiest bear away the laurel. As the roll is a long one, we must content ourselves with calling the representative ones.
States! You will answer as your numbers are called out.
Number One!
NEW YORK—Here. I was fifth in rank in 1790, now I am first. Population 3,851,000; wealth $1,843,338,000. My laborers are freemen. 
Number Two! 
PENNSYLVANIA—Here. I was second in 1799, and hold my own. Population 2,900,000, wealth $1,416,501,000. My laborers are freemen. 
Number Three!
OHIO—Here. I entered in 1800 as the eighteenth in rank. To-day I have 2,339,000 population, and $1,193,898,422 wealth. My property is the work of free labor.
Number Four! 
ILLINOIS.—Here. I entered in 1810 as the twenty-fourth in rank. Now I have a population of 1,711,951 and $871,860,000. No bondman treads my soil.
Number Five! 
VIRGINIA.—Here. I entered the Union in 1790 as the first in rank. My population is 1,590,000, of whom 490,000 are slaves. My wealth is $793,247,000. My splendid climate and fertile soil have not saved me. Each ten years since 1820 I have taken a place lower in the class. 
Number Six!
INDIANA.—Here. I entered in 1800 as twenty-first in rank. My population is 1,350,000. My wealth $528,338,000. I have but 33,809 square miles of territory, while Virginia has over 61,000. My motto is free labor.
Number Seven!
MASSACHUSETTS—Here. I entered in 1790 as the fourth State in rank with 7,800 square miles of barren rocky soil. My population is 1,231,000. My wealth $815,237,000. My sons are every where, the pioneers of education, commerce, navigation and colonization. My citizens are all freemen. 
Number Eight!
MISSOURI—Here. I entered in 1810 as twenty-third in rank. My population is 1,182,000 of whom 114,900 are slaves. My wealth is $501,214,000. I have established an ordinance of universal freedom. 
Number Nine!
KENTUCKY—Here. I entered in 1790 as the fourteenth in rank. My area is near 38,000 square miles, soil and climate superior. My wealth is $666,000,000. Population 1,155,000, of whom 225,500 are slaves. Had I improved my opportunities and gifts, I would have ranked to-day as the fourth State, in place of Illinois. I believe in the divinity of human bondage, and the justice of involuntary labor.
Number Ten!
TENNESSEE—Here. I entered in 1790 as the seventeenth in rank, with a domain of 45,000 square miles of the finest land the sun ever shone upon. My population is 1,109,000, of whom 275,719 are, or were, slaves. My wealth is, or was, $493,903,000. Had wisdom guided me, I would to-day hold the third rank in place of Ohio. My political guides have worshipped negro slavery.
We must here close the roll-call for the time, for the purpose of adding a few reflections and suggestions. Is it not remarkable that Massachusetts, with a soil proverbially poor, and a harsh climate, should be three ranks above Tennessee in point of power? It is remarkable to a superficial observer, but in this case, "happy is he who can find out the causes of things." And the cause is readily found. One State exalts, dignifies and rewards labor, invention and enterprise of all kinds, and idleness is disreputable. In the other it is esteemed a sort of degradation to labor, and a great honor to be able to live in luxurious ease, on the unpaid toil of a hundred slaves, whose sole incentive to their daily labor is the scourge of an overseer.
In one State the laborer is counted a man and a citizen; in the other a piece of property, a mere brute. It is to the interest of the Massachusetts laborer to love his State, but the Tennessee bondmen have every motive to hate their State with an exceeding bitter hatred. Consequently, while the Free States prosper, the Slave States gradually decay. Now let us reason with those who have been friendly to a "Southern Confederacy," on the matter. Grant your government established and acknowledged: How long could it last, with a continuation of the same relative progress between free labor and slave labor in the future, which we have had heretofore? In fifty years the slave government would be so weak compared with its free neighbor, that it could not protect itself. Much has been spoken and written in this country about State sovereignty and independence, but surely the most superficial observer must see that the labor system of the South tends inevitably to weaken the States, and divest them of all sovereignty and independence.—Nashville Times.

THE METHODIST CHURCH AND SLAVERY.
The Advocate and Journal, in view of the terrible consequences of this war, raises the question whether the Methodist Church North is in any respect to blame for the dreadful conflict:—
"That certain individuals expressed themselves in intemperate language on the subject of slavery must be admitted, but that the Church injured or irritated the South, no intelligent man can assert. She set out on Southern soil an Anti-Slavery Church. When she received slaveholders, she required them to emancipate their slaves. At the demand of the South she receded, and admitted slaveholders freely both to her churches and her pulpits. When the agitation of the slavery question commenced, our Southern brethren demanded not merely that we should refrain from any participation in this agitation, but that we should do our utmost to suppress it. We yielded to the demand. Our Conferences resolved, and our pastoral addresses advised against abolition; our ministers denounced it; our bishops proscribed it; our professors argued against it.
At the Conference of 1844, the South required us to take a slaveholding Bishop. We kindly remonstrated, reminding them of the feeling of Northern churches against slaveholders, of the absolute authority of a Methodist Bishop in the appointment of preachers, of the opportunity he possessed of persecuting those whom he did not respect, by reason of the inequality of the appointments, differing in value from $300 to $3,000 per annum, and of the suspicions that might arise against him, however impartial he might be. We did not denounce the objectionable Bishop, but treated him with marked deference, and spoke of him in the most eulogistic strain; we did not demand his exclusion from office or even the withholding of his salary. We did not declare that slavery was a disqualification for the episcopate, but merely an impediment, and resolved that the Bishop, in our judgment, should surcease from the exercise of his Episcopal functions until that impediment should be removed. Is there a British or Irish Methodist, or Quaker, or philanthropist, who would, under those circumstances, have advised us to do anything less? We had sacrificed freedom of speech and of the press, for the sake of unity; must we give slaveholding respectability, and ecclesiastical authority and power, over the whole free North? Yet because we would not, the South cleft our church in twain, and thus took the first step toward a division of the Union. They said to us, We do not desire to separate from you; if our people will not compel us, we will not. If you will give us authority to divide, and our share of the property, in case of division, we will hold up the act of kindness as an olive branch, and probably succeed by this means in preventing division. So excessively anxious were we to prevent division, that we strained a point and yielded to the demand. Again we erred, but not against the South. We will not say how our act of excessive kindness was used or abused to prevent the very end we intended to accomplish. Let those who blame our church for the incipient act of dissolution of the Union consider these facts. We are verily guiltless.
Since the separation, the Church has been conservative. In the episcopal bench, the editorial chair, in the collegiate seats, in the presiding elders’ offices, we have, as a general rule, up to a very late period, been careful to put none but conservatives into the chief offices of the Church. In all out official utterances we have been guarded in our spirit and language, making due allowance for slaveholders, and offering them our sympathies and aid. There has been, we believe, no time when the Church would not have joined in any lawful measure to bring the North to share the losses which the South would have incurred by emancipation.
<c05>
We may be told by inconsiderate persons that Northern Christians have nothing to do with slavery. Are they not bound to inquire into the character of those with whom they fellowship, whom they admit to their pulpits, whose Christian character they endorse, or at whose hands they receive the sacrament? Are they not bound to consider the sufferings of men and the laws of God? Not until the fifth of this month has the episcopacy recommended a rule prohibiting slavery in the Church, and that is upon the ground that all who have access to our Church can legally emancipate.

M. E. GENERAL CONFERENCE.
THE GENERAL CONFERENCE MAKING HISTORY. 
Truly "the world moves" The church as well as the notion is making history. The events of this General Conference will mark an important epoch in the annals of the church, and place a new milestone on the highway of progress. It is nothing new or strange for the General Conference to receive delegates from the Methodist brethren in England, Ireland, or the. Canadas, bringing their fraternal Christian greetings; nor is it a novel thing to reciprocate the favor by appointing delegates to carry our own salutations and congratulations back to the same ecclesiastical bodies. But to take the initiative, and appoint a delegation to bear our Christian and friendly regards to a General Conference of colored ministers, and to receive with the highest marks of respect and approbation a delegation of colored men from the General Conference of the African Episcopal Church, is something new in the history of American Methodism.

THE COLORED DELEGATES.
This morning, Friday at 11 o'clock, the deputation of five ministers from the African Methodist Episcopal General Conference came in, escorted by a committee duly appointed to receive them, and were introduced to Bishop Morris, and by him to the Conference. Three of them delivered addresses, Rev. Mr. Clark, Rev. Mr. Revels, and Rev. Mr. Kennel. The address of the first was read from manuscript, with the apology that from the pressure of other duties he had not had time since his appointment on the delegation to commit it to memory. The other two spoke without notes. Their addresses were highly respectful, both in spirit and manner, appropriate to the time and place, and characterized by good, sound, practical sense. The last speaker, at first slow and indistinct in his utterance, rose with his theme into impassioned eloquence, and into earnest and genuine flights of oratory. Several times during the addresses the Conference violated one of its own resolutions which forbids all clapping and stamping in the Conference during its session; and under the eloquent strokes of the last speaker burst into a tempest of violent and prolonged applause. That was another great and triumphant hour in the proceedings of this General Conference. 
We observed that the Rev. Mr. Thornton, who was upon the platform, after the addresses were over, rose from his seat, went and shook hands with those colored ministers just as cordially and as heartily as if they had woru a skin as white and delicate as his own. It seemed to us that the distinguished English delegate entered into the spirit of that greeting with less reserve and more earnest cordiality than any other persons on the platform. It might, however, all be in the eye, but it seemed so to us, nevertheless. For this manifestation of Christian and fraternal courtesy by our brethren towards an oppressed and a hitherto despised race, we heartily thank God. Are we not justified in saying and repeating what is so expressive and appropriate, "The world moves"? As we write, we feel just like shouting, "Glory to God in the highest; peace on earth and good-will to men." "Hallelujah, the Lord God omnipotent reigneth." We must stop writing on this subject, or we shall become excited, though it lacks but five minutes of 12 o’clock at night.—Zion’s Herald.
We do not wonder that our brother of the Herald rejoices in the change that is coming over the M. E. Church upon the recognition of the colored Christians of our land, as included in the pale of humanity. The next generation will be amazed to learn what the history of the M. E. Church has been towards their colored brethren in antecedent times, when in the statistical tables published, not only were the colored members reported separately, but in the administration of the Lord's Supper they were seldom if ever invited to come to the Table of the Lord, until all the whites had partaken. The usual address by the P. Elder was, "Our colored friends may now come forward."
The first and only time we ever knew the distinction between white and colored members to be disregarded purposely was at the New Hampshire Conference in 1839. Bishop Hedding being engaged with the P. Elders, he appointed some one to preside in an extra session one afternoon to receive the report of the numbers in the societies, and perhaps some other business of a similar import. On that occasion, some one moved that, as the Discipline did not require that the whites and colored should be reported separately, that no distinction should be made at that time. The motion passed; and there was much merriment over it. We hope the present General Conference will make a suitable apology to the General Conference of colored brethren now in session in Philadelphia, for their unbrotherly treatment to them in former years. Nothing would be more suitable in itself, and nothing would be more creditable to that great and powerful Church.—Syracuse Wesleyan.

NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN MONTANA.
On the 20th inst., the House passed the bill establishing a territorial government in Montana, striking out the Senate's provision allowing colored men the right of suffrage. This puts an end to all hopes we had entertained that the present Congress intends to do justice to the colored men. The argument which has been used so frequently by those opposed to the granting of suffrage to the blacks, viz: that there are no negroes in Moutana, and therefore the granting to them of the rights of citizenship would do no good, will work as well the other way; for it surely could do no harm. But it will do harm to refuse them that right. If a man is to be prevented from having a vote in the government of the country, is it to be supposed that he will go to that territory? Thus it will prevent a large number of laboring men, who are the principal wealth of all new territories, from emigrating to the territory. The provision allowing all white men to vote will enable men to have an influence in the territory who are as far below the majority of the negroes, intellectually, as it is possible to be.
In this, the House has committed an act which shall cry out against them forever on the record of history. What a spectacle! An American Congress, after being compelled to call on the black race to take up arms to save the government from destruction, refusing them the right to have a voice in the government by which they are to be ruled! Future generations will remember such transactions with shame, and all the civilized world will call down the anathemas of mankind upon the heads of those who so basely injure the very men to whom they are indebted the most.—Milwaukie Daily Life.
GARIBALDI'S ACCOUNT OF HIS EXPULSION FROM ENGLAND. At a general meeting of the Working-men’s Garibaldi Committee, held in London on the 25th ultimo, Mr. Joseph Cowen, Jr., presented a written account of a private interview with Garibaldi, in which he says:-
"I have your letter asking me to report to the Workingmen's Committee the conversation I had with General Garibaldi on Tuesday, April 19th, about the cause of his sudden departure from this country. I fear it would be difficult to do this fully, as the interview on the occasion referred to extended over some time. But upon the only point on which there is any substantial difference between the two versions that have been given of the interview, I will report, as nearly as it is possible for me to do, the words that I understand passed between Mr. Gladstone and Garibaldi. Mr. Gladstone said: "If the same kind of demonstrations are repeated in the provinces that have taken place in London, they may damage the effect of your visit and lead to unpleasant complications." Garibaldi said: "Then I understand that you wish me to leave." Mr. Glad stone said, 'Yes.’ The General said, ‘Then I give you my word, and I will go.’ I said there was a general impression abroad that the request for him to leave came from the government, and that it was the popular belief that the 'complications' referred to were political. He said be knew that such was the belief that was generally entertained. He thought it was correct that the government did wish him to leave, and that as they [the government] had
<c06>
received and treated him with so much kindness, he could not remain to be a source of inconvenience. If I have not reported the exact words that were used, I am quite certain I have reported the sense."

THE ARGUELLES AFFAIR.
Some of our readers may be curious to learn further of the case of Senor Don Jose Augustin Arguelles, to whom they have seen occasional allusions. Arguelles was formerly Lieutenant Governor of the District of Colon, Island of Cuba, and was lately surrendered, by order of President Lincoln, to the Governor General of that island, for alleged violation of the Spanish laws against, the slave trade. It is charged that while Lieutenant, Governor, Arguelles sold one hundred and forty one negroes, from a lot of more than eleven hundred, imported by a slaver, which, in his official capacity and under the laws, he had seized. Learning that his arrest had been ordered, he escaped to New York. The Marshal of the Southern District of that state arrested him, and by warrant of the President delivered him to the Spanish authorities.On this the Marshal has been arrested for kidnapping. The prosecution holds that, there being no extradition treaty between this country and Spain, she can claim no such rendition of a fugitive from her laws. If Arguelles were a vulgar pirate, no difficulty would be made, but because he only betrayed his trust as an officer by tasting the sweets of the slave trade, which is piracy, the Copperheads feel that liberty is suffering severely by his return for trial. In consequence of the clamor made about "the right of asylum," a few Union papers insist that the surrender should have been refused in the absence of a treaty. It strikes us, however, that the objection does not reach the merits of the case, and that the Government has only acted justly.
The documents relating to the Arguelles case were sent to Congress, accompanied by a letter from the Secretary of State, in which he disposes of the question thus:-
"Although there is a conflict of authorities concerning the expediency of exercising comity towards a foreign Government by surrendering, at its request, one of its own subjects charged with the commission of crime within its territory, and although it may be conceded that there is no national obligation to make such a surrender upon a demand therefore, unless it is acknowledged by treaty or by statue law, yet a nation it is never bound to furnish asylums to dangerous criminals, who are offenders against the human race, and it is believed that if, in any case, the comity could with propriety be practised, the one which is understood to have called forth the resolution of inquiry of the Senate furnished a just occasion for its exercise."-Missouri Democrat.

SUNSHINE. BY MRS. DALL. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co.
The designs of the sunbeams on the human body and soul are quite as marvellous as are performed on the camera of the photographist. The "offspring of Heaven," as MILTON calls it—few appreciate light and its effect on health, beauty, mind, and character; and a book of just this kind has been needed to tell us the value of a gift so common, so cheap, and so full of blessing. The authoress manifests more than mere knowledge of her theme; she is earnest; she heartily desires what she intelligently advocates. But she does not make her subject a hobby, as persons are wont to when they advocate some particular hygienic treatment. Her practical common sense is as acceptable as it is rare. If every man, woman and child would read this delightful little volume, they would certainly be wiser therefor; and if they would then put their wisdom, thus gained, in practice, they could hardly help being healthier and happier.-Utica Herald.
DISPOSITION OF DISTINGUISHED REBEL CAPTURES—Edward A. Pollard, late editor of the Richmond Examiner, who was taken prisoner of war on board the blockade runner Greyhound, some time since, and who has been on his parole of honor at one of our best hotels, was to-day sent to Fort Warren, in accordance with orders received from Washington. "Belle Boyd," another captured rebel passenger on the same vessel, has been released, also in obedience to orders from Washington.
Queen Victoria has nine children, aged respectively 23, 22, 20, 20,19, 17, 15, 14, 10, and 6. Five girls and four boys. Three are married.

MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.

THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly incresing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all insruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a pianoforte. 
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given to them, to an extent unparalled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B.Bradbury, George F. Root, &e.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N.Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church Braun, <ilegable> Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated <ilegable> as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason., Mill, Sanderson, <illegable> etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington street, Boston, 
WAREROOMS, 7 Mercer Street, New York. 
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb.26 6m
SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of "Woman’s Labor," "Woman under the Law,". &c. 16mo; paper, <illegible> cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
BOSTON.
