THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Genera Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, is payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for 1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, <illegible> Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance. Committee, but are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMCEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. No 10.BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 11,1859.WHOLE NUMBER, 1583.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Boston Courier.
REV ME SPURGEON AND AMERICAN SLAVERY.
A Baptist paper published in England, called the Freeman said to be the organ of that religious denomination discoursing of Rev. Mr. Spurgeon's contemplated visit to this country, gives us the following rather broad hint of what we may expect from this noted preacher. The idea seems to be, that he is to visit the United States as a kind of <illegible> not for the conversion of souls, but for the abolition of slavery: and it is thought not impossible he is destined to be the Knibb of America’! We cannot dispute the latter proposition, having, in our ignorance, no idea who Knibb may be or what he has done: but we do believe that both he and Mr. Spurgeon would soon find a good deal of the nonsense taken out of them, if they should undertake to interfere with affairs in this country in such an offensive, ungentlemanly and unchristian manner, as the extract we make pretends:
‘One of Mr. Spurgeon's friends, who knows him best, remarked to us while speaking of his visit, 'And won't he give it to them on their slavery ' At the time out first feeling was, 'Dare he do it' Second thoughts disposed us to think that he both dare and would-that he may be raised up for the work, and would-that he may be raised up for the work, and that the way is wonderfully prepared for him,'
Proceeding to discuss this point at some length, the writer waxes warm and exclaims:-
'Who can tell but that Mr. Spurgeon is destined to be the Knibb of America He possesses many of the more and physical qualities of that noble man; those specially which were his chief weapons in his holy war against slavery-the courage to say straight out what he thinks,-what the impulses of the moment demand, and the eloquence to arouse the enthusiasm of the many, while the few also are compelled so feel its homely power-the power of truth. When he arrives on the slave-darkened soil of New York, (for a black man is property there as much as in New Orleans we can but believe that, like Paul at Athens, and on mare' Hill, 'his spirit will be stirred within him.' Many a gentle hint will our brother receive when he lands at New York. Should he remonstrate a private, all kinds f suggestions not to obstruct his <illegible> by adverting t the dangerous subject will be given; but we have little doubt that faith and prayer will have braced his spirit for the solemn conflict.
We pass over the ignorance, characteristic of English newspapers and reviews, as to affairs in this country, shown in this instance by talking of the 'slave-darkened soil of New York'-or if the passage refers to the obligation to deliver up fugitive slaves in all our free States, we night with as much propriety speak of the 'murder-darkened soil of Great Britain, because she is under treaty stipulations to yield up fugitives from justice of other who seek refuge on her soil. And then, what an apt, not to say reverent, comparison it is of Mr. Spurgeon in New York to Paul at Athens,-as vain breath wasted upon the subject of the social of our colored brethren in the 'Commercial Emporium' were identical, in point of moral and import, with unfolding the gospel to the philosophic idolaters of the 'Mother of Arts'! And as though Mr. Spurgeon or anybody else were scaly to deliver his message so courteously, as well as powerfully, as St. Paul uttered the word of inspiration.
But in truth, if Mr. Spurgeon preaches on the some subject that St. Paul did at Athens, there is no doubt that he will be listened to everywhere respectfully, according to what he has t say. If, on the other hand, he should be silly enough to manifest any of that officious and anything but Christian spirit implied in the passage- Won't he give it to them on their slavery? he will have to thank his own folly for any consequences to himself. In England, if a foreigner should undertake to declaim against Queen, Lords and Commons of tee somewhat vague glories of the British Constitution, or say other of the settled institutions of the land, if he escaped the mob, he would find himself very quickly in Newgate, or perhaps more summarily than politely handed over the rail of some outward <illegible> We do not pretend to say what might occur to brother Spurgeon, if he should count too much upon the liberties of fraternal relations in his <illegible> to stir us up on slavery. But we doubt very much whether our people would hear him as indifferently as they do the railings of our own anti-slavery volunteer orators.
THE TRACT CAUSE AT THE SOUTH. It is gratifying to notice. as we do frequently through our Southern exchanges, the evident interest that is felt in the American Tract Society at the South, and the efforts made there in its behalf. If has earnest supporters everywhere, and by their liberal contributions during the past year, substantial evidence is afforded of their just appreciation of its usefulness and adaptation to the necessities of the people, and of the esteem in which it is held by good men generally. The wisdom of the Society in abiding by its <illegible> platform of thirty-three years successful experience is conspicuous. Rev. J. Cross, agent of the Society, has just returned from Charleston, S.C. where he has raised in ten days the handsome sum of $3,210 in cash and pledges, to carry on the work in that State. Other States have also contributed very liberally. The newspaper press in all parts of the South, from Maryland to Louisiana, is earnest in its appeals to the people for aid, and from present indication, the next annual Report will show a large increase of receipts over those of any former year. The abandonment of the Society by the Abolitionists seems to have been the signal for increased activity and liberality on the part of its friends. They will not let it suffer,-Journal of Commerce.
CONSERVATISM IN DESPAIR. The Wilmington (N.C,) Journal, in some observations on the signs of the times, expresses little hope for the conservatism of law:-
'We must confess that things look rather dark and doubtful for the continuance of any bond of <illegible> between parties who openly and mutually ignore all the conditions of the bond. One class of <illegible> are openly violated at the North, and a party is springing up at the South avowing their determination openly to violate another class. If Southern <illegible> of African cargoes can be secured, there will be no difficulty in finding Northern captains and <illegible> to bring them in. The time is past when obedience to law was regarded as one of the obligations of a good citizen, or when men, claiming to be such waited for the sanction of law to any enterprise. All laws that oppose any particular schemes a profit or ambition, or run counter to any prejudice are either unconstitutional in themselves, or are superceded by the authority of some higher law, and the attempt on the part of the Executive to put such laws in force is denounced as atrocious tyranny, and the officers engaged in doing their duty in the <illegible> are stigmatized in opprobrious language, and <illegible> by contemptuous epithets.'
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
From the Warrington [Eng] Times, of Jan. 29.
LECTURE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY BY A COLORED LADY.
We announced, last week, that a lecture would be given on Slave life in America, by Miss Remond, a colored lady, who has recently arrived in this country from America. From the notices we had observed of Miss Remond, in the Liverpool papers, we had fortified ourselves with the belief that this lady was a person of no ordinary character, and certainly her lecture of Monday night in no way disappointed our expectations. We believe the design of Miss Remond is to make a tour through England with a view to awaken the public mind as to the evils of slavery, and to ask Englishmen to endorse propositions protesting against American slavery, as a blot on the civilized world. This we venture to affirm she will find no difficulty in doing, and whilst on this topic, we cannot but express our opinion that the public opinion of this country is too quiescent and apathetic on this monster evil of slavery. We believe if the public opinion of this country spoke out as loudly on behalf of the slave, as it has on many other topics relating to the internal economy of other countries, it could not fail to produce an effect that must have a highly beneficial influence on the minds of the people of America; and as public opinion is supreme in that country, even more than this, we cannot but think that such an expression would go far to produce the desired result. Miss Remond is one of the best female lecturers we have heard; her gentle and easy manner, combined with an animated and intelligent countenance, rivets the attention of her auditors; the character of her language in which she clothes her thoughts is oftentimes not of an ordinary character, and, spoken with a pure accent, and in the voice of a fine modulating nature, when declaiming on the wrongs and indignities heaped upon her race, she is often eloquent and thrilling. we think we may venture to say that the Music Hall was never so packed before. Not a foot of standing room could be obtained in any part of the building. Immediately on the doors being opened, at half past seven, a dense crowd filled every available seat, and within ten minutes after, on going to the hall, we found several people returning, despairing of admittance. Great numbers of most respectable people were thus debarred entrance. We think that the gentlemen making the arrangements would have acted more wisely had they issued tickets, and thus have secured a few seats for the better class of people who were almost entirely excluded, or a small charge would have effected the object. It was some time before order could be obtained, and even after the lecture commenced, the noise continued, as the most determined efforts were made by parties outside to force their way into the building. But the audience was remarkably attentive throughout, and lustily cheered at intervals. The chair was taken by R. Gaskell, Esq., who in eloquent terms descanted on the horrors of slavery, and introduced Miss Remond to the meeting.
After speaking an hour and a quarter, Miss Remond then sat down amidst the most enthusiastic cheering.
The Chairman, in eloquent and powerful sentiments, expressed his sympathies with the objects endeavored to be compassed by Miss Remond, and condemned the institution of slavery. He concluded by putting the resolution, which was unanimously carried amidst the most enthusiastic cheering.
The first resolution, moved by Mr. ROBSON, and seconded by Mr. S. M. Webster, was as follows:-
That this meeting expresses its full conviction of the anti-Christian character of the institution of human slavery wherever and under whatever conditions it exists, and especially in the United States of America;-that it is a hindrance to national progress, physical, social, and moral;-that, more than any other institution of any civilized country, it tends to produce general corruption of the national conscience;-that to the extent of its existence it is alike destructive of the true happiness and best interests of both the oppressor and the oppressed; and is subversive of the true Christian life in the soul.’
The second resolution, moved by Mr. ASHTON, and seconded by Mr. C. J. HOLMES, was carried amidst very loud cheering:-
'That this meeting tender its warmest thanks to Miss Remond, for her interesting and able exposition of the present condition of the African people in the United States; deeply sympathizes with her feelings at the oppression and wrongs to which her race is systematically subjected in that country; and appeals to the Christian feeling of America to labor to remove so deep a stain from their national character.'
A vote of thanks to the Chairman closed the proceedings, and the crowded assembly gradually dispersed.

From the Warrington Times.
A SECOND LECTURE BY MISS BEMOND. According to announcement, Miss Remond, the American colored lady, appeared again in the Music Hall, on Monday evening last. To permit the attendance of many who were excluded from the other meeting, a small charge was made for admission, but the room was pretty well filled notwithstandingindeed it appeared to be crowded at the farther end. A further acquaintance with Miss Remond justifies the commendations we passed on her last week. The lecture was not, as many had anticipated, a repetition of her former one. The matter was of quite a new character, although, of course, a few facts were necessarily repeated.
The Worshipful the MAYOR occupied the chair and remarked that he should say nothing as regarded that evening's lecture by Miss Remond. He should leave it entirely in her hands, which he felt quite sure he might do safely. One thing he might say in which they all participated, and that was, that if there was a subject on which the people of England were unanimous, it was on the question of slaver. (Cheers.) He believed that no subject had called forth such a universal and strong feeling in the English mind, as the suppression of the slave trade. But they had been very quiet on the Subject for some years. When a man realized a conviction in his own mind, and came to a conclusion which satisfied him, he rested there; but if they wanted at any time to prove whether his profession was sincere, just let one expressing opposite views come across him, and if the man rose into very strong excitement, and was ready, whatever befel him, to give a full and free expression to his former convictions, they might rely on it that the conviction was an honest one, and had remained in his heart during the whole period. Now, the object of their friend's visit to this country was not to try whether the hearts of the English were sound on the matter of slavery, but to wish them to express their convictions; and be could assure Miss Remond that English people only wanted the opportunity, to wake up just as strongly as before, and give their oppressed brethren all the evidence that they could command to show that they had not lost one jot of that sympathy on their behalf, that they had formerly expressed. Another thing he would remark was, that it was a lady going
<c03>
to lecture. However common this might be on the other side of the water, it was an uncommon thing in this country. And perhaps it was as it ought to be. We in England all looked to the past-we all looked to antiquity, and prided ourselves on the habits of the past; and it had not been a habit to admit ladies prominently into public, still he could never forget that we have a lady on the throne; and that we had admitted our Indies in the classes of our universities; we had given them prizes for the best poems, and we held them in the first rank in works of literature, and really we had done almost everything, except letting them appear before the public to speak. He did not think himself, however, there was anything, the slightest, approaching to indecorousness in a lady addressing her remarks to the public, nor that their friend was not justified tonight in appearing before them, and he had very great pleasure in recommending her as a proper person to hold up before them the evils of American slavery.
MISS REMOND then commenced her lecture by thanking the audience for their kind manifestations on her behalf, as her appearance had been the signal for loud cheering. She thanked them from the depths of an overflowing soul, and from a grateful heart, for their willingness to allow her to present the claims of the bondman and bondwoman of America before them. She must present her stand-point, which would be this, that she should endeavor to say for the slave what she would wish that he or she would say for her were she the victim upon the plantations, as they were, in their stead. When she stated the fact that in the United States of America sixteen hundred million dollars were invested in the bone, blood, and sinews of men and women, was it not a sufficient reason why some advocate should present the claims of these oppressed ones on all and every occasion? After alluding to the exclusive monopoly which the slaveholders held in every department of government in America, Miss Remond said she was not there to speak of America in disparaging terms, because she was herself an American born upon its soil, in the free State of Massachusetts. She then contrasted the North with the South. In the North, where no slave labor existed, all was intelligence, energy, and industry, and there were free schools in every town and village, and the poorest child, unless it happened to be black, could obtain a good education. In the State of Massachusetts even colored children now received their education on equal terms with the white children, but that was the only State, she believed. But in the South free schools were deemed a nuisance; even the poor white population was deprived of an education as well as the slave. She then commented on the Fugitive Slave Law, which the people of the North refused to obey, owing to its infamous nature. The slaveholders said it must be obeyed, but still the great heart of New England rebelled, till Daniel Webster, the greatest of New England statesmen, said it must be obeyed. Thus Daniel Webster set aside the great authority of Blackstone, who was professed to be the guide of all jurisprudence in the United States. She then related instances of a fearful nature where this Fugitive Slave Law had been put in operation, and then said that she asked them as English men and women in the land of Clarkson and Wilberforceas the people who still kept before the world the high standard which those great men raised-with a determination of soul, to send their Christian and moral sympathy across the Atlantic, and say to those tyrants-' Give up those men and women, and restore to them those God-given rights, and as far as you can, atone to them for the great injury you have inflicted on them.' It was false that this Fugitive Slave Law, as asserted by many, was a dead letter. If a slave were found in the Northern States, the parties sheltering him would be obliged to give him up. She read one or two instances to prove the horrible torture inflicted on the slaves. They could pick up a Southern newspaper at almost any time, and find accounts of this nature-of the mutilated forms of men and women, slave mothers torn from their children, fathers separated from their loved ones, and every conceivable enormity. White children were not always safe. They were kidnapped and their faces plastered, and sold, if possible. As for the children of free colored people, they were often taken up in the night, and never heard of afterwards. Under this Fugitive Slave law, men could take colored people before the Courts, and they had only to swear they were their slaves, and they were allowed to take them away. They were told that they must not agitate in England. But that was an injunction which they should not obey, and England she was sure would not acquiesce in it. There were often great test questions raised in England. They were, at first, supported by individual influence, before the heart of the people took hold of them. Therefore, they would ask England for the exertion of her moral power in the cause of the slaves, and this she believed would have its due weight on the people of America. She did not wish the English people to sympathize with her as the representative of a down-trodden race, and then sit quietly and silently down, and do nothing; but she wished them on every occasion in old England, to utter their protest in public and private, whenever an opportunity presented, against American despotism. Whenever they came into contact with an American, let them do so, for Americans loved liberty, but only for themselves. A slaveholder in Boston was received into the best circles, and treated as though he was superior, because he had men and women in his possession; and she related the return the Northerners obtained for this treatment if they happened to go South, and dared to hint their disapprobation of slavery. There was not a man in any governmental department throughout America, that was not favorable to slavery, even down to the smallest postmaster. 
At the conclusion of her remarks, Miss Remond was very warmly applauded.
Rev. J. Wood next addressed the meeting in an earnest speech, expressive of his abhorrence of slavery, and concluding his remarks with the following address, which he recommended should be numerously signed, as a testimony of the sympathy of British philanthropists and Christians with the antislavery struggle in America:-
The principle, that man cannot hold property in man, appears to us so reasonable, and of such universal application, that we are at first ready to believe it must also be of universal practice.
But when we are painfully reminded, that in America, men and women, of like passions with ourselves, are bought and sold, and treated as chattels, it is difficult to reduce our remonstrances to a set-form. we think Nature herself should resist the outrage. It is bard to coin our arguments, to twist our feelings into, logic, and with words to vindicate the stamp of God.
Inasmuch, however, as slavery has grown up, through generation after generation, as an institution of America, and as thus what is an outrage, may be looked upon, as a product of nature, we will attempt to frame an appeal. 
By our common humanity which slavery insults-by the one origin, one probation, and one God of all men, be they black or white-by that one God who site above the consciences of all as universal Lord; and by that final account, which, without distinction of master or slave, we must all render up at the great day-by these considerations we appeal to you, to you
<c04>
who row ply this unlawful traffic, that you relinquish it for ever: and to you who are engaged in the nobler work of abolition, that you go forward, conscious that you have with you the great heart of England, that in your highest enthusiasm keeps equal pulse with yours: sad, if it were allowed to speak out-the great heart of man.
We make this appeal not in the spirit of dictation, but of friendship. We recognize the common brethren of all men, and this appeal is lodged with our white brother, on behalf of him who is no less our brother, and whose equality as it is established in nature, we would desire to see established in universal recognition.
W. Robson, Esq., said the question of slavery was not properly understood in this country, and hardly so in some parts of America, although it had been growing up for the last sixty or seventy years. After the passing of the Act of Independence, the question of slavery was dealt with, and it was adopted in some states of the Union. Ho pictured the gradual descent which took place either in nations or individuals after the first false step, if there was continual indulgence even in one sin. Slavery as it at present existed, he said, in the early days of the Union was looked upon as a wrong, but now so accustomed had the people become to wrong-doing that it was now attempted to be upheld as a divine institution. In short, a step further had been taken; and it was attempted to be set up that the lowest of all poor white people ought to be placed in a state of slavery.(Sensation.) Mr. Robson then combatted the idea held by slaveholders, that the African was devoid of a proper share of intelligence, remarking very truly that the slavery party had endeavored to bring about this state of things by making it a crime punishable with death to any person who attempted to teach a black person to read. (Renewed sensation.) Great sins, he said, involved great retribution; and then remarked on the fallen state of the national character of the Americans. Child murder, he said, was practised more in the United Suites of America than in all the countries of Europe put together, and the people were rank in the depths of sin fearful to contemplate. There were thousands and tens of thousands of infant lives murdered in America yearly, and yet the church took no notice, so corrupt was it. Infanticide, as he had said, was common among the people, but there were exceptions, and those were in the blacks: among them it was never practised, except to snatch their babes from the grasp of the ruthless slaveholders. They must not think he was jesting, or had overstated the fact. They could hardly take up a newspaper without finding in it plenty of evidence respecting this system of wholesale child murder, and plenty of advertisements by those who gave themselves to aid them in the diabolical practice. The speaker continued his expose if the deadly sin, and concluded by seconding the motion proposed by the Rev. J. Wood.
The motion was adopted unanimously, and then the Mayor suggested that a ladies' committee should be formed. (Applause.)
Mr. ROBERT GASKELL was the next speaker. At the commencement of his remarks he read an intimation to the effect that another meeting was to be held (to-day) in the Lion Hotel. He thought the suggestion respecting the address was a good one, and believed that it would receive a very great number of signatures if left at a conspicuous part of the town, such as Mr. Mackie's. After obtaining the requisite number of signatures, it might be given to Miss Remond to be disposed of as she might think fit. He thought that the thanks of the meeting were due to that lady for her excellent lecture. She had come on a visit to England through motives of humanity. and on this account he thought that she would receive the support of any audience in the land. (Hear, hear.) She had not undertaken the task from any low motives, but solely for the purpose of awakening the minds of the people of England to the magnitude and enormity of the system which was carried on across the Atlantic. They were told that they had no business to meddle with American affairs, but he maintained it was the duty of every one to sympathize with the oppressed wherever he might be, and to stretch forth his hand to help him. Mr. Gaskell then related a touching story, in that day's Times, of a young girl, who was sold by her own father to a slave dealer: the bargain was completed, but the maiden's sweetheart heard of the arrangement, and determined to frustrate it. To accomplish this an elopement was made, and after passing through many dangers, they reached the shores of Canada in safety. He would, he said, watch with interest and anxiety the progress of the bill which was to be introduced into Congress preventing the importation of slaves. He did not think it was likely to pass, but at all events it would tend to probe the feelings of the Northern States on the subject. Mr. Gaskell proposed a vote of thanks to Miss Remond. Mr. Robson having seconded the motion, which was put from the chair, and carried by acclamation,
MISS REMOND thanked them, in reply, for the interest they had taken in the proceedings. She was certain there wan sympathy felt for the slave, and out of that sympathy would: be generated an influence which would go far to free the bonds of her enslaved fellow-countrymen. (Applause.)
The Mayor having vacated the chair,
Mr. Robson proposed a vote of thanks to his worship for presiding.
The Rev. Mr. Wood seconded the motion, remarking that he considered the Mayor on this occasion to be ' the right man in the right place,' and he hoped that all the towns in England would follow the example of Warrington, and place their highest civic officer in the chair. (Hear, hear.)
The MAYOR returned thanks. He echoed the hope that other towns would take a pattern from Warrington, and he hoped that wherever Miss Remond went, she would realize the fact that there was not an individual in the United Kingdom who had not a strong interest in the slave. (Hear, hear.)
The meeting then broke up about half-past nine o'clock.

From the Warrington Times.
THE LECTURE AT THE LION HOTEL.
On Wednesday, Miss Remond attended at twelve o'clock at the Red Lion Hotel to address a few words chiefly to the ladies.
ROBERT GASKELL, Esq., Read the address which had been presented at the former meeting, and which it was wished the company should sign. Ho adverted to the attempt that was being made to introduce what was almost analogous to, slavery-free immigrants into the West Indian Islands.
MISS REMOND then spoke, and her remarks chiefly bore on the sufferings and indignities which were perpetrated on her sisters in America, and the fearful, amount of licentiousness which everywhere pervaded the Southern States. .This fact would he best realized when she stated that there were 800,000 mulattoes in the Southern States of America-the fruits of licentiousnessbringing nothing but desolation in the hearts of the mother who bore them, and it ought to have brought shame to the fathers; but there was no respect for morality while the ministers of the gospel and statesmen of the south did not set an example which even their slaves could follow. She preferred, however; giving them unques-
<c05>
tionable facts instead of personal statements which she might offer, and to this end read several extracts from books, all proving that the system of slavery and the immorality it engenders are <illegible> out the vitals of the country, and destroying domestic happiness, not only amongst the subject race, but amongst the families of slaveholders. She then read a graphic description of a young and beautiful girl at a slave sale. The auctioneer was offered 1,000 dollars for her at first. He then expatiated on the superior education she possessed, and 600 dollars more were offered, and lastly he commented on the religious and moral principles she held, when she rose to 2,000 dollars, at which she was knocked down. Thus 1,000 dollars were paid for her blood, bone, and sinew, 600 for her improved intellect, and 400 more for the profession of the religion of Christ! Miss Remond further treated her subject, and in concluding said she intended to have said more, but her strength failed her.
At the conclusion, Mrs. ASHTON advanced towards Miss Remond, and after addressing her in a few most affectionate sentiments, said she felt proud to acknowledge her as a sister, and she, in common with her sex present, entertained the most heartfelt sympathy with her in the object she proposed to herself to endeavor to carry out. As a slight expression of their sympathy and esteem, she begged, on the part of the ladies of Warrington, to present her with a watch, on which was inscribed-
'Presented to S. P. Remond by Englishwomen, her sisters, in Warrington. February 2nd, 1859.'
MISS RMEOND was so taken by surprise at this manifestation of feeling towards her, that her utterance was for some moments prevented by her emotions. At length she said-I do not need this testimonial. I have been received hero as a sister by white women for the first time in my life. I have been removed from the degradation which overhangs all persons of my complexion; and I have felt most deeply that Since I have been in Warrington and in England, I have received a sympathy I never was offered before. I had therefore no need of this testimonial of sympathy, but I receive it as the representative of my race with pleasure. In this spirit I accept it, and I believe I shall be faithful to that race now and forever. Miss Remond then sat down.
MRS. GASKELL informed the ladies present that Miss Remond was hardly well. She had been ill on her voyage, and she came to Warrington before she had fully recovered She had been persuaded to give up  the lecture she proposed to deliver, but such was her earnestness of feeling that she could not be prevailed upon to do so. Every day added to the admiration and love which she[ Mrs. Gaskell] felt for her. She had felt in common with many other ladies, although they were deeply opposed to slavery, that the claims of their own town ought to take precedence of any other considerations, and to help their neighbors should be the main object they should have at heart; there was the ragged school for instance, and similar institutions, Miss Remond bad been pressing on her the claims which the slave should have upon her consideration, but she bad answered that she felt she could not do more, and that most ladies felt the same, but Miss Remond had said to her with a look she should never forget, 'that, whatever might be the claims which their own people's suffering might have upon the English women, there was a depth of suffering in America caused by slavery far surpassing it, and which demanded that they should extend their powers and do something towards its removal.' She felt now, and she hoped all present joined with her in feeling, that they might do something more than they had done; they must widen the circle of effort, and take in all those suffering women for whom Miss Remond now pleaded. She had learned from their friend that they might do something as effectually by another course of action as by giving their moral sympathy. She (Mrs. Gaskell) did not think this would be enough. They must do something tangible. She had learned that there was held in America an Anti-Slavery Bazaar, which had proved a very useful auxiliary in their efforts; and that if what had been carried on in Warrington by a few individuals for some years could be extended, some real and useful help might be afforded. She would tell them that from many towns in England, Ireland, and Scotland, boxes had been sent over for many years, containing presents for the bazaar. There had been one annually sent from Bristol by the ragged school children. The blind had also contributed largely from some of their institutions. Many schools had also sent valuable boxes. Many of the ladies of Warrington were anxious to extend in their own town a work having such a good object in view, and it was proposed annually to send a box to America for the bazaar; but it had been thought advisable first to sell what they could at home of the articles their friends might be good enough to contribute, and send over the money, which would save the expense of transit, and the custom-house duties, which were very high. Mrs. Holmes was inviting the ladies who had been interested in the subject to her house, and she really hoped some practical plan would be adopted and communicated to the public at large, which would enable every one-the working people as well as the rich-to join in the promotion of the object, as at the late Workingmen's Bazaar, the smallest article sent would be of service. Miss Remond disliked touching on matters relating to the nominally free colored people, therefore she had that morn no restricted her observations to the sufferings of the bondwoman. As probably some present had not been at Miss Remond's former lectures, she would mention to them that the colored people in America were not allowed to sit with the ordinary congregation, and a set place was appointed for them. Miss Remond had felt herself unable to bear such an unrighteous separation, and was therefore debarred from attending public worship. It was true that churches had been built for the colored people, but they were unable to provide ministers whom an educated person could listen to with profit. She was entirely cut off from public amusements. She once went to a place where Madam. Sontag was to sing, but the police threw her over the banisters, and she was ill for six weeks from the injuries she received. Miss Remond was entirely educated by her own exertions; for she had been debarred from school from her childhood, being a colored person. She was now as they saw-an educated woman-well read in English literature and the English poets. Their colored sisters in America thus felt that they were trampled on, and on this account she asked the help of the ladies of Warrington. Every one might contribute a little, she thought, either by devoting their efforts in time or money to this cause, and if they only lightened the hearts of their poor sisters in America, they would have done some good. She then asked those present to put the matter before the minds of their friends, and they would be glad to receive from any one the smallest contributions towards the watch presented to Miss Remond-a penny would be gladly received, as they did not so much loot at the amount, as the spirit that prompted the gift.
[We are unable to give the entire proceedings in consequence of the mutilation 
of the copy of the Warrington Timed which was sent to us.]
<c06>
From the Warrington Guardian.
SLAVERY AND DEMOCRACY.
The continued exertions of Mr. Thomas <illegible>, in the Statesman, to direct attention to the strange connection existing in America between Sla­very and Democracy, are beginning to tell upon the public mind. The circulation of his newspaper, we presume from its price, is not large, but it is circu­lated amongst the leading men of the day, and no one can read it regularly, as we do, without making the anxious inquiry-Is democracy, as practiced in the United States, that delightful system of politi­cal economy whose praises Pains, and the reformers of the Cobbett era, sang so loud and long?
We are led into this train of thought by the visit of an American, partly colored lady, named Miss Remond, who landed on our shores a few weeks ago, and has at once made a most favorable impression upon her audiences and private friends.
On Monday evening she addressed a crowded meeting for the second time, and in a calm, earnest, soul-stirring address, told us of her colored country­women's wrongs, and what was even worse, of her white countrywomen's moral degradation. There she stood, a lady every inch; graceful, polished, educated so well as to quote our poets, recapitulate our most glorious battles, and speak of the deeds of our philanthropists with discrimination. We pre­sume she is a free woman; yet in the land of de­mocracy, under the Fugitive Slave Law, she is liable, if found even in the Free States, upon the oath of any brutal fellow, to be carried into a bondage more fearful than that to which the most common negro is subjected.
And not only is this the case, but were she to reside in the State of Arkansas, and have every docu­ment which could prove her to be free born, or legally manumitted, she would, if a bill now before the legislature of that State passes, be compelled to sell herself for a slave, or leave the country before the 1st of January, 1860.
Were slavery no more horrible now in the States than it was a hundred years ago, when even Wash­ington and Whitefield held their fellow-creatures in a sort of patriarchal bondage, it would still be a fearful national crime. But its heinousness has in­creased a hundred fold. It has permeated all ranks, invaded the pulpit, the senate, and the bar, even to such a length that, within the last few weeks, we find that the Speaker's list of chaplains to the House does not contain the name of the only anti­slavery clergyman who should be put upon it, and it has been kept off by his clerical brethren!
We were glad to observe our Mayor lending the aid of his official position to Miss Remond's crusade. Had the meeting consisted of blacks, they no doubt would have proposed a vote of thanks to him in the language used at a colored dinner party, assembled in honor of their governor:-'Here's to the <illegible>; the' him got a white face, him has a black heart.' (Cheers, and cries of, 'Long lib <illegible> the gubbernor.')

SLAVEHOLDINGE CHRISTIANITY.
When we can speak in words of praise of a South­ern synagogue, established for the conservation of Hebraical Christianity, our readers will witness that we do so with special promptness and pleasure. The man-selling Saints who grasp the horns of those august altars, are usually so savagely religious, and so truculent in the quality of their grace, and in such an ecstatic muddle anent Moses and <illegible> that the devotions of this colder clime show pale and unripened in comparison; and we always feel a lit­tle better qualified to discuss the Gospel according to Confucius, than the Gospel received by Southern professors. But a bit of news has reached us which tills us with the liveliest hope and the rosiest antici­pations. A paragraph is floating through the sea of newspapers, which informs us that 'one of the South Carolina churches,' being moved to such action by the importation of the Wanderer's slaves, has held a public meeting, and has set the signet of <illegible> reprobation upon the Slave Trade in general, and the Wanderer's trade in particular. In what temple this convocation was held, of what variety of Southern Christians its members were representa­tives, when these expressions of disapprobation were resolved upon and published, the meandering and unsatisfactory paragraph does not inform us. But a short examination of the resolutions in question convinces us that these godly gentlemen added to grace prudence, and to prudence a proper apprecia­tion of their terrestrial interests. It may not be amiss to give their righteous resolution in full:
'Resolved, That we have heard with deep regret that a number of these native Africans are in the midst of us. That to bring untrained negroes from Africa, and land them upon any portion of the soil of South Carolina, for the purpose of making slaves of them, meets our unqualified disapprobation, and we will oppose it with all the legal means within our pow­er. We call upon our sister churches to cooperate with us in this laudable enterprise.'
Our readers will notice that here is no superfluity of language, no waste of scriptural phrases, no Roundhead canting, no evangelical flash, no hypo­critical snuffle. This church goes at the business with all the coolness of a Board of Trade, and with all the sharpness of a Chamber of Commerce. It has 'heard with deep regret that a number of these native Africans are in the midst of us.' Most of us would regret to have one native African 'in our midst,' to say nothing of a 'number.' But why do these South Carolinian religionists 'regret'? They are good men, they are holy men, they are men who profess to live in the fear at least of the devil. Whence, then, these fears? Is it because there has been a gross violation of the laws of God and of this Nation? Is it because there has been piracy? Is it because the moral sensibilities of the land have been outraged? Because that has been done which good men and prudent men hoped never to see done again? By no means. It is because 'untrained Africans are in the midst of us'; from which we are left log­ically to infer that if the Africans aforesaid had been 'trained'-had been expert with the shovel and dexterous with the hoe-had been baptized and taught to play upon the banjo-they would have been welcome to the soil, the society and the sanctuaries of South Carolina. Piracy is nothing; theft is nothing; cruelty is nothing; but to buccaneer and to steal, to fetter and to flog 'untrained Africans,' is a sheer waste of enterprise, iron and hemp. And yet here we think that the saints, in the ardor of their spirits, did not give fair play to their intellects. The peculiar feature of the peculiar institution is that it 'trains'-that it taxes a raw man, and by a judicious application of raw hide, and by a reduction to wholesome rawness of the back, cooks him-if we may use the word-into a condition of Christian and civilized brownness. If we rightly understand the Southern system, as expounded and elucidated by the Southern Doctors of Divinity, its main object, like that of Mr. <illegible>, is 'to polish'; so that, if it were safe, it would be a, pa­rental kindness for the King of <illegible> to send his innumerable children to South Carolina to be in­structed in Elementary Christianity, and the Phi­losophy of Flagellation. We do not see clearly why any Southern church should weep over the importa­tion of black men. In their native wilds these mis-
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, INFRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for look­ing at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
erable beings delighted in beads-in South Carolina they "will be introduced to hymn-books, all the more wonderful  and impressive because they cannot read them. Upon their native sands their chief delight was to kill each other-a recreation altogether too expensive to be permitted in this enlightened land. At home, perhaps, they boiled and they bolted each other; but in South Carolina they will be confined to a regimen of rice. At home they knelt to gods of wood and stone extremely ugly, but very impressive, and here they will be introduced to the Higher Power as understood and prayed to in South Carolina. What, then, does this South Carolina Church mean by casting this stumbling-block in the way of the conversion of Ethiopia? 'Tis flat, rank, damnable heresy, worthy of the notice of all Presbyteries and Conferences South.
The truth is, we suppose that these meek and lowly gentlemen, while laying up treasures in Heaven, have congregated-so to speak-many two-legged treasures upon earth. Proprietors of small or large flocks of 'trained' Africans, they do not fancy the introduction into the market of the 'untrained' article, which will enter into disagreeable, and perhaps disastrous competition with the home-made goods. So these man-owners have become, all of a sudden, Evangelical Protectionists in se If-defence. They evidently fear a depressed market, and a bad time coming, in which it will not pay to 'breed.' If the sale of one negro now defrays the expenses of a planter's annual trip to New York, buys his 'missus' a silk gown, pays his son's college bill, and gives all his girls a new brooch apiece, how should he look forward with complacency to the time when, to accomplish all these desirable and delicious objects, he will be compelled to part with a brace of beauties, fat and sleek! A man would be less than a Christian, of the Southern species, if he could do it. It is all very well to talk about piety, but piety which empties the breeches pocket is no more fit for South Carolina, than lager beer and Bologna sausages are fit for a baby mewling in its nurse's arms.-New York Tribune.
The following merited tribute to the colored people of Boston is from an unexpected quarter.

COLORED POPULATION OF BOSTON.
A friend and well-wisher of ours,-who does not agree with us in our politics, but who respects in us that adherence to honest convictions by which his own life is characterized,-complained to us lately of the tone in which the colored population of the country were spoken of in the COURIER. Whatever inferences may have been drawn, justly or unjustly, from any particular expressions which may have dropped from the pen in the hurry of composition, we here take occasion to say, that anybody does us injustice who thinks or says that we are indifferent to the welfare of the colored people, or disposed, through wantonness, to wound their feelings. Such is not the case. We feel none other than kindness and good will to this portion of our population, and would never knowingly forego any opportunity to serve them, or to help them serve themselves. The colored population of Boston, during the last twenty-five years, has made very distinct and decided progress, and such progress is most honorable to them. They lead more moral and reputable lives: they are possessed of more property, and live more comfortably: they are more anxious to improve their own minds, and to educate their children-indeed their anxiety to have their children well educated, and the honest pains and sacrifices they are at, to have them neatly dressed, are most creditable to them. These things show that they were entirely worthy of the boon which has been bestowed upon them now, in every town and city in the State, of having their children educated at the same schools with the whites.
We are glad of this progress; and we are also glad of the gradual melting away of the prejudices once entertained by their white brethren towards them. Certainly, there never was anything more unchristian than the spectacle which we can remember in the parish churches of New England, of a few colored worshippers stuck up in a sort of swallow's nest pew under the eaves, as if they were lepers or pariahs. The man whose devotions are disturbed by having a family of well-behaved and decently dressed colored persons in the pew next to him, may know much of the doctrines of Christianity, but is very little imbued with its spirit. We think Massachusetts is honorably distinguished by its bearings towards its colored population, not merely by giving them equal political privileges with the whites, but by the increasing willingness of its people to recognize their social rights, and to deal with them in a spirit of humanity and Christianity. 
In this feeling we do most distinctly share. We feel no prejudice against them. We do prefer a white face to a black one; but we have no objections to meet a colored man in any of the relations of life, provided that his manners, appearance, conversation, dress, are such that, were they possessed by a white man, it would be comfortable to meet him in a similar relation. We don't like to come very near a man who is filthy or noisome, be he black or white. But by the color merely, we are not repelled; and we think no man ought to be.
And yet we suppose there are many who will say that this is all affectation and pretence, because we are not abolitionists or free soilers, and don't believe in slavery agitation, political or nonpolitical. We cannot help this. Fanaticism never can look except through its own loop-holes, or rather gimlet-holes; it never sees but one side of any thing, and what does not come within its line of observation, it never can see at all.-Boston Courier.

'UNCLE TOM' IN GREEK.
BROOKFIELD, Jan. 15, 1858. 
To the Editors of the Independent:
GENTLEMEN: In glancing over the letter from Thomas Watts, Esq., of the British Museum, which appeared in The Independent of January 13th, communicating interesting facts respecting 'Uncle Tom,' I noticed the following passage: 'In the Asiatic languages, the only version I have yet seen is in the Armenian.'
On perusing the above, it occurred to me that it might be of interest to some to know that 'Uncle Tom' appeared as a weekly serial in a Greek newspaper, of which, unfortunately, I now forget the name. In the summer of 1853, I met a Greek resident of Constantinople at the island of Prinkipo, the Baden Spa of the Periotes. 'Uncle Tom' was at that time taking the literary world by storm.
It was evening when this gentleman addressed me, as we we were both pacing up and down the quay, and listening to the music of the festive bands. The night was perfectly calm, but a thunder-storm was brooding over the mountains of the opposite coast, and incessant flashes illumined the gloom, lighting as with day the shores of Anatolia, the tranquil bosom of the Marmora, the island where repose the ashes of the empress Irene, and the picturesque groups which moved gaily in the foreground; while the wild bursts of music made a fitting prelude to the long, low thunder that rumbled over the deep.
Strange as was the scene, it seemed still more strange to hear my companion, a Greek in the land of the Turk, introduce 'Uncle Tom' as a topic of conversation. Shelby, St. Clair, 'Oncle Tome,' as he called him with his foreign accent, Cassy, and Legree, appeared to him like household words, and of the whole work he expressed himself in terms of the warmest enthusiasm. He kindly offered to show me the sheets containing the translation, but, being obliged to leave the ensuing morning, I lost that gratification.
This is a specimen of the reception given to 'honest old Uncle' in 'the clime of the East, in the land of the sun.' S. G. W. B.
CATHOLIC SEMINARIES FOR NEGROES. At Naples a new seminary for young negroes was established about a year ago by a zealous monk, Father Ludovico. All the inmates had been bought by the founder in Africa, twelve at the expense of the King of Naples, and a palace had been donated for an educational establishment by a Neapolitan priest. In October, after the completion of one year's studies, an examination was held in the presence of the Cardinal Arobbishop of Naples, the prime minister, and several other distinguished personages, who declared themselves fully satisfied with it. The course of studies embraced the Italian, Latin, French, and Arabic languages, geography, arithmetic, the elements of geometry, physics, and chemistry, and the doctrines of the Catholic Church. The climate of Naples agrees very well with the negroes, and it is therefore intended to open also a seminary for the numerous young negresses whom Abbe Olivieri has been redeeming from slavery. Heretofore they have been dispersed in the convents of Italy, France, and Germany, and a great many of them have met with a premuture death from the roughness of a foreign limate.
<c02>
The liberator
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, MARCH 11, 1859.
REV. DR. POMROY AND THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
The following letter has been transmitted to us by our friend PARKER PILLSBURY, with a desire that its inquiries should be promptly answered in the Liberator. It is from a highly respected friend of the Anti-Slavery cause in England:-
WAKEFIELD, Yorkshire, England, 
February 9, 1859. 
MY DEAR SIR,-A Dr. Pomroy, Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, has recently visited Leeds, and has secured a hearty welcome by representing himself and the Board to be Anti-slavery. Now, I have always 00understood the contrary to be the fact, and, therefore, as soon as I heard of Dr. Pomroy's visit, I wrote to the Editors of the Leeds Mercury, informing them of the pro-slavery antecedents of the Board. In reply to this, I am favored with a courteous letter from Edward Baines, Esq.,-one of the proprietors of that paper,-in which he declines to insert mine, on the ground that it would do harm, as the Board is now Anti-slavery.
I feel no hesitation in asking you to give me full and explicit answers to the two following questions. First-What is the present attitude of the Board towards slavery ? Secondly-Has Dr. Pomroy ever, in the slightest degree, identified himself with the Anti-slavery movement, in public or in private? By answering these queries, you will confer a personal favor on me, and will enable the friends of the slave in Yorkshire to expose the misrepresentations of Dr. Pomroy.
With sincere respect, believe me, dear sir. 
Your obdt. servant,
JOSEPH A. HORNER.
PARKER PILLSBURY, Esq.
The first inquiry in this letter, as to the complicity of the American Board with slavery, will be found most lucidly and effectually answered in the article which occupies a large portion of our inside form, from the pen of our indefatigable and always reliable coadjutor, Mr. C. K. We commend it to the careful perusal of Mr. EDWARD BAINES, Editor of the Leeds Mercury, hoping it will serve to undeceive him on a matter of momentous importance.
The second inquiry, as to whether Dr. Pomroy,-now stealthily in England, deceiving the people, as Secretary of the Boardwas ever identified with the Anti-slavery movement, we answer in the affirmative. He early espoused it, and was for several years an officer in the American Anti-Slavery Society, and also the New England A. S. Society. But he at last shamefully apostatized, and was bribed to silence by the proffer of the office he now fills, and has utterly repudinted that movement which he once so warmly advocated. His attempt to make capital for himself, and secure favor for the American Board in England, on the strength of his old connection with our cause, is equally dishonest and Jesuitical.
It will be seen, by the following valediction, which we copy from the Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle, that our estimable, widely-beloved, and thoroughly-tried coadjutor, MARIUS R. ROBINSON, has retired from the editorial charge of the Bugle. While we deeply regret this, we are gratified to perceive who is to be his successor-one equally true and faithful to our cause, and well qualified for the post.
A CHANGE-PARTING WORDS.
With the present number, my editorial connection with the Anti-Slavery Bugle ceases. With the next number, BENJAMIN S. JONES will assume its control. The reasons for my withdrawal are personal to myself, and I shall not trouble the reader with any reference to them. My heart is full at the thought that this interesting and important fraction of my life's work is ended. It is sad to speak the parting word to the thousands whom I have addressed on the most important topics, from week to week for now these (nearly) eight years.
I assumed the duties of editor at first only temporarily, and compelled by necessity, because no one else appeared to fill the breach, made by the departure of its able, experienced and devoted editor, Oliver Johnson. I came to these responsibilities with great reluctance, and yet with right good will to the cause, and resolved to do what I could, for the cause's sake. I have sought to keep an eye singly to the slave's deliverance by means of truth and justice. In fidelity to this purpose, I have been often compelled to displease personal friends, to reason and remonstrate with mistaken fellow-laborers, as well as to expose and rebuke the selfish, time serving and hypocritical. My failures have often been deeply humiliating; but however numerous my errors and unfortunate my shortcomings, I feel a cheerful satisfaction in knowing that pose, throughout, has been to do what I could to serve and save the outcasts-those who have so few to sympathise with and aid them.
I have also the satisfaction of committing the Bugle to the charge of one who has had large experience in editorial and other anti-slavery labor; one who has been trusted in the East and in the West as a tried, true and faithful friend of the cause; and who has its interests, and the interests of the paper as its auxiliary, deeply at heart; one to whose wisdom, judgment and integrity, the Society has testified year after year, by his annual appointment as a member of its Executive Committee, and as its Secretary. In his hands I know the moral standard of the Bugle will never be lowered, and I earnestly hope that its circulation, its prosperity and usefulness will be, as they will deserve to be, greatly augmented.
The Bugle is the representative of vitally important principles. Its appearance from week to week is a standing protest against that time-serving expediency, which atheistically, in the church as well as the world, ignores the existence of a fixed moral law in the universe, and establishes anarchy in its place-by substituting as a moral standard the prejudices, wishes, or mistaken and conflicting policy and interests of ignorant and erring individuals in the community. The interests of a true humanity, the prevalent influence of a pure religion, and the triumphs of freedom and justice over slavery and out-ragorage, require that the uncompromising protest of at least one paper in the great West should be regularly maintained. In parting, I can but urge upon every friend of the slave the importance of individual efforts to extend the circulation of the paper in view of this important part of its mission.
With the members of the Executive Committee, the members and friends of the Society, of the cause generally, I part, sorrowful with the thought that our pleasant intercourse is in part to cease; but happy in remembrance of their forbearance, liberality and friendly sympathy, which has so often and so greatly aided me in the work they entrusted to my care.
May we all continue to be faithful co-workers in our common cause, until Death shall write our discharge from this service, or till we are permitted to join the jubilee-shout of freedom over the emancipation of our millions of enslaved countrymen. No nobler service can be rendered to our race; no higher honors awaits us than those which cluster around such life-long fidelity.
M. R. ROBINSON. 
The Homoeopathic Fair was opened in the Music Hall, in this city, on Tuesday last, under highly favorable auspices. The contributions to it of articles, useful, beautiful and rare, have been abundant, and the hall presents a brilliant appearance. Mrs. Banks, the wife of Gov. Banks, and Mrs. Rice, the wife of ex-mayor Rice, have tables of their own. The fair will remain open until Saturday evening. We wish it entire success. Season ticket, $1. Single admission, 25 cents. 
Our readers will be highly gratified to see the handsome and flattering reception given to Miss SARAN P. REMOND, of Salem, in England, as recorded in the Warrington papers. [See first page.]
<c03>
AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS. 
This Association, instituted in 1810 for the diffusion of  the Gospel among foreign heathen nations, now consists of two hundred and five Corporate members, and more than ten thousand Honorary members. Its receipts from the religious public, having pretty steadily increased from the commencement, amounted last year to more than $370,000.
From the year 1840 to the present time, the Board have been urged at almost every annual meeting, by various petitions and memorials, to withdraw the support and countenance which they were affording to slavery. Their utter indifference in regard to that subject before it was forced upon them from without, is shown by the facts that they not only then (as now) freely admitted slaveholders to their churches, as Christians, but that several of their missionaries in the Cherokee and Choctaw nations were slaveholders, and others extensively used the hired labor of slaves, paying therefore, not the laborer himself, but the pretended owner of the laborer, and thus participating in that system which defrauded the actual laborer of part of his wages. Moreover, they were so far from discouraging slavery by church discipline, that Mr. Treat, one of the Secretaries of the Board, represented the increased number of slaves in the Cherokee and Choctaw nations, and the general preference there felt for investing money in this 'species of property,' as one of the results of 'the doctrines of the Gospel having exerted their appropriate influence. ' [Missionary Herald, the official organ of the A. B. C. F. M., October 1848, p. 349.]
We propose now to show, by ample quotation from the language of the Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries, (as given in the Annual Reports of the Board,) and from the acquiescence of the Board in the continuance of the course of policy indicated in that language , that both these parties hold a pro-slavery (and thus an anti-Christian) position.'
The missionaries favor slavery in a three-fold manner; first, by entirely abstaining from the rebuke of slavery, though an aggravated form of that wickedness is prosperous and flourishing in the very region where they pretend to exercise the function of ministers of the Gospel; next, by taking, and openly proclaiming that they will continue to take, the men who are stained with that wickedness into full membership in their churches; and, lastly, by appealing to the Christian Scriptures in justification of this course of policy, and claiming God's approval of it, thus perverting that very Christianity of which they pretend to be the ministers, and teaching another heathenism to the people whom they claim to have converted from heathenism. Here is their language: Extracts from the letter of the Cherokee missionaries on slavery, signed by Elizur Butler, Moderator, and S. A. Worcester, Clerk:-
'In regard to the question of rejecting any person from the church simply because he is a slaveholder, we cannot for a moment hesitate. For (1) we regard it as certain that the Apostles, who are our patterns, did receive slaveholders to the communion of the Church; and we have not yet been able to perceive any such difference between their circumstances and ours as to justify us in departing from their practice in this respect. And (2) our general rule is to receive all to our communion who give evidence that they love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity; and we cannot doubt that many slaveholders do give such evidence.
'Nor can we even make it a test of piety, or a condition of admission to the privileges of the Church, that a candidate should express a determination not to live and die a slaveholder.'-39th Annual Report, 1848, p. 93.
'Occasional exchanges of masters are so inseparable from the existence of slavery that the churches could not consistently receive slaveholders to their communion at all, and at the same time forbid all such exchanges. We regard it, therefore, as IMPOSSIBLE TO EXERCISE DISCIPLINE FOR THE BUYING OR SELLING OF SLAVES, except in flagrant cases of manifest disregard to the welfare of the slave.'-p. 94.
'In regard to the separation of parents and children, we must first remark, that it is one of those things which are not forbidden by any express INJUNCTION OF SCRIPTURE.' 'It is impossible, in our circumstances, to make it a general rule that the separation of parents and children, by sale or purchase, shall be regarded as a disciplinable offence.'-pp. 94, 95.
Extracts from the letter of the Choctaw missionaries on slavery, signed by C. KINGSBURY, ALFBED WRIGHT, CYRUS BYINGTON, E. HOTCHK.IN, C. C. COPELAND, DAVID BBBED, Jr., H. K. COPELAND, and D. H. WINSHIP, with a signature of dissent from J. C. STRONG:- 
'We have endeavored as a mission to keep aloof from the abolition movement.'-p. 98.
'We feel that the Bible contains all that we have need to know or teach. And we prefer TO USE THE PLAIN LANGUAGE OF THE BIBLE, just as it is, UPON THE SUBJECT OF SLAVERY.'-p. 98.
'We wish to touch briefly on the history of our connection with slavery. We have been and are connected with it in two ways; by employing slaves as laborers, and by admitting them and their masters to the Church.'-p. 98.
''Several masters have given evidence of piety, and were received into the Church, BECAUSE THE APOSTLES HAVE SET US PLAIN EXAMPLES.'-p. 100.
'As a civil relation, it [slavery] exists by virtue of the constitution and laws of the land. We are taught in the Bible our duties as citizens. It may be deemed our duty by some to adopt a train of measures which shall aim in their object directly to countervail the whole system, and in the end undermine the entire fabric which human legislation has framed in regard to slavery. We do not feel that we are required to adopt such a course. Nor do we regard this as our work.'-Ib.
'As slavery, with various modifications, has for a long time had an existence in the Church of God, it is proper for us TO INQUIRE HOW THE SERVANTS OF THE LORD IN OLD TIME WERE TAUGHT BY HIM, AS WELL AS HOW THEY CONDUCTED IN BEGARD TO IT.'-p. 101 
The Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries have held this ground, and acted upon it, ever since 1848, when these letters were published. And yet the Board continue, to this day, to employ and support, to recommend and endorse them, as Christian missionaries, as ministers of the Gospel.
To approach more nearly to an adequate conception of the guilt of the American Board of Foreign Missions in this matter, we must bear in mind the following facts:- 
1. The Cherokee and Choctaw Indians were slaveholders when the Board first established their missions there. The Board knew that they were sending their missionaries-that is, the men who were to execute their work, and to represent the character of their association, and also to .represent Christianity-into the midst of slaveholders. They knew perfectly well that the question would come up, whether the religious system which those missionaries were to teach would favor slavery or oppose slavery. And yet they left them without a word of direction, or even of suggestion, as to how they should meet this momentous question. This does not justify, nor in the slightest degree extenuate, the pro-slavery course which the missionaries pursued; it was their imperative duty to make it clear to the ignorant and vicious people among whom they were laboring, that slaveholding was no more permitted by the Christian system than murder, theft, adultery or drunkenness; they had the whole matter in their own power from the beginning; if they kept these last-named vices out of the Church, why did they let slaveholding into it? If they let slaveholding in, why did they keep these out? They are as utterly inexcusable as a Hindoo missionary would be who should expressly reserve to his converts the right of worshipping Juggernaut. 
But equally inexcusable is the conduct of the Board, in not helping their missionaries to be faithful in this important matter by express instruction, warning and admonition, addressed to this very point. They knew not only that slaveholding was a prominent and easily besetting sin of the heathen people in question, but that, in neighboring regions, the Christian name also was prostituted to the allowance of it. It was their imperative duty to have fortified
<c04> 
their missionaries beforehand against this danger; to have lightened the odium which Christian faithfulness would assuredly have brought upon them, by express instructions and an absolute prohibition of complicity with slaveholding or toleration of it for one moment in their Church-communion. This was the Board's first violation of duty in this matter.
2. After the missionaries had entered into complicity with slavery by holding slaves, and hiring slaves, and freely admitting slaveholders into their churches, without a word of protest against the system, the Board still kept silence. They made no objection to either of these forms of sin. And the whole history of the transaction shows why they made no objection! It was because they felt none! It was because they were perfectly willing to see slavery taken under the protection of their churches, and to see the Christian name abused to the extent of becoming its bulwark! They remained silent and indifferent, even after this wickedness had been exposed to the public gaze by the Abolitionists; and it was not until the subsequent echoing of this remonstrance by some of their own contributors, who had been converted by the Abolitionists, that they did any thing whatever in the premises. Their silence gave consent to the sin, so long as it was possible to remain silent. 
3. Before the Board finally disposed of the proslavery letters of the Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries, and of the temporizing reply of Mr. Treat, by leaving them all in the hands of that Prudential Committee of whom Mr. Treat had been the mouthpiece, Rev. Dr. Blanchard, of Illinois, moved the following resolutions by way of amendment:-
'Resolved, That this Board distinctly admits and aftirms the principle, that slaveholding is a practice which is not to be allowed in the Christian Church.
'Resolved, That it is, in the judgment of the Board, the duty of our missionaries in the Cherokee and Choctaw nations to discontinue the practice of hiring slaves of their owners to do the work of the missions; and, in the reception of members, to act on the principle laid down by Mr. Treat and the Prudential Committee, that slaveholding is prima facie evidence against the piety of the candidates applying for admission to the church.''
This amendment was unanimously rejected; but afterwards, in consideration of Dr. Blanuhard's consent to withdraw it, the rejection was reconsidered by a vote of forty to thirteen, and the following compromise ended the matter. Dr. Blanchard withdrew his resolutions, and the Board agreed that they might be entered on the records of the meeting.
4.When the Board were forced, by the increased number of remonstrances from their contributors, and the prospective danger of withdrawal of contributions, to do something in regard to slavery, that something was manifestly directed to a removal of the reproach, and of the agitation consequent upon it, rather than of the sin. It was plain, alike from what the Board did then, and from what they had refrained from doing before, that they did not care for the oppression suffered by the slaves, nor for the sin of authenticating that oppression by the admission of its perpetrators to their churches. They wanted merely that which would serve to avert agitation, and to continue the contribution of cash to their coffers. They wanted, in relation to slavery, just what their dear brother William A. Hallock, Secretary of the Tract Society, wanted, in relation to the rejection, by that body, of Rev. Samuel Wolcott's tract, entitled,'The Sin of Oppression'-namely, 'TO LET THE MATTER REST WITHOUT NOISE"! We say they_ wanted only this, because they acted as if they wanted nothing else. And this is what they did.
When it was no longer possible to keep silence without losing men and money, the Board changed its line of policy, and used pious talk instead of silent indifference as a shield against agitation. Their Prudential Committees, and their Special Committees, and their Special Agents, between the years 1844 and 1850 wrote voluminously (though by no means luminously) about slavery-'about it, and about it.' They specially avoided giving instructions or directions  their missionaries, but they made an immense amount of pious dissertation, exhortation and amplification, into which were infused all sorts of remonstrances, queries, hints, suggestions and insinuations, which plainly meant-like the whispered stage 'aside,' the wink, or the nudge, which the double-dealer privately gives to one party, while the other side of his face presents a profound seriousness to the other parties concerned, and to the throng of spectators-'Can't-you get this confounded thing out of our way.? ' 
They mixed these substantial and designed-to-be-effective ingredients of their communications (varied by fine shades of gradation from open remonstrance to wink-like suggestion) with an immense mass of plausible matter adapted to quiet the doubts of their own remonstrants and of the public. They wrote pages upon pages of indefinite pious phraseology, and as much more of pious phraseology particularly directed to the subject of slavery. They wrote against slavery very hard and severe things, indeed almost every thing that was bad, except the decision that it was unfit for admission to the Christian Church. They used again and again language which would have been quite sufficient for the utter condemnation of slavery, if it had not gone side by side with the suggestion of excuses for that sin, and the express admission that the pro-slavery missionaries were, after all, to have their own way in the matter, and take as many slaveholders into their churches as they chose.
There were, however, two classes of pro-slavery men who were dissatisfied with this double-barrelled arrangement of the Reports of the Board. The more ignorant and stupid of the slaveholding church-members of the South were not satisfied to have any alloy of anti-slavery talk mixed with the liberal allowance of pro-slavery life and practice which the Board had conceded to them. They wanted their 'peculiar institution' praised as well as allowed, and they took umbrage at those pious generalities of the Board which spoke ill of slavery in the very act of allowing it. The complaints of these people, (who were so stupid as not to know, or so ungrateful as not to care, that the Board was doing the very utmost in its power for them,) enforced by the complaints of the missionaries themselves, brought out a new statement from the Board in 1849, defining its own position.
The missionaries also took umbrage, and not without reason, at the wounds that had thus been given them in the house of their friends. They knew that the Board, which itself included slaveholders among its members, had no intrinsic objection then, any more than formerly, to their admission of slaveholders to the mission churches; they knew that the pious talk against slavery in the Annual Reports was put there only 'for Buncombe,' and was brought out only by the pertinacious inquiries and remonstrances of a small minority of the contributors to its fund; and they very naturally felt aggrieved at the large amount of verbal censure of slavery which the Board had incorporated with its continued allowance of slavery. Therefore they also complained, and in the Annual Report for 1849, the Board published the following explanatory and deprecatory clauses in relation to the letter above mentioned, written (by direction of the Prudential Committee) by Rev. Selah B. Treat, one of the Corresponding Secretaries, to the Cherokee and Choctaw missions, and published in the previous Annual Report, pp. 102-111. The italics are those of the Report.
'The letter sent by Mr. Treat to the mission had not that authoritative character which some have attributed to it. It expressed opinions, then and still entertained by the Committee; but not in a form which made those opinions decisions, or instructions. The Committee have given no instructions to the missionaries in relation to slavery; they say expressly that they address their brethren 'with suggestions and arguments.' The distinction between suggestions, opinions and arguments, on the one hand, and decisions, rules and instructions on the other, though necessarily familiar to the conductors of missions, seems
<c05>
to have been overlooked by some who have written on this subject.' p. 72.
'This distinction is vital to the proper understanding of Mr. Treat's letter to the Choctaw mission; and for want of attention to it, very erroneous constructions have been put upon that letter. With this practical distinction in view, moreover, it will be seen that the Committee and the Secretaries have done nothing inconsistent with the letter or spirit of the two fundamental principles recognized by the Board at Brooklyn; namely, that credible evidence of piety is the only thing to be required for admission into the Churches gathered among the heathen; and that missionaries and their Churches are the rightful and exclusive judges as to the sufficiency of this evidence.' Ib.
'Nor have the Committee preferred any 'charges' against the mission. On the contrary, they would repeat the sentiment in the letter of Mr. Treat, expressing their undiminished "confidence in the integrity and faithfulness of these servants of Christ." ' Ib.
The first of these paragraphs is an admission, on the part of the Board, that the pious talk unfavorable to slavery in their Reports was merely talk, and not designed or expected to modify the action of the proslavery missionaries.
The second paragraph gives us the theory by which the Board undertake to justify their tolerance of slaveholders in the Mission Churches. They, the Board (they say), are not the persons to examine and decide upon the claims of candidates for membership in the Mission Churches! Oh! no, certainly not! 'The missionaries and their Churches are the rightful and exclusive judges' of that matter; and so, if a missionary and his Church, in a slaveholding country, mutually agree that slavery shall be supported by the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper, the Board must acquiesce, however different may be their opinion! Say you so, gentlemen of the Board? Then answer us this question. If a missionary and his Church, in Hindostan, shall agree together to admit to church membership those who annually join in the Juggernaut procession, and claim it as a Christian right still to do so,. will you then content yourself merely with the expression of an adverse opinion! Will you then refrain from giving instructions, while at the same time you continue the pecuniary support of such missionaries and such Churches? We have a right, and the public have a right, to look for a reply to these questions.
The third paragraph above quoted from the 40th Annual Report of the Board contains their full authentication of their pro-slavery missionaries among the Cherokees and Choctaws as Christian ministers.
These missionaries had shown as much complaisance in regard to the suggested ' opinions' of the Board as could reasonably be expected. They had, in an early stage of the controversy, yielded so far as to discontinue slaveholding in their own persons, and to abridge, at considerable sacrifice of personal convenience, the amount of their hiring of slave labor. But when it came to having their own peculiar battery of pious talk turned against themselves-when the very bul-letins that contained the allowance of their slaveholding Churches were pieced out with whole pages of unpleasant reflections upon the character and influence of slavery-when the very men whom they knew to have approved the beginning and the continuance of their pro-slavery work now pointed disparaging 'opinions, suggestions and arguments ' at them before the eyes of men-they could not bear it! Human nature could hardly be expected to bear it! So, upon the point that slavery, however bad it might be, was good enough to be received into their Churches, they; made a firm stand, taking the ground (as we have shown by their own words, written in 1848, and quoted at the commencement of this article)-
1. That slaveholding was authorized by the New Testament.
2. That, therefore, they were fully determined not to make slaveholding a ground either for the expulsion of a church-member or the rejection of a candidate.
3. That they would not exercise discipline in the Church either against the general buying and selling of slaves, or the sale of children away from their parents.
4. That they would not adopt any train of meas- ures which should even tend ' in the end' to overthrow slavery.
The missionaries, we have said, planted themselves firmly upon this ground. But since the Board-while allowing them to retain this position, and to shelter slavery in the Church as thoroughly as they pleased-continued the practice of using pious quasi anti-slavery talk in their Annual Reports, six of the seven Choctaw missionaries, in November, 1855, sent in a letter of resignation. The Prudential Committee of the Board, having really no objection to the position and course of policy of the missionaries, desired them to recall their letter of resignation; and to this request the six missionaries replied, under date of Lenox, Choctaw Nation, Sept. 6th, 1856. The whole letter is given in the New York Observer of Dec. 2d, 1858. After rehearsing their pro-slavery ground, the six missionaries say:
'If, with the foregoing views-which are known by the people among whom we labor-the Prudential Committee should deem it wise to continue our support, we are willing to try to remain in their service. Accordingly, we have estimated our expenses for the ensuing year. If, on the other hand, the Committee should not think it best to retain us, we shall not expect them to grant us the estimates.' 
The Observer gives the signatures to this document as follows-
C. KlNGSBURY, C. C. COPELAND,
C. BYINGTON, O. P. STARK,
E. HOTCHKIN, J. EDWARDS,
and it adds:
'The Prudential Committee took the subject into consideration, and, with this letter before them, made the usual appropriations. The missionaries, being thus left at liberty to pursue their work in their own way, have continued to prosecute their labors with their usual success.' 
The statement of this transaction in the succeeding Annual Report of the Board (for 1856) illustrates so perfectly the pious trickery of reservation, misrepresentation and insinuation with which these documents are made up, that we quote it in full from the 195th page:-
'In the month of November, four brethren of this mission forwarded a letter to the Missionary House, expressing their wish to be released from their connection with the Board. The Prudential Committee, conceiving that these brethren had misapprehended the true state of the relations existing between them and the Board, directed an answer to this letter to be prepared and forwarded by the Secretary having charge of the correspondence with the Indian missions. A reply to this communication has recently been received, in which the missionaries intimated a willingness to continue their relations to the Board, awaiting the issues of further correspondence. Under these circumstances, the Committee have informed them that, upon receiving their estimates, which they propose forwarding, for the current year, the customary appropriations will be made. The Committee apprehend that a publication of the correspondence pending at the present time would be detrimental to the interests of the mission; experience having shown that, while negotiations are in progress between the Committee and missionaries, a public discussion of the subject tends to hinder the parties from coming to a harmonious result.'
Thus, in the ingenious phraseology of this Report the wish of the Board (like that of the Tract Society, and of the 'business men's prayer-meetings') to let the subject of slavery 'rest without noise.' is set forth as an apprehension that publicity would be 'detrimental to the interests of the mission'; the six missionaries whose names are signed to the letter published by the Observer are compressed into 'four brethren of this mission'; the threat of these ' brethren' that they would leave the Board, unless its quasi anti-slavery talk should be counterbalanced by a distinctly renewed license to the ir pro-slavery position, becomes, by this process of 'free translation,' a conception of
<c06>
the Prudential Committee that these brethren 'had misapprehended the true state of the relations existing between them and the Board'; and finally, that yielding of the Board to the missionaries' demand which closed, the negotiation is felicitously, veiled by the phrases-'the missionaries intimated a willingness to continue their relations to the Board,' and 'under these circumstances the Committee have informed them that the customary appropriations will be made.' 
In the Annual Report for 1857, the very year after this renewed settlement of affairs upon a pro-slavery basis, the Committee say respecting these missions: 
We cannot too highly appreciate the perseverance, the faithfulness, and the cheerful and self-denying labors of our missionaries. The Committee see dangers threatening; but they are of such a nature as can be warded off only by divine interposition THEY SEE NO CHANGE TO RECOMMEND, unless it be to suggest to our brethren the inquiry whether there may not be more attention directed to the training up of natives for teachers and pastors.' 
This is as if a Temperance Committee, being called to report on the state of the various eating-houses in this city, should gravely state 'They see no change to recommend, unless to suggest the inquiry whether there may not be more attention directed to the training up of young men for bar-keepers'! 
Lastly, in the 49th Annual Report, published near the close of 1858, the Board still allow the complicity of the missionaries with slavery to pass without either rebuke for the past or prohibition for the future. But the manner of allowing an undisturbed continuance to this pro-slavery position-the method by which they let the subject alone, in the very act of seeming to attend to it and regulate it-is so peculiar, and so illustrative of the indirection with which this whole matter of slavery has been managed by the Board, as to be worthy of careful scrutiny.
In the first place, the Report proper of the Prudential Committee (extending from p. 23 to p. 147 of the Annual Report of the Board) contains not one word about slavery, good, bad or indifferent, though it certifies, in general, the 'fidelity' of the missionaries, and gives a particular detail of efforts and successes in the cause of 'Temperance.' Moreover, the Resolutions introduced, (p. 18) in behalf of the prudential Committee, by Rev. Dr. S. I,. Pomroy, one of the Secretaries, contain not the slightest allusion to slavery.
The preceding portion of the Forty-Ninth Annual Report (pp. 3-22) is occupied by 'Minutes of the Annual Meeting ' of the Board, and on pages 16 and 17 we find the following report of a special committee, to whom had been referred that portion of the Report of the Prudential Committee which related to the Cherokee and Choctaw Indians:-
The committee to whom was referred that part of the Annual Report entitled 'entitled' North American Indians, No. 1,' have had the same under consideration, and respectfully report:
That the missions included in the document which was referred to this committee, are the mission to the Dakotas and those to the partially civilized nation in the Indian territory.
At Hartford, in 1854, the views of the Board were clearly and definitely expressed in regard to certain laws and acts of the Choctaw government, which were designed to restrain the liberty of the missionaries as teachers of God's word. All the action of the Board since that date, and, so far as we are informed, the action of the Prudential Committee also, has been in conformity with the principles then put upon record. (a)
Your committee have reason to believe that the position of our missionaries among the Choctaws is one of much difficulty and peril. Among the various re-
ligious bodies in the States nearest to the Choetaw nation, there has been, as is well known, within the last twenty-five years, a lamentable defection from some of the first and most elementary ideas of Christian morality, insomuch that Christianity has been represented as the warrant for a system of slavery which offends the moral sense of the Christian world, and Christ has thereby been represented as the minister of sin. Our brethren among the Choctaws are in ecclesiastical relations with religious bodies in the adjoining States, the States from which the leading Choctaws are deriving their notions of civilization and of government. In those neighboring States, and in the Choctaw nation, the missionaries are watched by the upholders of slavery, who are ready to seize upon the first opportunity of expelling them from the field in which they have so long been laboring. By the enemies of the Board and of the missionaries, our brethren are charged with what are called, in those regions, the dangerous doctrines of abolitionism. At the same time they are charged, in other quarters, with the guilt of silence in the presence of a great and hideous wickedness. (b)
It seems, to your committee, desirable that the Board should be relieved, as early as possible, from the unceasing embarrassments and perplexities connected with the missions in the Indian territory. Surely the time is not far distant, when the Choetaw  and Cherokee Indians and half-breeds will stand in precisely the same relations to the missionary work with the white people of the adjacent States; and when the churches more there will be the subjects of home missionary more properly than of foreign missionary patronage.' (c) 
On the whole, your committee, with these suggestions, recommend that the Report of the Prudential Committee, as referred to them, be accepted and approved. (d)
The chairman of the special committee which made this Report was Rev. Dr. Leonard Bacon of New Haven. Since he had been active in complaints of the pro-slavery position of the American Tract Society, he seems to have thought it necessary to mention the subject of slavery here. To what purpose, and with how much effect, it is mentioned, a little examination will show.
The paragraph marked (a) seems (does it not) to express satisfaction in the action of the Board at Hartford, in 1854.What was that action! 
On turning to the Annual Report for 1854, we find a long special report, presented by Dr. Pomroy (pp. 25-32) containing not one word about slavery 
We find also (p. 24) the following resolution (reported by a committee of which Dr. Bacon was a member) adopted by the Board:
'Resolved, That the Board acknowledge, with gratitude to God, the wisdom and fidelity with which, so far as appears from the documents submitted to them, the Prudential Committee are advising AND DIRECTING the missionaries among the Choctaws, in conformity with the principles asserted by them in their correspondence with those missions, reported to the Board in 1848.''
We find also, in the official 'Remarks upon the Meeting,' (p. 45) this statement respecting the meaning of the above resolution:-
'The debate which grew out of the Report of the Choctaw mission, awakened a general and absorbing interest. The question was ultimately narrowed to a single point, namely, 'Shall the general principles of the letter addressed by the Prudential Committee to the Choctaw mission, in 1848, receive the express sanction of the Board?' It was admitted that these principles had received an implied sanction. In fact, there could have been no controversy on this  point. A committee on this letter and other documents recommended to the meeting of 1848, 'that the whole subject should be left for the present' 'in the hands of the Prudential Committee;' which recommendation was adopted by the Board. Nor was this all The Prudential Committee were all re-elected at that meeting; and they have been re-chosen annually, except in case of death or removal, from that time to this. They have felt, therefore, that their views must be considered as having the implied sanction of the Board; and they have acted accordingly.'
Both these documents, the Resolution and the Remarks marks, refer us back to the action of the Prudential Committee in 1848. To find out what these mean, therefore, and to find out what the Rev. Leonard Bacon means by his approval of the action of the Board at Hartford, in 1854, we must turn back to the Annual Report for 1848.
The Report for 1848 is the very one from which we have quoted at the commencement of this article, containing, 1. the letters of the Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries, declaring their settled determination still to admit slaveholders to their churches, and, 2. the temporizing reply of the Prudential Committee through Mr. Secretary Treat, respecting which a disclaimer (above inserted) was placed in the next Annual Report, saying that Mr. Treat's  letter 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
'expressed opinions, but not decisions or instructions'-and that 'This distinction is vital to the proper understanding of Mr. letter.'
That course of policy, therefore, of the Board, which Dr. Bacon seems to approve in the paragraph marked (a), is a systematic allowance that their missionaries may receive slaveholders, as Christians, into their churches, pleading the Bible as their warrant for this most efficient support of slavery.
Dr. Bacon's paragraph marked (b) presents as an excuse for the missionaries that which is really an additional crime on their part-namely, the maintenance of fraternal ecclesiastical relationsveholding churches of Texas, Ark and Missouri. It further presents that dislike of the missionaries which is undoubtedly felt by the profane, intemperate and brutal propagandists of slavery in those States, as presumptive evidence that those missionaries hold a right position on the subject of slavery.
Thus far in his Dr. Bacon has proposed to the Board no action whatever to check the fraternization of their missionaries and mission churches with He proposes none in the whole course of that document. But, (amazing as it may seem in a man who is reputed to be farther advanced towards anti-slavery than the great majority of the churches) in paragraph (c) he anticipates with pleasure, as the means of relieving the Board from the embarrassments and perplexities which a pro-slavery policy has brought upon it, the speedy application of these converted Cherokees and Choctaws for admission to the Union as a slave State, the success of which would, as a mater of course, transfer them from the Missionary to the Home Missionary department; and he close, in paragraph (d), by recommending to the of the Board that Report of the Prudential which utterly ignores the subject of slavery.
Such is the position of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. And such it has permanently been, from the commencement of its missions among the Cherokees and Choctaws, to the present moment.-C. K. W.

JACK-STRAWS.
While London and Paris are wondering at the exploits of Mr. Morphy in chess, our earlier stage of civilization is yet occupied with jack-straws; and we wish to speak of a match recently played in this game, in which distinguished science and skill have been shown by the leaders of the two parties, Mr. Secretary Eastman of New York, and Mr. Secretary Alvord of Boston.
If there be one of our readers whose childhood passed by without making acquaintance with this pretty game, we must briefly describe it to him, premising that it belongs to the department of games of not of chance. The problem is-a handful of little sticks, of various sizes, shapes, and assumed values, being thrown -for each player, in alternate by means of a miniature shepherd's crook, to draw from the heap as many as he can for his own side, without agitation of the rest. As soon as an unskillful attempt of either player produces a movement in the heap, he must desist, and his antagonist try his skill, until a similar misfortune befalls him; and so they go on, each one getting what he can, by hook or by crook, and careful above all things to avoid agitation, until all the value in question has been pouched by one side or the other.
The pleasant city of Hartford, in Connecticut, has lately been the seat of two meetings; one designed to uphold the satisfactoriness and sufficiency of the National Tract Society at New York, and the other to express a preference for its auxiliary at Boston. The speeches at both meetings, taken in connection with the published standard of action and course of policy of both Societies, are well suited to remind us of what Dr. says (in his book, published a year and a half ago, in defence of slavery) of the Presbyterian church; as follows:-
'The General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, before its division in 1838,and since-both Old School and New School-has been, for forty years and more, bearing testimony, after a fashion, against the system of slavery; that is to say, affirming, in one breath, that slaveholding is a 'blot on our holy religion,' &c. &c., and then, in the next utterance, making all sorts of apologies and justifications for the slaveholder.'
For thirty years thee has been regularly held, at Hartford, in the month of January, a meeting of the Hartford Tract Society, auxiliary to the National Society at New York, designed to aid the treasury and strengthen the influence of that Association, and regularly attended by one of its Secretaries. Ten days before this regularly recurring period, a meeting was held in Dr. Hawes's church, of persons who declared the National Society at New York no longer a satisfactory channel for their contributions to the cause, and who therefore proceeded to form a new which they made auxiliary to the Tract society of Boston. This meeting was attended, and assisted, by the Boson Secretary, but he remembered to forget to remind them, as they remembered to forget to mention in their report of the proceedings, that the Society in Boston is itself auxiliary to that in New York, annually putting a considerable sum into its treasury, and circulating the Tracts printed on its stereotype plates, after having been emasculated by its Publishing Committee.
At both the meetings in question, one or more of the speeches bore testimony ('after a fashion,' as Dr. Ross accurately expresses it) against slavery. Rev. Dr. Bacon of New Haven, (one of the partisans of Boston) declared-'If Satan has an entrenchment in this world, it is in the slavery of this country.' Judge and Ex-Governor Ellsworth (one of the partisans of New York) affirmed-'Human slavery is a great and unmitigated wrong. 'Yet both these, with all the other speakers at these two meetings, and the two societies which they respectively represent and endorse, take ground, and take it with absolute unanimity, that a religious Tract Society should not advocate the abolition of slavery, nor take any ground against either slavery, the sin of the nation, or slaveholding, the sin of three hundred thousand of its individual members, many of them also church-members. Upon these points, we say, the auxiliary at Boston, and the sub-auxiliary at Hartford, are in perfect accordance with the National society at New York, holding this ground not only by acceptance of the same standard, (the Report of the special Committee of Fifteen, made at New York in 1857,) but by an accordant interpretation of it. The point where the Auxiliary and the sub-auxiliary differ with their Principal is this, that the two former will, while the latter will not, fraternally discuss the moral evils and vices which slavery is known to promote! defending their determination, one to do this, and the other not to do it, by appeal to the very same standard, the Report above-mentioned. 
Great skill and tact were shown by both parties in this contest. The New York Secretary was assisted by three Judges, Chief Justice Williams, Judge Parsons, and Judge Ellsworth; the Boston Secretary had the aid of four Reverend Doctors, Hawes of Hartford, Patton of New York, Kirk of Boston, and Bacon of New Haven. In the work of pushing their own interests and disconcerting those of their antagonists, both parties showed themselves highly accomplished, both also appearing unrestrained by such restrictions as truth and candor would impose. But the noteworthy feature in the contest was that predominant and unceasing dread of agitation which actuated both parties, to the extent, not only of interspersing vague general compliments with the special complaints which each made of the other, but of expressly desiring, on the part of each, that those who were determined not to help its side would bestow their money and influence upon the other, number than, by further debates, inquiries and public movements,
<C02>
continue an agitation of the troublesome question of slavery. For instance: on the side of Mr. Secretary Eastman-
'Judge Parsons proceeded to show that the audience were entirely in error, if they supposed the Boston Society had withdrawn its connection from the American Tract Society. Still, if they were unwilling to give their funds to it, by all means give them to the of Mr. Secretary Alvord- 
Rev. Dr. Kirk, of Boston, disclaimed any quarrel with any body. He had told Mr. Eastman, when in Boston attempting to avert the separation, that he might as well attempt to hold the northwest wind with his fist, as to keep New England, after the course they had taken. He desired to be charitable, and thought there was abundant work for all. Both sides have now a fair field, and let them both labor for the one great object, the salvation of men. Now those who were able and willing to aid, have stood aloof because dissatisfied with the doings of the New York Society, may contribute with the assurance that a fair portion of the publication shall treat of the subject of slavery. Now all may go with one or the other Society.'
A large number of these little preliminary trials of strength between the central Tract Society in New York and its Auxiliary in Boston will probably occur before the Annual in May. The New York Secretaries will expend a vast amount of energy and labor in whispering to their division of the public that slavery is an institution so very peculiar, that it is better to say nothing even of its evils; and the Boston Secretary will whisper, with equal assiduity and precaution, to those within hearing of his voice, that a little talk about the 'evils' will best excuse a continuance of silence about the thing itself- that a show of diligence with the pruning-knife may satisfy those brethren who would wish, in preference, that the axe might be laid to the root of the tree- and that moderate action on their will do more than entire quiescence towards the essential work of preventing agitation.
How effectual will be the efforts last mentioned to gain for the Society in Boston a name to live while they remain dead-to establish for them, in the minds of men who are really opposed to slavery, a reputation for doing their duty in regard to that sin, while they confine themselves to a fraternal discussion of its evils-next May, perhaps, will show us. Meanwhile, every ray of light thrown upon their manoeuvres will do a two-fold service; at once aiding to reveal the dishonesty of their pretences, and strengthening the compulsion already laid upon them to edge further away from the New York policy of entire silence, and edge nearer towards the only manly and Christian position in regard to slavery-uncompromising hostility and warfare.-c. K. W.

SPEECH OF REV. J. FREEMAN CLARKE,
BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON FEDERAL RELATIONS, 
In support of the Petition asking for a to prevent the of Fugitive 
IN THE HALL OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Thursday, February 24,1859.
We are able to give only a brief synopsis of the effective speech made by Mr. CLARKE before the Committee, as, through mistake, no report of it was made at the time. He spoke in substance as follows:] 
We ask the Legislature to pass a law, which shall say to the slaveholders, that the people of Massachusetts will never allow a man living on her soil to be regarded or treated as a slave. We wish Massachusetts to forbid, under the severest penalties, the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law. We think it a more honorable, wise, and in the end a more peaceful and friendly course, than any indirect methods of obstructing the return of Fugitives. We think it right to pass such a law, for these reasons:- 
1. It is doubtful whether the famous clause in the Constitution (Art. IV. sec. 2, p. 3) applies to Fugitive slaves, or meant to apply to them. Grammatically, it means the exact opposite of what it is assumed to mean. The nominative to 'shall be delivered up' is 'No person.' In behalf of freedom, every law should be construed strictly and literally. This is just the case in which we ought to say, 'Take thy bond, take thy pound of flesh; but not a jot more or less than a just pound.' 'Si recedit a litera, Judex transit in
Judge Shaw indeed says (case of Thos. Sims, Mass, Reports, vol. 7, 1853.) 'The Clause' (Fugitive Clause) 'seems to have been such a treaty, a solemn compact, entered into with great deliberation.'
But in this the learned Judge seems to have been hasty. For the Clause was actually adopted with no deliberation at all. When the article came up, providing for the mutual delivery of fugitives from justice, (Parag. 2, sec. 2, Art. IV.) a motion was made by Butler, seconded by C. Pinckney, that fugitive slaves and servants be included. Wilson objected that this would require a delivery at the public expense. Sherman saw no more propriety in the public seizing and surrendering a servant than a horse. Butler withdrew his motion; but the next day introduced a substitute, evidently borrowed from an ordinance of Congress passed a few days before, and in its strong resemblance to one of the clauses of the old New England Articles of Union, bearing plain marks of a New England hand. Agreed to without debate, it became, with some subsequent changes of phraseology, the famous clause which provides that 'No person held to service or labor, &c. 'Hildreth's Hist. of the U. S., vol. 3. p. 522. The clause was resisted when distinctly expressed, but passed without opposition when obscure. Evidently, those who opposed the surrender of 'slaves,' but did not oppose the surrender of persons 'held to service or labor,' did not consider the two to be identical. It was a deception, and meant to be so.
Moreover, by the decisions of some Courts, slaves are not persons, and so cannot be 'Persons held to service or labor.'
Moreover, by the admission of the slaveholders, slavery does not exist in any slave State, 'under the laws thereof.' There is no law establishing slavery in! any Southern Constitution or Statute Book.
2. If the Clause in the Constitution intends slaves, it doubtful whether Congress any right to pass a law directing how it shall be executed. No power is given them for that purpose, as is given in the 1st section of the Art. to prescribe the manner of proving acts, &c. See arguments by Robert Rantoul, Richard H. Dana, jr., &c., and the expressed opinion of Daniel Webster. 
3. If Congress have the power to pass a law for this purpose, the present laws (of 1793 and are clearly The second clause of the same section says, that a person charged with any crime 'shall be delivered up,' to be tried for that crime. This section says, that the person 'held to labor or service'- not charged with being a fugitive, but being one accordingly, the question whether he is a fugitive is to be tried, before he is delivered up. But under the laws of, 1793 and 1850, he sees neither judge nor jury. Benjamin R. Curtis himself admits that the of slavery is not tried. Then a freeman is made a slave without a trial. For every man in a free State is, by the maxims of a free State, to be presumed free till the contrary is proved. A free man then, is, by the acts of 1793 and 1850, made a slave without a trial, contrary to the provision (Art. 5, amendments to the Constitution,) that 'no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.' 
4. But even if this Fugitive Slave Law be a Constitutional one, it to be obeyed, because it is dishonorable and unjust to obey it.
In all ages it has been held disgraceful and dishonorable to surrender those who flee to us for protection. The laws of hospitality, as understood in all ages, require that the slave, fleeing from his tyrant, shall be protected. See, for instance, 'the Suppliants' of and other instances in Greek, Roman, English, and Barbarian history. But we 
<c03>
stronger law, for we do not believe that the slavehold or has any right or claim to his slave. We believe that slavery is wrong. If, then, we give up a fugitive to his we are guilty of kidnapping. We making a slave of a freeman. contract, compact, or bargain, can bind us to do wrong. All moralists and publicists of any reputation agree in this. Fortescue, Coke, Littleton, and Blackstone, agree that 'all statutes against fundamental morality are void.' Now, if we believe slavery wrong, we must believe it wrong to return a man to slavery who has escaped from it. 
Let us say this to the South, and say it distinctly, 'When you keep your slaves at home, we, as a State, have nothing to do with slavery; but when you fail of keeping them at home, and they come upon our soil, they are your slaves no longer. If you, or if the general government, attempt to regain them, the whole power and treasure of our State shall be exerted to resist you, and to protect them. If this be treason, make the most of it.' 

THE PEOPLE ARE COMING-THE KNELL OF THE KIDNAPPER IS SOUNDING.
NORTH ARINGTON, Feb. 24, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON,-In confirmation of the statement, that the fifteen thousand signatures to the Liberty Petition before the Legislature, might with proper effort have been swelled to at least a hundred thousand, allow me to give your readers an item in regard to its circulation here. A singular apathy prevailed on the subject for months after the petitions were sent out. Every one, while engaged with his 'farm or merchandize,' seemed to think that omnipresent person, somebody, would attend to the matter in due season. Indeed, until within a few days, there was, so far as I know, but one copy of the petition abroad in the town, and that was lying in the Union Store here, with scarcely a hundred names attached to it. We were at length startled into something approaching to activity, by the information that there had already been one hearing before the Committee on Federal relations, and that another, and probably the last was to be given to day. We saw that not a moment was to be lost, if we did not wish to be found utterly wanting when this blow was being struck, to rescue our beloved State from the grasp of the Slave Power. A few individuals in this and the east part of the town, went to work with a will in their neighborhood, and the result, during one of the most boisterous days of the winter, has been some six hundred names, about five hundred of whom are legal voters.
I think I hazard nothing in saying, if the town had been thoroughly canvassed, at least two thousand signatures might have been obtained. Indeed, the sense of justice, the love of liberty, in almost every man and woman, seems to respond affirmatively to the prayer of this Petition.
The politicians at the State House will do well to heed these significant signs of the times, and hasten to act in accordance with this glorious impulse of the popular heart.
May we not hope that the time is rapidly coming, when the aspirations of heroes, prophets and sages, past and present, shall culminate in the establishment, at least, upon this little spot of earth which we name Massachusetts, of a government which will ever, for any consideration, under any temptation, recognize the right of property in man!
We are tired of 'hiding the outcast' and hunted slave. Let him be placed at once on the apex of the monument that crowns the summit of Bunker Hill, and in the sight of the nation and the world, proclaimed a freeman with a million hearts pledged to his protection. To this the true friends of liberty, all over the globe, will respond, Amen!
In the mean time, let the bells keep ringing. The sleepers will finally awake. W.

DR. CHEEVER IN ALBANY.
ALBANY, March 8, 1859.
MR. GARRISON:
I meant to have written you of Dr. Cheever's grand sermon in our Assembly Chamber on the 25th February. The occasion was most impressive. It really seemed as if one of the old prophets had come to us out of the depths of the ages, with his 'THUS SAITH THE LORD,'-'Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which escaped from his master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates, where it liketh him best; thou shall not oppress him.' Most graphic were his contrasts of this, 'God's Fugitive-Slave Law,' with man's infamous Fugitive-Slave Act of 1850. His scathing denunciations of the systematized, God-defying traffic in slaves were overwhelming, and the sarcasm with which he uttered 'the benevolent nurses of the Tract Society,' 'Christian baby thieves,' &c. &c., was most terrible. As I listened to his words of living inspiration, I said, it only remains for Dr. Cheever to come out from the synagogues, which he most clearly proves to be none other than those of Satan. When his actions, his position, shall match his words, then will he indeed be a 'power mighty to save.'
The question of 'No more slave-hunting in the Empire State' is now fairly before our Legislature and the people. The spirit manifested in the House is most hopeful. Yesterday forenoon, several genuine anti-slavery speeches were made. Among the most prominent were those of Spencer of New York, Powell of Ontario, Scholefield of Oneida, and Tuthill of New York-one of the editors of the New York Times. Indeed, one almost forgot that it was a legislative assembly, it was so like the free platform of an Anti-Slavery Convention. The two or three Democrats who dared raise their voices against making New York soil free to the tread of every human being, seemed pitiably wanting. As individuals, they would help catch a fugitive no sooner than the strongest abolitionist on that floor; but law must be obeyed. To-morrow (Wednesday) evening, the discussion is to be continued, when, it is expected, Mr. Tomlinson, of New York, said to be the most eloquent representative of the Democracy in the House, will set forth in most glowing colors the slave-catching duties of the people of the Empire State.
Petitions are coming in from all parts of the State. The universal testimony is, 'There is no limit to the number of signatures that might be obtained, so only there were persons to give their time to circulating the petitions.' Even Democrats sign their names. I hope no reader of the Liberator will plead 'want of time' to roll up the names of all the men and women within reasonable distance of his or her home. The panting fugitive demands aid from us in proportion to our opportunities. The greater our light, the heavier and more imperative are our duties.
A month or more may elapse before the final action on the Personal Liberty Bill. There is ample time for every one who feels interested to do so, to send up long lists of signatures. It is with the SENATE that the vote is doubtful; therefore, let the petitions pour in upon it like a great flood, that shall sweep every man from his moorings, who shall dare vote No. To the work, then, and no delay! Direct the petitions to your own member, or to Hon. SHOTWELL POWELL, Albany, N. Y.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
The following is the form of the Petition now circulating in the Empire State, to which signatures should be appended as numerously and speedily as possible:-
To the Senate and Assembly of the State of New York:
The undersigned, citizens of the State of New York, respectfully ask you to enact that no person, who has been held as a slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the slave States of this Union.
Sign and circulate!
<C04>
ENCOURAGING WORDS FROM VERMONT.
WEST RANDOLPH, (Vt.) March 6, 1859.
DEAR SIR,-I am happy to see that you are the Legislature of the Old Bay State to place herself by the side of her younger, yet equally bold and virtuous sister, Vermont, upon the only true platform of universal freedom. With pride we reflect that our native State leads the van in this revolution, which must continue until every Northern State shall be free in reality as well as in name. And how can a people be free who must ever stand sentinels around the camp of slavery, that no liberty-loving Washington, or Kossuth Tell may escape? Grave legislators will dally long, and consider slowly; but we hope that it will be in Massachusetts as it was in Vermont, that the people will press the subject upon them so faithfully and earnestly, as to compel them to yield to the dictates of their consciences and the voice of humanity. If the appeals that have been made in your Representatives' Hall, by such philanthropists as Garrison, Phillips, Higginson, May, Sewall, and others, do not arouse your law-makers to a sense of their duty, then, indeed, has Massachusetts fallen. In 1776, her people dared to act with energy upon the side of freedom. Are her sons now less true and brave? Does not one of the noblest of her sons now suffer for injuries done him while in the faithful discharge of his duty at Washington? And can she not extend sympathy to those, who, if she does not protect them, will be torn from her, and compelled to suffer a thousand times more than ever Charles Sumner has done? We anxiously await the result, and expect soon to see that Massachusetts is willing to do her duty. 
Yours, for justice, J. H., Jr.

WORCESTER CO., NORTH, A. S. SOCIETY.
The Worcester County (North) Anti-Slavery Society held its quarterly meeting at Clinton, on Feb. 27th, day and evening. Several delegations from adjoining towns were present. The President, Joel Smith of Leominster, occupied the chair. In the absence of the Secretary, E. H. Heywood, of Worcester, was chosen Secretary pro tem.
The chair appointed, as a Business Committee, Parker Pillsbury and E. H. Heywood; and as a Finance Committee, J. R. Brown, of Clinton, and Mrs. F. H. Drake, of Leominster.
It was voted that the annual meeting be held on Fast Day at Leominster.
The following resolutions were presented from the Business Committee by Mr. Pillsbury:
Resolved, That the distinct and definite object of the Anti-Slavery cause is the total extinction of slavery in these United States.
Resolved, That in the American Constitution and Union, as at present existing, we find a positive purpose of extending and perpetuating the iniquitous slave system.
Resolved, That the character of slavery is seen in its laws, which abrogate marriage, and make men into brutes; which forbid education, with all its moral as well as mental advantages and blessings; which place the slave completely in the power of his master, with his whips, fetters, thumb-screws, branding-irons and blood-hounds, all at hand to enforce his bloody and unrighteous decrees and commands.
Resolved, That a Union which thus rests on the crushed liberties, the mangled bodies and murdered souls of millions of immortal beings,-a Constitution which provides for, or even permits, such unwarrantable outrages,-should be abandoned as a crime against humanity;-should be utterly exterminated as high treason to the government of God.
Resolved, That any party, no matter of what name or profession, that subscribes to the Union, that swears to the Constitution, that welcomes the piratical slave-trader, the shameless slave-breeder, and the no less guilty slaveholder to equal honors, privileges and prerogatives in the government as long as they wish to continue their abominable system, is not only unworthy of countenance, but should receive the open rebuke, condemnation and execration of every friend of freedom, of humanity, and of man.
Resolved, That whatever the Federal Constitution may require, or slavery may demand, the soil of old Massachusetts shall be made free from the polluting step of the kidnapper and slave-hunter; and, by the blessing of Heaven on our efforts, the time shall soon come when no man here shall be tried or even touched on the question, 'Is he a man or a slave?'
Resolved, That we wish the South distinctly and unequivocally to understand, that in case of insurrection among the slaves, all our hearts, our hopes and prayers, will be with the oppressed; and our hands, too, in every way we can aid them, consistently with our views of the right or wrong of violent resistance to tyranny and to tyrants.
The following were presented by Mr. Heywood:-
Whereas, human rights are the gift of God, and the great distinguishing doctrine of Christianity is the inviolable sacredness of man, the inestimable worth of every human soul-its most solemn obligation being to undo the heavy burdens, to proclaim liberty to the captive, to relieve and defend Christ in his 'little ones,' the afflicted, the despised, the down-trodden, and the oppressed; and,
Where as, American slavery annihilates all human rights at a single blow, robs labor of its hire, marriage of its sanctity, mothers of their offspring, the mind of knowledge, the soul of religion, man of himself and of his God; therefore,
Resolved, That the Abolition cause, instead of being radical, fanatic, infidel, is the most conservative, considerate and solemnly religious enterprise of the age-the cause of truth, of justice, of humanity, of God.
Resolved, That the great body of the American churches, in studiously and persistently passing by on the other side of four million men fallen among thieves, in withholding the rebuke of the gospel from a nation of men-stealers, and in fellow shipping slaveholders, slave-traders and slave-breeders,-thus hourly crucifying the Son of God afresh, and putting him to an <illegible> unworthy the support of true Christians.
Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with those ministers and laymen, who, feeling the guilt and shame of the church as the most wicked and colossal oppressor of our land, and startled by the degradation to which American politics have fallen, are vigorously struggling against the incoming flood of this iniquity; and we earnestly exhort them, if they would save their own souls from blood-guiltiness, if they would effectually set the seal of their execration upon slavery, and hold forth the word of life to a perishing people, to take the high, the only Christian ground of fellowship with it-to raise the conquering 'No Union with Slaveholders!'
Addresses and remarks were made by the President, Mr. Pillsbury, Mrs. Drake, Mr. Brown, Mr. Isaac Smith, and Mr. Heywood.
Of the citizens of Clinton, the attendance during the day was quite small; in the evening, more considerable.
JOEL SMITH, President.
E. H. HEYWOOD, Secretary, pro tem.
FUGITIVE SLAVES.
The Vigilance Committee of Boston would inform the friends of Fugitive Slaves, that they have been, and probably will continue to be, constantly in want of places, where such fugitives can obtain employment. Any one in want, or who can employ such help, is earnestly requested to apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston, stating what employment they can give.
For a choice specimen of priestly knavery and audacity, see the sermon delivered at Milford by Rev. Mr. George of Natick, and reported for the Liberator.
<C05>
DEATH OF A TRIED ABOLITIONIST.
PUTNAM, (Ct.) March 8,1859.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-Will you notice the death of ASA CUTLER in your paper? He died yesterday, (Monday,) March 7th. He was as true a friend as you ever had; and would to God the down-trodden and oppressed could truly feel the loss to them! The prayer of your servant is, that his seal for elevating the colored race, as well as the poor around him, may fall upon his descendants.
Yours, truly, H. C. CUTLER.
OREGON AND THE COLORED PEOPLE. A meeting of colored people of this city was held in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac street, on Tuesday evening, for the purpose of taking into consideration the course of the Members of Congress from Massachusetts, in relation to the admission of Oregon into the Union. Lewis Hayden was chosen President, and John W. Boiling, Secretary. Mr. upon taking the chair, made a few appropriate remarks, calling on his countrymen to raise themselves from their comparative slumber, and act for their own interests, while there is yet an opportunity. Mr. Wm. C. Nell made a few remarks, preparatory to submitting a series of resolutions. The resolutions were condemnatory of the acts of the Massachusetts delegation who gave their votes in favor of the admission of Oregon with her present constitution; of the general measures of this constitution in relation to the colored race, and of the Dred Scott decision. Additional remarks were made by Messrs, John W. Oliver, J. B. Smith, of New Bedford, Robert Morris and others.
In the course of remarks by the President, he stated that Hon. Eli Thayer had recently heed before the Legislative Committee on Federal Relations, and tried to dissuade that Committee from reporting a bill to protect the rights of the colored people of !

NO SLAVE-HUNTING.
The Albany correspondent of the Tribune, under date of 5th inst., writes as follows:-
'Petitions in favor of the Personal Liberty Bill are coming in every day, numerously and respectably signed. One was presented yesterday from this city, containing the names of the leading men of the State, viz: Messrs. Eli Perry, (Mayor,) H. H. Van Dyck, (Superintendent Public Instruction,) James M. Cook, (Superintendent Bank Department,) George Dawson, (Editor of The Evening Journal,) Hon. Bradford R. Wood, Hamilton Harris, George E. Baker, and Rev. A. D. Mayo. The Committee have received letters from judges and lawyers, assuring them that the bill is not unconstitutional. It looks as if it would pass.'
The bill is a very stringent one, and makes clean work of slave-hunting.
In the Legislature of Pennsylvania, a Personal Liberty bill has been reported from the Judiciary Committee of the House, and a time appointed for its consideration. Its purpose is to nullify the Fugitive Slave Law. It prohibits the use of jails for the detention of fugitives, and permits Judges to release them upon bail, without a minimum limit.
'The Motherless'-the portrait of two beautiful sisters-drawn by Charles A. Barry, and very finely photographed by S. Masury, with some original verses by Whittier, (a facsimile of his handwriting) has just been published by Sowle & Ward, 16 Summer Street. Its design and execution are admirable.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for March, is received of its publishers, Messrs. Crosby, Nichols & Co. Contents:-Richard Baxter; Assyrian History; History of Methodism in England; Recent Works on Syria and the Holy Land; Dr. Ichabod Nichols; Siam; Condition of the Free Colored People of the United States; What made Franklin? The old Rhode Island Question; Review of Current Literature; Literary Intelligence; New Publications Received.
RECENT DEATHS. E. A. Hannegan, formerly U. S. Senator from Indiana, died in St. Louis on Friday night.
Hon. Henry S. Geyer, formerly U. S. Senator from Missouri, died in St. Louis on Saturday night.
Hon. Aaron Vail Brown, Postmaster General of the United States, died in Washington on Tuesday morning.
President Shannon, late of the Missouri State University, died at his residence in Canton, Mo., on Friday, Feb. 25th. At the time of his death, he was President of the Christian University located at Canton.
Charles Sampson, of the publishing firm of Phillips & Sampson, died on Saturday at his residence in Brookline, of consumption, at the age of 41 years.
Robert Walsh, for many years the editor of the Philadelphia National Gazette, died at Paris, Feb. 7, aged 76. He has resided in Paris for twenty-two years. 
On account of errors in last week's publication, we republish the following
TREASURER'S REPORT 
Of Receipts, from February 1, to March 1, 1859.
Rec'd of S. May, Jr., donations and collecions made at annual meeting, $4 Also, by S. May, Jr., the following:-
Jas. N. Buffum, Lynn, for pledge, $50 00
John B. Pierce, Lynn, do. 10 00
Reuben H. Ober, for pledge, 10 00
Sylvanus Smith, East Boston, do. 5 00
Eben S. Page, Boston, do. 1 00
Susan Mayhew, New Bedford, 1 00-77 00
From Sallie Holley:-
Collections at Paxton 1 53, Rutland 5 27, West Boylston 4 26, of Miss Caldwell 1, at Athol 1, Montague 11 46, of Rev. C. Bradford 1, atGreenfield 5 09, Deerfield 4 50, Rowe 4 72, Northampton 2 92, Florence 10, Hopkinton 16 02, Dorchester 16, West Cambridge 8 67, Waltham 6. Greenwood3, Stoneham 4 25, Stoneham Ladies' A. S. Society 8, a friend 12, 126 69
SAMUEL PHILBRICK,
Treas. Mass. A. S. Society.
Brookline, March 1, 1859.
E. H. Hey wood acknowledges the receipt of the following sums:-
Southboro'-Moses Sawin $1 75, Sylvester Fay 1, others 1 91; Hopkinton, 10; Harvard, 2 28; Groton, 2 05; Pepperell, 1 50; Athol, 1 89.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:-
Portsmouth, N. H., Sunday, March 13.
So. Newmarket, N. H., Wednesday, March 16.
Newmarket, N. H., Thursday, March 17.
Dover, N. H., Sunday, March 20.
Rochester, N. H., Thursday, March 24.
Great Falls, N. H., Sunday, March 27.
Exeter, N. H., Wednesday, March 30.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture at the Town Hall, in Milford, (Mass.) on Sunday evening next, March 13th, on 'Garrisonian Infidelity,' at 7 o'clock. He will also speak at the Brick Church through the day, at the usual hours.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Canton, in the School House Hall, on Thursday evening next, March 17, at half-past 7 o'clock. Subject-The Poetry of John Greenleaf Whittier.
E. H. HAYWOOD will speak at
Cummington, Friday, March 11.
Northampton, Sunday, March 13.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Waltham, Sunday, March 13, all day and evening.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.- A robust and able-bodied fugitive slave from the South-a carpenter, who has worked many years at house-building, framing and finishing-wants a place. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON.
WANTS A SITUATION.-A widow lady wishes to get a situation to wait on a lady, or to as seamstress in a respectable family.
Apply at this office, or at 6 Stillman street.
<c06>
THE MUSTEE.
487pp. Price, $1.25.
WE beg leave, through this circular, to call your attention to a new work recently issued by us, and one that we are confident will occupy a high position among the many works that have been published within the last half century.
In point of interest and delineation of character we say, without fear of contradiction, that it is not equalled by anything that emanated from the press for years.
Editors, clergymen, and literary men generally have vied with each other in bestowing. upon it laudatory comments superior to those received by any since the publication of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.'
The writer shows a command of language unequalled by novel writers of the age; while, at the same time, the intense interest which accompanies each and every page in the book is unsurpassed by any work of fiction. We annex a few extracts from the many hundreds of notices we have received in its favor, and will leave the public to decide for themselves, after having read the opinions of others:-
From Rev. T. Starr King.
'My recollections of the interest of the story (the Mustee,) the nobleness of its purpose and sentiment, and the careful preparation and labor which the style and structure of the work evince, and which I owe to a perusal of the manuscript some months ago, are still fresh; and it is from the impulse of these that I heartily thank you for the copy you have sent me; and I commend the book, so far as my words can avail, to the community.'
From Wendell Phillips, Esq.
'I have read the Mustee with an interest which deepens as the story advances. Mr. Presbury has made skilful use of his materials. His plot is excellent, and his characters cannot fail to awaken the heartiest sympathy.'
From R. Shelton McKenzie, Esq.
'Very well written, with an interesting plot, and well distinguished characters. We hope to meet the author again.'
From the Taunton Gazette.
'An extremely interesting tale, told with a good degree of art, and no waste of paper.'
From the New Hampshire Patriot.
'Equal in highly wrought interest and dramatic effect to anything we recollect in the range of modern fiction. Can be read only with 'bated breath,'eager curiosity, and thrilling emotion.'
From the Boston News.
'Written with great care, and possesses uncommon interest and value.'
From the Salem Observer.
'As a work of fiction as well as one of superior moral aims, it possesses great value.'
From the Hartford Courant.
Powerfully written. The characters well drawn, and the incidents well told.'
From the New Hampshire Palladium
'A fascinating work, and does honor to the head and heart of its author. Its style is one of great force and purity.'
From the Boston 
'The story is naturally told, and we heartily commend it to our readers and the public.'
From the Providence 
'An excellent story.'
From the Boston Recorder.
'Above the ordinary class of novels, and adjusted to the taste of numerous readers.'
From the Schenectady Star.
'The author wields a vigorous pen, and the story cannot fail to interest.'
From the Christian Freeman.
'One of the best books of the season.'
From the Bangor Jeffersonian.
'A story of absorbing interest.'
From the Charlestown Advertiser.
'A novel of uncommon ability,-readable and entertaining in an uncommon degree.'
From the Cambridge Chronicle.
'The characters all well drawn.'
From the Bangor Whig and Courier.
'Attractive even to the mere lovers of something exciting.'
From the Congregationalist.
'Well wrought up, and of a high degree of merit.'
From the Daily Advertiser.
'The plot exhibits decided artistic skill,-the language manly and chaste, its sentiments sound, and its style bold and vigorous.'
From the Home Journal.
'Very excellent.'
SHEPARD, CLARK & BROWN.
PUBLISHERS,
110 Washington street, Boston.
Copies mailed, postage paid, on receipt of the advertised price.
March 11. 3tis
Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Croup, Whooping Cough, Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, and Pulmonary Affections,
Of the severest type, are quickly cured by that longtried and faithful remedy,

DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
Says a well-known Editor-'This is truly a balsam and a blessing to invalids. It contains the pure balsamic principle of Wild Cherry, the balsamic properties of tar and of pine. Its ingredients, which are mingled after the true principle of chemistry, all balsamic, and therefore it is safe and sure in effect. Coughs, Colds, Consumption, anc Bronchial troubles disappear under its balsamic influence as though charmed away. Probably no medicine has ever attained so extended a sale, or accomplished so much good, as this renowned 
CASSVILLE, (Ga.) Feb. 26, 1858.
Messrs. SETH .
GENTLEMEN-At the request of your Travelling Agent, I give you a statement of my experience in the use of Dr. Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry. I have been using it for two years in my family, for Colds and Coughs, and have found it the most efficacious remedy that I have ever tried. For Colds and Coughs in children, I know it to be an excellent medicine.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN H. RICE.
The genuine article always has written the signature of 'I. BUTTS' on the wrapper, and is for sale by all respectable Druggists everywhere.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Feb. 25-4tis
NOW READY.
The Life of 
JOHN H. W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE
OF THE
WASH1NGTONIAN TEMPERANCE REFORMATION.
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful and indefatigable laborer in behalf of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
All orders for the Book, or for Agencies, should be addressed to the Publishers,
Fifty Thous and should be sold in six months.
It makes a handsome 12mo. volume of 420 pages, with several wood-cuts, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $1.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
20 Washington street,Boston.
February 11. 4wis

FARMS.
GENTLEMEN who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of affecting sales. R. A. WILLIAMS.
No. 4 Wilson's Lane, Room No. 
March 11-3w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
For the Liberator. 
IS IT STRANGE TO DIE FOR FREEDOM?
A slave, white endeavoring to escape from bondage, was recognized by a Southern merchant, and, rather then to retaken. He drew a pistol, and shot himself through the heart. A Southern editor, in speaking of the event, terms it ‘a strange suicide. ’
What! strange to lift a manly arm ’against cruel
tyrant power!
What! strange, on Freedom’s soil, to claim our own, 
our God-given dower?
What! strange to rather die a man than live a cowering slave, 
And pass to liberty and life through the portals of the grave?
Not thus ye thought when Marion led his men by Santee’s stream;
When through the gloomy cypress swamps he saw their bayonets gleam;
When by the Eutaw and Pedee his foemen felt his power, 
And trembled when his battle-cry they heard at mid night hour;
When Sumter, Lee, and brave De Kalb fought on your Southern plains, 
And strove with manly arm to break th’ invading Briton’s chains;
When by fort Moultrie’s honored walls bold Jasper risked his life, 
And planted there your banner fair amid the deadly strife;
And when on Broker’s world-famed height, amid the cannon’s roar, 
Where many a martyr’s life-blood stained the summer turf with gore, 
Our noble Warren gave his life in Freedom’s holy name, 
And won a hero’s fadeless crown, a never-dying fame!
Ye deemed it glorious then to die, -ye scorned to live as staves-
And proudly ye the marble rear above your martyrs’ graves;
As Bannockburn to Scotia’s sons, to you was Concord’s plain, 
Where freemen gladly gave their lives to break th’ invader’s chain!
And can ye deem there is no love of liberty in man, 
Because he has a dark-hued skin, and thus receives your ban?
Do ye believe that when his limits and muscles ye control, 
That ye can veil the blessed light God gives unto the soul?
Think you there is no lofty thought enshrined on that dark brow?
Can there not beat a noble heart ‘heath skin of ebon hue?
Does love of Right and Truth alone dwell with Can cassia’s race?
Is there no act on History’s page their manhood to disgrace?
O, Saxon brothers! have ye ne’er the weaker ones
Oppressed?
Hath Justice in your council halls still reigned s welcome guest?
Have th’ voice of Peace and Love’s kind words been heard and treasured there?
And is Columbia’s starry flag still stainless, bright and fair?
When, years agone. the Mayflower came from Albion’s distant shore, 
And, like the Ark of olden time, an infant nation bore;
When the wild red man dwelt where now wave fields in verdure green, 
And their low wigwams nestled close where now our homes are seen;
When through the wood, with fearless step, the Indian hunter trod. 
And bowed his proud and tame less heart alone unto his God;
And heard his Manitou’s dread voice in the thunder deep and loud, 
Or deemed his face was hid in wrath when the lightning veiled the cloud;
Ye found your forest-brother here lord of a fruitful soil, 
That well supplied his simple wants with light and easy tail;
Monarch alike of field and flood, Nature’s untutored Child, 
With many a virtue in his heart, though stern, and rude, and wild. 
And did our fathers seek to win their faith by Christian love?
Were Jesus’ precepts taught to them, all other laws above?
Had they no righteous cause for war?-did they ne’er suffer wrong?
Why have they left their hunting-grounds our pleasant vales among?
Their council fires no longer blaze upon our Northland hills, 
No more the maiden binds her hair beside our spark ling rills:-
Whose strong arm drove them hence away, far to the distant West?
Why for their weary, wandering feet is there no home of rest?
And Africa’s sons-why are they here far from their native shore?
Who, from the palm and cocoa’s shade, the hapless victims bore?
Who forges fetters for their limbs, and wields the bloody scourge, 
While waves of untold suffering still above their victims surge?
And who would veil the soul in night, aye, dim its quenchless ray. 
And make their brother like the brute to toil his life away?
Who seals for them fair Learning’s fount, and bids the prison hold
The noble ones who seek for them its treasures to unfold?
Who sends the gospel heralds forth to ocean’s distant isles, 
And tells the Bible’s priceless truths where heathen temples riser?
And who, by Congo’s sun-bathed tide, proclaims the ‘law of love, ’
And learns Caffrarin’s dark-browed sons to know and Fear their God? 
And who doth close the Book of Life to millions in our land, 
And hold the key that would unlock, in Law’s strong iron hand?
Who keeps the slave from love and hope, and darkens all his life, -
Then marvels that his victims can with fate be e’er at strike?
Oh, brother! ’tis a fearful tale the Southland doth unfold;
God’s children sold like cotton bales, and bought, like beasts with gold!
And are we guiltless in this wrong, if we consenting stand. 
power to stay, but yield to his demand!
<c02>
We must be true; the bigot's frown no true soul can affright, 
Or stay the upward, onward course of ever-conquering right:
Freedom is God's own gift to all, of every clime and name, -
And they, in the dear Father's time, shall get their birthright claim. 
Barre, Mars. Careie
THE LIBERATOR
THE OLD SLANDEE BEVIVED
Friend Garrison, -The people of Milford were favored, or, more properly speaking, abused, by a lecture on Sunday evening last, by your clerical opponent. Rev. (?) Mr. George, of Natick. All that need he said of this man may be condensed in the remark, that he in an embodiment of an arrogant priest and blackguard. In this character he gained a reputation not soon to be forgotten. The lecture was a compilation of the sayings and doings of the past twenty years or more, spiced with sarcastic comments of cruel injustice to all who have espoused the cause of Human Rights, and exhausted the space of two hours. 
He commenced by saying, that as Natick had been visited by the infidel class of men known as Garrisonians, spreading their destructive notions, he felt it his duty to' present the other side. As these men, with Mr. G. were all haters of the Church and ministry, his work was to neutralize their poison. Hence, Mr. Garrison was imported to reply. This reply, said the lecturer, I reviewed, and showed up its fallacy. Nothing, he remarked, but the kindest feelings, and a deep love for the churches and ministers, has led me to battle with this abominable delusion. It is no new thing, he continued, to hear, under the guise of reform, the teachings of infidelity. Professing philanthropy, they scatter their baneful doctrines. Infidels have always claimed to be reformers. The free-thinkers of England, Woolston, Hume, Gibbon and Shaftesbury, all professed to speak for Christ. So with America. These Garrisonians are secretly working to destroy, not to reform the Churches. They j claim to be like Jesus-assume to be the only friend of the slave, and with this profession their work is to malign the clergy and destroy the church. 
He next quoted from the Boston Investigator, to show the unity existing between the infidels and Garrison. The next point was to refute the charge that the churches and ministers were forced into reforms. This he denied, and assumed that they had been the pioneers-not, it is true, in the mass, but with noble exceptions. The temperance cause he first cited as the originated work of the ministry. Next, as to the slave trade. John Wesley, Samuel Hopkins, of Newport, R. I. , and Wilberforce, came through the Church- were men deeply imbued with Evangelical experience. These men loved the Church, and had faith in the Sabbath. Rev. Mr. Ramsey told of the wrongs of slavery in the W. I. Islands, and aroused the people in the work of emancipation. 
Suppose, now, these men had been converts to Mr. Garrison, how different would have been the result! I This blessed work win not achieved by Come-outers. Who, it was here asked, are the leaders of Anti-Slavery in America? They are enemies of the Bible. Good men stand aghast at the blasphemies of Garrison at his denial of the plenary inspiration of the Bible. 
Again, Mr. Garrison will agree to no system of compensation-eschews political action. The first Annual Report of the Anti-Slavery Society was quoted to prove that political action was then endorsed-1834 Mr. G. , and his followers, celebrate in a most inconsistent manner, the first of August. What have they to do with this event? It was all the work of political action, which they ignore. Had these men been in England, they would have prevented this glorious achievement!
I hate slavery, said the lecturer, and I love to hate it; have no apology to make for the guilt of the Church. But, then, Garrison never originated Anti-Slavery. Besides, when he first began his work, he was a lover, not a hater of the Church. Then he was taken by the hand when he came out of the jail at Baltimore. Without this sympathy, he could have done nothing. 
Here a long array of statistics from Rev. Amos Phelps was read to prove that ministers were early in the work. At a Convention in Mcdway, the venerable Dr. Emmons was present, then 94 years of age, and Mr. Garrison recorded the fact with approbation in the Liberator. Lovejoy was a martyr, and he was one of these hated ministers. 
But why was friendship broken with Garrison? Because he joined hands with Theodore Parker, -who was presented as the very embodiment of the devil, -introduced the Women's Rights question, Non-resistance. &c. Now mark, said the lecturer, these men profess to be very liberal. Come, they say, and join us, but then you must march to our music, and keep good step at that. Here, to the great merriment of the audience, ho told the story of the poor toad in the old lady's tea-kettle. 
Mr. G. at Natick, it was said, introduced the figure of the Fire-Engine-exclaiming that it would be nonsense for any one to refuse to work, because infidels were at the brakes. Now, said he, suppose you should stop the wheels and cut the hose, you would act precisely as does Mr. G. in refraining from political- action. And at this very point, forgetting the force of his own remarks, if they had any, he said: Mrs. Stowe, with her Uncle Tom, has done more for the liberation of the slave than this minister-hater and all his followers! Good, perhaps. But can a woman vote? Henry Ward Beecher, who it was said is' loose in every joint evangelically, ' is not so loose as to go with Garrison. None but I and my party, according to this egotistical leader, are anti-slavery. And after all. is not this fault-finder himself responsible for slavery? Does he not live in a slaveholding country-eat rice and molasses, and wear cotton? Why don't he and his followers leave their country for their country's good. Mark also his unfair course in regard to the American Tract Society. Ho gives only one side-no credit to the Methodists who have published Anti-slavery tracts. The fact is, a few of these men love the slave, but hate the Church more. 
The Prison Reform was next claimed as the especial work of the Churches. Christ was said to be no come-outer. He never called on his disciples to come out of the Jewish Church, which was awfully corrupt. He commended the Roman Government which was pro-slavery, eulogized the centurion a -military man - as possessing an eminent degree of faith. 
Oliver Johnson, one of Garrison's followers, had called ministers the devil's trinity another had said they were sacred rascals-divine rascals, &c. And how is the Bible treated by this leader of the Abolitionists? Its authority is denied, and it is made of no more account than the Koran or an old almanac. 
Next came the Rutland Convention-copious quotations were read, and this to prove the infidelity of the Garrisonians. The doctrine that a man has only to follow his' own convictions was there advocated-conscience is a' thus with the Lord. 'Why find fault with the slaveholder? Is he not following his convictions r And is not this in keeping with the French Atheist? A sharp rebuke was here given to those false ministers who had, in Natick and other places, invited men to stand in the pulpit in the assumed garb of ministers, and who were in sympathy with this rotten infidelity. [Has anybody-worried the Bee. gentleman in Natick? At this point he looked quite unhappy. ]
Mr. Garrison and his followers have perverted the Bible, and traduce the commandment to keep the Sabbath. Here the Rutland Convention came up again to notice-free love, Bloomerism, womens Rights. 
<c03>
and last, not least, Satan's humbug-Spiritualism. The people were exhorted to refrain to Garrison and his Liberator, which was said to be the vehicle of all that is vile and ungodly. 
But, said Mr. Garrison at Natick, I am not opposed to civil government, but to uncivil government. This is a ridiculous quibble, unworthy a man. Reference was here made to the mob of' property and standing' in Boston. And in a most delectable manner, nay, with ineffable 'sang-froid, ' the audience were told that, once in his life, Mr. Garrison had cause for gratitude to government for protection in Leverett street jail! Poor fellow! he said he felt happy when he got there, and I do not doubt he did. Mark how Mr. Garrison with his non-resistant principles treated Kossuth. See how he ridicules the recent revivals of religion! And then he has found out that Tom Paine is no infidel, and is treated with disrespect. Hereafter, to please his admirers, we must write his name-'Mr. Thomas Paine, Esq. ' [There's argument and clerical wit for you. ] So we must, said the lecturer, keep step with Mr. Garrison's banjo. 
How lustily these men raise the cry of persecution, They were persecuted in the early days when they loved the Church and the Saviour, but now this cry reminds us of the hornet's nest in the tree full of clubs. Mr. Garrison says he will not go to the South, because they will kill him. Who, then, can go safely to carry the Bible? [Is not this a sorry admission- that the Bible can be safely carried even to the Fejee Islands, but not to Southern church members?]
You, it was said, here in Milford, make boots and shoes, and sell your goods to slaveholders, and receive their money. Does it trouble you? Yet these men talk' a great deal about sending back the' blood-money. '
In conclusion, the demon, Theodore Parker, again appears. And following his moral teaching, he classed drunkards, pick-pockets, licentious men, and all the horde of evil doers. Here was the place for the benediction and Old Hundred, which, however, were both omitted. At this point I rose, greatly to the consternation of that portion of the audience, who accepted the slang and abuse of the Rev. Mr. George of Natick, and gave the following notice-Wm. L. Garrison, of Boston, will lecture in this place a fortnight from this evening, to which lecture you are kindly invited. ' (Applause. )
Yours fraternally, GEO. W. STACY. 
WOMAN'S SPHERE. 
Taking a retrospective view of the human race, we perceive that both man and woman have enlarged their spheres; but no one says they have left the course that the Creator marked out for them, because, they are to-day more intelligent and refined, -the change having been so gradual that the casual observer has hardly noticed it. Nor has the Creator laid down any set of rules which should govern their thoughts and actions, that they are not capable of un-I demanding and obeying. Because some cannot appreciate anything higher than mere animal gratification, it does not prove that others have no greater aspirations. 
The sphere of woman is governed, to a great extent, by the society in which she lives; but if that-society has placed her in a wrong position, then it must yield to the eternal law of progress, and she will rise to the standard of her innate power. In some countries, her sphere is that of a slave, bought and sold by man(?) for the basest purposes that could be designed. To fill the harem, to be attached to a plow by the side of a brute beast, and made to cultivate the earth by her protector; and the Indian woman to provide the necessaries of life, while her better half is at home in his lodge, smoking kennekanic with the braves and warriors of his nation, or is on the war trail, or in the chase, is the sphere of woman where these are in vogue. Think you not that the Indian would have those fixer feelings shocked, if he were told that he must bear the burdens that he has consigned to the woman-that she is too weak; and effeminate, and should'be at home training his children? To him it would be the rankest heresy. 
Because the majority of women are not fitted for. public life, it does not necessarily prove that they are not capable of being sufficiently developed to perform the duties of a public functionary. Neither are men who follow sedentary pursuits capable of performing labor that requires great muscular strength, simply because they have not developed the requisite muscle. Bind up the arm, and the muscle decreases; bring it into action, and it is strengthened in proportion to that action. So with woman. Give her an opportunity, and an incentive to action, and she will gradually fit herself for all the public occupations that she may see fit to enter. But the cry is raised, it will unsex her, and it is not desirable that she should become man-like. What attracted the attention and sympathy of the civilized world, in the Crimea, more than the heroic Miss Nightingale? And did she unsex herself in administering to the wants of the wounded and dying of the opposite sex-and that, too, where brutality held sway? Did the noble Mrs. Patton become less womanly when her husband, who commanded a clipper, bound from New York to San Francisco, was stricken down with disease, by taking command and guiding the vessel through perilous storms and the mighty surgings of the ocean, and bringing it in safety to its destined port? Ah, no! All magnanimous and humane spirits shout with one accord-No!
It is not desirable that woman should be man-like, if it makes her brutal, and uncouth in manners; but it does not argue well for the virtue and refinement of man to allow that the fair character of woman would be sullied by a more frequent association with him in matters of business. She has a keen perception of right and wrong, and would not be likely to engage in an occupation that would debase her. All that is asked is, to throw down the existing barriers, and let her enter such fields of labor as are suited to her taste and capacity; not that it is expected all will desire to leave the household for more active duties, but to make her more free and independent of man, and not hinder any that may have aspirations above the performance of menial service. 
As to the home circle being the exclusive place for woman, I ask, what will those women do who have no homes? Even at the present time, she is not wholly confined to home duties, for she is allowed to make men's garments for one third of the pay that man receives for the same amount of labor. And is it less debasing for her to associate with men-tailors than to be preachers, lawyers, doctors and merchants? If woman received better compensation for her labor, she would be more independent of man, and look less to him for aid. At present, it is impossible for her to earn enough to provide an independent home, and consequently she looks forward to marriage as the only means of escape from a life of severe toil. Her whole life is centred upon marriage, and if she fails in this, she must silently submit to' the powers that be. ' If she were more independent in pecuniary matters, and had gained that competence by her own industry, there would be fewer early and oftentimes unsuitable marriages; and, when married, she would be better fitted to train up a family of children, and more successfully direct them in the affairs of life, having had that practical experience which develops the intellect and increases knowledge. The times demand a race of active, industrious mens and womens, with expansive intellects and muscular bodies; and if we expect to have giants mothers. Let the conservative and bigot say what they will, this is a question that has taken root deeper than the surface soil; and, notwithstanding the efforts that have been made, from time to time, to crush out, I can say, in the language of Galileo, 'The world does move!'
BURT. 
Northampton, February 16, 1859. 
<c04>
ORIMINAL PAPERS. NO. IV
BY CHARLES SPRAR. 
Among the objects aimed at in die mission of Jesus was to abolish the law of retribution. This he attempt- ed both by precept and example. The old Pharisees, as well as the modern, were in favor of the penalty of death-that is, for others, not for themselves. An incident happened during the ministry of the Savior that illustrates this whole subject. The Pharisees at last found a case directly in point. A poor woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. By the stern Jewish law, she was condemned to an ignominious death. There was a great anxiety to witness the infliction of the penalty. As though impatient for the morning light, they searched oat Jesus in the Temple. The Great Teacher saw the artful snare laid by the Jewish Sanhedrim. He saw that his enemies sought his ruin, and the death of the poor, trembling criminal. What a company! There stood the bigoted and cruel Pharisee. By his side was the learned Scribe, ready to expound the law. In the midst, the poor culprit. No friend was there to plead her cause. Her guilt was evident. Her doom appeared inevitable. The' Friend of Sinners' looked on with pity and compassion. It was' early in the morning. 'The rising sun was at that moment beautifully illuminating the magnificent temple; a fit emblem of that Sun of Righteousness which gives light and vigor to the moral, intellectual and spiritual worlds. What a scene! The fate of Jesus turns upon the decision. The future condition of the criminal hangs upon, the verdict. The code of Moses is to be established or abolished. The death-punishment is to be perpetuated or forever repealed. On such a scene. Heaven must have looked with the deepest interest. With perfect calmness, Jesus' stopped down, and wrote upon the ground. 'Eager to stone the guilty woman, they continued asking him. How devoid of sympathy! How ready to condemn! A fit illustration of that spirit which has followed the criminal from that day to the present moment! This spirit has built the dungeon and reared the gibbet. But, hear the Great Teacher:' He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone. 'What n withering rebuke! Ashamed of themselves, her eagle-eyed enemies 'went out one by one, ' and Jesus was left alone in the midst. 'Then he said, ' Woman, where are thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?' She said, 'No man, Lord. 'Then said Jesus, 'Neither do I condemn thee. Go, and sin no more. ' What a decision! Eighteen centuries have rolled away; yet no government on earth dares to carry out the principle of Christ! What a cowardly and selfish generation! We make the criminal; then, fearing the work of our own hands1, we shut him up in the solitary cell, or hang him upon the gibbet! Oh, that we had more of the spirit of Christ! Then we should have his moral courage. He feared not to meet the criminal nor the maniac. Prisons are the offspring of fear and cowardice. Why be afraid of our own fellow-man? Why deprive him of the light of heaven? Why lead him to the halter? The true and only answer is, that we have not the spirit of Him, who, in the midst of a wicked and perverse generation, dared to say to a trembling culprit, 'Go, and sin no more. 'How different was this court from those of modern times! There was no long array of witnesses; no judge with his ermine robe; no reading of an indictment; no officer ready with his fetters; no sentence of condemnation. Once let society set the example of Jesus, and the prison falls, and the gallows totters to the ground. 
The following incident illustrates our subject:-'It seems to me; said a criminal, 'that there never was but one Judge on earth who understood how to treat crime. 'The keeper looked at him with astonishment. 'It was the Man of Calvary, 'answered the prisoner, as his eyes filled with tears. The melting words of Christ, 'Go, and sin no more, ' had sunk deep into the heart of the poor, condemned criminal. 
WASHINGTON. 
So long as we revere the character of Washington, and are interested to inform ourselves of the life and principles that alike constituted and illustrated it, virtue cannot be gone from us, and there is' hope of the Republic, ' of' Liberty and Union. '-Springfield Republican, Feb. 22. 
If the popular reverence for the memory of Washington were based on an intelligent appreciation of those better traits in his character that have made his name the synonym of whatever is noble, unselfish and unambitious in a public officer, then, perhaps, there might be some grounds of hope for the establishment of' liberty, 'regulated and protected by righteous law, for, at least, the paler portion of our countrymen, and perhaps also for' the rest of mankind' within our borders, either in the present 'Union, ' regenerated, or in one 'more perfect, 'founded on its ruins. But, when it is considered that the most gifted eulogist of Washington, who has been lavish of his brilliant rhetoric in his praise, -who, though' not a military man, ' has, notwithstanding, declared to the world, from a place of high official trust, conferred on him by the people of Massachusetts, that' if there is any cause in which he would buckle on a knapsack, it would be to put down a servile insurrection at the South'; and when his fellow-citizens of less gifts, but still less culture, actually volunteer to march in serried ranks, 'with alacrity, ' with columns all bristling with murderous steel, to give safe convoy to a miserable squad of misguided man-thieves who were dragging a poor lone fugitive from slavery, back to his tormentors, -ready to make the streets of Boston run with human gore, if the swelling and outraged heart of humanity had found numbers sufficient to attempt a rescue, -when such things are said and done by those who profess an almost idolatrous reverence for the memory of the first President of the United States, it would seem that no inconsiderable portion of his most enthusiastic admirers and worshippers had contemplated him rather as a slaveholder pursuing his escaped female slave to New Hampshire, than in his better character as a comparatively unselfish laborer for his country's independence; or in his will following respect as a successful chief retiring to private life when the much-coveted bauble of a regal sceptre seemed fully within his reach; and, consequently, that such expressions of reverence for his memory, as we are wont to see on the surface of the popular current, furnish no ground whatever for hope that impartial' liberty' will be secured to our citizens, whatever it may argue for the permanency of the present and guilty 'Union' of the States. 
But it is said that 'virtue cannot be gone from us so long as we revere the character of Washington. '
This same flattering unction have simple men, as well as base men and hypocrites in all ages, laid to their souls. The Scribes and Pharisees did it more than eighteen centuries since. 'Have we not Abraham to our father?' they exclaimed; and did not they claim to be the disciples of Moses, and to revere the prophets, reading from them daily in the synagogues and in the temple? While, at the same time, they were plotting for the death of the model man of Nazareth, whose character and mission these same prophets had foretold. 
Who is there more lavish of their reverence for the Puritan pilgrims of the May Flower, than the very men who are constantly baying on the track of Henry Ward Beecher, scenting in all his progressive actions and utterances, misdemeanors outraging all orthodoxy, and heresies unendurable? When at the same time, no clergyman living, of that particular faith, comes to near in his general ministrations and deportment to copying, both in letter and spirit, the tender and beautiful farewell address of Robinson, the model pastor of the Puritans. Verily, no virtue is so cheap, none so worthless, as that which builds the tombs of the prophets, and garnishes the sepulchres of the righteous. R. W. TWING. 
Springfield, Fob. 23, 1859. 
<c05>
Correspondence of the New York Tribune. 
'LAND FOR THE LANDLESS VS. NIGGERS
FOR THE NIGGERLESS. '
WASHINGTON, Feb. 26, 1859. 
The telegraph and your' Special' will have given you the details of the intellectual feast in the Senate last night. But it was so' spicy' that it will bear serving up the second time, and in a diluted form. 
At the close of a weary day with John Doe and Richard Roe, I learned, about 9 o'clock, that the Senate were still in session on the Cuba bill. I entered the gallery just in time to hear the close of Mr. Kennedy's speech; when Mr. Wade of Ohio got the floor and moved an adjournment, so that he could speak to-morrow. But the Democrats, having determined in caucus that they would take the final vote on the bill at that sitting, though it extended into Saturday night, refused to adjourn. 
Mr. Doolittle now moved to lay aside Cuba, and take up the Homestead bill. The few Cubans who favor this latter implored Doolittle not to injure the Homestead, by antagonizing it with 'this great measure of foreign policy. 'He warned them that the country would regard this as a test vote. They winced, and the skirmish went on. 
The debate on the relative merits of the two measures, intermingled with questions of order, now became general. Trumbull struck the admirable point, that it was wiser to take up and pass a bill that disposed of a -portion of the surplus land we now had, than to waste time on one which proposed to buy more. Seward pronounced the Cuban foray a mere partizan scheme, whose friends knew it could not by any possibility pass the Lower House, while the Homestead could become a law, by the action of the Senate, in ten minutes. He briefly contrasted the two policies-one to enlarge the domain of the Slave power, and restore and maintain the supremacy of compulsory labor in the tropics-the other, to give land to the landless, and furnish homes to free laborers in our own country. He was emphatic, but entirely parliamentary and respectful in tone and language. 
After a little brush on points of order, Toombs got the floor. To understand the scene that followed, you must know that Seward and Wilson sit on the rear row of chairs, and Toombs, Wade and Benjamin immediately in front of them in the next row -Wade having Toombs on his right, and Benjamin on his left-and all five being in close proximity to each other. A little further off to the left of Benjamin sits Fessenden. Toombs directed his speech entirely to Seward. Always impassioned and furious, he was now extraordinarily vehement in tone, violent in gesticulation, and abusive in language. He called Seward a demagogue-a small demagogue -said he despised all demagogues, detested small demagogues in particular, but more especially pitied and despised those who could be driven by small demagogues, bringing his fist in the vicinity of Wade's desk as he uttered the last clause. He accused the Republicans in a body of cowardice, personal and political-of skulking the issue of Cuba, and shivering in their shoes at its mere name. 
He rung the changes on Seward's term, ' Land for the landless, ' and sneered at the' lacklanders, ' as he called them, of whom the Republicans were afraid, &c. He smote his own desk violently, occasionally reached over and, struck Seward's, kept his back toward the chair that he might turn his face toward Seward, ever and anon thrusting his hand almost in his face, and pushing inadvertently against Wade's chair; all this time his face glowing with passion, and his air and mien and tone suggesting the ferocity of Danton, combined with the malignity of Marat. During his short speech, a portion of the galleries kept up a running accompaniment of feeble gusts of laughter. 
Nearly all eyes had been fixed on Toombs and Seward-the latter calm and pale, and looking steadily at his assailant. But the few who knew Wade well, had not failed to notice his hands firmly clenched on the arms of his chair, his compressed lips, and the indescribable air of defiance that sat upon his countenance. Ere Toombs was fairly in his seat, Seward, Wilson, Fessenden and Wade sprang to their feet. It was impossible for the Chair to assign the floor to anybody but' the Senator from Ohio, ' for the tone in which he pronounced the formula, 'Mr. President!' and the eye he fixed on Breckinridge, said, as plain as words could have uttered it, 'I must and will have it. '
Wade, who don't fear the devil, turned square upon Toombs, who knows that Wade don’t fear the devil, and, bringing his fist down within about an inch of Toombs's nose, and heavily upon his desk, said, his eye riveting him, and the hot words hissing through his teeth, 'Skulk, ah! shiver, do we?'
The Georgian pushed his chair-it stands on castors-a few inches further off, so as to give his Ohio neighbor more room!
Wade went on, leaping almost from the floor at every sentence, showing plainly that though he was able to reply effectively to the taunts and abuse that fell from Toombs's lips, he would rather drive them forcibly down his throat-all of which Toombs knew, because, once on a time, they being neighbors in the Senate then as now, Toombs was abusing all Republicans in the most vituperative style, when Wade, his hands on the arms of his chair, ready to leap to his feet, demanded to know, ' Does the Senator include me in what he is now saying?' Upon which the Georgian responded, ' I except the Senator from Ohio!' Since that occurrence, everybody thinks Toombs desires to give Wade a wide berth. 
But, to the speech. The first sentence went straight to the core of the subject, and all the rest followed it. ' You sneer at the Homestead bill, because it gives land to the landless, do you? W hat is your pet measure? Stealing niggers for the niggerless! We go to the country upon it-Land for the Landless versus Niggers for the Niggerless!'
That was enough. The galleries had seemingly held their breath. Now, some feet came down with one determined stamp upon the floor-a few hands smote together-but the mass, in gallery and in Senate, shouted with a mingled roar of laughter and cheers-the President throwing down the gavel in despair. 
Having, in this phrase, compressed the whole argument into the smallest possible compass, Wade went on roasting the Democracy about their' nigger! bill, ' and satisfying Toombs that he (Wade) was not much frightened, however it might be with him (Toombs); and then he handed over the, fight to Fessenden. 
Mr. Fessenden was more deliberate. Indeed, he was persistently calm and provokingly cool. He told Toombs that Republicans did not skulk nor shiver on the Cuba question, but only meant by this course to take their own time, and teach gentlemen that the Senate was to be governed by its own rules, and not by the decrees of a party caucus, and that they should permit the vote to be taken on the bill when they had said all they wished to on the subject, and not one moment sooner. 
All this time Seward sat quietly In bio chair. Those accustomed to read his thoughts in his face, knew he was biding his opportunity to reply. Finally, he took the floor. He never spoke of the Senator from Georgia. He turned his back somewhat upon him, with a mingled air of dignity and contempt. He drew his own chair aside, pushed Wilson's out of the way, stepped back a pace or so, shook off trammels, forgot Blair's rhetoric, Campbell's rhetoric, and Seward's rhetoric, calmly defined the different kinds of courage, said he hoped he had enough to serve his purpose as a Senator and a man, and then rose with his theme, contrasting in a few glowing words the beneficent objects of the Homestead bill, with the pernicious scheme of acquiring Cuba, and, alluding to the President's efforts to clutch the purse and the' sword, denounced him in severe but strictly parliamentary language, for attempting thus to divert the public mind from the issues which his Kansas and financial policies had precipitated upon the country; and he concluded by comparing, in a few eloquent sentences, the principle which would give land and homes to freedom and free laborers, with that which would extend and strengthen the curse and crime of human bondage among men. 
As he pronounced the closing words, he proudly turned his back upon the Chair, drew out his cigar case, and walked into the adjoining cloak-room. 
After another short skirmish on points of order, Toombs replied to Seward. He tried to abuse him. But it was not the vituperation of a Senator. It was the ravings of a drayman on the dock, the cursings of a common drab in a dirty alley. 
in the midst of this gust of passion, the fire-eater might be seen shaking his clenched fist and curly locks at the New York Senator, who was leaning against the doorway of the cloak-room, quietly smoking his cigar, and calmly eyeing Toombs. It was a tableau indeed. 
After a long-fight, Slidell, chief of the Cubans, at nearly 2 o' clock in the morning, showed the white feather, and moved that the Senate adjourn. 
"A bad example, Mr. Seward!-[Ed.Lts.
<c06>
LUORETIA MOTT IN WASHINGTON. 
The Washington correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard, under date of March 1st, says:-
Last Sunday morning, I set out, with considerable curiosity, for the Orthodox Congregational Church (Mr. Bassett's) in this city, expecting to hear Lucretia Mott. I had never listened to her myself and was carious, like many others, to see the women as widely known for her eloquence, and I was still more curious to know how the people of this slave city would greet her. I was a little surprised, open entering the church, to find it nearly or quite full and people were constantly coming in to fill the few seats still vacant. Looking around me I saw a great number of Congressmen, and almost as many stave-holding members as Republicans. In one corner as Gov. Smith of Va. -'Extra Billy, ' as he is called-in another place Sandidge of La. , Seward of Georgia and other prominent Southern representatives. The audience was one which Mrs. Mott and other radical anti-slavery preachers or speakers very rarely obtain As for the discourse, 1 can scarcely trust myself speak of it, for it was the first time I had heard Mrs. Matt, and I was completely entranced from the first word to the last. Everybody I have seen says that it was an exquisitely beautiful and eloquent effort. The silence in the house was strange a word was lost, and it seemed as if the audience were unwilling to lose one, for they hung breathless upon her lips. The impression made upon her audience was at once profound and happy. The slave holders even speak kindly of her, and I need not tell you that the speaker did not omit to deal faithfully with the great sin of slavery. I will not attempt to give you a description of her discourse in the morning. It was upon the progress the world has made in reference to its institutions, creeds or religions, and its general conduct. She dwelt at length upon war and slavery, and the so-called infidelity of reformers and the real infidelity of all evil-doers. In the afternoon, she spoke upon the subject of woman, her condition and rights, and her audience was still larger than in the morning, a pretty good proof of the acceptability of the first discourse. Another winter I trust we shall have Wendell Phillips in Washington to lecture upon slavery. I will guarantee tee him a house-full of people for an audience, who will treat him with respect, a good proportion of them being slaveholding members of Congress. 
Eli Thayer has been making another speech in the House, m which he indicates the kind of slaving he indulges in. I quote a few sentences as they were taken down from his lips. Mr. Thayer said: 'Some members of the Republican party are always uneasy. They are never satisfied. When they get to Heaven, they will not be satisfied. Instead of tuning their harps to heavenly praise, they will be getting an opera-glass to look over the gulf, and see if they can not descry a Dred Scott decision, or a Supreme Court, and they will be wanting a Wilmot proviso to keep slavery out of Heaven!'
Is not this in imitation of Daniel Webster when he talked of the folly' of re enacting the laws of God'! A colleague of Mr. Thayer, upon listening to what I have quoted, exclaimed, 'My constituents are too pious to swallow such stuff as that, and I look in vain for these and other remarks, of a similar nature, in the printed speech, which is for home consumption. 

Ayer's Sarsaparilla, 
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Pan Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla b reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflieted fellow-citizens. How completely this com-pound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints: -
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPRIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DUSEASE, DRIOSY, NECRALGIA OF TIC DOULOURECT, DESILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERTSIPSLAS, ROSE OR Sr. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPUARRT OF THE BLOOD. 
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season. By the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channel of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruption, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that Is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extract of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else. 
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla. but often so curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle. 
PHEPARED BY
DB. J. C. AYER & CO. 
LOWELL, MASS. 
Price, 1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5. 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do. 
Ayer's Cathartic Pills, 
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, dyspepsia, indigestion, Dyspepsia. Foul Stomach, 
Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheusmatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, 
Liter, Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, 
Neuralyia, as a Dinner pill, and for Purifying the Blood. 
They axe sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for ail the purposes of a family physic. Price, 25 cents per Box-. Five boxes for $100. 
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be fallowed for their cure. 
Do not be plot off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand Ayer's, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should hive it. 
All our Remedies are for sole by
THEODORE METCALF &CO., 
Boston BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, 
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H. 
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May!
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, 
PRINTERS, 
21 Cornhill BOSTON.
