THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS- Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
<C01>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind. J. B. YERRINTON $ SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 22. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 27, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1788

THE LIBERATOR.
THIRTY-FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Phonographically reported by Jas. M. W. YERRINTON.]
WEDNESDAY EVENING, May 11.
The closing meeting of the Society was held at the Cooper Institute, on Wednesday evening, and was attended by a large and intelligent audience, which entirely filled the spacious hall. Most of those present were, evidently, in full sympathy with the Anti-Slavery movement, and the radical utterances of the several speakers called forth the utmost enthusiasm. 
The meeting was called to order by Mr. GARRISON, who announced that the exercises song by James G. Clark, the poet-vocalist of Western New York.
Mr. Clark sand "The People's Advent," which was heartily applauded.
THE PRESIDENT- I wish to submit a resolution to the meeting, which I have no doubt will meet your acceptance:-
Resolved, That this meeting would record its gratification at the evidence that have been furnished, from time to time, of the extensive and deep sympathy felt by the majority of the people of Great Britain with the people of Great Britain with the people of America in their struggle with the enemies of freedom and free institutions; and amongst those evidences, we refer with especial pleasure tom the noble and self-denying conduct of the industrial classes of the manufacturing districts, to the numerous addresses and resolutions adopted in public meetings, to the fraternal letter received in this country with the signature of nearly four thousand ministers of religion, of various denominations, and to a similar document signed by nearly two thousand of the clergy of Scotland. Also to the timely and eloquent utterances of such representatives of public sentiment as George Thompson, (loud applause,) John Bright, (renewed applause,) John Stuart Mill, William Edward Foster, Profs. Cairns and Newman, Gen., Perronet Thompson, Revs. Baptist Noel and Newman Hall, Profs. Goldwin Smith and Nichol, Washington Wilkes and Henry Vincent; and also to the strengthening testimonies of such journals as the London Morning Star, (applause,) the Daily News, the Leeds Mercury the Manchester Examiner and Times, and the Caledonian Mercury.
In paying this tribute of our gratitude to the friends on the other side of the Atlantic whose hearts are palpitating with our own, and mingling with all our aspirations on the side of freedom, I may say, without invidiousness, that of all those who have been the most efficient in calling forth the expressions of the people of England in favor of our government and against the Southern Confederacy, no man is comparable to George Thompson, who is soon to address you, (Loud applause.) And that you may have testimony on this subject better than my own, let me read an extract from a letter of a distinguished minister of the Established Church—one of the delegation with the Rev. Dr. Massie, who brought over the address signed by more than four thousand of the dergy of Great Britain. I refer to the Rev. John H. Rylance. He says:-
“Now, if the American people be disposed to award to higher acknowledgement to those efforts than that they were friendly, to that extent George Thompson merits their kindliest recognition; for he bore, far beyond all comparison, the lion's share in the work The inspiration of, the occasion made the man young again, and he almost flew throughout England and Scotland, to dispel ignorance, to subdue prejudice, to combat malice, that thus he might bring the good will and sympathy of the British people to the aid of America in the hour of her great need.
“What I wish especially to be observed in this connection is, that he did this not merely as an Abolitionist; for Mr. Thompson had the sagacity to see very early in the struggle, that human freedom was only use among the many solemn interests threatened by the rebellion; so that he climbed a higher platform, and lost merely party views and aims in a generous enthusiasm to sustain the American government, not doubting that in the issue of the war the one great interest for which he had lived and labored would be redeemed and consecrated by the fierce sacrament of blood.
"Had your many readers been witnesses with me of George Thompson’s labors—how he sometimes dragged himself from a sick bed, and cheerfully travelled hundreds of miles to address meeting which no other man could sway with such surpassing eloquence and power, and all this without a cent of reward; had they seen, as I have, vast assemblies rise under in appeals to demand that rebel ram-building should be stopped, then I am sure there would be no lack of honor to the noble man who is amongst us for a time. However this may be, whether the American people since their esteem for such a man or not, one thing in sure the rebels and their friends in England dread him more than any other man in Europe, and perhaps this is the higher compliment of the two," (Loud applause.)
I have now the pleasure of introducing the true friend of our country, of free institutions, of universal liberty-GEORGE THOMPSON, OF ENGLAND.

SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON.
Mr. Thompson was received with enthusiastic and prolonged applause. When silence was restored, he spoke as follows:-
I thank you, Mr. President, for the resolution you have submitted to this meeting, and I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the cordial manner in which you have received it-may I say, adopted it? (Applause.) In all that is therein expressed, I can perfectly agree, except in regard to the application of its terms of encomium to myself. I will pass that over, however, as soon as I can, and leave a topic by no means grateful to me, and come to matters more immediately interesting to yourselves; and as it is but little more than three months since I left England, and as for three years previously I was occupied chiefly in the discussion of matters relating to the slaveholders' rebellion, the rupture of the States, the progress of the war, and the prospects of Union and emancipation, it may not be inappropriate to address you some remarks illustrative of the state of popular sentiment on the other side of the Atlantic.
Allow me, then, to say, that in Great Britain, at this moment, the community is very distinctly divided in opinion, feeling and sympathy, on what is called the “American Question,” or Secession versus Union. Children of the same family, boys in public and private schools, students in the colleges and universities, the members and frequenters of mechanics’ institutions, lyceums, forums and debating societies, the

<C02>
members of our various West-end clubs, our quarterly reviews, our monthly magazines, and our weekly and daily journals, are all divided into North and South. 
First among the newspapers that, during your terrible conflict with the South, hare taken part against you, stands the Times. (Hisses.) It is one of the most widely circulated of our journals—is the best written, and is, perhaps, the most influential. It has a host of imitators, who, when unable to imitate their great original in the talent for which it is distinguished, and in its power of mischief, contrive to excel it in the depth of their malignity and the coarseness of their vituperation. 
Would you like a sample, just to give you an idea of the way in which you are spoken of by the Copperhead journals of England? I will only give you a very slight taste—its flavor will show you of what its bulk consists. Here, for instance, is a specimen from the columns of one of our low-priced London papers—the Standard; a newspaper of the good old Tory school, that has sworn that it will not be wiser to-morrow than it is today. (Laughter.) The Tory Standard, speaking of your President and the members of his Cabinet, says:— 
“The weakness of Mr. Lincoln, the dull insolence of Mr. Seward, the puzzle-headed incapacity of Mr. Chase, the boastful helplessness of Mr. Stanton—all find characteristic expression in the Message of Mr. Lincoln to Congress. The men entrusted with the administration of affairs at Washington are hardly fit to direct the councils of a parish vestry. The democracy of America is an aristocracy of blackguards. * * Mr. Welles is conspicuous only for his impudence, but Mr. Jefferson Davis is a gentleman." (Roars of laughter.)
Such is the language of one of the organs of the Copperhead Conservative party. 
Now let me furnish you with a sample from one of the most widely circulated among the organs of the Liberal party—the London Telegraph:— 
“There are many points of resemblance between the Americans of the North and the Chinese. When the yellow dwarf or Pekin scrawls with the vermillion pen an edict proclaiming Great Britain his vassal, the dirty idiot no doubt believes in his own majesty. [That, you will say, is a very high compliment to the Emperor of all the Celestials!] When a Frenchman, spindled like a milliner in effeminate buckram, assures his audience at a coffee shop that he might have married the daughter of an English peer, perhaps the ape in woman's stays is unconscious of his lunacy. When, therefore, a trans-Atlantic long-shanks, a jaundiced, ricketty, lantern-faced and knock-kneed specimen of overgrown squalor, boasts that he can whip all the rest of mankind, it is just possible that the noisome braggard means what he says. (Great merriment.) 
I need scarcely say that such spiteful and scurrilous effusions excite only the intense loathing and disgust of well-informed persons, and, indeed, of all, whether well or ill-informed, who are sensible of what is due from the public writers of one country to the people of another. 
The great majority of the people of England have seen with regret and indignation the course pursued by the Times towards this country, during the period of your deadly conflict with the enemies of freedom, in the slave States; its sympathy with the men-stealing traitors and despots of the South; the aid and comfort it has given to the rebels, and the yet more despicable Copperheads of the North (loud applause); its systematic misrepresentation of the measures of the government, and its insolent abuse of the people of the free States ; the almost diabolical ingenuity of its correspondents, who have distorted the plainest facts, made the most glaring misstatements, often suppressed the most important information, and for years have acted as though they had been appointed and paid to exert their utmost powers to effect the ruin of this country. Yet, no men better than the writers for the Times, whether at home or abroad, have understood the principles and objects of the disunionists and traitors with whom you have been called to contend. When South Carolina seceded from the Union, and for some time afterwards, that paper took a just and enlightened view of the controversy between the two sections of the country. It represented your enemies as wickedly attempting to rend “the mightiest confederation the world has seen;" that their object was to repress free discussion by the tar barrel and the pine fagot, and to found an empire based upon slavery, the revival of the infernal African slave trade, and the degradation of human labor—whether performed by the white man or the black man. But as soon as it saw the possibility of the South accomplishing its object, it became the advocate of the views and interests of that party, which it has from the beginning of its career supported. That party is composed of the aristocracy, the landocracy, and the moneyocracy of the country. The Times is not, and never has been, a representative of the liberal, progressive, and reforming masses of the British people. On the contrary, it has obstructed, resisted, ridiculed, and traduced every reform movement, and every distinguished reformer. For two years and a half it has acted towards the friends of the Union and the North, in England, as it has acted in respect of every humane and liberal movement in former years. It has ignored the hundreds of Union and Emancipation meetings that have been held; or if it has been forced to notice some great demonstration, it has stigmatized it by abusive epithets, and has poured contempt upon the men who have taken part in it. Until the pressure from without compelled the Government to take measures to prevent the fitting out of any more piratical vessels, it was the champion of the Lairds and Lindsays, and the other shameless violators of the Queen’s proclamation (load applause); but when it got its cue from headquarters, it turned round, and with the same earnestness, and equal ingenuity, argued against the building of rams and the equipment of war steamers for the use of the Confederate government. The day is coming when it will repudiate its allies, the traitors and slave-mongers of Richmond, and will affect to exult over the re-integration of “the mightiest confederacy the world has seen.” (Applause.) Let your cause but be as victorious as it is just, and the paper that has reviled you in the hour of your national agony, will praise you in the hour of your national triumph.
Amongst our public men, there have been some, but their number is not large, who have descended to abuse and vituperation, in discussing the affairs of this country. Conspicuous amongst the peers of the realm has appeared Lord Brougham. Of this vain,

<C03>
capricious, and garrulous old man, I would speak with charity and forbearance ; for he is in his dotage, and in the decadence of his once mighty powers is privileged to say what his ever-changing humor dictates—free alike from commendation, criticism, and rebuke. 
“He courts the praise that followed him so long, 
But seeks applause in vain. No triumphs now 
Replace the laurels withering on his brow. 
His sole reliance is his former fame, 
He stands the shadow of a mighty name." 
(Applause.) 
As for Mr. Roebuck—you have heard of Mr. Roebuck! (Laughter.) He and I were boys together, youths together. I well remember that the first debating society I ever joined, numbered him among its members. We have discussed the gravest and most abstruse questions together. In those days, there was nothing in earth, or in heaven, or under the earth, or beyond them all, that we were not bold enough to discuss. The Berkleyan system of the actual, external existence of matter—the immortality of the soul—the being of God—all these were questions which we thought ourselves competent to discuss. We grew wiser, of course, as we grew older. And I well remember that Mr. Roebuck was then a flaming Republican. I was a sober young man; my sympathies were bounded by the constitution of my country; but Mr. Roebuck was, I know, a very ardent admirer of republican institutions. Well, what is he now? An apostate radical—the Copperhead traducer of America (applause)—the eulogist of Austria—the lick-spittle of Napoleon (renewed applause)—the fawning sycophant, who beslavers the prime minister, that he may with impunity assail his colleague ; who has stigmatized the democracy of this country as “the scum of Europe"— who has denounced the government at Washington, as “base, cowardly, and corrupt” —who has declared your struggle to crush a foul and traitorous insurrection “a blot upon human nature,” and has breathed the fiendish wish that the Anglo Confederate privateers, which his friends, the Lairds and the Lindsays, have let loose upon the world, might “chase your commerce from the ocean." As for this unhappy instance of wasted energies and perverted powers, it may be sufficient to say that his malice is impotent, and that his ravings are despised. This accomplice of Vallandigham and Fernando Wood (laughter and applause)—this mouth-piece of the Richmond banditti— this bosom friend of the infamous author of the execrable Fugitive Slave Law—this menial of Jefferson Davis, has been declared in the House of Commons to be a man who represents no one but himself, whose utterances are unanimously repudiated by the assembly he is permitted to disgrace by his presence. (Applause.) 
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher (great applause)—you do well to cheer him here, my friends; but you have never given him so many cheers in New York as he received in London (applause). When he was there, I was there; and when again he goes, as I hope he will, “may I be there to see!" You should have seen him at Exeter Hall—with four thousand persons within the walls, and seven or eight thousand persons outside the walls—you should have seen, as I did, Henry Ward Beecher, when fifty paces from the door by which he was to enter, lifted and carried, amidst the shouts of the people, over their heads, into the meeting-place, where the audience was waiting to receive him. He did a good work. I bear my testimony to the ability and the value of the services he performed for you in our country (applause). His presence acted like a magnet, wherever he went. He did not so much create anti-slavery feeling, as elicit that which already existed. Those who went to hear him, with the exception of a few Copperheads in Liverpool, were Abolitionists before, and they did, by their presence, but afford to him proof of the fact, of which I could have assured him long before, that the masses of the people in England have been true to the cause of the North (loud applause). 
When Henry Ward Beecher came back, he said— and I think he was right when he said it— “If you ask me what is the great underlying influence that has been at work upon the upper classes of England, (for it is among that class that the persons unfriendly to this country are found,) I answer, commercial interest, and rivalry therein; and class power, and the fear of contagion of American ideas. The great middle laboring class of England is on the side of the North; the upper class, as they are called, is on the side of the South." 
Those who heard or read the long and able speech delivered by Mr. Beecher, on the 19th of November last, in the Academy of Music, in Brooklyn, will recollect what account he gave of the men—members of the government, and others—and of the newspapers, all favorable to the Federal cause. As a set-off to the Times, he mentioned the Morning Star, and the Daily News, papers with the talent of the Times, without its venom and its wickedness—and other London journals, whose aggregate circulation was at least a million each issue. He also read a long list of provincial papers, whose circulation was scarcely inferior, and whose influence was equally great, in their respective districts. Having gone through a very long catalogue of men, eminent for learning, literature, piety, philan-thropy, and liberal and enlightened patriotism, he said :— “These are only a few of thousands of names of men, who are our friends; but these are better known, and have signalized their friendship by literary services in the cause of the North. I ask you, fellow citizens, (he continued,) whether, upon the facts that I have stated, there is not reason to believe that, after all, we have all been misinformed, and that there is a great undertone in England of friendliness, and of fidelity to us and to our cause?"
In the letter which has been read to you, my friend Mr. Rylance is pleased to speak of my rising from a sick bed to go forth again and again to address various meetings of the people, in different parts of the country. I remember that on one occasion, I broke through the injunctions of my physician, and offended against the wishes of my wife, and left London to attend a meeting in the county of Lancashire; and I can never forget that dense, and interested, and magnificent audience which I then addressed. With the exception of some five and twenty or thirty gentlemen, who accompanied me upon the platform, they were all operatives of that town and its neighborhood. Pale, worn, haggard, penniless—the fire had gone out upon the hearth, the food had disappeared from the cupboard, 

<C04> 
and they were what in Lancashire is called clammed—they were hungered. I talked to them of this war; I talked to them of the wicked principles on which the South had seceded; I talked to them of the wrongs of the slave; I pictured the brightening prospects of four million captives in the South ; I assured them that this war, though it might not wear the complexion of an anti-slavery war, would become one in the end, and that America, try as she might at the beginning to resist it, would have to make this war, in the hands of God, an instrument for working oat the redemption of her oppressed children. I told them this, and more, and then I put it to them whether they would wait a little longer, continue, as they had done, to observe the law, maintain a blameless deportment in the eyes of the community, cherish the same fervent loyalty for their sovereign, the same respect for property, etc.; and they shouted, with one voice, “We will!! we will! we will!” (Prolonged applause.) I say, woe to the man who, because of the taunts coming over the water from a handful of aristocrats, would sever the bond of friendship between you and such a people as that! (Applause.) I say, and do not doubt the truth of what I say, that it is the patient, heroic, self-denying, sublime conduct of these starving operatives of our kingdom, that has made our government what it is; that has foiled the machinations of Palmerston; that has defeated the plans of the secessionist party in England; that has spiked the guns of the adversary ; that has controlled the policy of the government, and preserved the harmony between England and America. (Applause.) Thank God, we have got through our cotton crisis, and got well through, and we shall have landed upon our wharves in England, during the present year, as large an amount of cotton as we got from all the world in 1858 (applause); and that without one bale of the cotton that may be sent us from the Confederate States, but which, I trust, will come to us no more until it comes free from the tears and unstained by the blood of the American slave. (Enthusiastic and prolonged applause.) 
O, my friends, words are all too poor to express the joy, the thankfulness, the exultation with which I listen to responses like these, to hopes and aspirations such as I have just breathed—responses, be it remembered, returned to the most radical anti-slavery sentiments by an audience like this in the city of New York (Renewed plaudits.) They fill one with bright hopes for the future. They indicate the speedy triumph of the cause in which some here have spent their lives. 
“Muse! take the harp of prophecy. Behold! 
The glories of a brighter age unfold. 
Friends of the outcast! view the accomplished plan, 
The negro towering to the height of man. 
Tyrants and slaves no more these States shall see, 
For God created all his children free!
Soon, Justice, leagued with Mercy from above, 
Shall reign in all the liberty of love;
And from the North to South, from East to West, 
America shall be the region of the blest." 
(Loud applause.) 
Go on in the good work!! You have a President pledged, steeped in pledges, to recognize the cardinal principle of your Declaration of Independence, that all men are free and equal. (Applause.) You have a President who, within the last few days, has said, “If slavery be not wrong, then nothing is wrong." If slavery be wrong, the antithesis is right. Do right! “Be just, and fear not. Let all the ends you aim at be your country's, your God's, and truth's," and you must succeed. You have the instruments ready to your hands. You have a Congress (I speak of the two Houses together) containing more men, ex animo, in their hearts, feelings, wishes, hopes, efforts, aspirations, pledged to the cause of the negro, than ever were in Parliament, even in the palmiest days of our anti-slavery agitation. (Applause.) God has given you all things richly to enjoy. You are accumulating, debts, but you have behind you boundless resources. From the bosom of the earth that God has given you as your heritage, you can reap enough pay fifty such debts; and fifty such would be well incurred to win so glorious a victory. Applause.) Yes, let Copperheads rail at greenbacks—let them rail till they can rail no longer; the rail-splitter is behind those greenbacks, the loyal people of the nation are behind him, and he and they will yet win the victory. (Great applause.) “There’s a good time coming." When this sword, now smoking with the blood of brothers, shall be sheathed, when the graves shall be filled, when the emblems of woe shall be laid aside, when mothers, with chastened grief, shall think of their sons, and bless the day they sacrificed them in their country's cause and in the cause of freedom—then, looking abroad from the Arctic circle to the sunny South, from the bleak shores of the Atlantic to the golden sands of the Pacific, you will see no tyrant and no slave; and the North, erect, free from the trammels of the South, will be bound by no constitutional obligation to support slavery, tyrannized over by no slave representatives in Congress, and know no execrable Fugitive Slave law, denying to her the right of cherishing the panting slave, flying to Canada for his liberty. When that time shall come, you will not regret the sacrifices you have made, even though they were of your own flesh and blood, and you will praise God that even through a Red Sea, He led you into a land of righteousness and liberty. (Loud applause.) 
As evidence of the feeling now prevalent in Scotland on the subject of slavery, and in reference to the course taken by the so-called ministers of religion in the rebel States, I would draw attention to a document signed by nearly 2,000 of the clergy of Scotland, and entitled, “A Reply to an Address to Christians throughout the World by the Clergy of the Confederate States of America." The elergy of the Confederate States! There is a very old book, that tells of the sons of God, and a certain individual coming in amongst them. These clergymen of the South are very near relatives to that individual. (Laughter.) Clerical slaveholders! Clerical women-whippers! Clerical men-stealers!
In this Reply, the Scotch ministers say, “They feel bound to give public expression to their views, lest their silence should be misconstrued, as implying either acquiescence in the principles of the document, or indifference to the crime which it seeks to defend—that of slavery." 
The Reply then alludes to the deep grief, alarm and indignation with which they have perused, the clerical pleadings on behalf of slavery in general, and American slavery in particular—pleadings, in the course

<C05>
of which God is thanked for slavery as for a missionary institution—the best and most successful in the world. 
In the name of that holy faith and thrice holy name, which the Southern ministers have desecrated by invoking it in defence of slavery, they, the Scotch ministers, most earnestly and emphatically protest against slavery, as “a system which treats immoral and redeemed men as goods and chattels, denies them the rights of marriage and of home, consigns them to ignorance of the first rudiments of education, and exposes them to the outrages of lust and passion." 
They consider apologists for slavery, who attempt to shelter themselves and the system under the authority of God’s word and the Gospel of Christ, worthy to be denounced as the real and worst enemies, both of the Bible and the Gospel, and they say, “The obligation rests upon us to record, in the strongest possible terms, our abhorrence of the doctrine on the subject of slavery which the Southern clergy teach, and upon which they act; and to testify before all nations, that any State, Empire or Republic, constituted or reconstructed in these days of Christian light and liberty upon the basis of that doctrine, practically applied, must, in the sight of God, be regarded as founded on wrong and crime, and as deserving, not his blessing, but his righteous wrath." 
I have felt it due to the ministers of Scotland to make this reference to their address. 
Mr. President, while pronouncing the few words with which I intend to close this address, I shall take the liberty of addressing myself directly to the audience here assembled, and shall speak as though you were not present. 
Ladies and gentlemen, amongst the many thousands in Great Britain who cherish an interest in the anti-slavery movement in this country, there is one name which is never uttered but with sentiments of the profoundest honor and respect. It is the name of one who, in Europe, is regarded as the pioneer, apostle and legitimate leader of the cause of the injured, the abused, the fettered and the outcast millions of the colored race upon this continent It is the name of him— 
“Who, casting far behind all earthly care 
And countryships—all national regards 
And smiles—all narrow bounds of State 
And selfish policy—beneath his feet 
Trod every fear of opposition down— 
All fear of danger-of reproach, all fear;
And scorning evil tongues, went forth to blow 
The trump of freedom in the nation's ear; 
To tell the bruted slave his manhood high, 
His birthright liberty, and in his hand
To put the writ of manumission, signed
By God’s own signature."
Ladies and gentlemen, we in England, wholove the cause in which you are engaged, give thanks to God for having given to this age and country WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. (Prolonged and hearty applause.)
It is our judgment and belief, that to his sagacity, as well as to his boundless philanthropy—to his accurate and cloudless survey of passing events—to his incorruptible integrity and unfaltering perseverance, the abolition movement in this country is more indebted than to any other man. We believe that when the angry disputations of party politicians shall perish, and be forgotten—when the din of war shall be hushed, and there shall be buried in one grave the sword of civil strife and the fetters of domestic slavery—when the calm, clear voice of the prophet now in your midst shall be heard no more—when the thousands of hearts, whose holiest emotions have been awakened by his earnest pleadings, are still and cold—that then, even more than while he lived, will his name be venerated and blessed. 
The tribute which, as an Englishman, and the exponent, on this occasion, of the sentiments of English Abolitionists, I desire to offer to your President, and to his early coadjutors, has been rendered by one of your own countrymen in language far more eloquent than any which I can employ, and I will, therefore, make use of his words. 
In a sermon on “The Signs of the Times,” preached by the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, in Plymouth Church, on the 11th of November, 1860, that distinguished minister said: 
“At the beginning of this great work, (the abolition of slavery.) God did not call the great or the many, but his voice sounded first in the ears of the humble and the few. I call you to remember that this great work, however much help it may have received from the Church, and from persons in the Church, was not begun by the Church. Courts and assmeblies were not called to head the resistance to slavery. It was not the Legislature nor the State; it was not any part of organized society whatever that inaugurated the revolution against slavery. All these had too much to take care of to be able to risk anything for an unpopular justice. They were all of them asleep; and when the voice sounded, none of them knew it to be the voice of God. He spoke, therefore, to a few unknown men. The men that first agitated in behalf of liberty, and against slavery, were the truest martyrs that this age has seen. Many of them are dead, or rather they have burst forth from the constraining bonds of this life, and now they fully live in heaven. They but glimmered here—there they blaze. A few patriarchs are yet alive. Though I am not on his side, I most hear witness to the fidelity of William Lloyd Garrison. 
“It may be hard for some to believe that he was one of the earliest and noblest of those instruments that God employed for the overthrow of oppression among us—that be has been the scourge of the ministry and Church, whose tongue has walked to and fro in the land, amid persecution scarcely paralleled in modern times. There has risen up no more stalwart or heroic man in any age to labor for freedom, to declare slavery to be iniquitous, and from the first to speak untempered words—but words that were untempered only because, in the might of wickedness, and in the strength of his feeling, there was no time for measuring. The ages are more just than the years in which things take place; and by and by, when you and I are gone down below the horizon, and men see none of us, they will behold standing high as a star such a man as WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON" (Prolonged applause.) 
I see around me some of the patriarchs to whom Mr. Beecher refers; and oh, how I thank God, on their behalf and my own, that we live to see this day!
“Spirit of Freedom, on!
Oh, pause not in thy flight,
Till every clime be won
To worship in thy light!
Speed on thy glorious way,
And wake the sleeping hands;
Millions are watching for thy ray,
And spread to thee their hands.
On, till thy name is known
Throughout the peopled earth;
On, till thou reign’st alone,
Man’s heritage by birth;
On, till from every vale,
And where the mountains rise, 
The beacon lights of liberty
Shall kindle to the skies."

<C06>
Mr. Thompson took his seat amid universal and enthusiastic applause. 
The PRESIDENT. I wish to say to the audience, that our friend, though laboring, when he came to the meeting, under much bodily disability, (which has not been apparent, however, in any part of his address,) very kindly consented to occupy a larger portion of the time than he otherwise would have done, because I, for one, being weary with the long protracted meetings, did not wish to speak this evening, and because our friend, Mr. Phillips, also hoped to he let off with a short speech, which, however, I hope he may not be. (VOICES—“No; oh, no.”) First, then, we will have a song, and then Mr. Phillips. 
Mr. Clark sang “The Field of Gettysburg.” to great acceptance, as was evidenced by the applause which followed. Mr. Phillips then came forward, and was very warmly greeted. 

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
Mr. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I am well aware, I hope, of the very favorable and advanced auspices, if I may use that epithet, under which this Society meets this year. No man can fail to see how much we have gained. No man can fail to see how, in a single year, God has done for us what it usually requires a quarter of a century to accomplish. The fruits of this great national struggle ripen so fast, events crowd upon each other so closely, that we ourselves forget some of the elements of our very gain. To-day, the largest army raised in this half century does battle, in the name of the nation, for that slave who, for thirty years, we have almost in vain begged the nation to remember. Virginia is drenched in blood, year after year, in the determination and resolute purpose of the Northern people to carry their civilization down to the Gulf, and lift the negro to an equal level of political and civil existence. (Applause.) The President of the United States (loud applause) owes to-day his world-wide reputation, has his name floating in the blessings of Europe and of Christendom, not because of his office, but because he has done what this Society, for a quarter of a century, has hopelessly entreated of the nation. I am not, of course, claiming for ourselves the merit of having done this; I am not a lunatic; but I am asking you to remember how our work has been taken out of our hands, and almost accomplished; that the brightest laurel worn to-day on an American brow is worn because the world believes him to be an Abolitionist (applause)—hitherto a name of contempt from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Change enough in one generation! 
Neither let us forget, at such a moment as this, the terrible cost at which these advantages have been gained. Our friend from the other side of the ocean has painted to us the English laborer, gaunt, half starved, in his utter hopelessness remembering us in his sympathy and self-devotion. He might have crossed the channel, and found the French artisan manifesting the same sublime devotion to an idea wrought out four thousand miles off by a people with whom he can hardly claim kindred. No sublimer spectacle of intense and disinterested devotion has the world seen for centuries, if ever. On our own soil, each day marks its memory in our minds with the martyrdom of some brave soul in the same cause. Yesterday, your honored son—who left the State, where he was dowered with wealth, girdled with every family joy, beckoned onward by every ambitious hope, to go down, almost at first, and place himself by the side of the negro—Wads worth (prolonged applause,) fell, and has consecrated Virginia to freedom; and to-day, the stout old soldier, Sedgwick, (loud applause,) falls in the van of that battle which is raging over the prostrate body of the negro, for the perpetuity of his liberties and of ours. 
Why do I remind you of these things? Because the holier the cause becomes, the more terrible the sacrifices laid upon its altar, the more earnest the demand on us, and on every American citizen, to see that all this great effort is not wasted; that no one of these precious lives, no one of these noble sacrifices, is in vain; that no indifference, that no man-worship, that no party madness, that no over-sanguine credulity (“hear, hear,”) shall lead us, at least, the watchmen on the towers of this anti-slavery crusade, to leave any contingency or chance in regard to the securing of those rights for which we are fighting. I could not look at the picture which our friend drew for us of the English artisan, without being moved to doable diligence, feeling that the post of American citizen to-day bore even a heavier burden than I supposed, with the world watching us and starving for us, in order that we might be free, and one nation, without a tyrant or a slave. 
Now, fellow-Abolitionists, we meet here to-night, and let us take a little account of our position. We have, as our friend told us, a Congress elected and pledged, beyond all precedent, to the side of the negro; we have a President who has declared, in the words which he fitly quoted, that if slavery is not wrong, there is nothing wrong under the heavens, (Applause.) Had our President said, “I have come to-day to the conviction, that if slavery is not wrong, there is nothing wrong under the heavens,” I should have said, “Onward! He has now planted in his own heart an inward testimony that can never mislead him in dealing with the statesmanship of the question which God gives to his hands.” But the President of the United States says, as so many Americans have said before, ”I never knew the day when I did not believe slavery to be wrong; and if it is not wrong, there is nothing wrong under the skies.” If, therefore, the whole that American's public life has grown out of a heart which cherished, in its very utmost depth, that conviction; if nevertheless, he could take office under a Whig dynasty, and seek with volunteer zeal to add an appendix to that ”execrable Fugitive Slave law,” how shall I trust that the conduct hereafter which grows out of such a pledge will be any more radically consistent with what we should deduce from it, than the twenty years of his past political life have been? (Applause.) We are to remember, fellow-citizens, that the logic of American public life allows that a man may lay down the corner-stone that slavery is a sin beyond question, and then serve it from an argument of political necessity or party expediency.
Now, I have no pleasure-who can have any?-in arraigning in doubting, in even discriminating between public men. A friend said to me, just as I rose to
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THYE UNTIED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANICIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding State become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, INEVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are satin marital array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
come upon the platform, "Take a cheerful view tonight!” (Applause.) I look down into Virginia, and see 100,000 men marshalled against another 100,000 men who have been looking into each other's eyes for three years, disputing for the Gibraltar of this struggle, I carry my glance further down, and see a Massachusetts boy ruling the mouths of the Mississippi, and announcing that no freedman under the proclamation of 1863 shall choose either his labor, his employer, or his residence. (Cries of “shame,” and hisses.) How can I take cheerful view, when I see the negro, as I am bound to see him on this platform, before my eyes? I will be as cheerful as his interests allow me to be. I will make you as pleasant a speech as the negro, borne to the ground in his hovel, beyond our pickets, can make to-night; and I cannot afford to be any more cheerful. We have a proclamation of liberty, dated on the first day of January. 1863. No man shall go beyond me in the recognition, in the grateful recognition, of the daring, and noble, intelligent statesmanship which dictated that proclamation. (Loud applause.) No man shall go beyond me in the recognition of the sincerity with which that measure was adopted. But, friends, suppose the war ended, suppose the cannon come home, the banner furled, and that that paper is to go before the courts-how much does it mean? Well, I do not know how much it means. If, during the riots of last July, the commanding general of this district had taken possession of this building on the plea of military necessity and destroyed it, the owners would have lost it forever. If he had taken possession of it and occupied it, when the riot ceased, when peace returned, when the soldiers went back to their barracks, this property would revert to its old owners. Military necessity ceases, and the conversion of property ceases. Now, therefore, a Copperhead lawyer, (they are not extinct [laughter]; you can find them from the Chief Justice downward, or upward, whichever way you choose to reckon,) who has always maintained that the slave was property under the Constitution, when Louisiana was reconstructed into a commonwealth would say, "Mr. Lincoln freed this slave because he wanted him, like any other piece of property. He had a right to take it from the use of a rebel; he had a right to use it himself. But the rebellion has ceased; the military necessity has ceased; there stands the piece of property, no longer needed by the conqueror, it reverts to its old owner." Suppose he should argue so; I do not say the Supreme Court would accept the argument; I only state to you, in this, one of the half dozen questions that lie beneath that proclamation, and, in the strict view of international law, stand between Mr. Lincoln and the carrying out of his proclamation. Understand me. I do not doubt his will and purpose, while he lives, to make that proclamation a reality down to the Gulf (applause); but in order, to do it, he has either to secure, himself, a guaranty from the bench, or carry with him, as the British did after the war of 1812, every black he has emancipated from the locality where he was previously found, or he must keep in that locality an army that shall prevent the old owner from reasserting his claim.
I only point out to you, by way of illustration, one of the questions which lie before us in the future, when the cannon has ceased its sound. As I said yesterday, the statesmanship of the question is the more momentous and the more confused of the two. It is the settlement of the principles upon which this Union is to come together again. Grant, on a direct line, like a cannon ball, goes down to the Gulf, and unfurls the stars and stripes; that is one thing. But that does not wipe out Southern ideas; that does not convert Southern mind; that does not make the white man of the Carolinas love either your principles or the flag. Subjugation is not conversion. Two angry dogs chained together do not make a marriage. South Carolina, in her present mood, and Massachusetts, in her present mood, are not a Union. Seventy years have proved it. The Union guaranteed to our President-whose name and fame my friend has so fitly described-the right to reside, if he pleased, in Charleston; but it he had attempted to exercise that right, it would have led him, tour years ago, as it would to day, to the halter. There was no Union. You have not changed that mood of mind to-day. There have been one or two experiments which show that the nation cannot impose a government on a reluctant people. Utah, it nothing else, shows us this; Kansas shows it, also. It is not possible. Every sensible man, therefore, says of that proclamation-”Fortify it by an amendment of the Constitution (loud applause); a document on paper, which leaves the legal record perfect, which avoids all questions of military necessity, which puts out of court all the nice critical discriminations of lawyers, and anchors the popular purpose in the Constitution itself.” So much, certainly, it is not only wise, but it is absolutely necessary that this Society, that the anti-slave party, should gird itself to demand. To-day, in our debates, some of our friends said, the limit of this Society's function is reached when chattel slavery is abolished. Well, that, as a brief statement, is undoubtedly correct. But suppose peace had reigned, during the last three years, and Mr. Lincoln had said to us, at any time, “Gentlemen, I am going to issue a proclamation to free every slave in the United States.” This Society would not have adjourned; it would not have dissolved. It would have said-” Sir, thank you for your intentions; glad yon published them; but you have not abolished chattel slavery, though you have exhibited a wish to do so because you have not put the act beyond cavil; you have shown the disposition, but you have not used the means.” I do not deny, to-day, the wish of President Lincoln and his Cabinet, that slavery should cease on this continent. If I read them correctly, I think they entertain that wish fully. But, as I said to day, a man wishes to go to Liverpool-it is a very pleasant wish; I should like to go myself; but it is only a wish. When I see him pack his trunk, engage his passage on a Cunarder, take his baggage and go down to the wharf and get on board, and start down the harbor, I say, he has got more than a wish to go to Liverpool; he has got a purpose, and he has gone. So in regard to the abolition of slavery, when I look at the government, grateful as I feel toward Mr. Lincoln, and satisfied as I am of his entire wish that slavery should be prohibited, I recognize, at the same time, a shrinking from the means by which that wish should be made effectual. It is one thing to wish a thing-I wish I was worth a million of dollars; it is another thing to be willing to use the means. Suppose a man said, "You shall have it, if you will vote for McClellan”-why, I wouldn't take the means! (Loud laughter and applause)
What I want to point out to the conviction of Abolitionists is the duty that lies before them, now that the sacrifice has been so great, and the dangers ahead of us still are so momentous. We do not know whether we have got Richmond-we do not know how soon the Stars and Stripe will float over that capital, or any other south of it-three years of war have hardened the Confederacy from that fluid and gristle state of 1861 into the muscle and bone of national cohesion, and we hare not now a rebellion to fight, but a nation, strong in the pride of habits and associations and the spite of three years desperate battle and experience in defiance of the world. We have not only that, but we have, on the Southern border of our country, the nucleus of a foreign dominion, whose natural tendency it is to be a thorn in the side of the nation by cherising its rebellious daughter. That French Emperor does nothing capriciously, nothing thoughtlessly, but with long-sighted purpose, he plants the nucleus of a French force there, to bide its time. Every hour that this contest lasts is an opportunity for misfortune. No European power, except Russia, can be claimed on our side. Of the first-rate powers of Europe-Austria, Russia and France-Austria cannot help us if she would, France would not help us if she could, and Russia is the only one that has ever given us a kind word. (Applause.) Of the second-rate powers of Europe-Spain, Portugal, Belgium, England and Prussia, (hisses, followed by loud applause)-well, I beg pardon of any Englishman who ekes offence at the classification of his country, but I
<c02>
have always held a free tongue of my own country; I have always tried to describe truly my own government; and you certainly will not find fault with me for describing truly yours. (Applause.) Grand as she is-and in the bosoms of her millions of laboring men I found my surest hope of the coming century-I yet say, that the government which, within one short ninety days, has remodelled her cabinet and dismissed her guest at the bidding of a foreign despot is no longer a first-rate power. ("Hear, hear,” applause and hisses, the two parties keeping up their rivalry in the expression of approbation or disapprobation for some time, the former very largely predominating.) Well, friends, my excellent, honored and dear friend behind me (Mr. Thompson) has heard me describe my own country too often not to know that I have earned the right to describe his as I think it. I believe that if we had invited Garibaldi here, (loud applause,) with half the nation in rebellion against us, no Bonaparte would have clutched him from our hearts. (Cries of "Hear, hear,” "No, no,” and enthusiastic applause.) I believe, fellow-citizens, there never was in history an example of so swift a vengeance following sin as in as in this epoch in the history of our mother country. In the day of our adversity, she let pirates skulk out of her harbors to sweep the commerce of the North from the ocean. To-day, she dares to provoke Europe by defending Denmark, whom she loves; she dares not provoke France by covering Garibaldi, whom she has invited to her shores, because she knows that Americans, making use of that very precedent, would sweep her commerce from the ocean. ("Hear, hear,” and loud applause.) Palmerston himself forged the weapon which to-day affrights England from the course she would naturally follow. No ill-wisher to England ever could have wished her worse than that her sin against us should, within a twelvemonth, be visited so marvellously upon her own head. We have but to catch a stray Prussian in any of your streets, put him, with a sham commission, in command of one of our gunboats, and, if England were fighting by the side of Denmark, we could make Liverpool grass grow upon her wharves-and she knows it. (Applause.)
I say, therefore, that among the second-rate powers of Europe-Spain, Portugal, Belgium, England and Prussia, [here the hisses and applause were renewed, and kept up with considerable vigor for several minutes.] These friends need not hiss me. John Bright is not England. He has a noble Saxon soul, that knew the right by instinct, and stretched his right hand across the Atlantic, and gave us more strength than Palmerston could rob us of, at the head of her Majesty's government. William E. Forster is not England. Cobden is not England. (A VOICE— "No more is Palmerston.") I speak of the English government, (A VOICE—" You said the nation,”) as one of the second-rate governments of Europe; I did not speak of the operatives of Lancashire, nor of saints like Bright, Cobden, Forster, our friend behind me-worthy of the blood of Milton, Hampden, Cromwell, and Washington-struggling to-day for the same cause in the House of Commons for which we struggle on the battle-fields of Virginia. (Applause.)
But do not let us waste time on that; it is a mere matter of opinion. What I say is, there is our outside danger; here is our inside danger. Now, what I want is, a country that will be able to bear its burden in the future, and make its edict of emancipation a fact. Mark you! if the North does not succeed, if the Union is broken in two, if Maximilian and-Jefferson Davis are able to hold ten of the Southern States, where is the slave? Abraham’s will has gone forth from him, and returned void. If the North fails, there is no freedom except the slave win it with his own right hand. Well, I believe, as you do, that the war has doubtless taken the rivets out of society, and that there is a far greater probability that, in the tumultuous and revolutionary period of such a new state-fifty per cent, of probability out of the hundred-the slave will soon, if not immediately, achieve his liberty, than that be will, for any long time, be held in his chains. But the black race will neither be immediately freed nor protected and elevated in their liberty, unless the North succeeds. I want, therefore, a prosecution of the war, in the first place, on the slave's behalf, so active, so energetic, so prompt, so decisive, that there shall be no time for Europe or for Maximilian to interfere, and no time for any other danger to beset us. I want an actual war waged, on Grant, and not McClellan principles. (Applause, and cries of "Good!”) I take it, McClellan's principle is, ”If you see a head, don't hurt it!” I take it, Grant's principle is that of an Irishman's in a mob, "Wherever you see a head, hit it!” (Laughter and applause.) The first thing I want, therefore, is war upon war principles. No sort of hesitation as to the amount of, evil that you will inflict upon your antagonist; no treating your enemies as though they were one day to be your friends. I believe-and I rather infer it from the acts of this Administration-that the war has been carried on upon the principle of not hurting the South so much as to exasperate her. Mark me! if you live forty years, and the letter cabinets of leading men in Washington are opened, my word for it, you will see it written, in black and white, that that is the principle on which the war has been carried on. McClellan had not vigor enough to force his idea upon the government; it is an absurdity to assert it. You cannot make water run up hill, and he was at the bottom. (Laughter.) The principle upon which he carried on the war must have been, in the nature of things, satisfactory to the men who held the helm; and you know, as well as I do, that this war, for at least two years, was carried on upon the principle of not hurting the South so much as to exasperate her beyond reconciliation. Why, we saw that bubbling over on every occasion. Now, after three years of battle, we have produced this state of things. Whatever Unionism there once existed down South has been annihilated by the bitterness that the war has created. If you look into the Evening Post to-morrow or next day, you will see a remarkable letter from a loyal Northerner in Murfreesboro', in which he says: "I am in East Tennessee. I find no loyalty here; no Unionism here, that is not born of despair; none that is born of kindness of feeling. The slaveholder sits in his house alone, embittered and idle. He will neither hire his slaves himself, nor consent that others shall hire them. He waits, in the confident expectation that time will bring round the system again, and he shall have their labor." Of course, there are exceptions. There are Owen and Fowler, and half a dozen others, led by Gov. Johnson, who represent a loyal, anti-slavery sentiment; but the great mass are alien and hostile. I said yesterday that when Shepley, down in New Orleans, called on the men who had eaten the bread of the government for eighteen months to come forward and volunteer for thirty days, to save the city from the Confederates, nine-tenths of them resigned rather than to take up arms on our side. We went to Florida with the idea of making a government. We exported five hundred men there to begin, with, and they came back. We have never found any Unionism at the South to build upon.
Now, I say that Utah and other examples show us that we cannot force a government upon a reluctant people; and if it could be done, it would not be Republicanism. Until you can find some way of making States, there is no chance for the slave’ to come under our banner; and there is the guaranty of his liberty. Make the Confederacy a power, and the slave is beyond us. If you want to find the means of making that proclamation effective, you must find some means of making States. You cannot build on the white element; there is nothing but the black element to build upon. Mr. Brownson-and when I name him, I name a man than whom there are not a dozen men in the Northern States who have done more to enlighten, intensify, and elevate the purpose of the North-Mr. Brownson, in some criticisms which he did me the honor to make upon a speech that I made a month or 
<c03>
two ago, says I am mad upon the rights of the negro. Well, I am not just now considering the rights of the negro, and I am willing to pass that by for the moment. I am considering your interests and mine, as well as his rights. We need him. There is nothing else to hold up the banner on the banks of the Mississippi. I would give him the ballot in one hand, and the musket in the other, because I want him as the basis of civil institutions. I would give him an acre, if it did not belong to him. If, as an Abolitionist, I did not think he could claim all three, I would force all three of them on him, in order that I might secure the reestablishment and perpetuity of the Union. (Applause.) You tell me of an amendment to the Constitution. That is good, but that is paper. Governments are made out of two elements-paper and men. There are the white men who hate you; who, however crushed, will still bide their time, and watch their opportunity. Jefferson Davis, with his crowd of nascent nobles, is not going down a steep place, suddenly into the sea, like their ancestors in the Gospel. When they give up hope, they pass into Mexico, and watch. The Highland Chief, when the Englishman drove him from his clan, did not cut his throat; he went to Holland, and watched. The Cavalier, when Cromwell sat in a chair better than a throne, did not hang himself; be went to France, and watched; and three consecutive rebellions almost broke the English monarchy asunder. There had been nations which never had a civil war, but I know of no nation in history that, having had one, ever got through with that; because the poisoned elements remain in the bosom; they are not eliminated by a single struggle. The history of the world shows that the old elements, compressed into a forced peace for a little while, burst out whenever there seems to be a probability of success; and we must expect the same future. 
I say this in the interest of the negro, whose liberty I wish guaranteed beyond a peradventure; and in order to do that, we must construct the Union on so sure a basis, we must anchor it so deep, that it will bear the inevitable shock and convulsion of storms that cannot be avoided. Turning to the President and his Cabinet, in the light of such considerations as these, I ask-are President Lincoln and his Cabinet ready for the only means which will secure such as result? I do not doubt their wishes. I do not envy them their laurels. I never uttered a word to blast them. No man has praised them more willingly than I have. Heaven grant them the highest place they have earned in the history of the world! But we are looking to the future. You and I are American citizens. This war has spent one half the funded property that was reckoned ours in the census of 1860. Sixteen thousand million of dollars was all this race had garnered in 200 years-of civilization, the value of the soil included; and before the war ends, what with town debts, and county debts, and State debts, the national debt, and war damages, we shall have spent close up to half of that, and one half of every man's income from capital goes to pay the expense of this long conflict. I do not care for dollars. I recognize, as my friend (Mr. Thompson) does, that if we were to begin the world anew, with only the soil and our hands, without a dollar, but having accomplished our great national purpose, it would be cheaply bought (applause). But, mark you!-accomplished our purpose! If we spend the money, and do not secure the result, that is not Yankee (laughter). And I do not look upon the dollar as a piece of silver, merely-so much gained, and so much to be spent To me, it bears within its charmed circle the means of education: within its compass, the moral, intellectual, and spiritual elevation of the laborer who grasps it-so much of fulcrum and spring-board to enable him to take his place on a level higher than before. It is religion and intellect; it is college and Bible; it is nurture and culture. If the government takes that dollar from the laboring classes of the North, I demand that they leave no stone unturned to get him the full value of what has been taken (applause, and cries of "good”).
Therefore, what I demand of you, fellow-Abolitionists, is this, that now, when at such risk, with such lavish sacrifice of treasure and blood, the nation struggles to emerge from these dangers and plant itself on sure ground, you do not allow party leaders to mislead it or baulk its efforts. Stand, faithful watchmen, and utter, without ceasing, your needed warning. Grant that we all wish one result. Be it ours to point out the only means that can secure it; do not allow the nation to be baulked and deluded with half-way measures-show it the only path to its desired goal. My friends behind me-some of them-say, "Mr. Lincoln is all right; he is only slow." Fast and slow are mere matters of proportion. A locomotive is fast-yes. We are living in a steam age. This war moves at the speed of a Birmingham train-fifty miles an hour. If you said to me,” Your President is moving at the rate of the old stage coach, ten miles an hour,” I should say,” Well, don't be too much in a hurry. A mile in a minute is a little too fast; a mile in two minutes is hardly safe; ten miles an hour is safe.” But suppose we take an ox-team-two miles an hour. That is slow, with a vengeance! The question is, how slow is the Administration, and from what does its slowness proceed? Does it proceed from doubt of the nation's willingness to advance faster? If it does, enlighten them. Stand with me and say,” Why, the ice is six feet thick a mile ahead of you. Go ahead." Then, perhaps, they will believe it, and act. If they are waiting for every man in the nation to become a patent Abolitionist,” A No. 1 at Lloyd’s," then tell them this: No majority ever ruled a nation. Every people known to history was always ruled by a minority. Who have ruled us since 1801? The slaveholders. A hundred thousand men ruled us-you know it! My friend here (Mr. Garrison) and I have been hissed, when on this platform, by two thousand men under these arches. Why? Because you did not like us. Whence came your dislike? From Charleston, South Carolina (applause). It was not a self-originated, impulsive, whole-hearted dislike. No, the moment the cannon sounded at Sumter, a million of men started up and said,” We were always Abolitionists! Hissed him?-yes, but we knew we were doing wrong all the time.” What made them do it? Ninety-seven thousand men, owning more than ten slaves apiece, five hundred miles off. Why did they rule the nation? Because a compact minority in earnest always rules a nation. There is no other power that ever does. The Administration is at Washington; the government never goes to Washington. The government is in Wall street, and Harvard College, and an Anti-Slavery meeting, and a mob; the Administration is at Washington. The magician is behind; the puppet is in sight. I know that as well as you do; but the government of this country, ever since Jefferson took office, has been 97,000 slaveholders, who knew what they wanted, and were willing to risk everything, rather than miss having it.
Now, if Lincoln is waiting until ninety-nine out of every hundred send him a certificate, sworn to before a Notary Public, that they prefer abolition to everything else, he will never move; but if he is willing to take the responsibility which his place imposes upon him, if he is willing to let his soul shine out and gather around him that compact minority in earnest, who are determined that this nation shall have no rest, though it soaks the continent in blood down to its granite stratum, until the negro has his rights, (applause,) then Abraham Lincoln can issue to-morrow just what edict he pleases; then, from Congress on the one hand, and the army on the other, he shall hear an ”amen" louder than Niagara, even if be out-Garrison Garrison today (applause,)-for the nation is ready to be wielded and ruled by a minority in earnest on the right side. Our politics, hitherto, has been an effort to conciliate slavery. Mr. Van Buren cut to a certain depth in the service of the slaveholder; Mr. Cass cut deeper; Mr. Douglas cut deeper still; Buchanan went under him, and got the election. That was the common course in all political emergencies. Every candidate said, "How low do you go?” "So much.” “I go an inch lower.” “How much will you give up to the Slave Power?” "So much.” “I will give up twenty
<c04>
degrees more.” Buchanan said, "I go so low.” There was nothing lower to offer or do! (Loud laughter and applause.) Now, the whole philosophy is changed. Liberty is in the ascendant; the purpose of the people is to make over this country, on the model of its Declaration of Independence. Groping-not fully intelligent-not wholly conscious-not yet able to articulate-but the intuitive will of the people. The story I told here two or three months ago of my old friend, a Captain from Concord, who went down to Fortress Monroe, illustrates it. A man said to him,” "Why, you old wretch, do you know you'll never get back to Massachusetts?” “Don't intend to. Came to settle.” (Great merriment.) Phelps understood it, that ill-used General up in Vermont-the only Abolitionist in the regular army, except Fremont, since Lyon fell-when he wrote over his banner in New Orleans-“Liberty and working-men's rights.” He knew what he was after-a re-modelling of the Union on Northern ideas. I say, the Northern breeze has commenced. Lincoln cuts so deep. We are not content. Somebody will cut deeper. Cox, of Ohio, will cut deeper. Why, the Democratic party is in the market. If you will persuade Cox, of Ohio, that slavery is certainly and irrevocably dead, that there is no more hope for it than there is for the snow that melted last April, then the Democratic party will say in its heart, " If slavery is killed, and I not in at the death, what is my record?" Henry the Fourth, of France, said to his absent friend, "We have conquered, Carillon; you were not there!” History will say to the Democrat, "You went for the inalienable rights of the humblest human being that God created with an articulate voice; they killed a system which enslaved four million such, and your name is not on the record!” Why, they would hiss him in the lower regions as a witless hypocrite! (Applause.) The reason why Franklin Pierce himself does not make a bid is because he lives in the hope-and I believe, with all respect, Mr. President, that the model of a State re-constructed on the plan of Louisiana gives him a fair basis of hope-that the spirit of that old Slave Power will yet enter the Capitol, and he will clasp hands with it and govern. But convince Franklin Pierce or Cox that there never will be such a time, that Louisiana must send an Abolitionist as good as Ben Wade to the Capitol, even if in order to do so it is obliged to choose a black man, and he will join you. I mean exactly what I say. You may think me a fanatic-perhaps I am; but in all soberness, and in all respectful memory of what I owe to you and to God, I do not believe there will be any safety for the idea of American Republican institutions until the white race see John Hancock under a black skin (applause); until they feel that, while it is inevitable their institutions shall be reconstructed upon the basis of the black man's franchise, in order to save them, they are fully willing that they should be. 
Mr. President, I am not speaking now for the rights of the negro. Oh, no! Looking far down our future and on a broad view of history, he can fold his arms, sit down by the channel's side, and look complacently on while twenty million of white struggle to save the institutions their fathers gave them, sure that whatever pathway we make, a safe harbor for ourselves will save him. God has linked him inevitably to our future, so that he must share all our fortunes. It cannot be helped. All I say, therefore, as an Abolitionist, is: There are two courses before you. You can take that territory of Louisiana, and hold it, by military force, as territory, hold every white man as in a vice, and hold him till his son is born in a different spirit; that is one way. You can make the government hold one half this nation as subjects, not as citizens. Will you trust it? I will not. I confess I should tremble for republican institutions launched on such a future, with the precedent of such despotic measures as this war is accustoming us to. I shall make every effort to avert such a course and prevent such a necessity. I will tell you, Mr. President, how I appreciate the sacredness which even Abraham Lincoln confers on slavery. I will tell you the yard-stick with which I measure it. Sixty days after this war commenced, the government took habeas corpus, and flung it into the sea. The high-water mark of English liberty, gained by two centuries of struggle-the government sacrificed it at the first bidding of military necessity. Yet Abraham Lincoln, in his letter to Hodges, avows that he waited almost two years before he touched slavery. Habeas Corpus-the most sacred civil right of you and me-William Seward able to say in sixty days-“I pull that bell, and a New Yorker goes to jail; I pull that, and an Ohioan goes, and nobody asks me why.” Louisiana chains half her citizens, grinds them in bondage which makes the slave a martyr and the master a brute, getting thus, and thus only, the wish and the power to embroil the Nation; and the President waits twenty months before he ventures to touch the system! How much more sacred is slavery than the venerable right of habeas corpus! 
In his recent letter to Hodges, and in his letter, a year ago, to Mr. Greeley, the President distinctly avows his theory and purpose. He would fain save the Union without hurting slavery. He struggled long to do so. He consented to touch slavery only when every other means was exhausted, and every other method had failed. Now, had the rebellion been a superficial matter of sixty or ninety days' duration, that had been possible; and a magistrate, holding office under a Constitution which recognized the system, might have been excused, perhaps, by such a course. A statesman, undoubtedly, looking before and after, seeing that slavery had been our great trouble in times past and was our most serious danger in time to come, and that it had justly forfeited its life, would have snatched the God given opportunity to crush it forever, and thus guarantee the nation’s future. There might have been an honest difference of opinion on such a point, between second-rate politicians, over a transient rebellion of ninety days. But when the war engulfed the whole Nation, struck at its very life, lasted year after year, threatened the very Capital, and for months the scales between the combatants hung equal, then no man who did not give undue sacredness to slavery could use such language or harbor such purpose. If Mr. Lincoln, after long months of even such war, had said. ”I will still risk the Nation's life before I will abolish jury trial-the present tenure of real estates-the right of the masses to vote”-“we should have felt that he did well to exhaust all means and run every risk before touching such sacred rights. But because slavery was tolerated in the Constitution, he puts it on the same level with the title to real estate, to jury trial, on the same level with the marriage institution! He will spend all the Nation's treasure, load it with debt perhaps for a century, fill every house with mourning, let the Nation reel before its foe for years, before he will consent to touch slavery! And even after such terrible experience he shows, (witness Banks and Louisiana,) that he will do everything to keep the relations between black and white as near the state in which he found them as possible. This avowal to Hodges, and this struggle to save what can yet be saved of slavery in Louisiana, is the mete-wand and yard-stick with which I measure the President's idea of the sacredness of slavery. No wonder the very day that Frank Blair says in the House of Representatives, "The negro has no rights except to fight for us,” the President illegally sends him back to his commission of Major-General! That man who had avowed he knew no fit lot for the negro except to fight for us, and then be sent from the country! In my opinion, nothing will save this Union now (no matter what might have been the possibility two years ago) but calling the negro up to citizenship, and reconstructing States on that basis. Lawyers laugh at the proclamation. The most sanguine must allow it holds within it many serious and perplexing questions. After the war, no one will dream of recognizing such States as Banks is manufacturing. They are only Military Boards, got up for party purposes, and running over with hatred to the Union. Give us a clean Constitution at Washington, and the elements of United States
<c05>
at the South-only then can we have Peace and Union.
Now, you say to me, "Why do you make this criticism of Abraham Lincoln?” For this reason. He stands at the dividing point of the road: the weight of his right hand is on the helm. "If the blind lead the blind," where does the good book say they will tumble? Mr. Lincoln may be the honestest man in the world, but he does not believe in the necessity of guarantees to save the Union; and therefore I say to you this: If you believe that he is capable of being your pilot, make him fit for it. If you want him, as Mr. Seward said at Auburn, and bought his office for four years more by saying it, take him. If it is our duty to make him our President for four years more, I do not complain, though I shall resist. I have nothing to ask from him nor from his successor. But, as an Abolitionist, I demand of you that before you give him those four years of sovereignty, you find out, beyond a peradventure, that he is both resolved and intelligent in regard to the means which your common sense tells you are indispensably necessary for the peaceful solution of this question. (Applause.) Yes, applaud him to the echo. Lay him up in lavender, with Washington, for aught I care. Make him the model hero of the Republic. My platform is this: The man who will save the Republic is my President, whatever his name is; and the man who will not save it is not my President, whatever his name is. (Applause, and cries of "good.”) I do not care whether his name begins with G, or F, or L, or B-it does not matter; but he must be a man in whose brain and in whose right band are the means of saving this Republic on the basis of the liberty we have earned; who not only longs for the end, but is willing to use the means, the only means adequate to the end. If you can make that out of the present incumbent, in the name of the slave, elect him. But do not blame me if, to-day, I doubt. There is not a white man on this continent who has a right to hold his good name safe from the censure of the slave-not one! The Negro! Crushed by two hundred years of oppression, cheated in every promise up to the present hour, where is the man who tells me that there is, on the continent, a White man whose name is sacred from the just criticism and suspicion of the negro? And it is with his voice that I speak to-night. I say, therefore, if you are quite sure, beyond a per-adventure, that your President is up to that level, take him. If, spite of three years' trial and all evidence, yon still believe he can be our Joshua, take him. I have no such faith. The day of his election I shall consider the end of the Union in my day, or its reconstruction on terms worse than Disunion. 

SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Our eloquent friend, Mr. Phillips, commenced his speech by taking a cheerful and inspiring view of our position, and then occupied the rest of the time in filling us with doubts, suspicions and apprehensions in regard to the future of the Republic, even with the total abolition of slavery. He began with brightness, and ended with darkness. I shall begin as he did, and, detaining you only for a few moments, will try to end as brightly as I know how. (Loud applause.)
I think everything looks auspicious for our country. (Applause.) It seems to me that the omens are all good, and that we are making progress in the right direction every day, and every hour of the day. I believe, with my honored friend, that, under this Administration, we have advanced a quarter of a century in a single year; and, therefore, the President-however slow in comparison with our wishes or aspirations-instead of being "an ox team,” has beaten even the "Birmingham train.” (Laughter and applause.)
I have no serious apprehensions, so long as parties remain as they are-—a line dividing North and South, free institutions on the one hand and slave institutions on the other, and the people of the North resolved that they will never give up the conflict until freedom triumphs. Tell me not of the blood that flows! It cannot be otherwise. Tell me not of the cost of the war! It is inevitable. But that is more than compensated by the magnificent spectacle we have been so long desiring to see-a nation struggling to be free, and learning the lesson of impartial justice through divine retribution. The future before us, with liberty, is bright and glorious; and we are to have liberty.
It is said that the war must be conducted upon war principles, with any hope of success. Granted-Grant-ed! (Laughter.) Well, the President has put at the head of the army the very man to do it. Can he do better? (VOICES—"No, no.”) Now, what does Gen. Grant say in regard to this straggle? Can we trust him? Has he committed himself on this question of slavery?-because, as the rebellion is of slavery, for slavery, and against liberty, whoever fails to perceive the real nature of this conflict is incompetent to meet the responsibilities of the hour. What, then, does Gen. Grant say on the question of slavery? I will read an extract from a letter which he addressed to the Hon. E. B. Washburne, dated last August, in which he says: 
“The people of the North need not quarrel over the institution of slavery. What Vice-President Stephens acknowledges as the corner-stone of the Confederacy is already knocked out. Slavery is already dead, and cannot be resurrected. It would take a standing army to maintain slavery in the South, if we were to take possession to-day, guaranteeing to the South all their former constitutional privileges. I never was an Abolitionist, not even what would be called anti-slavery; but I try to judge fairly and honestly; and it became patent to my mind, early in the rebellion, that the North and South could never live at peace with each other, except as one nation, and that without slavery. (Applause.) As anxious as I am to see peace established, I would not, therefore, he willing to see any settlement until this question it forever settled." (Prolonged applause.) 
Now, that is pretty good security for the Administration, and pretty good security for the abolition of slavery; for our friend, Mr. Phillips, says he has no doubt that Grant will carry the flag victoriously to the Gulf. (Applause.) I was gratified to hear him say that he still believes the President means to be honestly true to the proclamation of Emancipation of January 1st, 1863; that it is his purpose and full intention to carry it out to the letter; because it gives me an opportunity to read an extract from a speech made by my honored friend last year, which I am happy to read, as it seems to me to be as just and pertinent now as when uttered. He says-“I, for one, have no objection to the Presidency of Abraham Lincoln for four years or eight years longer.” Now, remember, that there have been a hundred thousand colored men enrolled as soldiers under the flag of the country since that declaration was made-a large proportion of them slaves-all now recognized as entitled to equal protection and compensation by the government. Remember that we have ever since been going steadily for-ward in the work of universal emancipation. Why, then, should Abraham Lincoln not be kept in his place another term? My friend adds-“I told the President himself-and I believed it then, and I believe it now; I meant it then, and I mean it now-that the man who would honestly put his right hand to the plough of that proclamation, and execute it, this people would not allow to quit while the experiment was trying. Whoever starts the great experiment of emancipation, and honestly devotes his energies to making it a fact, deserves to hold the helm of the government until that experiment is finished.” (Great applause.)
Now, I believe that that is precisely the conviction and determination of a large majority of the loyal people of the North. Mr. Lincoln is honestly resolved to enforce the proclamation, and says be never will retreat from it. I therefore believe with Mr. Phillips, that the man who says that, and means it, deserves to be kept in the Presidential chair until the work is accomplished. (Applause.)
As to any fears that Judge Taney will undertake to nullify that proclamation, they seem to me groundless. Why, if Judge Taney, or the whole body of the Supreme Court together, should dare to pronounce it null and void, Maryland herself is so far changed in sentiment that she would strangle them, and throw them 
<c06>
into the Potomac. (Loud applause.) Any apprehension on that score strikes me as chimerical. Assuredly, we shall take no steps backward. Slavery, thank God, has been abolished in the District of Columbia, our national Capital. Is it to be restored again? Who believes it? The independence of the long despised Republics of Hayti and Liberia has been acknowledged by our country, and they stand on the level of equality with all other nations. Do you suppose that we are ever to recall that recognition? The proclamation declares three million of slaves to be free forever. No Judge Taney, no Supreme Court, will ever dare meddle with it. The people of this country mean to stand by the President and his proclamation to the end. (Enthusiastic applause.)
The gristle of the South may be hardening into bone, but it is the bone of a skeleton. The South!-I speak not tauntingly—where is she now? In her death agencies. Strong, spasmodically, yet near her total collapse. It is impossible that she can much longer resist this gigantic and omnipotent North-the North being in the right, and God with the right, and the South being in the wrong, and with the devil. (Applause.)
My friends, if everything has not been done that we could desire, or that justice demands, let us see how much has been done. Is it not far beyond all that we could have rationally expected? The work of a quarter of a century done up in a single year should make us hopeful and patient, and encourage us to believe that all minor inequalities will be looked after in due season. As for Gen. Banks-where is he! The President of the United States has made him walk the plank. (Applause.) And as to the objectionable measures that are in operation in Louisiana-”wait a little longer," and see whether rectification be not made to the extent of the power and ability of President Lincoln.
I take, therefore, a hopeful view of our situation and prospects. We have never had such a state of feeling as exists now. Only think of it! Three years ago, my beloved friend, Wendell Phillips, in the city of Boston, on the "holy Sabbath," in broad daylight, had to be escorted from Music Hall to his home by a strong body-guard to prevent his assassination. Then our country presented the darkest aspect and most desperate condition that had ever been revealed to us. Oh what a cloud hung over the land! Almost every my of light extinguished! A universal disposition to make fresh concessions, and to do everything that the Slave Power should demand, however base and devilish! Happily, it was only the darkness which precedes the dawn. Thank God, the morning has come, and the day is culminating to its full-tide brightness! (Applause.) And now, instead of being in danger in Boston, Wendell Phillips goes to the Capital of the United States, where he could not have gone before, except at the peril of his life; and there he is received by admiring audiences, applauded to the echo, and welcomed by the President of the United States. (Applause.) Frederick Douglass, a fugitive slave, goes to Washington, and is also received by the President in the most courteous, and friendly, and honorable manner. (Applause.) George Thompson, (applause,) “the British emissary," (laughter,) "with his pockets lined with British gold," (renewed merriment,) whose object was and is to "destory our glorious Union”-George Thompson goes to the Capital, and is there welcomed by the President and Vice-President of the United States, and by Senators and Representatives, as the friend of liberty, the friend of America, deserving of our national gratitude. (Applause.)
Again, look at Maryland! Why, I have seen it stated that it is somewhat hat hazardous in Maryland, now, for a man to say anything in favor of slavery. The tables are turned. If you want to be popular there, be as radical an Abolitionist as you can. We now have free speech everywhere under the flag, and every where slavery may be denounced, not only with impunity, but with general approbation.
I ask whether these facts are not in the highest degree cheering and stimulating? and whether we have not reason to believe-while not relaxing our vigilance, nor ceasing to demand everything for the black man that we ask for the white man-that, inasmuch as we have gone on, under God, from one stage to another in the right direction, we shall yet reach the goal of universal freedom and equality? (Applause.) Yes, we may make almost a literal application of the words of one of our own poets, and affirm that, from sea to sea, from the borders of our stormy Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific, and the from the Lakes to the Gulf-
"Where'er a wind is rushing,
Where'er a stream is gushing,
The swelling sounds are heard
Of man to freeman calling,
Of broken fetters falling,
And, like the carol of a cageless bird,
The bursting shout of Freedom's rallying word.”
Prolonged applause followed the conclusion of Mr. Garrison's speech.
The question was then put on the adoption of the resolution presented at the opening of the meeting; it was adopted unanimously, and with great enthusiasm, and the meeting terminated.

EMANCIPPATION LEAGUE.
A public meeting was held at Tremont Temple on Monday, F. W. Bird presiding. Rev. Mr. Calthrop of Marblehead addressed the audience upon the English feeling at the present time, in a sensible, earnest and satisfactory manner.
Wendell Phillips, in a speech of some length, reviewed the acts of the administration for the past three years war, against a people weaker, poorer, and less numerous than ourselves, saying that here had been no statesmanship in the White House and no generalship in the field. Judged by the three years experience, the government was a military and civil failure. History would judge it so. And if the democratic North could do no better, then democracy was a failure. But the speaker would not believe this; the fault was in the heads of Abraham Lincoln, Wm. H. Seward and Montgomery Blair. There was an old maxim, "Treat your friends as if they might one day be your enemies;" and the counterpart was," Treat your enemies as if they might one day be your friends." They were cowardly maxims, both of them. The administration had evidently acted upon the latter.
Alluding to the emancipation policy of the government, he averred that Mr. Lincoln considered slavery as the only sacred thing in this country. He could suspend the habeas corpus, and in sixty days remove the barriers of liberty set up two hundred years ago; but he could not touch slavery until the last moment—spending two years of strife, two millions of dollars a day, and plunging the land in mourning, before he would raise his hand against slavery. Under these circumstances, no negro in America owes anything to Abraham Lincoln. (Cheers and hisses.) Well, I hear the hisses, and now I will prove what I have said by referring to Mr. Lincoln's letter to Hodges, in which he says he never did anything for the negro until he was forced to, and then he took him only to use him. Now, if you don't like this picture of Mr. Lincoln, find fault with him, not with me. If Mr. Lincoln loved the negro, why did he not, before April, 1864, ask his Attorney General his opinion of the law relating to the pay of colored troops?
Mr. Phillips continued with similar criticism, <illegible> his preference for disunion and defeat, rather than accept a Union bought so basely.
A gentleman in the audience asked Mr. Phillips if he was a citizen of the United States, and if he supported the Constitution. Mr. Phillips replied that one born on American soil, like himself, could not one born on American soil, like himself could not help being a citizen. As to his supporting the constitution, he was obliged to support it by taxation, but could not support it by voting, until it was stripped of its slavery clauses.
The gentleman replied that Mr. Phillips, standing in this position, could not appreciate the motives of Mr. Lincoln, who had sworn to support the Constitution.
Mr. Phillips rejoined, declaring his conviction that Mr. Lincoln does not desire the crushing of the rebellion; and repeatedly pledging himself to leave so stone unturned, from that time till November, to prevent his re-election.
A series of resolutions were adopted, and officers were elected as follows:
President, Samuel E. Sewall; Vice Presidents, F. W. Bird, Dr. Samuel G. Howe, Hon. Thomas Russell, Edward Atkinson; Treasurer, Major Geo., L. Stearns; Secretary James M. Stone; Executive Committee, Wm Endicott, Jr. Elizur Wright, John R. Manley, John H. Stevenson, Dr. David Thayer, C. W. Slack, S. R. Urbino, Jas. Hall, J. C. Haynes, A. W. McPhail, Jr.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 27, 1864.
NEW ENGLAND A. S. CONVENTION.
The Annual New England Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in Boston on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, May 26th and 27th.
The meeting on Thursday will be in the <illegible> (basement of the Tremont Temple,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. On Friday, it will be in the TREMONT TEMPLE. Three sessions will be held each day—at 10, A. M., and at a quarter before 3 and a quarter before 8, P. M.
Among the speakers expected are George Thompson, Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Edmund Quincy, Parker Pillsbury, S. S. Foster, Charles C. Burleigh, E. H. Heywood, and Wm. Wells Brown.
By order of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Secretaries.

A REMARKABLE DISCOVERY.
“Warrington”-the Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican—who frequently says a smart thing, is sometimes a little too smart for the occasion. Here is an instance:—
“The schism between Phillips and Garrison is one of the most curious events of the age. Garrison’s editorials now-a-days are of that class which he used to print on his first page under the head of ‘Refuge of Oppression.’ I suppose he has actually got tired out in the cause. The inevitable reaction has come to him which comes to nearly all men who have worked thirty or forty years in one direction; and by a too vigorous summersault he has thrown himself backward clear beyond the radical Republicans who used to be too slow for him, and has landed among the conservatives and hunkers. He is not to be blamed. He is a victim of the same law which makes the total abstinence man of 21 take a trifle of toddy at 35, and perhaps his regular drinks at 40. I doubt whether Phillips or Pillsbury will hold out so long as Garrison has. I expect to become a desperate hunker by the year 1870, and to be rebuking the Republican for its destructive radicalism.”
“The schism between Phillips and Garrison”! This unquestionably “is one of the most curious discoveries of the age.” What schism? Is there any difference between P. and G. respecting the principles or doctrines for which they have so long contended? None. Is there any difference between them as to the duty to secure liberty and justice for the colored race as fully before the law as for the white race? None. What, then, is the nature of the “schism” which “Warrington” so confidently pronounces” one of the most curious events of the age”? It is simply that P. and G. take different views of the approaching Presidential election as it may affect the noble cause so dear to them both, and the safety and welfare of the country in a time of imminent peril and all-abounding sedition. P. is strongly opposed to the re-election of Abraham Lincoln, as one unfit for the station he occupies, and unworthy of popular confidence or respect. We dissent from this estimate of the President, and believe his re-election is determined upon by the loyal portion of the Republic as a matter of wisdom, justice, and gratitude for the labors he has performed, the perils incurred, the trials experienced, in an honest endeavor faithfully to meet the tremendous difficulties and responsibilities thrown upon him by the most hateful and colossal rebellion, waged for the most despotic purposes, that the world has ever known. Will “Warrington” tell us why we are bound to agree with Mr. Phillips, or he with us, in this matter? It is simply a matter of judgment, involving no principle, and producing no personal variance; and, therefore, to proclaim it a “schism,” one of the most carious events of the age,” is to utter downright nonsense. Mr. Phillips is as free to be criticised as he is to criticise; and so are we. Abolitionists are the last persons to make any man their oracle, or to merge their individuality in that of any living being. It is inevitable, in the altered state of the times, that they should form, and independently express, (as they always will,) different opinions and impressions, obtained from different points of vision, concerning the action of the government and the tendency of events as affecting the freedom of the negro and the safety of the country. But they are none the less united in purpose on that account.
Not less nonsensical is the assertion of “Warrington,” that ”Garrison’s editorials, now-a-days, are of that class which he used to print on his first page under the head of Refuge of Oppression”!! We have no other reply to make to a calumny like this than to say, that when any of our editorials shall be eagerly copied, by Copperhead journals, to subserve their own purposes, as the effusions of “Warrington” are, from time to time, (in the present instance by the Boston Post,) it will be time enough for us to consider whether we are growing lax in principle, blind in vision, or foolish in utterance.
“Warrington” charitably (?) thinks we have “actually got tired out in the cause.” He is again mistakes. In such a cause we can never grow weary. If, through a generation of opprobrium and murderous hostility, we never faltered, is it for us to droop now that the cause is so near its perfect triumph? Are our exulting tones, in view of the progress of events, indications of despondency or exhaustion? Abolitionists know, by happy experience, the truth of the scriptural declaration, “They shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint; yea, they shall mount up as on eagle’s wings.”
Claiming himself to be a radical republican, “Warrington” very complacently and modestly says, “By a too vigorous summersault, he (Garrison) has thrown himself backward clear beyond the radical republicans, who used to be too slow for him, and has landed among the conservatives and hunkers”! So much for expressing the opinion that the people mean to reelect Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency,—the dissent of “Warrington” to the contrary notwithstanding! Now, we have always expected that, in the culmination of the Anti-Slavery struggle, neophytes and eleventh hour men, both politically and religiously, would affect to be more vigilant, more earnest, more through Abolitionists than ourselves, and rebuke us for our lack of zeal and vigor; and we are not disappointed. Nevertheless, if it is a gratification to them, it is no less amusing to us, as characteristic of human nature at a pinch. “Our withers are unwrung,” by such imputations.
Finally, “Warrington” says he “expects to become a desperate hunker by the year 1870,” and he will perhaps not be disappointed. He is certainly competent to speak for himself, but not to assume that others are equally unreliable.
THE ATLANTIC, for June, has the following table of <illegible>:-Talk about Guides, by Maria S. Cummins; The Kalif of Baldacca, by Longfellow; Life on the Sea Islands, by Miss Charlotte L. Forten, a young colored lady, and an accomplished teacher of the freed people at Port Royal; A Fast-Day at Foxden; Prospice; Washington Irving, by Donald G. Mitchell; The Rim, by Miss Prescott; The Neva, by Bayard Taylor; Robson, by George Augustus Sala; The Parallel Roads of Glen Roy in Scotland, by Agassiz; Under the Cliff, by Robert Browning; Seven Weeks in the great Yo Semite, by Fitz Hugh Ludlow; House and Home Papers, by Mrs. Stowe; Shakspeare, by <illegible> How to Use Victory, by Edward G. Hale. 
THE LEGISLATURE ADJOURNED. The General Court closed its session of 130 days on Saturday evening last, having passed 315 bills and 104 resolves. The resolution for increased compensation to the members of the Legislature was vetoed by the Governor, but was afterwards passed by the necessary two-thirds vote of the two branches. The usual resolutions of thanks to the presiding officers were passed, and addresses were made by President Field and Speaker Bullock.
<c02>
THE MAN FOR THE HOUR.
This was the title of a discourse delivered last Sunday before the 28th Congregational Society of Boston, by Rev. D. A. Wasson.
Premising that the choice of a ruler to preside over the destinies of a great nation should be conducted, not in a partizan spirit, but in the light of reason and conscience, the speaker raised the inquiry—What qualities are needful in the ruler of a nation.
In ordinary times, and for the common necessities of government, he thought the following qualifications needful, namely:—
1. Honesty: an incorruptible character.
2. A sound head, as well as a sound heart.
3. Largeness, both of heart and understanding: a recognition of broad and enduring interests: a mind unfettered by temporary or personal considerations.
4. Valor. Good rule is intrepid rule.
5. Faith. Faith in reason and right; that is to say, faith in God.
6. Moderation. The good ruler must respect the law of gradation. The sanity of society is kept up only by a sense of continuity, of connection with its past. An old word materially helps the progress of a new thing. Butler’s ingenious application of the word “contraband” procured the immediate adoption and acceptance of a new policy, without the opposition which it would otherwise have met.
7. An executive habit of mind. Having decided upon a course, to disregard difficulties; to see and act-upon the predominant need, with a certain disregard or exclusion of other matter; this is the executive habit.
These are the qualifications ordinarily needful for a ruler; but in great and dangerous crises, the ruler should have, additionally— 
8. Great speed: promptness and celerity of action, which do not imply hurry or headlongness. He needs to decide upon a whole matter at one sally of decision.
To illustrate this last point by reference to the crisis of our own nation—when it was determined, as needful for the public welfare, to employ negroes as soldiers, this necessity included or drew after it many other things, which should have been admitted and settled by one administrative act. If negroes were good enough to be soldiers, they were good enough to be contractors for their own labor, landholders, voters—in one word, citizens. To leave each of these points to be demanded on its own merits, and then contested, and debated, and postponed—the debates and delays all the time alienating the feelings of those whose alliance and co-operation were of momentous importance to us—is an error of immense magnitude.
Having laid down the rule, Mr. Wasson proceeded to the application. How does our present ruler answer to these demands? 
Abraham Lincoln (he said) is undoubtedly an honest man. He has the popular average honesty. So much is good, after our previous opposite experience. He has also shown much candor.
He is a man of intelligence, very clear-headed in his way.
He has courage, though not boldness. He is a timid man of courage. This is the New England form of courage.
He has moderation in abundance. I need say no more of that.
He has faith.
He has superb tenacity of purpose, holding fast to what he has already decided, as a ratchet holds its wheel from falling back.
So much in his favor. What is there now in abatement?
1. Abraham Lincoln is intensely deliberative. He takes a long time to consider and decide, trying always to eliminate the difficulties. But to do this is hopeless and wasteful of time. This was the prominent characteristic of McClellan.
A great ruler, in a great crisis, must often leave details to the future, and strike while the iron is hot. The great effects must be cared for first; the little ones, in their order, afterwards. The man for a great hour must lay on heavily, regardless of nice and minute results.
2. Mr. Lincoln is a conscientious man, but only to a certain extent. He has convictions on the subject of slavery, but they are not moral convictions; they may be set aside by circumstances. He accepts the Kentucky interpretation of the Constitution. In fact, the Constitution does give a narrow margin to slavery, but the whole text and body of it go the other way. He holds to the Kentucky reading, which makes slavery predominant and preponderant. He therefore interferes with slavery only when he cannot help it; only, as he himself says, ”on military necessity;” not for the sake of military advantage, only on military necessity!
3. Mr. Lincoln is not only deliberative rather than executive in mind, he is slow; painfully, calamitously slow.
4. He has no power to treat wholes as wholes. He sticks to details, deliberating upon each part, to the peril of the entire interest to which the parts belong. His whole dealing with the negroes shows this. Deciding to stop their enslavement, he did not establish their freedom. Deciding to make them soldiers, he did not see that they should be soldiers in full, with all the rights and privileges of other soldiers. When the enemy commit horrible atrocities upon them in violation of the laws of war, he leaves these facts for months unregarded. When the Fort Pillow massacre shocks the whole nation, he waits in silence until abundant evidence, official and other, has demonstrated the infernal guilt, both of the rebel officers and soldiers, and then he says—he will do something about it when he is assured of the facts. What has he done? Nothing, either for protection or retribution. Nothing!
The colored men of New Orleans, having twice saved the city when the white force was inadequate to save it, asked that the right of suffrage might be given them. No.
Others, oppressed under Gen. Banks’s administration, ask that the rights of ordinary laboring men may be given them. No. He sticks to the Kentucky estimate of the negro.
A terrible slowness governs his management of this whole subject. When he decided to break the chain of slavery, and to make the negroes soldiers, he should have decided all the subordinate questions included in these great ones. For want of his doing this, half the efficiency naturally belonging to these two movements has been lost. Thus it appears that, though intelligent and able, Mr. Lincoln lacks the executive faculty.
We have urgent need of swiftness in the present extremity of our nation. Slow work here s sure destruction. When a great artery is severed, it must be tied quickly, if at all.
In the last three years, our chief work has been military. In the next three years, the chief work must be administrative. Many new decisions will be needed, much quick and energetic action.
Mr. Lincoln’s ability with his slowness will hardly suffice for our necessities. He has many admirable qualities, with some weighty drawbacks. Were his mind decidedly executive in character, and at the same time delivered from Kentucky mystification, he would be the best man for our next President.
The Blair influence is eminently dangerous for such a man. It is bad enough for the Executive to be naturally slow, but if he chooses advisers who inculcate slowness, and keep the breaks applied all the time, what progress can the engine make?
Mr. Wasson said that other candidates were before us, Rosecrans, Chase, Butler, Fremont, but he expressed no decided preference. He closed by saying that it is our duty to judge in this matter temperately and religiously, but intrepidly; bringing civil boldness and energy to support the brave deeds of our soldiers in the field. C. K. W.
Nearly all the loyal States (19) have already declared, either through their Legislatures or their State Conventions, UNANIMOUSLY in favor of the reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency!
<c03>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. VIII.
NEW YORK, May 19, 1864. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The Army of the Potomac has added another battle-week to its bloody record; and that it is able to rest on its victorious arms and maintain its last position, while its spirit and its capacity continue what they were at the outset, must be traced to its having a leader who loses neither head nor heart in a crisis. That American tenacity which has been manifested in Virginia by repeated engagements on the self-same fields, seems incarnate in the person of Lieutenant-General Grant. For the past few days, there has been a necessary lull in military operations—the giants have wrestled, and stopped to breathe; but the grim sentence which commits our hero to the execution of his programme, though it take all summer, is an assurance that I write now, as a fortnight since, on the eve of renewed and desperate conflict. The issue is not to be foreseen. We only know that Lee has lost his prestige without impairing his antagonist’s. In the early success of the late advance we thought we beheld in Richmond the “last ditch” of the rebellion. Later developments do not doom us to disappointment in the capture of that city, but the scene of our final triumph may yet be transferred to Charleston, where was born the “ditch-delivered” monster; and I count it ominous, as well as curiously coincident, that three South Carolina regiments, let slip by Beauregard on as many Massachusetts regiments, of the same numbering, should be ignominiously routed and made captive. I have often desired, on even terms, this symbolic collision of the soldiers of two States which embody the Hostile ideas contending for mastery; for I had faith that Pine tree muscle was as much superior to Palmetto, as the genius of liberty is stronger than the demon of slavery. And so it has proved.
That part of the war against the slave system whose progress is visible in smoke and fire, and audible in the rimbombs of artillery, naturally hides and drowns the moral controversy which yet keeps pace with it. Banks, for example, on the Red River, is an object of much greater solicitude than is the Convention which he left behind him in New Orleans; but while he has been defeated and put to shame, that body has voted an amendment to the State Constitution by which slavery is at once and forever abolished in Louisiana. I am gratified to add, that the debates of the Convention exhibit more hopeful signs than were to have been expected of a love of freedom which is based upon principle; and though it is not likely to admit the colored man to suffrage, it seems to have steadiness enough to insist that he shall be educated by the same provisions as the whites. The removal from the Department of its incompetent head ought to encourage the Flanders-Durant party to new efforts for a genuine republic.
It has always been good Abolition policy to fight with slavery on its latest issue—Annexation of Texas—Mexican War—Compromise of 1850—Kansas and Nebraska; and I know no better strategy at the present day. Therefore, at the risk of making these communications monotonous, I have constantly presented the claim of the negro to the right of suffrage, and have kept along, as well as I could, with the progress of that idea as it has forced itself upon the public attention. I believe Montana yet hangs between the two Houses of Congress, to the horror of the Times of this city, which yesterday vented itself upon “False Issues and a Fanatical Spirit,” pronouncing the attempt to found a State in everlasting justice a waste of time upon an “empty abstraction,” “No negroes ever have settled, or ever will settle, in that region,” forsooth! Well, then, why insist on unnecessary discrimination of color? why take pains to bar out those who—O omniscient Times!—never will come in, and so will never occasion trouble if the door is left open? Has that paper adopted Mr. Webster’s defence of his refusal to vote to exclude slavery from New Mexico? and is it unwilling to” reenact the laws of God”? The Times is additionally grieved by the debate in the Senate, on the 12th, on suffrage in the District. The “abstraction” dodge not being available in this instance, the Times seeks to cover its pro-slavery impulses, as did Senator Ten Eyck, by pretending that “intelligence ought to accompany the exercise of every civil franchise.” Now I do not think any fault could be justly found with an enactment in this sense, in a republic where every opportunity is offered to acquire that intelligence; but that this plea is hollow is shown by the fact that the Times has a great deal to say about the ignorance of slavery’s black victims, and no reference to the at least unenlightened condition of her white. And when Senator Morrill, of Maine, proposed to lay identical restrictions as to education, residence and property upon all the inhabitants of the District impartially, “this was not,” in the opinion of Mr. Ten Eyck, “time to strip the white man of any privileges, though he may not be able to read and write; much less of the inalienable right of suffrage.” I should like to be informed what inalienable rights belong to any man, or any race of men, except as human beings, members of one human family or brotherhood. Yet Mr. Ten Eyck distinguishes in favor of a particular color; while Mr. Willey, of West Virginia, said that the right to vote was purely conventional. The Times accepts the latter position, and declares it to be a matter for the State and not for Congress to decide. That was sound doctrine when slavery made it convenient; but if the Senate means to follow the House in enforcing the clause about securing a republican form of government to every State, I cannot see why Congress must not first mark out it pattern of a Republic, and then oblige each State to conform to it; else, what virtue in the clause? I hold it to be the special province and duty of the national legislature to effect a uniform treatment of the citizens of the United States, without regard to origin or complexion; and if this be the “false issue” of a “fanatical spirit,” so let it be.
You see, I have given the loose rein to my hobby. But what can you expect when Bishop McIlvaine, of Ohio, presiding in this city at the late anniversary of the American Tract Society, makes a speech of which the only report I find is this: “The colored brother who is our brother-soldier should be our brother-citizen.” In fact, the only meetings I attended last week were characterized by the prominence given to that very idea, a little broadened, perhaps. Among these, as a faithful chronicler of passing events, I ought to lay before your readers some slight sketch of the very successful meetings of the American Anti-Slavery Society; but I shall not, by lengthening this epistle, run the risk of being crowded out altogether by your phonographic report of the proceedings. Let me only express the unmingled pleasure with which I listened to the speech of Mr. Thompson before the Congregational Union in Plymouth Church—a model of fitness and eloquence, having the merit not only to charm his listeners, but to elevate them, and to leave them strengthened in their moral convictions and purposes. To be sure, he raised the “false issue,” but the applause which he won for it proceeded from other “fanatical spirits” besides.
M. DU PAYS.
We have been obliged to occupy so many columns of our paper, last week and this, with the speeches and proceedings at the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at New York, as to exclude our usual variety of matter. We have an accumulating pile of communications on hand, to be disposed of as fast as room will permit—among them is a reply from Mrs. E. C. Stanton to the letter of Mrs. C. H. Dall, concerning the Women’s Loyal League, which shall appear next week.
“RUSSELL’S GUIDE to the Fire Alarm for Boston, illustrated with a Map of the City.”-This little book will be interesting to all who wish to become acquainted with the new method of sounding the Fire Alarms. Published by Benj. B. Russell, Bookseller and Stationer, 515 Washington St., Boston. It should be in every household for easy reference.
<c04>
ADDRESS OF THE METHODIST CONFERENCE TO THE PRESIDENT—THE PRESIDENTS’S REPLY.
A deputation of delegates from the General Conference in session at Philadelphia visited the President, and presented to him an address, in which the Conference, representing nearly a million of members, express to him the assurance of the loyalty of the Church, her earnest devotion to the interests of the country, and her sympathy with him in the great responsibilities of his high position in this trying hour. They honor him for his proclamation of liberty, and rejoice in all the acts of the Government designed to secure freedom to the enslaved. In conclusion, they say:—” Actuated by sentiments of the loftiest and purest patriotism, our prayer shall lie continually for the preservation of our country undivided, for the triumph of our cause, and for a permanent peace, gained by the sacrifice of no moral principles, but found in the Work of God, and securing, in righteousness, liberty and equal rights to all.”
To which address the President replied as follows:—
GENTLEMEN: In response to your address, allow me to attest to the accuracy of its historical statements, endorse the sentiments it expresses, and thank you in the nation’s name for the sure promise it gives. Nobly sustained as the Government has been by all the Churches, I would utter nothing which might in the least appear invidious against any. Yet, without this, it may fairly be said that the Methodist Episcopal Church, not less devoted than the best, is, by its greater numbers, the most important of all. It is not a fault in others that the Methodist Church sends more soldiers to the field, more nurses to the hospitals, more prayers to heaven, than any other. God bless the M. E. Church; bless all the Churches; and blessed be God, who, in this our great trial, giveth us the Churches.
Subsequently Rev. Dr. Thornton, delegate from the English Conference to the Methodist General Conference, together with Dr. Scott, from the Irish Conference, was presented to the President by Hon. M. F. Odell. These delegates expressed to the President the earnest and hearty sympathy of the Methodist membership of England and Ireland in the present national struggle, and their desire for our success. 

REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION. 
The Convention to choose Delegates to the National Convention assembled in the Tremont Temple, Boston, on Monday. Stephen H. Phillips, of Salem, was chosen President; James H. Ducan of Haverhill, and Gerry W. Cochrane of Methuen, were the Vice-Presidents from Essex Co.; and the Secretaries were William S. Robinson of Maiden, Stephen N. Stock well, of Boston, Benjamin H. Smith of Gloucester, F. A. Hobart of Braintree, and D. A. Goddard of Worcester. Rev. Phineas Stowe, of Boston, invoked the Divine blessing, and speeches were made by the President, and several others.
The Delegates chosen were: Alexander H. Bullock of Worcester, (who received every vote.) William Claflin of Newton, John A. Andrew of Boston, and James T. Robinson of Adams.
The Substitutes are: Moses Kimball of Boston, Julius Rockwell of Pittsfield, William Whiting of Roxbury, and Jonathan E. Field of Stockbridge.
The Resolutions, unanimously adopted, were as follows:
Resolved, That the people of Massachusetts are unyielding in their attachment and loyalty to the Constitution and the Union, and they will regard as their friends all persons of every political name who are now devoting themselves or their means to the defence of the country and her institutions.
Resolved, That the only way in which the present war can be brought to a close, is by the conquest and destruction of every armed force arrayed against the Government of the United States; and that we propose to “fight it out upon this line” to final victory. (Applause.)
Resolved, That the policy of the present Administration, in relation to the employment of colored troops, and looking to the final extinction of slavery in this whole country, commands the approbation and support to the fullest extent of the people of this Commonwealth; and that neither President nor Congress can go so fast or so far in this direction as to create in us any feelings but those of satisfaction and joy.
Resolved, That the people of Massachusetts have looked with admiration upon the bravery and devotion of the heroic men, who for the last three years have upheld the flag of the United States on the land and on the sea; that they mourn for the death of those who have fallen on the field, or perished by wasting disease; that they sympathize with the sufferings of those who are sick or in prison; and that they pledge to the gallant survivors their deepest gratitude.
Resolved, That the integrity and firmness, wisdom and humanity, exhibited by the President of the United States, during the three years of his administration, entitle him to the cordial and continued support of the people of the republic; and that, at the present time, no person is to fully commended, by experience and personal character, to our consideration, as a candidate for the next Presidency, as Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.)
Wendell Phillips was a member of this convention, being one of the delegates from Boston. It was the first political convention in which he ever took a part. He spoke against the resolution endorsing Mr. Lincoln, and in the course of his remarks was applauded and hissed.
At the State Republican Convention, held at Burlington, Vermont, to appoint delegates to the National (Presidential) Convention to be held at Baltimore on the 7th of June next, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That we have an abiding confidence in the sterling honesty and common sense, the sagacity, the statesmanlike ability and devoted patriotism of our President, Abraham Lincoln; who, if he do not attempt to control events, is yet wise enough to be instructed by them, to follow the leadings of Providence, and to obey the impulses of the people; and that we will heartily sustain him and his administration in his efforts to crush the rebellion and the cause of the rebellion, and to restore the nation to union and assured peace.
Resolved, That the choice of the people of Vermont for President of the United States for the next term is that man of the people, ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
The following resolutions, adopted by a Radical meeting at Keyterville, Chariton county, (Missouri,) on the 2d inst., exhibit their attachment to Mr. Lincoln:— 
Resolved, That we have unbounded confidence in the integrity and devotion to principle of anti slavery men throughout the country; therefore, in our judgment, the Radical party of this State should send representatives to the Baltimore Convention, and labor for that unity which alone can secure success to our principles.
Resolved, That President Lincoln deserves the thanks of the American people for the faithful and patriotic manner in which he has prosecuted the war against the rebellion; and, in the future as in the past, we will sustain him in so doing to the end of his official term.
OLD ABE’S LAST. The latest illustrative story by Old Abe is thus related by our New York correspondent. Its moral will be appreciated by patriotic men:
“A gentleman just returned from Washington relates the following incident that transpired at the White House the other day. Some gentlemen were present from the West, excited and troubled about the commissions or omissions of the Administration. The President heard them patiently, and then replied: ‘Gentlemen, suppose all the property you were worth was in gold, and you had put it in the hands of Blondin to carry across the Niagara River on a rope, would you shake the cable, or keep shouting out to him—Blondin, stand up a little straighter—Blondin, stoop a little more —go a little faster—lean a little more to the North-lean a little more to the South? No, you would hold your breath as well as your tongue, and keep your hands off until he was sate over. The Government is carrying an immense weight. Untold treasures are in their hands. They are doing the very best they can. Don’t badger them. Keep silence, and we’ll get you safe across.’ This simple illustration answered the complaints of half an hour, and not only silenced but charmed the audience.”-Boston Journal.
MR. BEECHER ON THE PRESIDENT. The following is an extract from a recent letter of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher:—
“In consideration of the present exigency; in view of Mr. Lincoln's past administration; the wisdom he has shown; the moral purity of the man; the great confidence which the people put in him; the danger there would be, if he were set aside, of having, it regarded as a popular rebuke of his policy; and the confidence I feel that, though long in learning, he has learned to govern, I am full and strong in my conviction that he should be our next President.”
POLITICAL. The New Nation, (Fremont organ,) says it will have nothing to do with the Convention called to meet at Baltimore on the 6th of June, the day preceding the Union Convention, as it believes it to be a Chase movement. 
The Ohio Delegates at Large to the Baltimore Convention are expressly instructed to vote for Mr. Lincoln, and to resist the postponement of the nomination.
The Springfield Republican considers it a curious phenomenon, that those, who think June too early for a Presidential Convention, are most active for the Convention at Cleveland in May.
<c05>
THE ARREARS DUE COLORED SOLDIERS.
Gov. Andrew has addressed the following letter to President Lincoln:— 
[COPY.]
BOSTON, May 18th, 1864.
To the President of the United States:
Sir:—I respectfully call to the attention of Your Excellency the case of the Reverend Samuel Harrison, (lately Chaplain of the 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Infantry Volunteers,) and the communication, which I had the honor to address to Your Excellency of the twenty fourth day of March last, and the decision of the Attorney General of the United States on the questions of law involved in the case, which decision was submitted by him to Your Excellency, under date of the twenty-third day of April last, and concluded in the following words, viz:
“Your attention having been specially called to the wrong done in this case, I am also of opinion that your constitutional obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed makes it your duty to direct the Secretary of War to inform the officers of the Pay Department of the Army that such is your view of the law, and I do not doubt that it will be accepted by them as furnishing the correct rule for their action.
(Signed)
EDWARD BATES,
Attorney General.”
Addressed to the President.
As a proper representative of Chaplain Harrison, and of all the non-commissioned officers and privates of the 54th and 55th Regiments of Massachusetts Infantry Volunteers, the rights and interests of all of whom are involved in the settlement of the legal questions aforesaid—after having waited during a reasonable time for the consideration of the subject by Your Excellency—I do hereby respectfully claim, and so much as in me lies I do, by this appeal to Your Excellency, hereby demand of and from the Executive Department of the Government of the United States the just, full and immediate payment to all the aforesaid officers and men, of the sums of money now due to them as Volunteer Soldiers of the United States, serving in the field, according to the 5th Section of the 9th Chapter of the Acts of Congress of the year 1861, placing the officers, non-commissioned officers and privates of the Volunteer forces, in all respects as to pay, on the footing of similar corps of the regular army. Already these soldiers—than whom none have been more distinguished for toilsome work in the trenches, fatigue duty in camp, and conspicuous valor and endurance in battle—have waited during twelve months, and many of them yet longer, for their just and lawful pay. 
Many of those who marched in these regiments from this Commonwealth have been worn out in service, or have fallen in battle on James Island, in the assault upon Fort Wagner, or in the affair of Olustee, yielding up their lives for the defence of their native country, in which they had felt their share of oppression, but from which they, never had received justice. Many, also, yet linger, bearing honorable wounds, but dependent upon public charity, while unpaid by the government of the nation the humble wages of a soldier, and sick at heart as they contemplate their own humiliation.
Of others, yet alive, and remaining in the service, still fighting and wholly unpaid, the families have been driven to beggary and the almshouse.
These regiments, Sir, and others situated like these—stung by grief, and almost crazed by pangs with which every brave and true man on earth must sympathize—are trembling on the verge of military demoralization. Already one man in a South Carolina regiment—raised under the orders of Major General Hunter, with the same interpretation of the laws of Congress now given them by the Attorney General of the United States—has suffered the penalty of DEATH for the military offence of mutiny, by refusing further obedience to his officers, and declaring that, by its own breach of faith, the government of the United States had released him from his contract of an enlisted soldier. 
The Government which found no law to pay him, except as a nondescript or a contraband, nevertheless found law enough to shoot him as a soldier.
In behalf of the sufferings of the poor and needy; of the rights of brave men in arms for their country; of the statutes of Congress; and of the honor of the nation, I pray Your Excellency to interpose the rightful power of the Chief Executive Magistrate of the United States, who is bound by his oath” to take care that the laws be faithfully executed;” and by its immediate exercise, to right these wrongs. 
I have the honor to remain,
Your Excellency’s obedient servant,
(Signed)
JOHN A. ANDREW, 
Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
JUSTICE TO FALLEN HEROES. The claims of the children of those colored soldiers who fell bravely fighting, or who were afterward brutally massacred at Fort Pillow, are being forcibly presented by Mrs. Booth, the widow of their commander, Major Booth, who fought and fell with them. The President has received Mrs. Booth with more than his usual kindness, and in a note dated May 19, introducing her to Senator Sumner, he says:” She makes a point which I think very worthy of consideration, which is, that widows and children in fact of colored soldiers who fall in service be placed in law the same as if their marriages were legal, so that they can have the benefit of the provisions made the widows and orphans of white soldiers. Please see and hear Mrs. Booth.”
Mrs. Booth, in an interview with Mr. Sumner, made some very interesting statements with regard to the condition of the children of colored soldiers and their mothers. In many instances large families are left unprovided for, and she urges that they receive the same back pay, pensions, &c., as they would had not slavery prevented legal marriages.
THE FORGER DISCOVERED. The special correspondent of the Boston Daily Advertiser says the author of the forged proclamation has been discovered. His name is Joseph Howard, formerly a writer for the New York Times, and chiefly distinguished for his assiduity in dogging the Prince of Wales when in this country. He was also author of the story about President Lincoln disguising himself in a Scotch cap while passing through Baltimore three years ago. He has made a full confession to Gen. Dix, and has been committed to Fort Lafayette. He has of late been one of the reporters of the Brooklyn Eagle.
A despatch to the Associated Press says Howard confesses that he palmed off the forgery upon the journals for gold and stock operations. The World and Journal of Commerce office, which have been under military surveillance since their publications of the spurious proclamation, have been released, and the order for the suspension of the papers is revoked.
ALBANY, May 23. Gov. Seymour has directed the District Attorney to procure indictments against all who were engaged in the seizure of the offices of the New York World and Journal of Commerce.
DEATH OF NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE. Nathaniel Hawthorne, the author, died at Plymouth, New Hampshire, May 19th. He was stopping at Plymouth in the course of a journey for the benefit of his health, and was in company with ex-President Franklin Pierce. He had been suffering with general debility for some time, but retired to bed as well as usual. At 3 o'clock the next morning, however, he was found dead in his bed by ex-President Pierce.
NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN MONTANA. The Senate had a spirited debate on the report of the Committee of Conference which recommended, in substance, that the territorial organization of Montana be effected by white men alone. It seemed to be generally agreed that there were no negroes in the territory, and would be none. The report was agreed to by a vote of 26 to 13. This is a very contemptible act.
Over 25,000 veteran reenforcements has been forwarded to Gen. Grant. The condition of the army and his contemplated operations are entirely satisfactory. The army is abundantly supplied. The latest intelligence from the seat of war is, that Gen. Grant has succeeded in outflanking Gen. Lee, and driven him from what he deemed his impregnable position at Spotsylvania Court House. The rebel army is hurrying to Richmond with Grant's in hot pursuit.
The strange spectacle of a man of color on the floor of the Senate received with distinguished consideration by the most eminent men of that body, was presented on Tuesday last in the Haytian Minister, Col. Romaine.
WASHINGTON, N. C., BORNED BY THE REBELS. Newbern advices state that the rebels burned Washington, and robbed all the women and children.
THE BOSTON DEMOCRAT. The Democratic party had an animated convention in this Congressional district, last week, sitting till late into the night. They gave Col. Greene the resolutions, and chose George Lunt a delegate. A very fair division.
Gen. Wadsworth's funeral at his home, Gene-seo, N. Y., was solemnized on Saturday. It was such a token of sincere love and sorrow as few men can hope for.
Senator Feseenden’s son is on his way home from Mew Orleans, having suffered amputation of a leg.
The Pope of Rome has sent $500 from his private purse to the Sanitary Commission, and expressed great sympathy for our wounded soldiers.
Brigadier General Canby has been appointed by the President a Major General, and assigned to the command of the Department of Western Louisiana and Arkansas. His appointment was immediately confirmed by the Senate. He supersedes Gen. Banks and Gen. Steele.
<c06>
YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS. 
The Twelfth Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Progressive Friends will be held at LONGWOOD, (near Hamorton,) Chester County, Pa., beginning at 10 o'clock, A. M., on Fifth-day, the 2d of 6th month, and continuing, probably, for three days.
OLIVER JOHNSON, ALLEN AGNEW,
MARY ANN FULTON, JENNIE K. SMITH,
THEODORE D. WELD, HANNAH COX,
ALICE ELIZA HAMBLETTON, ANNIE STEMBACH
ALFRED H LOYZ, DINAN MANDENSALZ,
SARAM M BARNARD, SUSANNA P <illegible>
THOMAS HANSLETON, RACHEL WILSON.
Communications for the meeting may be addressed to OLIVER JOHNSON, 48 Beckman street, New York, till the 30th of May; after that, to Hamorton, Chester Co., Pa.
Among those who are confidently expected to attend the meeting, and who will do so unless prevented by causes not foreseen, are GEORGE THOMPSON England, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, and THEODORE TILTON.
Longwood is about thirty miles west of Philadelphia, from which place it is reached by the cars of the Philadelphia and Baltimore Central Railroad, which runs each way twice a day. The Progressive Friends are hospitable to strangers.
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will be hold at the usual place near Waterloo, on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 3d, 4th and 5th days of June next.
A cordial invitation is extended to all who have ears to hear—all especially who most prize Truth and the interests of Humanity-who most, before all else, the life and growth of the soul, to join us in this our annual gathering. Come, that we may mutually impart and receive counsel, encouragement and quickening.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, A.M. POWELL, C. D. B. MILLS, and other able speakers from abroad, will be present to participate in the discussions, and lend interest to the occasion.
Communications for the meeting should be addressed to PHEBE B. DEAN, Waterloo, N. Y.
PHEBE B. DEAN, HARRIET A. MILLS, 
ISRAEL LISK, HENRY BONNEL,
STEPHEN SHEAR, HUGH D. THORN,
MARY DOTY, WILLIAM BARNES,
Committee of Arrangements.
Waterloo, March, 1864.
“AN APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC” It being a well-known fact that the brave men composing the 54th and 55th Regiments Mass. Vols. Have, since they have been in their country’s service, received no pay, and also that hundreds of them have fallen in defence of the American flag, leaving here in our midst their poor, suffering and destitute wives and children, the Colored Ladies of Massachusetts, knowing the urgent necessity there is, just at this time, of doing something for these suffering ones, are preparing to hold a Fair in this city at as early a day as possible, this being, in their judgment, the most practical method of accomplishing their object. Donations, either of goods or money, will be meet thankfully received by the President, Madam CARTEAUX BANNISTER, 31 Winter street, and the Treasurer, Rev. Mrs. GRIMES, 28 Grove street. As we have just sent into the field another brave regiment, the 5th Cavalry, and their families are left with us, while their husbands, brothers and fathers have gone to uphold the honor of our flag, there will be a demand for all our friends may assist us in raising.
TO LET, for the Summer season, one of the most desirable residences in Lynn, situated on Sagamore Hill, free from dust, mosquitoes and other annoyances, and within three minutes' walk of the Beach. The house will be let with or without the furniture. Rent reasonable for the times. Inquire of J. BAILEY, on the premises
AARON M. POWELL will address the Free Church congregation (Rev. Mr. Johnson's) at Lynn, (Mass.,) on Sunday, May 29. Subject-The Responsibilities of Victory.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in North Easton, Mass., and vicinity, Sunday, May 29, and ten days following; and will attend a Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Progress in Middle Granville, N.Y., on the 10th, 11th, and 12th of June; and lecture in Washington and Saratoga counties, N.Y., till July 1st.

Portrait of William Lloyd Garrison.
THE subscriber has in preparation a large and elegant lithographic Portrait of Mr. Garrison, from an original crayon drawing by Thomas M. Johnston, which he believes he is safe in asserting will be, in all respects, the most satisfactory portrait of this distinguished advocate of impartial freedom ever offered to the public. 
Size of print 21 by 27 inches. Price $1.50 for India Proof copies, which will be sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of price.
A liberal discount to agents.
CHARLES H. BRAINARD. 
May 20. tf

A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A.L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D.C.
May 20.

TWO VALUABLE PAMPHILETS.
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for the year ending May 1, 1861.
PROCEEDINGS of the American Anti-Slavery Society at its Third Decade, held in the city of Philadelphia, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863. With an Appendix; and a catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863.
Just published, and for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
Price, Fifty cents each pamphlet; for which a copy of either will be sent by mail, as may be directed.
May 20.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No.2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. Address
ANDREW J.GRAHAM, 
Dec. 1ly New York.

SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of” “Woman’s Labor,” “Woman under the Law,” &c. 16mo; paper, 35 cents. 
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR.BARTOL'S SERMON COMMEMMORATIVE OF REV. 
T. STARR KING. 15 cents.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
BOSTON.

THE RED SEA FREEDMEN,
A STIRRING Sermon for the Times; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of ”Clark’s School Visitor” and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia. 
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents. $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address.
J. W. DAUGHADAY,
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia. 
April 15. 3t.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health.) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixture furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co. 
Oct.30—ly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator. 
SECESSION.
At midnight, when his lamp burned dim,
Jeff. Davis sat his room within,
Musing upon his deadly sin—
Secession.
He heard the sentry’ measured tread,
As on his weary round he sped,
The night-wind murmuring overhead,
Secession.
He saw gaunt’ Famine’s bony hand
Outstretched above his fair South-land;
Beside his path it seemed to stand,
Whispering, Secession.
Dark Ruin yawned beneath his feet:
That ghastly form how could be he meet?
Telling of home, disgrace, defeat
Unto Secession.
And then from out each grass- grown grave, 
Where rest our unforgotten brave—
Where Mississippi’s waters lave
Secessia,—
From out the oaks* and whispering pines,
Where heroes fell in serried lines,
And May-time with her bloom entwines
Secessia—
From Pillow, where the brand of shame
Must rest forever on thy name,
Nor time efface the darkening stain,
Secessia—
From Gettysburg’s proud heights of fame,
Where Shiloh won a deathless name,
From Antietam, stern voices came,
“Woe, woe, Secessia!”
A pale, stern band, they gathered round,
Dark-stained with many a ghastly wound.
And still he heard the same dread sound—
“Woe, woe, Secessia!”
“Why stand ye here?” the Traitor said,
Raising his bowed and trembling head;
“Why come ye from the silent dead,
Dooming Secession?”
“We come the Traitor’s fate to speak,
To tell the doom which you must meet
When Justice makes her work complete,
Ending Secession.
For thee and thine the gibbet waits,—
Wide ope the prison-fortress gates,
Clustering like stern avenging Fates
Around Secession.
The Northmen are areased at last:
Their long dark night of sleep was past
When Sumter, on that April blast,
Thundered Secession
“To arms! to arms!” they sternly cried,—
And in their manhood’ strength and pride
They went to stem thy bloody tide,
Secession!
They’ll compass thee in tower and town—
Thy hostile forte they ‘11 batter down,
Till not one battlement shall frown
In all Secessia.
E’en now proud Charleston waits her doom—
The fiery shell, the cannon’s boom,
Tells that to her has judgment come
First in Secessia.
And Richmond soon will share her fate,
Where now dark Treason sits in state,
With guarded wall and bolted gate,
Vaunting Secession.
Labor thy dainty hands must soil,
For slaves no more for thee will toil,
When ends this strife and fierce turmoil,
Secessia.
They’ll stead as MEN, erect and free;
What God designs will surely be:
No more they’ll bow the servile knee,
Secessia.
They’ve battled bravely for the Right,
They’ve stood undaunted’ mid the fight,
They shall rejoice in Freedom’s light,
Secessia.
No more upon your Southern plains
They’ll groan beneath the scourge and chains;
No more you’ll boast your blood -bought gains,
Secessia.
No more your chattels, bought and sold,
Shall fill your purse with shining gold;
Freedom your bondmen shall enfold,
Secessia.
Ye thought the chain to bind more fast,
Which held them in your tyrant grasp;
Ye did instead the links unclasp,
Secessia.
They ceased, those voices from the dead;
And on the traitor’s low-bowed head
Their cold, pale hands in silence laid.
And evermore that touch he’ll feel;
Nor guarded wall, nor bristling steel,
Nor the loud cannon’s rolling peal,
Will bar their way!
CARRIE.
“Fair Oaks” and” Seven Pines”.

MAY.
Once more the blooming May, with noiseless feet,
Comes to our presence in her sweetest strain;
And nature wakes beneath her influence sweet
To new-born life and loveliness again.
Close following dreary April showers,
She smiling wends her bright and joyous way,
And all the hill-tops, crowned with flowers,
Join in one welcome to the merry May.
We hear her music in the song-bird’s lay;
We feel her presence in the balmy breeze;
The field and woodland her warm smiles betray,
Her tresses wave from all the lofty trees.
We hear her greeting in the babbling rill,
Unchained from winter’s cold and icy sway;
And e’en the cattle, grazing on the hill,
Their silent welcome give to blooming May.
The south wind’s fragrant breath among the flowers
Sheds their sweet perfume on the sultry air,
And tells the coming of bright summer hours,
And golden harvests in the autumn fair.
The sparkling dew-drop on the verdant fields
Melts in the morning sun, and disappears;
And smiling May her mellow sunshine yields,
When weeping April sheds her balmy tears.
We gladly greet thee, maiden month of May,
We love thy sunny smile and warm caress,
And for the coming of thy festal day
Fair nature dons her fairest, richest dress;
We love to stroll beneath the May-day sun,
And gather flowers from the verdant sod,
For, in their fragrance, there’s the smile of One,
The author of all beauty, Nature’s God.

MAN’S HEART PROPHESIETH OF PEACE.
A sad confession from the heart of man
It is, that War, dark, hateful War, must be;
That ever thus, e'en since the world began,
Has been on earth the dire necessity!
Behold, he says, the truth on History’s page,
Written in blood upon her lengthening scroll;
The warrior’s wreaths still green from age to age,
And warlike glory still man's highest goal.
But deeper look, O man, into thy heart
And Peace, a mightier need, thou there shalt see; 
And yet thou know’st thy nature but in part,—
What thou has been, but not what thou shalt be;
And read the promise of God’s holy Word,
That nations shall no more lift up the sword.
—Monthly Religions Magazine,
J.V.
<c02>
Selections.
EVENING SCHOOLS FOR FREEDMEN IN WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN.
The undersigned. Committee of the Association of Volunteer Teachers of Evening Schools for People of Color in Washington and Georgetown, D. C., earnestly invite public attention to the following statements:
There are now in successful operation nine of these schools, all taught by volunteer teachers, mostly clerks in Government employ, aided to some extent by colored assistants.
These schools are designed to meet a want not provided for from any other source, being distinct from the day schools for children lately opened under the auspices of the Freedmen’s Relief Association, (as yet few in number and limited in capacity,) as also from the one public day school more recently established by the trustees of the fund provided from the taxation of colored property owners or law of Congress. They are intended for that very numerous class now congregated in this locality, of the recent victims of slavery and social oppression, who desire to partake of the hitherto forbidden fruits of knowledge, but whose age and avocations would deprive them of the benefits of day schools, even if these were adequately provided.
The first of these Evening Schools was opened in the latter part of December last; the others followed in rapid succession, as rooms could be obtained and teachers enlisted. The following summary of the last monthly reports will exhibit something of their present condition:
Schools. Teachers. Assistants. Pupils. Av. Attend
No. 1. 2 30 30
2 4 3 occa’l. 200 74
3. 5 - 150 150
4. 3 2 occa’l 100 60
5. 1 Several (col’d) 125 125
6 6 Several (col’d) 150 100
7. 1 Several (col’d) 100 60
8. 2 Several (col’d) 200 125
9. 1 Several (col’d) 25 25
Totals, 25 1080 749
Most of these schools have held sessions on two evenings of the week—one or two on three; and the sessions have been usually about two hours in length, though many of the pupils are prevented by their occupations from being present more than one to one and a half hours. While none are excluded on account of either youth or age, and while there are many earnest and persevering students upwards of thirty and even of forty years old, yet the great majority are young men and women between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five.-A very large proportion are “contraband” refugees, and nearly all have been slaves. From one-filth to one-fourth of the whole number had not mastered the alphabet on entering the schools.
The concurrent testimony of all the teachers is, that, with few exceptions, there is an eagerness to learn which makes teaching a pleasure, and a rapidity of advancement that is surprising.
The rooms occupied by the schools belong to or are connected with the several colored churches, and are temporarily loaned, without charge, for this use. In some cases they are either warmed or lighted, or both, gratuitously; but more often the teachers, in addition to their labors, have been obliged to provide for these requisites, either from their own pockets or by soliciting contributions from pupils and others. Few if any of the rooms are properly adapted to the purpose—none of them to instruction in writing. Nearly all the schools, for want of either room or teachers, have been obliged to refuse numbers of applicants, or to so neglect them that, after attendance a few evenings, they give up in discouragement. Some of them are so located, in remote and dangerous sections of the city, as to require no small degree of devotion, not to say heroism, on the part of those who have assumed their charge.
From these brief statements it will be obvious at a glance to every friend of education, that the efficiency of the work thus commenced would be greatly promoted, even in the present ill-adapted accommodations, were the teachers provided with means for lighting and warming their several rooms without taxing the pupils, and for obtaining a supply of suitable books, charts, slates, and other requisites of the school-room, of which there is a plentiful lack. Beyond this, it is greatly desirable to obtain, at the earliest practicable day, more suitable rooms for the purpose of instruction, and these, probably, will require, to be erected specially for this use.
They who, as teachers, and at no small personal cost, are volunteering their services in this work, from a sense of its importance, feel that there are many among their fellow-countrymen, in all parts of the free North as well as in this Capital, who take a warm interest in the elevation of this long down-trodden race, and who will rejoice to share with them the burdens of this special work. Having associated themselves for mutual aid and co-operation, they deem it a duty to make the public acquainted with the magnitude of the want which has revealed itself, to call attention to the claims it has upon the regards of the whole country, and to offer their services as administrators of such means as may be placed, in their hands for its furtherance. Some small amounts have already been obtained through individual effort, which gives confidence that this combined appeal will be favorably regarded.
We cannot refrain from adding that the schools thus far commenced, even if placed in the best possible condition as to books, apparatus, convenient rooms, etc., would meet but a fraction of the great wants. At a moderate estimate, there are 10,000 or 12,000 children of African descent, under fifteen years of age, in these contiguous cities unprovided with public school instruction; and but a small part of them with school advantages of any kind. Besides these there is still a larger number above the age, named, yet not too old to learn, who equally need, but have never been allowed, the privileges of the school. What shall be done for the education of these 20,000 to 25,000 people—all children as regards the rudiments of learning? It is a question which concerns, not alone the citizens of this District, but all who have an interest in the Government which has here its seat. It would seem superfluous to enter into an argument on the duties and dangers of such a state of things, with a people who are being taught anew, by a terrible illustration, the great truth that Liberty and all free institutions can be based only on the education of the masses —that ignorance not only fosters vice and degradation, but furnishes ready materials for lighting the fires of treason, rebellion and civil war. it is believed that the enlightened and loyal people of the country need but to be made acquainted with facts as they exist at their capital, to not only furnish the means needed to sustain these small beginnings of a great work, but to demand of their representatives in Congress to see to it that adequate provision is made for the education of all classes needing it at this national centre, which is under its special jurisdiction. Ignorant black men may become as dangerous to the public weal as ignorant whites.
It is a matter of common complaint and reproach that the public schools for white children in Washington fall far below in character those of our Northern cities; yet were public provision made for the education of colored youth, at the same cost per scholar as is paid for whites, (about $12 50,) the sum of $150,000 per year would be required. And to provide, in addition, evening instruction for the colored adults, at the rate per scholar now paid in evening schools for whites, ($3 72 per year,) would require not less than S52,000 more, making $200,-000 in all, and this aside from the cost of erecting school-houses. Contrast this amount with the pitiful sum actually provided by law for colored schools, namely, four hundred and eighty dollars and sixty-one cents, (480 61.) with which to educate 25,000 human beings, just emerging into the responsibilities of freedom! This contrast is heightened by the additional consideration that the colored population are far less able to avail themselves of private schools than are the whites. Will the people of the North—the land of school-houses, of liberty, and of loyalty—consent that this state of things shall continue?
Donations in books, school-apparatus, or money, for the purposes indicated above, are urgently solicited, and may be sent to the Treasurer of this Association, SAMUEL E.DICKINSON, in care of Dr. Breed, No. 359 I street north, Washington, D. C.
Persons willing to enlist as volunteer Teachers are invited to apply as above.
In behalf of the Association, 
A.E.NEWTON, (of Mass.) Secretary. Com.
SAMUEL E. DICKINSON,(of Penn.) Treas. Com.
RUFUS LEIGHTON,(of Mass.) Com.
Washington, D. C., April 14, 1864. Com.
<c03>
The undersigned. Trustees of Free Colored Schools for Washington and Georgetown, appointed by act of Congress, cordially approve the foregoing appeal, and commend the Association issuing it to the confidence of the public.
DANIEL BREED, M. D., Chairman.
S. J. BOWEN, Treasurer.
The Association would also refer by permission to Rev. J. M. ALVORD, Secretary of American Tract Society; J. J. MARKS, D. D., American Tract Society; Hon. W. D. KELLY, M. C., of Philadelphia.

“CRUSHING SLAVERY IN REBELLION.”
A correspondent of the Baptist Freeman, edited by Rev. W. H. Landon, Canada West, makes statements which surprise us. He claims that Americans were in high glee over the Sepoy rebellion, and prophesied at that time that the British empire in India was at an end; and he says that the British in the same spirit were delighted when the slave-holders’ rebellion broke out.
Now we were in a position to know something of public sentiment in the United States at the time of the Sepoy rebellion, and we never met nor discovered a symptom of the pleasure in that uprising, to which the correspondent refers. On the contrary, the universal feeling was in favor of the most severe punishment of the murderous traitors. The expressions to this effect were strong and earnest, by all classes of the people. The government affirmed no belligerent rights in favor of the Sepoys, showed no signs of sympathy with the insurgents, and congratulated the English in every success of their arms. The public press expressed about the same pleasure in the triumph of the British arms, as the press of England and the Provinces did; and the people rejoiced with great joy when Havelock achieved his great victory over the barbarous insurgents. The idea of the correspondent in this case is purely imaginary, and in every respect exactly opposite to the truth. How he chanced to fall into such a delusion we cannot divine, as there were no such developments as he supposes, in any responsible quarter.
Having read the correspondent’s story, we felt relieved to find editorial remarks appended, and hastened to peruse them. But we were here disappointed. The editor, instead of correcting the blindness of his correspondent, which affected us so unfavorably, proceeds to argue that the unfriendly criticisms of “Britishers” was justified by the pro-slavery attitude of the North, and repeats divers statements which are current among Britishers, which indicate that either we do not understand ourselves, or they do not understand our position.
In justification of this unfriendliness, he charges that the people of the North were equally pro-slavery with the Southerners, at the commencement and during the first two years of the war. We do not so understand it. Mr. Lincoln was elected President, on the basis of the exclusion of slavery from all of the Territories of the Union, the only parts of the nation over which Congress had constitutional power to exclude it. Were the Northern people equally pro-slavery with the South, in that act?
The election of Mr. Lincoln was also an emphatic endorsement of the doctrine that there is an “irrepressible conflict between liberty and slavery,” and his majority was a verdict that the North were resolved that liberty should possess the continent. For years, Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Seward, and Mr. Chase, the three great men of the Government, had been publishing in every place and form that this nation must sooner or later become all liberty or all slavery, and they were for liberty. On that issue the canvass of 1860 was conducted, and the people voted Liberty. Cannot Britishers see that in this act the North proved that they were not equally pro-slavery with the South? Did not the North distinctly place themselves on the side of liberty?
The Freeman cites the avowal of Mr. Lincoln that the war was not to destroy slavery, but to maintain the Union, as evidence that the North were equally pro-slavery with the South.
But does that prove it? Is the citation legitimate? We are confident that it is not. To us the case is clear. We wish that Britishers also could understand our case, so as to do us justice. We will try to put it into a few words. Slavery, as a consolidated political power, had controlled the Government for years. The North wrested that power from the hands of slaveocrats, and they rebelled. Hence if the North crushed the rebellion, the political prestige of slavery was gone, and that was its chief strength. So the Government viewed it, and so the people viewed it. Mr. Seward said, “The Union is liberty.” It was not considered politic to declare a war directly against slavery, while the same end could be reached by a war for the Union. And cannot Britishers see that if the rebellion of the slave power were crushed by the North that all the loss of the South would be the loss of slavery, and all the gain of the North would be the gain of liberty?
Again, the President and Congress are restricted in their acts by the Constitution. As civil rulers, they have no more right to interfere with slavery in the States than the Governor of Canada has. When the military necessity justified it, the President could destroy slavery as commander-in-chief of the armies of the nation, just as he could destroy railroads and bridges. When the President believed that the military power would gain from the abolition of slavery, he proclaimed it abolished. He had no right to do it before. It was not a question of pro-slavery nor anti-slavery with him, but of constitutional power and military necessity. As an honest man, he had no right to go beyond the Constitution, to gratify his Anti-Slavery feelings; he could act only and purely as a military man, for it was only as such that the Constitution authorized him to meddle with slavery at all. Gen. Fremont and Gen. Hunter believed that the military necessity existed, before Mr. Lincoln came to that belief. But that does not prove those Generals more Anti-Slavery than Mr. Lincoln; it only proved a difference of judgment on a purely military point—the military advantage of emancipation. Mr. Lincoln, was anxious that slavery should not survive the war, and expected that the triumph of the Union would be the death of slavery, but was conscientious as to his oath to act strictly according to the Constitution, believing that in the end it would be better for liberty and order that law should triumph, than that good should be done in an unlawful manner.
In this view of the case, the people of the North agreed with the Government. They were opposed to slavery, hoped and expected that it would receive its death-blow in the war; indeed, they believed that the death-blow was given when Mr. Lincoln was elected; but they wished all to be done constitutionally. On the question, “Is slavery wrong?” they would have voted “Yea,” with an emphasis; and on the question, “Shall whatever is done against slavery be done constitutionally?” they would also have voted “Yea.” Cannot Britishers understand how the people of the North may have been opposed to slavery, and yet opposed to abolishing it by unconstitutional means? Cannot they give us credit also for the general belief which prevailed among us, that the time was sure to come when abolition would become plainly a military necessity, and, therefore, a constitutional right and duty of the President? Will they not do us the justice to admit that the people of the North were glad when the President arrived at the opinion that the time had come, when he could honestly strike the blow, and set the captive free?
We never could see why any Britisher, who was honestly Anti-Slavery, could have any, the least, sympathy for the South, and unkindly criticise the North. How could the triumph of the North fail to injure slavery? If it were not actually abolished during the war, every candid man must see that after being defeated at the polls, and on the battlefield, it could only exist as a proscribed and hated institution. It could never again become a source of power, honor, and social distinction, as before. Such victories would necessarily give, to the ideas and civilization of the North a controlling power in the Government, and in all other fields of activity, and must necessarily destroy slavery in the end. Why, then, should Britishers bear themselves so bitterly toward the North, and so charitably towards the South? We confess ourselves puzzled to find an answer. We can see why the London Times should hate the ideas and institutions of the North, but we cannot understand why so many who are not in league with the aristocracy should deal with us so unfairly. We feel this all the more deeply, because we value their opinions, and desire their friendship. They are bone of our bone, one in religious and social characteristics, and their sharp and unfair criticisms are like the unkindness of members of our own household. We had hoped never again to have met manifestations of this kind, and sincerely desire that they may so understand us as to
<c04>
be able to give credit for what little virtue we do possess, and the little good we may do.—Dover Morning Star. 

JOHN BRIGHT’S LAST SPEECH ON AMERICA.
The following genial and eloquent speech of John Bright, at a meeting of the friends of the Atlantic telegraph enterprise, will still further endear him to the people of this country:
“I could easily rob Mr. Field of the originality of the statement of what would happen should I visit the United States. I have at times received a great many letters from gentlemen in that country, and one of them did say there were several penalties I should have to pay, and that he thought one of them was that nearly all the children would be called after me. [Laughter.] Well, if this and many other dreadful things which be told me would happen are true, I am, I think, very prudent in staying in this country. I have never been in America; but for the last 30 years, which is a long time to look back to, I have had a very strong wish to go there; but most of us Englishmen find we have in the management of our business so much to do that a six months’ absence is not an easy thing to accomplish. Englishmen are, I will not say more attached, but much more tied to their homes than Americans are. However, whenever Mr. Field is able to tell us that the war is over, that the Union is restored, and that there are none but freemen on his continent—(hear, hear,)—then, if I could be only a few years younger than I am at all likely to be, I might be induced to promise to pay you a visit. (Hear, hear.)
I do not know how many of the fifty or sixty gentlemen here assembled are Englishmen, or how many of them are American. It is not at all necessary to discriminate, but it is worthy of notice that you could not tell one from the other. (Hear, hear.) That is not remarkable, for those who were our ancestors were also your ancestors; but it is a very provoking thing that there should be people who would make us foreigners and strangers to each other. (Cheers.) I am sure it would be possible to go through the United States, and select a number of Americans and Englishmen, equal to the fifty or sixty now in this, room, and if you put them together you will find the one-half of them just as well disposed to the other half as we are to each other, and just as able to enjoy the good things prepared for them. There would not be among them the slightest disposition to quarrel. (Cheers.) They would begin to think that all the abuse they had heard of each other was false, and the lies and shameful calumnies to which a great newspaper here and the great newspaper in New York treat both hemispheres would no longer be regarded. (Loud cheers.) There are some persons in England who are very jealous of America. It is too big, they think, to govern itself. They, citizens of a country that rules an empire of 160 millions of people some thousand miles away, have a most profound opinion that a compact population of 30 millions is really too large for America to govern. (Cheers and laughter.) This national jealousy is very stupid, to say the least of it.
Although we are not at war, the war in America wise is producing unfortunate results, to one branch of our thin; commerce in particular, and is stirring up memories which had better been buried forever. (Cheers.) From all this comes—from men, some partially ignorant, some suspicious men of contracted intellect, ignorant of what makes the great and true glory of a nations—a great jealousy of the United States. It was in ancient times considered the great glory of a State to plant powerful colonies, and they did not glory the less in them because they became independent. (Cheers.) Thus the United States have been our colonies. They are now truly an independent nation, but still they are our colonies. What can be more contemptible than a feeling of jealousy of the great nation we ourselves have planted on the other side of the Atlantic, in the face of all we are taught in history to value as great and glorious! (Cheers.) We have achieved whatever glory is involved in carrying that which is good in this country to a higher point than any other country in history ever attained. (Hear, hear.)
We have lately heard a great deal of the advantages of an universal language; but when I look upon the United States, with a population of thirty millions of people, with peace restored, with Government re-established, with schools and classes enough for she general and religious education of the people, I feel that in the short space of ten years that population will grow to such a degree that even in the lifetime of our children, we shall have the English language spoken by one hundred millions of free people. (Cheers.) What a magnificent contemplation that is! (Loud cheers.) If I chance to go further, to the Australian colonies, there, too, are our institutions, and there the English language is spoken as it is in the United States. And then if I come to our vast dependencies in the East, inhabited by 150,000,000 of people, among all of whom the English language is extending its influence, we shall have the educated people of Hindostan, in the course of 20 or 30 years, should the connection continue so long, also speaking in our tongue. (Hear, hear.) In South Africa, too, the English language is making its way; so that this language, in which the greatest men who ever lived have written and spoken, is being universally extended, by the help of commerce and civilization, until it promises to belt the world. (Cheers.) This being so, I want to know why men keep up a spirit of cavil and of jealousy between the two nations. I cannot conceive any man more thoroughly an enemy not only to his own country but to humanity itself, than he who lends himself to create and keep alive this animosity between the United States and this more ancient English nation. (Cheers.)”

THE RELEASED PRISONERS.
While we have, in common with all who are loyal to our flag, and loyal to the interests and instincts of a common humanity, been pouring the vials of our wrath on the heads of the miscreants and murderers at Fort Pillow, we have enough to engage our attention and arrest our sympathy at our own doors. We noticed the arrival of five hundred and sixty-five released prisoners from Richmond on Monday, and commented briefly upon their condition.
Such a pitiable set of poor wretches was never seen here. Their emaciation was extreme, their feebleness almost at the last gasp, their dejection was painful to behold, and their squalor was frightful. They were starved to the verge of the grave, and what was left of them was nearly devoured by vermin. Some of them, from hope too long deferred, had fallen into a state of utter listlessness and apathy which bordered upon idiocy. The deepening palor, the dropping jaw, and the glazing eyes told that others had only come to die—that it was too late for outstretched arms to save—too late to dispel the evening shadows that were gathering around them—too late
“T’ alarm the long night of the lonely grave,
Or check the headlong haste of Death’s o’erw helming wave;”
and saddest of all, and most to be deplored, too late to die in the arms of the weary watchers and the broken-hearted ones at home, or to wake from their lethargy long enough to know that they were once more under the protecting folds of the Stars and Stripes.
Compared with this, the massacre at Fort Pillow was a blessing and a mercy. It is sweet and decorous, says the old adage, to die for one’s country; but when the hour comes for the surrender of life, let us rather welcome the speedy ball—let us rather hail the friendly bayonet, as did the lion-hearted defenders of that Fort, than wear the crown of martyrdom as these patient sufferers have done. Look at their hollow cheeks, listen to their sepulchral voice, peer under their drooping eyelids, and you will read plainly a story of gnawing hunger, of pinching cold, of wasting fever, of days of weariness and nights of pain, of buried hope and submission to despair. They are our friends and brothers. They were facing the thickly hurling missiles of death in defence of us when we were sitting by our firesides. They were suffering every pang and every privation while we were comfortable; they were sick and in prison while we were well and free. Can we do too much for them in requital? Never. Can we be too generous or too grateful? We trow not.
But while we are sickened and shocked by the evidence of such barbarism and brutality; and while our hearts are wrung by the wrongs inflicted and the suffering endured, what are we to think of the incarnate fiends who thus brave the scorn of mankind, flaunt their diabolism in the face of civilization, defy the plainest teachings of Christianity, court the execration of the ages to come, and display a degree of ferocity and malignity that would disgrace a Camanche?
We used to associate our ideas of the refinements to of cruelty with the Bastile, the Vehme, or the In-
<c05>
quisition, but that is all past and gone. Henceforth the Richmond Prisons will take the foremost place in our minds, and in the annals of human events, as the synonym for all that is malign and fiendish and diabolical—for all that is bloodthirsty, inhuman and infernal. Upon that detested spot will be heaped maledictions enough to sink it.
It will be forever remembered as the place where true-hearted men, earnest patriots, and tried soldiers were slowly starved to death for the defending their country from the assaults of traitors. Not that only, but to diminish our force in the field and to deter enlistments, as if such conduct would produce fear in place of exasperation. How these wretches and outlaws expect to succeed in their mad endeavors is a puzzle to us. Providence has never yet smiled graciously on much smaller villainy; we do not think it will begin on such monstrous depravity.
For every one of these feeble and dying men, we have returned a healthy rebel, who has been well fed and well cared for. In individual cases, a similar style of returning good for evil would react on the principle of heaping coals of fire on the head of the offender; but in this instance magnanimity is thrown away, and love’s labor is lost. Fortunately for the welfare of the sufferers, they are now in a community where Christian kindness will be liberally dispensed, and under the general supervision of a Medical Director who is esteemed in this Department as a rare model of benevolence, patriotism and gentlemanly character.—Baltimore American.

MR. LINCOLN AND THE PRESIDENCY. 
It is the profound conviction of many well-informed and earnest men, that the existence of this Government is involved in the next Presidential election. There can be no doubt that the mass of the people of the loyal State are unalterably resolved that the Union shall be preserved, and there is an abounding confidence that the inherent power of the Government must prove adequate for the future, as it has been in the past, to maintain the integrity of the Union. But out of this very confidence, well placed as it is, there is danger from divisions and discussions which are not absolutely profitless, but, in the present time of peril, are worse—are criminal.
We refer to the efforts which have been made at Washington to divide the Union party on the question of the next Presidency. It is scarcely necessary to say that we do not consider any man, however conspicuous for his integrity, or however well-proved his patriotism or fitness for the position of President, as personally and absolutely essential to the life of this nation; but we do regard as vital to the welfare of the Republic, if not, indeed, to its continued existence, a patriotic abstinence on the part of all men who love their country from unnecessary division on the mere question of what individual shall be the candidate, and also from the factious attempts of those who seek to confound the personality of the nominee of the Union party with questions which are not in the issue at this time. It seems really to be forgotten by those who have unwisely participated in these divisions, and have unthinkingly fostered dissensions, that the rebellion is not yet subdued, and that those who are really in earnest in the great work of maintaining the Government cannot, in justice to their own principles or with safety to the public welfare, afford any division among themselves. We believe that the popular confidence in Mr. Lincoln is so profound, and that a sense of his integrity, ability and patriotic devotion to the Union is so thorough, that he will surely be re-elected to the position he so worthily fills; and that the men in public positions who neglect their duties to participate in intrigues against him will receive, as they well deserve, the indignant reprobation of the people. But the divisions which they are seeking to create, however powerless they may be as against Mr. Lincoln’s re-election, will, by giving hope and encouragement to the disloyal men of the North, and by deluding many in the rebellious States into the belief of serious divisions among the loyal supporters of the Government, prolong the resistance to its rightful authority. The calm persistency, inflexible resolution and energetic zeal of Mr. Lincoln in wielding the national resources for the support of the rightful supremacy of the Government, is recognized by the rebel leaders as the impersonation of an invincible power to which their passionate resistance must surely succumb, and hence, of all men, they dread him most. It were worth an army to the cause of the rebels if they could weaken the popular confidence in Mr. Lincoln; for while he, as President of the United States, is secure in it, they feel an over-powering sense of the fate that must ultimately await their wicked and insensate rebellion against the Government. We are not the eulogist of Mr. Lincoln. The strength we attribute to him is derived from the confidence the people place in him. He is powerful as the honored representative of the popular will, and the trust thus reposed in him is unbounded, because he is unselfish in his purposes, and unswervingly true to the Union.— Chester(Pa.) Republican
Occasionally, the distant hum of politics reaches our ears in camp by the means of papers or letters from within the bounds of civilization, but there is little political excitement in the army, and I venture to predict that politics never will run very high in camp. The truth is, soldiers generally agree too well such questions to occasion much controversy.
Every indication seems to point to President Lincoln as his own successor, and the almost unanimous expression of the soldiers in this Department is in favor of “Old Abe.”
Whether the soldiers vote or not, however, I believe nothing can prevent his nomination and election; and the rebels who went out of the Union under his administration will be forced to come back under the same rule, and submit, with as good grace as possible, to the administration of the government upon pure free-soil principles.
That the soldiers will give “old Abe” a tremendous boost, if the privilege of voting is granted to them, no one who observes the signs of the times can doubt for a moment, and no man can be nominated by the copperhead faction who can possibly draw any large portion of the soldiers’ vote. I am aware that even many Union men at the North regard McClellan as having a wonderful hold on the affections of the soldiers; but they are simply mistaken, and the test will prove that his popularity is confined to a small circle.
I have no doubt that the nomination and election of President Lincoln would have an important influence upon the rebels themselves. Many of them are anxiously looking forward, and hoping for a change in public feeling at the North, and some are even so foolish as to imagine that their copperhead brethren will afford aid and comfort by attempting, either by the ballot-box or violent means, to overthrow the administration. A conviction that no hope is to cheer the rebels in that quarter would convince them that the North is determined to carry the war to the bitter end, and never even change its policy until the stars and stripes float over every State in the Union.
However, we are likely to have something to do, during the summer months, besides attending to politics; and although I certainly would like the privilege of voting, still I am perfectly willing to trust the result to the choice of those who remain at home.- Army corr. of Syracuse Standard.

CONDITION OF THE NORTH.
The Richmond Examiner of the 27th ult. discusses the political issues of the North from the rebel stand-point. It takes a very original view of things, and regards the Union men of the North as “goblins grim” who are discussing the question how the rebels shall be served up after the war. The monstrum horrendum of Virgil cannot be compared with these cannibal ogres at the North, who are hungering for rebels to feed upon.
In the midst of this fearful spectacle, it catches signs of hope from the great Northwest.
It takes up a remark of the New York Tribune, that the Democrats of Indiana have passed resolutions eminently favorable to secession, and says:
“So this year again there are signs of trouble in the great Northwest—not signs of peace with us, but of disintegration and dislocation at borne; gracious buds of promise, which, with the approach of their elections, may bloom and blossom into bloody fruits of revolution. 
“In conclusion, the Examiner states the issue before them in a very admirable style:
“They at least know that they must conquer or perish; that compromise there can be none; that the Federal power or the Confederate people must be ruined; that we must dictate a peace, or else our
<c06>
enemies will; we on our terms, or they on theirs; we on their ground, or they on ours; that they must be bankrupt and divided asunder, or we beggared and outlawed. Be it so; and better so. We protest that this position of affairs is, altogether to our mind. If any Confederate shrinks from abiding this issue, and in this exact form, it is time that such Confederate ate should gather up and clutch all he can lay his hands upon, turn it into gold and jewels, and sneak away across the lines, provided he can escape the robbers that infest those parts.”
This is the issue before the American people.

THE ANNIVERSARIES.
The May meetings—no longer what they once were—now
“Overcome us like a summer cloud, Without our special wonder.” 
We give in another place a carefully digested report, endeavoring to do equal justice to all the various societies, stating the essential facts, and figures of the year’s work of each, and giving the names of the speakers, and an idea of the speeches.
The Congregational Reunion at Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, is reported in full, in the present Independent. It is our habit, every year, to give such a report— believing that our readers are pleased to see it, and regularly look for it. If the record of this festival in years past has been interesting, what shall we say of this year’s meeting, which was undoubtedly superior to any of its predecessors? Held, during the pendency of bloody battles in Virginia—the public mind in a painful, suspense between hope and apprehension— the speeches took a more solemn tone than on former occasions; but there was no lack of a good Christian courage, and no diminution of the old-time popular enthusiasm. The meeting was as anti-slavery as the Anti-Slavery meetings themselves. The presence of George Thompson as the chief guest of the evening, who made a noble and eloquent speech, touching all hearts and consciences, and awakening repeated bursts of responsive applause, was a delight to all present. The man who was persecuted years ago, is honored now—not because of any change in him, for he remains the same, but because of a great, and marvellous change in the opinions of the people, whose faces have been lately turned as from darkness to light. Addresses were made by Rev Henry. Ward Beecher, Rev. Dr. Bacon, Rev. Theodore L. Cuyler, Rev. Thomas S. Hastings, and Rev. Dr Kirk.—all of which our readers may read for themselves.
The Anti-Slavery Meetings, as usual, drew great multitudes. The spirit of these gatherings was truly noble. We have never seen audiences more magnetic, or more inspiring to a speaker. When they sang, or when they cheered, their voices welled up out of hearts overflowing with patriotic enthusiasm. When they sat listening, their countenances bore an expression of earnestness and sympathy which, to those who looked on from the platform, was striking and remarkable. Probably a more intelligent, refined, and noble-minded audience never was assembled in the city of New York, than the great and beautiful company that crowded Cooper Institute on Wednesday evening. The orators were worthy of the occasion. When George Thompson, William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips speak on the same evening, and to the same audience, how can sensible people help being pleased? Not oftener than once in ten years do frequenters of public meetings have the good fortune to attend so spirited and memorable a meeting as this—the chief and crowning glory of this year’s anniversaries. Mr. Phillips’s picture of the present critical situation of the Cause of Liberty appeared to many to be over drawn. Mr. Garrison’s greater hopefulness won. a more positive and demonstrative response from the popular heart. But it is a double gain to a good cause to point out both its promises and its perils. He who warns is no less a prophet than he who gives good cheer. There is one beautiful aspect of this divergency of opinion between two such old co-workers as Mr. Phillips and Mr. Garrison—they differ in as friendly a spirit as that in which most other men agree. God bless them both, and spare their lives to see Peace and Freedom in land! 
We ought to say that all the anniversary me meetings, even those of the hitherto conservative and drag-wheel societies, were this year eminently patriotic in tone, not blinking the great questions of the day, not afraid to call a man a man, and showing, on the whole, that Galileo’s discovery has been lately re-discovered, which is, that “The world moves!” N. Y. Independent.

DIABOLISM.
It is cruelty to them, and barbarism towards the South, to employ them (negroes) as soldier. As we protested in other days against Van Buren, for employing bloodhounds as soldiers against the Indians, so we now protest against Lincoln’s employing the negro slaves against the South. Bloodhound and negro slaves against their masters are of a like contraband nature.—Portland Advertiser 
We ask Union-loving, loyal men to note the propositions justly inferable from the above
1. It is “barbarism to the South” to employ against them, in putting down rebellion, the same agencies which they are using to uphold rebellion and to destroy the government.
2. A negro slave, in the eye of justice, right civilization and the laws of warfare, is on the same level with and has no more rights than a bloodhound.
3. Negro slaves, against their masters, are contraband of war; but in the hands of their asters, against the friends and soldiers of the Union, they are not contraband, but perfectly proper and legitimate.
4. As a bloodhound may properly be put to death when captured, so may a negro when captured, if in the service of the government.
5. It is perfectly proper for the rebels to murder negroes wearing the uniform of American soldiers, when captured, though universal humanity would brand the act as one of fiendish ferocity should the Federal soldiers put to death a captured slave, bearing the arms and wearing the uniform of a Confederate soldier.
These are the conclusions to which we are forced by the language, the animus and the logic of the above extract, from a paper now striving to take the lead in the politics of the Maine Democracy. We have no disposition to argue the points; with disloyal people it would be vain; with loyal men it is unnecessary.
One word to vindicate history. The bloodhounds employed in Florida under Mr. Van Buren’s administration, it is proper to say, were imported from Cuba at the suggestion of Col. Taylor– since Major General, and President of the United States —and were used, muzzled, only for the benefit of their keen scent in discovering the Indians in their biding places among the everglades, but with no power to injure them. The statement of this fact is due to history, and to the reputation of the dead. Southern slaveholders let loose unmuzzled bloodhounds upon runaway slaves, and upon men suspected of cherishing abolition sentiments.—Maine State Press.
A CAPITAL ILLUSTRATION. Mr. Myers, of Pa, in a late speech in Congress, applied the following anecdote to illustrate the folly of the slaveholders in inaugurating the present rebellion:—
“I once heard of an incident happening in a Democratic country in Georgia, which may be applicable here. An old colored man and his boy were working in a field. The boy noticed, that as the old man was going along hoeing corn or weeding cotton, a humble-bee alighted on his head, and was working away with all its industry, energy, and power, its long sting excited to its utmost capacity, every nerve in its brilliant body strained to its utmost tension, trying to reach the old man’s cranium but never touching that institution. So, sir, before this war broke out, a few persons in the North were trying to sting the institution of slavery. But the boy, not knowing that the old man was perfectly secure, and feeling very solicitous for paternal safety seized a stick about four feet long and two inches in diameter, and feeling very solicitous for paternal safety, seized a stick about four feet long and two inches in diameter, and saying, ‘Daddy, stand still,’ brought it down with a flail-like motion on the old man’s head, missing the humble-bee, and nearly killing the old man. (Laughter.) So it has been with the Abolitionists and slavery. These secessionists saw a few Abolitionists at the North, whose arguments and language new came within the confines of the and language never came within the confines of the slave States. Why? Because those State were governed by Democrats, and were in favor of ‘free speech!’ They undertook to break the head of the humble-bee of abolition with their club of secession and they have knocked the brains out of slavery, while the bee of abolition has flown over, and is taking the circuit of the Union.”
