THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
131 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.NO. 6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT. 
TERMS -There dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID), to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three <illegible>at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.0 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz. WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWARD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON Jr.
WM LLOYD GARRISON Editor 
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXXV NO.38 BOSTON FRIDAY SPETEMBER 22 1865 WHOLE NO 1807
Selections.
<c01>
TRIAL OF WIRZ-MORE HORRIBLE DISCLOSURES.
The following is additional testimony adduced, at the trial of Wirz, as to the fiendish barbarities practised by him upon the prisoners at Anderson ville:—
J. Nelson Clark testified that he was taken as a <illegible> to Andersonville about the 28th of May, 1864. and confined. The previous evidence as to the crowded and filthy condition of the stockade, the sufferings of the prisoners, the coarse, dirty and sufficient food, & c., was repeated. On one day of the he year he counted 154 dead men in the stockade. The witness mentioned the case f an insane soldier who wandered up and down by the stream, refusing it wear clothes, and who had not sense enough to know that he must cook his rations; he ended his <illegible> by suicide. Another prisoner destroyed his life by hanging, after declaring that he would rather be than remain in the stockade. When the witness was taken to Andersonville, there were 41 men in company with him, and 22 of them had died, principally at that prison,. He said six. men were shot at different times, two of whom he knew died; one of them extended his arm too far out over the dead the while dipping water out of the stream, when the sentinel fired; another happened to get slightly beyond the lines; the sentinel fired, missed him, <illegible> and hit a man who was lying in a tent; the witness mentioned the circumstances attending the shooting of the other four men for crossing the dead line; he did not, however, see or hear Capt. Wirz give the orders for the shooting. 
Vincent Harry, of the 72d New York Regiment, who was a prisoner at Andersonville, having been conveyed thither about March 1, 1864, testified that while at Capt. Wirz's headquarters, he heard Winz give orders to have men put in the chainrang, and have irons placed around their feet, and 130 order the guard to shoot the first man who could cross the dead line; Wirz also threatened to shoot any man who would not promptly fall into <illegible> Witness had seen marks on the bodies of men <illegible> by dogs, and described the sufferings of 150 men who had been vaccinated with poisonous matter.
Edward L. Kellogg, of the 20th New York Cavalry saw four men shot for crossing the dead line. shooting was quite a common occurrence. Witness are bucked six times because he had failed to report a man who had escaped; another prisoner was <illegible>at the same time; bucking consists of first <illegible> the wrists together, then fastening the arms over the knees. The reason why he was bucked was that he did not comply with the rule for reporting those who attempted to escape. 
Joseph R. Achuff, of the 24th Ohio, a prisoner is Andersonville, testified that,, having gone out with a rebel guard, he jumped on the rebel's back, while the two prisoners who accompanied him took away his gun; hearing the dogs in chase, he and <illegible>two companions scattered. The witness ran in to a swamp, and soon saw five hounds and seven rebels on horseback. The hounds were not taken <illegible> him for fifteen minutes, during which time he had to fight them with his fists; he had nothing upon him but a pair of pantaloons made of two <illegible>meal sacks; he still carried the marks of the <illegible> on his legs; the horn was blown as a signal to tear the hounds off. He was taken before Capt. <illegible> who ordered him to be put in the stocks; he was exposed to the sun; he was thus punished for 45 hours., and during that time had only two drinks <illegible> of the muddy creek. When he spoke to Wirz about the treatment, he was told to dry up, or he would have his brains blown out. The witness, after being taken out of the stockade, was ironed; the rings, passing round his ankles and legs, were separated by an iron iron bar 18 inches long; the legs of the witness were sore, and scurvy fell into them. He was kept 32 days in irons by order of Capt. Wirz. It was pretended that the irons were removed by direction of are rebel Surgeon, when the fact was they were afraid of Sherman having a white flag hanging out all the time; this was in July. When a squad of Sherman's men were brought <illegible> they were stripped of everything except panta<illegible> and shirts; even their buttons were split open, Wirz saying he had heard of money sometimes being stowed away in buttons.. The men were sent into the stockade; Wirz said they were raiders, and ought to be shot; they belonged to Stone man's Cavalry. Wirz struck a Michigan boy over the head with his revolver, the result of which was that the boy died of fits. The witness said he saw the man called "Chickamauga " killed; the men had named him "Muttonhead"; he belonged to Illinois, and was silly, and had lost a leg; the boys having <illegible>  him, he appealed to Capt. Wirz to go on people. Wirz cursed him, and threatened to blow his brains out. The man was at the time within the dead line. Wirz ordered the guard to blow his brains out; the guard fired, the. shot striking the man in the left side; the victim was carried out, and died. The witness saw Wirz lay out the dead <illegible> in April, 1864, and heard him give orders at that time, if any man crossed the line, to shoot him. The first night he went into the stockade, on the <illegible> of March, 1864, he saw Wirz kicking a poor skeleton around there, and heard Wirz curse him; he named four officers who also witnessed the same <illegible>occurrence. The squad of 90 men to which the be witness was attached, being in tolerably good physical condition, could stand up in line pretty well, hut but others could not. wirz said he would not <illegible>the latter anything to eat for forty-eight hours, and he kept his word. On the 3d, 4th and 5th of July, rations were cut off throughout the stockade, because some had escaped; the number of prisoners there at the time was 35, 000. On the 15th of July there was a great crowd at the gate, of men trying to get out with the sick; only one could get not at a time; there were at that place two guards between the dead line and the stockade. Capt. Wirz gave orders if any one stepped over the dead line to "blow him through"; the guard said he could not keep the crowd from encroaching upon the line; the sentinel at the time had the muzzle of his gun at the stomach of a fine-looking Pennsylvanian. He was ordered to fire, and shot the man dead. Whenever a man was wounded and carried to the hospital, he would never come back. George White, of Germantown, Pa., belonging to the Marine Corps, after being wounded, was carried off to the hospital. The young man requested him to tell his mother  he was not afraid to die; subsequently he saw White's dead body at what was called the dead house, where Wirz was in company with two guards. The witness asked him if he could not take a lock of White's hair. "No,, " said Wirz, "if you do, I'll blow your d-d brains out. " About 150 prisoners were down at the creek bathing; a woman as an eminence was seen to nod, and wave her <illegible> chief to a sentinel, who fired and shot one of them in the head; the sentinel for this received a furlough for 30 days, so he had been informed by
<c02>
a Georgia soldier. The witness described the character of the sufferings of the prisoners. He applied to Wirz to have the filthy grease stopped from being thrown into the stream, as the water was thus injured. Wirz replied that the water was good enough for Yankees, and that the witness did not deserve soap. 
After the recess, Achuff was cross-examined. Witness was in the stockade six months, but was never in the hospital. As to the guard whom he and his two companions overpowered, and whose gun they took away, they did not hurt him, but only choked him a little. The guard ran back to the prison crying murder; he never heard ofor saw a soldier in our army placed in irons. Half-a-dozen other persons accompanied Capt. Wirz when the dead line was laid out. 
By the Court-The witness did not hear Wirz. give orders for taking watches and other valuables from the prisoners; but saw him himself searching the men, and appropriating their possessions. The prisoners were stripped of clothing, jackets, boots and hats, in the presence of Capt. Wirz. He had previously been robbed by Gen. Wheeler of his pocket-book, containing 35 cents and three postage stamps; Major Gen. Hindman also robbed him, taking his hat, and placing it on his own head. 
Daniel W. Bussinger testified that when he and his companions were conveyed to Andersonville, they were during four hours exposed to the burning sun, and some of the men were sun-struck. Wirz was there, and gave orders that if any one stepped out of the line, he should be shot. Wirz also said if any asked for water, they should be shot, accompanying the remark with a denunciation of the damned Yankees. While men lay fainting. Wirz said that if it was in his power, he would make the victory complete. He saw a man shot early in July, for getting water, although he was not over the dead line; and another man was shot while lying in his tent. The rations of some of the sick men were stopped, and the witness shared his rations with them; three of them died, viz.: Hugh Lynch, William Kiger, and William Waterhouse, of the 3d Pennsylvania Cavalry. The distress among the men was great: he had seen prisoners searching in the filth which had passed through men for particles of undigested food, and for scraps from the raider's camp; he had seen vegetables, such as potatoes, onions and peas, and also apples, peaches and melons in the vicinity of the camp. Two men were buried inside of the stockade; the body of one, which had lain four days, was too putrid to take out. 
Horatio B. Terrill, of the 72d Ohio regiment, testified that he was taken to Andersonville on the 19th of June; Wirz threatened the men, using vile language, and calling them damned Yankees. A man who showed Capt. Wirz his ration of corn bread, and asked whether better could not be furnished, met with the response:" God damn you, I'll give you bullets for bread." "There were not sinks enough for one-twentieth of the prisoners; the swamp was more than a foot deep with human excrement. This spoiled the water in the wells. On one occasion, he saw 56 corpses in the dead-house, and on another 75 or 100. The bodies were thrown into the cart like dead bogs, 15 or 20 being a load. When the prisoners went there, Wirz came forward, and read the rules, saying the prisoners would be shot if they entered the dead line, and that any one speaking to a guard would be shot by the guard without halting. Wirz also said if any of the Yankees traded with the guard, and did not get what they bargained for, and then complained to him, he would say: "Good for the Yankee "and " Bully for the guard." "They were also informed that if any of the men were found disturbing things, the rations would be cut off till the perpetrators were found and punished. About the middle of March, when an exchange was talked of, some of our men by agreement gave money to the guard, $20 or less, for the first chance. 
On the cross-examination, the witness said he did not know that Capt. Wirz had forbidden the acceptance of money. 
Robert Merton, belonging to a Pennsylvania regiment, testified that he had seen Capt. Wirz wearing shirts sent to our prisoners by the Sanitary Commission. It was a common thing for our men to be put into the chain gang, and he had never seen the stocks empty. He saw one man receive 75 lashes for carrying onions into the hospital, and he saw Wirz kick a sick man, and heard the dying statement of a black man who was shot in the back. A young man was shot by a guard, who said he would shoot another if he could get 60 days furlough. Wirz remarked that if he could have his own way, not 24 men on the South side would get away, either by exchange or parole. 
On being cross-examined, the witness said rations were stopped because some of the men (25 of them) had been engaged in digging a tunnel in order to make their escape. The tunnel was dug with tin plates, oyster shells, and whatever the men could get. 
Frank Mattox, (colored,)belonging to the 35th United States, testified that after he recovered of his wounds in the bead and foot,, he was put to work at the prison. A colored man was whipped with 250 lashes; be was stripped naked, and laid upon a log, and whipped all over; the man was afterward ironed. He related the circumstance of a white man who had blacked his face and mixed with the gang of colored men, in order to make his escape; the man was discovered and whipped, Wirz saying as the man blacked himself to be a negro, he would give him the negro's law, namely, 39 lashes. The witness had seen 12 men together in this chain-gang for an entire week; be had seen a man torn by dogs in a shocking manner though nearly dead, the man was put into the stocks, and two days after the witness buried the man; this was in September, 1864. Wirz, while in the graveyard with several other officers, said: "We have given the Yankees the land they came to fight for"; this was in October. Wirz, with some of the doctors who were with him in the graveyard looking at the corpses whose skulls had been sawed of, and the green appearance of the bodies which had been vaccinated, laughed at the sight exhibited, and the killing of the men. He had seen 13 of the boxes sent by the Sanitary Commission, and Wirz put on one of the shirts and a pair of pantaloons. 
Cross-examined-Witness had seen four or five of the colored prisoners whipped with 39 lashes; he trenches were seven feet long and three deep; the dead men were laid side by side with faces up, and the earth thrown in. A Confederate surgeon superintended the burial, and gave instructions to pack the bodies in close, which was decently done; there were no coffins, nor boards of which to make them. 
By the Court-The doctors in the graveyard with Capt. Wirz were speaking about the effects of the vaccination, when Wirz said: u: "Yes, God damn them, we gave them the land they came to fight for."
<c03>
THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND THE NATIONAL FAITH.
Guarantees Needed for the National Freedman and the National Creditor. 
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
AT THE REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION, 
IN WORCESTER, SEPT. 14, 1865. 
FELLOW-CITIZENS: 
Called to preside over this annual Convention, where are brought together the intelligence, the heart and the conscience of Massachusetts, God bless her! I begin by asking you to accept my thanks. Gladly would I leave this post of honor to another; but I obey your will. In what I have to say, I shall speak frankly. What has with me become a habit is at this moment more than ever a duty. Who can see peril to his country, and not cry out?? Who can see that good ship, which carries the Republic and its fortunes, driving directly upon a lee shore, and not shout to the pilot, "Mind your helm "? "?Apologies or roundabout phrases are out of place when danger threatens.
EMANCIPATIONNOTCOMPLETE, SOLONG AS THE BLACK CODE EXISTS. 
When last I addressed my fellow-citizens on public affairs, at the close of the late Presidential election, as we were about to vote for Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson. I undertook to show the absolute identity between Slavery and the Rebellion, so that one could not end without the other. As I finished that address, I said to friends near me, that it was "my last Anti-Slavery speech." "I so thought at the time; for I anticipated the speedy downfall of the Rebellion, carrying with it Slavery. I was mistaken. Neither the Rebellion nor Slavery is yet ended. The Rebellion has been disarmed; but that is all. Slavery has been abolished in name; but that is all. As there is still a quasi Rebellion, so there is still a quasi Slavery. The work of liberation is not yet completed. Nor can it be completed until the Equal Rights of every person, once claimed as a slave, are placed under the safeguard of irreversible guarantees. It is not enough to strike down the master; you must also lift up the slave. It is not enough to declare that Slavery is abolished. The whole Black Code, which is "the supplement of Slavery, must give place to that Equality before the law which is the very essence of Liberty. It is an old principle of the common law, recognized by all our courts, as announced by Lord Coke, that "where the law grant eth anything to any one, that also is granted, without which the thing itself cannot be." So also where a piece of land is granted, which is shut in by the possessions of the grantor, a right of way is implied from common justice and the necessity of the case. And then again, where the reason of a law ceases, the law itself ceases. So, also, where the principle falls to the ground, the incident falls also. But all these unquestionable principles are fatal to the Black Code. The Liberty that has been granted "cannot be" if the Black Code exists. The piece of land that has been granted is useless without that right of way which is stopped up by the Black Code. The reason for the Black Code is Slavery; and with the cessation of the reason, the whole Black Code itself must cease also. The Black Code is the incident of Slavery, and it must fall with its principle. Unless this is accomplished, you will keep the word of promise to the ear, and break it to the sense. You will imitate those cruel quibbles, of which history makes mention, where, by subtle equivocations, faith has been violated. You will do little better than the Turk who stipulated with a certain person that his head should be safe, and straightway proceeded to cut him in two at the middle; or than those false Greeks who, alter promising to restore their captives, kept their promise by restoring them dead.
Slavery begins by denying the right of a man to himself; and the Black Code fortifies this denial by its cruel exclusions. Every freedman must be secured in this right by his admission to the full panoply of citizenship. "Slavery sets at naught the relation of husband and wife: every freedman must be able to call his wife his own. Slavery sets at naught the parental relation: every freedman must be able to call his child his own. Slavery shuts the gates of knowledge: every freedman must be assured all the privileges of education. Slavery takes from its victim the hard-earned fruits of his toil: every freedman must be protected in his industry. Slavery denies justice to the colored man by cruelly rejecting his testimony: every freedman must enter the courts freely, as witness or as party. Until all this is done, in every particular, and beyond possibility of question, it is vain to say that Emancipation has been secured. The good work is only half done. It must be continued to its assured consummation. That same national authority which began it must take care that the good work is maintained and completed, in letter and in spirit, every. where throughout the rebel States, in conventions of the people,-in legislative assemblies,-in courts, -in the city,- in the country,-, in streets,- on highways,—on by ways, in retired places,- on plantations,- in houses,- so that no man shall be despoiled of any of his rights, but all shall be Equal before the law. 
LESSON FROM RUSSIAN EMANCIPATION. 
There is a glorious instance in our own day, which is an example for us, when the Emperor of Russia, by a Proclamation, fulfilling the aspirations of his predecessors, set free twenty-three millions of serfs, and then completed his work by investing the freed-men with civil and political rights, including the right to testify in court, the right of suffrage, and the right to hold office. I have in my hand this immortal Proclamation, dated at Petersburg, 19th February, 1861; promulgated amidst prayers and thanksgivings in all the churches of the national capital, and at once expedited to every part of the widely extended empire by generals and staff officers of the Emperor himself, ". Here it is, in an official document entitled Affranchissement des Serfs, and issued at St. Petersburg. After reciting that the earlier measures in behalf of the serfs had failed, because they had been left to "the spontaneous initiative of the proprietors," the Emperor proceeds to take the work in hand as a sacred legacy from his ancestors, and declares the serfs, after an interval of two years, "entirely enfranchised." "Meanwhile, that 'nothing might fail, "a special court" for serfs was created in each province, charged with the organization of local governments, the adjustment of boundaries, and generally to superintend the transition from the Old to the New, with "justices" of the peace " in each district, to examine on the spot all questions arising from Emancipation. Had the work stopped here, it would have been incomplete. But no such fatal mistake was made.
Accompanying the Proclamation is a series of "regulations," prepared with infinite care, and divided into chapters and sections- occupying no less than ninety-one pages in double columns and small 
<c04>
type-by which the right of the freedmen are secured beyond question. Beginning with the declaration that the freedmen "acquire the rights belonging to the condition of free farmers, ' they then proceed in formal words to fix and assure their rights, civil and political. By one section, it is provided that " the articles of the Civil Code on the rights and obligations of the family are extended to the freedmen that, consequently, they acquire the right, without the authorization of the proprietor, to contract marriage, and to make any arrangement whatever concerning their family affairs; that they can equally enter into all agreements and obligations authorized by the laws, as well with the State as with individuals, on the conditions established for free farmers; that they can inscribe themselves in the guilds, and exercise their trades in the villages; and they can found and conduct factories and establishments of commerce." Another section secures to the freedmen the right of acquiring and alienating property of all kinds, according to the general law, and, besides, guarantees, on certain conditions," the possession of their homesteads,," with the grounds appurtenant. Another section secures to the freedmen complete Equality in the Courts, with "the right of action, whether civilly or criminally, to commence process, and to answer personally or by attorney; to make complaint, and to defend their rights by all the means known to the law; and to appear as witnesses and as bail, conformably to the common law." 
Other sections secure to the freedmen Equality in political rights,, by providing that " on the organization of the towns, they shall be entitled to take part in the meetings and elections for the towns, and to vote on town affairs, and to exercise divers functions;" that they shall also " take part in the assemblies for the district, and shall vote on district affairs, and choose the chairman, " and generally to enjoy all rights to choose their local officers, and to be chosen in turn. And still another section authorizes the freedmen "to place their children in the establishments for public education, to embrace the career of instruction, or the scientific career, or to take service in the corps of surveyors." And it is further provided, that "they cannot lose their rights or be restrained in their exercise, except after judgment of the town, according to fixed rules." And still further, that they "cannot be subjected to any punishment, otherwise than by virtue of a judgment, or according to the legal decision of the town to which they belong." Such are the safeguards by which Emancipation in Russia has been completed and assured. Such is the lesson of the great Empire to the great Republic.
DUTY OF MASSACHUSETTS.
In asking that we shall do likewise, I follow the plain suggestions of reason, whether we regard the interest of the freedman or our own. But justice to the freedman is now intimately linked with the national security. Be just, and the Republic will be strong. Be just, and you will erect a barrier against the Rebellion. On this question Massachusetts has a duty to perform. Now, as in times past, her place it in the front. You will not, I trust, be disturbed by criticism, even if it become invective. Throughout the long conflict with Slavery, and the earlier conflict with the mother country, Massachusetts has become accustomed to hard words, and, even at a more ancient day, as for back in colonial history as 1691, we find an ill-tempered critic, with a strange jumble of metaphors, crying our against our fathers, " “All the frame of heaven moves upon one axis, and the whole of New England interest seems designed to be loaded on one bottom, and her particular motion to be concentric to the Massachusetts tropic. You know who are wont to trot after the Bay horse." If others trot after the Bay horse, it is simply because Massachusetts means always to keep on the right road, and, ceeds oftener from ignorance than from malice. Obby unerring instinct, knows the way. Error previously, at this moment, the great difficulty is that people do not see clearly what ought to be done.
NATIONAL SECURITY.
Fellow-citizens, as peace seems about to smile on our country, convulsed by most bloody and costly war, there is one simple duty on which all can unite when it is understood. It is the duty expressed in one part of the familiar saying, "Indemnity for the past, and security for the future." Indemnity, alas! we can never have. Who can repay the millions of lost treasure? Who can recall the dead? Who can repair the shattered and mutilated forms that have returned from the battle with Slavery? Indemnity we renounce. There are no scales on earth in which it can be weighed. There are no possible accumulations of wealth which would not be exhausted before its first installment was paid. But no such difficulty can occur in adjusting our security for the future. And the very vastness of our sacrifice is an irresistible reason why this should be fixed beyond question, so that no such terrible judgment shall visit us again. Indemnity we renounce; but security we will have. This is the one thing needful. This is the charity which embraces all other charities. This is the pivot of the future. This is at once the corner-stone and the key-stone of a reconstructed Union, without which the whole fabric must tumble into ruin. 
NATIONAL FAITH.
There is another object, kindred to security, or, perhaps, embraced in security: and that is the national faith. This, too, must be placed beyond cavil, or even "suspicion" No nation can be powerful enough to disregard this sacred bond. Character, fame, and prosperity itself are all dependent upon its observance. But the national faith is solemnly engaged, First, to the national freedmen; and, Secondly, to the national creditors. No undertaking can be more complete and inviolable, because it constituted the consideration for those services and supplies by which the life of the Republic has been preserved. The national faith is pledged to the national freedmen, not only by the act of Emancipation, which in its very essence and from the very nature of the case is a "warranty of title." but also by the plain and positive promises of the Proclamation, that " the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons." Words could not be more binding, and the history of their introduction testifies to their significance and efficacy. They were not in the original draft by President Lincoln, but were inserted, at the suggestion of Mr. Seward, when the Proclamation was read to the Cabinet; and there they stand, without any limitation of place or time, binding the Republic in its national character, through its Executive, including the military and naval authority, not only to recognize, but to maintain the freedom of the emancipated slave; but this is to be done, not in any special locality, but everywhere, and not for a day or a year, but for all time.
Our obligation to the national creditors is of the same validity, approved by successive acts of Congress, ratified by the popular will, and fixed beyond recall by the actual enjoyment of those precious
<c05>
fruits for which the debt was incurred. Repudiation of our bonds, whether to the national creditors or to the national freedmen, would be a shame and a crime; and the national faith is irrevocably pledged to the two alike. Here is the proclamation, and here is the treasury note. Look at the signatures and look at the terms. The former is signed by the President himself, Abraham Lincoln; the latter is signed by an unknown clerk, whose name I cannot decipher. The former is stronger and more positive in its terms than the latter. The treasury note simply says that it is redeemable after a certain date, and that "this debt is authorized by act of Congress." "The binding terms of the proclamation, which I have already read, are solemnly enforced by that memorable invocation at the close:" And upon this act, sincerely believed to be an act of justice warranted by the Constitution upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God." "Thus religion comes to confirm the pledge with sanctions of its own. That pledge is as enduring as the Republic itself.
Such are the supreme objects now at heart the National Security and the National Faith, or the two absorbed into one, Security for the Future.
THE DIKES OF HOLLAND.
And here allow me to present an illustration, which, unless I mistake, will make our duty clear. You do not forget the immense and costly dykes, built by Holland against the sea; but, perhaps, you may not call to mind their origin and importance. Before these embankments were constructed, the whole country was in constant danger. At an early period there was an irruption, which destroyed no less than forty-four villages, followed very soon by another, which destroyed eighty thousand lives. In the l5th century there was still another, which swept away one hundred thousand persons-a terrible sacrifice; even greater, in proportion to the population of Holland at that time, than what we have been called to bear from the bloody irruption of slavery. At last, the dikes were constructed as safeguards, and down to this day they are preserved at a large annual cost. Precautions of all kinds are superadded. A special corps of engineers, educated at Delft, is constantly employed in the work of renovation. Watchmen patrol the walls, and alarm bells are ready to ring. The gratitude of the people shows itself even to its unconscious protectors; and the stork, which, resting here on his flight from Africa, destroys the vermin that weaken and sap the dikes, is held in veneration, so that to kill a stork is looked upon as little less than a crime. Such are some of the defenses by which Holland is guarded against dangers from the sea. But how petty is her danger compared with ours? We too must have our dikes, with engineers to keep them strong-with watchmen to patrol them-with alarm bells to ring; and we too must have our storks, to destroy the vermin that weaken and sap our embankments.
OUR DIKES ARE GUARANTEES.
What shall be our defences? How shall we guard against destructive irruptions? And where shall we establish our security for the future? Our embankments must not be of earth. Walls of stone will not do. Towers, ramparts and buttresses will be impotent against our vindictive tide. The security we seek must be found in organic law with irreversible guarantees; and these irreversible guarantees must be co-extensive with the danger.
ELEMENTS OF DANGER. 
It becomes us then carefully to consider the elements of danger-bearing in mind always that a danger clearly foreseen will not happen, unless prudence has ceased to prevail. These elements may be considered in general and in detail. They may be. considered in certain general influences, applicable to all our relations with the rebellion, or in certain specific points, which obviously require specific guarantees.
CONDITION OF REBEL STATES.
If we look at the rebel States generally, there is little to inspire trust. They rose against a paternal government simply for the sake of Slavery, planting themselves upon two postulates furnished by John C. Calhoun first, State rights; and secondly, the alleged falsehood of our fathers, when, at the birth of our nation, they declared that all men are born equal. Since that early war when Satan," in proud rebellious arms, drew after him the third part of Heaven," nothing so utterly wicked has occurred. And the spirit of Satan entered into the rebellion, and continued with it to the end. It was present on the battle-field. It was present in the treatment of Union prisoners. It was present in the piracies of the ocean. I know not that these devils have yet been cast out. I know not that any swine into which they have entered have rushed headlong into the sea. But I do know that, according to concurring and unimpeachable testimony, from all quarters of the rebel States-from North Carolina to Texas-there is one sullen, defiant voice, which, in the very words of Satan when driven from the skies, thus speaks:-
"What though the field be lost?
All is not lost; the unconquerable will,
And study of revenge, immortal hate-
And, through experience of this great event,
In arms not worse, in foresight much advanced, 
We may with more successful hope resolve
To wage by force or guile eternal war,
Irreconcilable to our grand foe."
Such is their spirit. Grounding their arms, they now resort to other means. Cunning takes the place of war. As they precipitated themselves out of the Union, they now seek to precipitate themselves back. A "wooden horse" is constructed, which is stuffed with hidden foes, and thus they seek to enter our Troy. Already the rattle of arms is heard, and ominous voices, as the treacherous engine is advanced. The Convention in Mississippi tells the story. Who does not know that the South is full of spirits, who have sworn undying hatred not only to the Union, but to reason itself, and whose policy is a perpetual conspiracy against the principles of our government? Painful proofs come to demonstrate the prevailing madness. The freedmen are trodden down, and the land is filled with tragedies. History stands aghast at the massacre of Glencoe, in a retired Scotch valley, and our sympathies overflow at the murder of a solitary traveller by the merciless Indians; but these scenes are now repeated. The barbarism of Slavery rages still. The lash and the bloodhound are at large. Life is nothing, if it beats under a colored skin.
And these rebels, besmeared with blood, and boiling with concentrated passion, now strive to envelop themselves in the immunities of State independence, with two special objects is view: first, that they may deal with the freedmen as they please, without any check from the national authority; and, Secondly, that they may send a solid representation of more than eighty votes, pledged to Southern pretensions, which, in combination with treacherous votes from the North, may re-assert that ancient monopoly and masterdom under which the country
<c06>
suffered so long. One of their speakers in Mississippi, at the recent convention, said openly, that "he was opposed to fighting the General Government or anybody else; that he was ready to submit to its wishes as he would to a highway robber, whose power he was not able to resist," Another speaker, less frank, thought it policy to accept the present condition of affairs, until the control of the State is restored into the hands of its people, and " to submit for a time to evils which cannot be remedied. " And still another, much more wily, when urging a seeming acceptance of the Union, thus lured his brother conspirators:" If we act wisely, we shall be joined by what is called the Copperhead party, and even by many of the Black Republicans." Such is the plot, and such is the disastrous alliance plainly foreshadowed. But, thank God! in encouraging his comrades, the conspirator has warned us. Forewarned is forearmed.
THE NATIONAL DEBT THREATENED. 
From all quarters comes the warning," Trust not their presents, nor admit the horse!" From all quarters comes the testimony. Military officers returning from the South, public functionaries, intelligent travellers, loyal residents, each and all speak with one voice. By conversation and by letter, I have gathered the proofs, which are complete. Persons who have bad peculiar opportunities unite in the report that the rebel spirit still prevails-that the treatment of the freedmen is beastly-and that the national debt is denounced. Two eminent gentlemen, whose official positions have made them familiar with public opinion in two different States, have expressed to me the conviction that there was not a single ex-rebel who would vote to pay the interest on the national debt. A trustworthy traveller, who has just visited Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, with which he was already familiar, writes me: " The former masters exhibit a most cruel, remorseless, and vindictive spirit toward the colored people. In parts where there are no Union soldiers, I saw colored women treated in the most outrageous manner. They have no rights that are respected. They are killed, and their bodies thrown into ponds or mud-holes. They are mutilated by having ears and noses cut off."
A loyalist from Texas writes: "What we of the South fear is, that President Johnson's course will, by its precipitancy, enable the old set to reorganize themselves into place and power. For Heaven's sake preserve us, if you can, from this calamity.'' A loyal resident of North Carolina thus writes: "I tell you, sir, the only difference now and one year ago is that the flag is acknowledged as supreme, and there is some fear manifested, and they have no arms. The sentiment is the same. If anything otherwise, more hatred exists towards the government. I know there is more towards Union men, both black and white." It is natural that such a people should already talk of repudiating the national debt. Here is a bit on this vital point. A young man in gray was asked," Would it be safe to trust white men at the South with the power to repudiate the national debt?" To which he replied at once:" Repudiate! I should hope they would. I'm whipped, and I, own it; but 'm not so fond of a whipping that I'm going to pay a man's expenses while be gives it to me. Of course, there are not ten men in the whole South, that wouldn't repudiate! Thus spoke the rebel uniform. But here are the grave words of a candidate for Congress in Virginia, in his address to the people.
"I am opposed to the Southern States being taxed for the redemption of this debt, either directly or indirectly; and if elected to Congress, I will oppose all such measures, and I will vote to repeal all laws that have heretofore been passed for that purpose; and, in doing so, I do not consider that I violate any obligation to which the South was a party. We have never plighted our faith for the redemption of the war debt. The people will be borne down with taxes for years to come, even if the war debt is repudiated. It will be the duty of the government to support the maimed and disabled soldiers, and this will be a great expense; and if the United States Government requires the South to be taxed for the support of the Union soldiers, we should insist that all disabled soldiers should be maintained by the United States Government without regard to the side they had taken in the war."
IRREVERSIBLE GUARANTEES.
Again, I say, forewarned is forearmed." Surely there can be no limits to our resistance when such spirits are seeking to capture the National Government; but beyond that general resistance, which must make us postpone the day of surrender, and invoke the protection of Congress, we must insist upon special guarantees in the organic law.
I.-THE UNITY OF THE REPUBLIC.
(1) As the rebellion began with the pretension that a State might withdraw from the Union, it is plain that the Unity of the Republic must be affirmed-not indirectly but directly; not as in Mississippi, by simply declaring the late act of secession null and void; but, as in Missouri, where the relations of the State to the Union are thus frankly stated: " That this State shall ever remain a member of the American Union; that the people thereof are a part of the American Nation; that every citizen owes paramount allegiance to the Constitution and Government of the United States; and that no law or ordinance of this State, in contravention or subversion thereof, can have any binding force." "In contrast with this plain renunciation, the proceedings of Mississippi have no more certainty than the common saying, "Large as a piece of chalk." As security for the future, they are nothing-absolutely nothing. And permit me to say, that the whole Convention, so far as we have been informed, was little better than a rebel conspiracy to obtain political power.
II-ENFRANCHISEMENT.
(2.) As the Rebellion was waged in denial of the Equal Rights of the colored race, it is essential not only that Slavery should be renounced, but also that all men should be hailed as equal before the law, and this enfranchisement must be both civil and political. Unless this is done, the condition of the freedman will be most deplorable. Exposed to all manner of brutality, he will not be heard as a witness against his oppressor. Compelled to pay taxes, he will be excluded from all representation in the government. Without this security, Emancipation is illusory. It is a jack-a-lantern, which the poor slave will pursue in vain. Even if Slavery cease to exist, it will give place to another condition hardly less galling. According to the poet, there are different "circles" in hell, each with its own terrible torments, and the unhappy African will only escape from one of these into another. And all this will be beyond correction or remedy, if not at the outset guarded against by organic law.
III.-THE NATIONAL DEBT.
(3.) As the national debt was incurred for the suppression of the rebellion, this too must be fixed beyond repeal. Unless this is done, it is evident, from reason as well as from testimony, that the representatives from the rebel States will coalesce with others for its repudiation, Mississippi, which leads in the present effort to capture the national capital, is the original author of repudiation Out of the"
Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States when slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burned with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
legislative halls of this State the monster sprang. There was its birth. It will be simply true to its past history, as well as to its present animosities, when this State leads in the repudiation of the national debt. Nothing short of madness will allow it any such opportunity. No rebel State should be re-admitted unless bound irrevocably to the support of the national debt, and the payment of the interest thereon.
IV.- ASSUMPTION OF THE REBEL DEBT MUST BE FORBIDDEN.
(4.) The assumption of the rebel debt must be positively forbidden. Already ex-rebels insist upon its payment. Such voices come from Mississippi and Virginia. Ex-rebel newspapers, whose editors have taken the oath of allegiance, uphold this debt. But Congress has already led the way in denouncing it. For a State to assume this criminal obligation would be oppressive to the people, and especially to the freedmen. It would be a drain upon the resources of the State. It would be an insult to the whole country. This debt, whether at home or abroad, has been incurred for the support of the rebellion, and must be treated accordingly. It is a part of the crime. Here, too, there must be a guarantee.
V.-NATIONAL PEACE AND TRANQUILLITY, 
THROUGH IMPARTIAL SUFFRAGE.
(5.) As the national peace and tranquillity depend essentially upon the overthrow of monopoly and tyranny, here is another occasion for a special guarantee against the whole pretension of color. No rebel State can be re-admitted with this controversy still raging and ready to break forth. So long as it continues, the land will refuse its increase. Agriculture and business of all kinds will be uncertain, and the country will be banded over to a fearful struggle, with the terrors of St. Domingo to darken the prospect. In shutting out the freedman from his equal rights at the ballot-box, you open the doors of discontent and insurrection.avaignac, the patriot President of the French Republic, met the present case, when, speaking for France, he said: "I do not believe repose possible, either in the present or the future, except so far as you found your political condition on universal suffrage, loyally, sincerely, completely accepted and observed." (Moniteur, 21 May, 1850, p. 1761.) It is only impartial suffrage that I claim, without distinction of color, so that there shall be one equal rule for all men. And this too must be placed under the safeguard of constitutional law.
VI.- EDUCATION OF THE PEOPLE.
(6.) As the education of the people is essential to the national welfare, and especially to the development of those principles of justice and morality which constitute the only sure foundation of a "republican government"; and as, according to the census, an immense proportion of the people of the rebel States, without distinction of color, cannot read and write, it is obvious that public schools must be established for the equal good of all. The example of Massachusetts must be followed, which, alter declaring in its Constitution that " wisdom and knowledge, as well as virtue, diffused generally among the body of the people, are necessary for the preservation of their rights and liberties," proceeds to direct the legislature and magistrates, in all future periods, " to cherish the interests of literature and the sciences," and "especially public schools and grammar schools in the towns." All this must enter into our work of reconstruction, and of our guarantees.
NECESSITY OF THESE GUARANTEES.
Such are the six subjects of special guarantee: the Unity of the Republic; the national obligations to the national freedmen; the national obligations to the national creditors; the rejection of the rebel debt; the establishment of national peace and tranquillity, so that it cannot be disturbed by any monopoly and tyranny founded on color; and lastly, the education of the people. All these are too important, too transcendent, to be left to the transient will of recent rebels, always ready to be excited; nor can they be left to any vague promise or inference of any kind. They must be fixed in character, clear as the sky and firm as the earth itself. Not to require this protection is unpardonable weakness. "If Philip dies," said the Athenian orator, "you will soon raise another Philip; since it is not so much by his own power, as by your carelessness, that be grew to such greatness"; and so do I say now, even if the rebellion is dead, you will soon raise another, unless you learn to be wise. Believe me that man is dangerous who does not see danger in this rebel Oligarchy, now conspiring to hoist itself into power.

POWER TO ESTABLISH GUARANTEES.
Therefore, I lay down one undeniable, essential principle-that these guarantees must be established; and I appeal to my fellow-citizens throughout the country to insist upon them. As they concern the National Security and the National Faith, it is clear that they should be established by the Nation. The object is National. The power to establish them is National also. It is a part of that great, instinctive right of self defence, common to nations and to men. which has no limits, except in the benign constraints of a Christian civilization. It is a right not only from the Constitution of the United States, but also from the constitution of civil society itself. There is no nation without it. In the weakest it is as manifest as in the mightiest. Never before was the occasion for its exercise plainer. And who shall say that the. Nation may defend itself on the murderous battle-field, and may not, when the battle has been won, require that "Security for the Future" which is the declared object of war?
Do you ask where in the Constitution this unquestionable power is to be found? I answer, in the same clause where you find the power to raise armies, and hurl them upon the rebel enemy; in the same clause where you find the power to erect fortifications, bastions, and bulwarks for the national defence; in the same clause where you find the power to incur the national debt for the national defence; and also in the same clause where President Lincoln found the power to emancipate the slave It is a National power for the protection of the Nation, and it may be exercised to any extent needed. It is idle to say that the war is over, and, therefore, the power is suspended. In one sense the war is over, and in another it is not. Battles have ceased, but " Security for the Future" has not yet been obtained, and this security is found only in irreversible guarantees. Look for one moment at the specific sources of this power.

SECURITY FOR THE FUTURE.
(1.) This National power is at this moment in full operation, and as completely constitutional as the power to raise armies. It assumes for the present purpose two forms; first, the power to hold military possession of the rebel States, so long as is required for security, whether months or years; and secondly, the power to affix the terms of peace and restoration. As it is idle to say that the war is over, so it is equally idle to say that this power, in cither of its forms, is limited by the Constitution. This same mistake was made by James Buchanan, when, at the beginning of the Rebellion, be weakly declared, that, under the Constitution, be could not "coerce a State," and his Cabinet assented to the fatal pretension. God forbid that now, at another moment not less critical, this same pretension should triumph again! Of course, all patriots now see how. the golden opportunity was lost at first. May no such golden opportunity be lost again! Nobody now doubts that a State in rebellion may be "coerced." Nobody now doubts that the victories of Grant, the march of Sherman and the charge of Sheridan were strictly constitutional. But this "coercion" must endure just so long as may be needed to obtain "Security for the Future,"-it may be months or years. There is no argument for it at the beginning which is not equally strong for it now. There is nothing in the Constitution against it. Everything in the Constitution is for it. The rules or limitations which the Constitution may establish for a condition of peace are entirely inapplicable to a condition of Rebellion in any of its stages, whether at its beginning, its middle or its end-whether at its outbreak, its death-struggle or its defeat. Whatever is needed for the suppression of the Rebellion and the establishment of safeguards against its recurrence, is constitutional. It is the failure to exercise this power which is unconstitutional.

THE GUARANTEE CLAUSE.
(2.) But beyond this ample power, there are two other powers in the Constitution, by virtue of which all needful guarantees can be secured. The first is that vast untried power under the clause of the Constitution, declaring that "the United States shall guarantee to every State a republican form of government." This power, long dormant, sprang at once into activity with the acts of succession.
<c02>
Loyal government being overthrown in fact, so that the whole region was like an "empty slate," it became the duty of the National authority to set up oval governments, and at the same time to see that they were "republican in form," which must mean at least that they are governments of the majority, and not of the minority; and I think I cannot err, if I add that, according to the fundamental principles of the Declaration of Independence, they must be founded on the Equal Rights of all men and the " consent of the governed." It is very clear that in this clause of guarantee there is an inexhaustible power, by virtue of which the National authority cannot only exact all needful guarantees, but can mould these rebel communities according to the model of a Christian Commonwealth.

NECESSITY OF THE CASE.
(3.) There is still another source of power under the Constitution; and this is according to the analogies of the territories. Since all loyal government has ceased to exist, the whole region, in all its divisions and sub-divisions, has, from the necessity of the case, lapsed under the National jurisdiction, which is as complete for all practical purposes as the same jurisdiction over the District of Columbia.
But I do not stop to dwell on these sources of power. Elsewhere I have vindicated them, and I have never been answered, except by the phrase that a State cannot go out of the Union; as if, in presence of the fact of rebellion, this was anything more than a phrase. It is indisputable that, in point of fact, the rebel States have ceased to be, as President Lincoln expressed it, " in practical relations with the Union," and still further that they have long been without any government which we can recognize. Surely this is enough to open the door to the National authority. When loyal government ceased, the jurisdiction of the National government began, whether military or civil, and this jurisdiction still continues, complete in all respects, without any hindrance or limitation from the Constitution.
Thus, out of three inexhaustible fountains may the National government derive its authority; first, from the War Power, which does not end except with the establishment of "Security for the Future"; secondly, from the injunction to guarantee a republican form of government, which is at once a power and a duty; and, thirdly, from the necessity of the case, as with outlying territories, which have no other government. Under each and all of these powers the guarantees can be obtained.
PRACTICAL POINTS-WAYS NOT TO OBTAIN GUARANTEES.

In obtaining guarantees, there are certain practical points which must not be disregarded. Knowing what we need, and satisfied with regard to the powers of the National government, the path will be easy. As there are ways to obtain guarantees, so, also, there are ways not to obtain them.
And, first, of the ways not to obtain them.
(1.) Irreversible guarantees cannot be obtained by haste. No State must be precipitated back into the Union. Precipitation back will be hardly less fatal than that original precipitation which plunged the country into the abyss of war. When a State is re-admitted, it becomes practically independent. Therefore, prudence, care and watchfulness will be needed to see that the National interests are not imperilled by any sudden transformation.
(2.) Irreversible guarantees cannot be obtained merely by Executive action. Something more is needed. No President can safely say. "The State -it is I." He is only a part of the State, and, on this account, there is a new motive to reserve,. What he does is subject to the correction of Congress, and therefore cannot be final.
(3.) Irreversible guarantees cannot be obtained by yielding to the prejudice of color, and insisting upon a separation of the races. A voice from the West-God save the West!-revives the exploded theory of colonization, partly to divert attention from the great question of Equal Rights. To that voice I reply, first, you ought not to do it, and, secondly, you cannot do it. You ought not to do it, because, besides its intrinsic and fatal injustice, you will thus deprive the country of what it most needs, which is labor. Those freedmen on the spot are better even than mineral wealth. Each is a mine, out of whom riches can be drawn, provided you let him share the product. And through him that general industry will be established which is better than anything but virtue, and is, indeed, a form of virtue. It is vain to say that this is the country of the "white man." It is the country of Man. Whoever disowns any member of the Human Family as Brother, disowns God as Father, and thus becomes impious as well as inhuman. It is the glory of Republican Institutions that they give practical form to this irresistible principle. If anybody is to be sent away, let it be the guilty, and not the innocent. The exile of leading rebels will be a public good. As long as they continue here, they will resist the establishment of guarantees; but it is little short of madness to think of exiling loyal persons, whose strong arms are needed, not only for the cultivation of the soil, but also for the protection of the government itself.
(4.) Irreversible guarantees cannot be obtained by oaths. All oaths are uncertain. Political oaths have become a proverb, whether in England or France. They have been taken freely, and have been broken without hesitation. The Milanese, in reply to the Emperor Barbarossa, said, "You had our oath, but we never swore to keep it." Our rebels have been openly taught the same duplicity. They have been told authoritatively, that the oath was unconstitutional, and, therefore, not binding; and so they take it easily. But who can find a guarantee in such a performance? A Swedish priest lately poisoned the sacramental wine, and so these counsellors have poisoned this sacred obligation. But if an oath be taken, it must not stop with the support of the Proclamation of Emancipation. It must embrace all those other objects of guarantee, including especially the rights of the National freedmen and of the National creditors. Each of these will be a test of loyalty. But at a moment like the present, at the close of a ferocious rebellion, when hatred and passion are only pent up and not extinguished, an oath is little better than a cotton thread for a cable to hold a frigate scourged by a north-wester. The Hollanders might as well undertake to swear each individual wave that beats upon their coast. They did better. They made dikes. "Gone to swear a pence," says Constance, most scornfully, as she denounced an oath of pretended reconciliation. And shall we be content merely when our rebels "swear a peace"?
WAYS TO OBTAIN GUARANTEES.
Such are some of the modes to be rejected. And now, in the second place, consider the ways in which guarantees may be obtained.
(1.) Time is necessary. There must be no precipitation. Time is the gentlest, but most powerful, revolutionist. Time is the surest reformer. Time is a peacemaker. Time is necessary to growth, and it is an element of change. For thirty years and more this wickedness was maturing. Who can say that the same time will not be needed now to mature the conditions of permanent peace? Who can say that a generation must not elapse before these rebel communities have been so far changed as to become safe associates in a common government? Plainly, this cannot be done at once. Wellington exclaimed, "Would that night or Blucher had come!" Time alone was a substitute for a powerfulally. It was more through time than battle that La Vendee was changed into loyalty. Time, therefore, we must have. Through time, all other guarantees, may be obtained; but time itself is a guarantee.
PRESENT EXCLUSION OF REBELS FROM POLITICAL POWER.
(2.) Meanwhile we must follow Congress in the present exclusion of all rebels from political power. They must not be voted for, and they must not vote. On this principle I take my hand. Let them buy and sell; let them till the ground; and may they be industrious and successful. These things they may do; but they must not be admitted at once into the co-partnership of our government. As well might the respectable Mr. Ketchum re instate his son at once in the firm which he has betrayed, and invest him again with all the powers of a copartner. The father received his son with parental affection, and forgave him; but be did not invite the criminal to resume his former desk in Wall street. And yet, Edward Ketchum, who had robbed and forged on an unprecedented scale, is as worthy of trust in the old banking-house as our rebels in the government of the country. A long probation will be needed before either can be admitted to his former fellowship. The state of outlawry is the present condition of each, and this condition most not be hastily relaxed.
Congress has already set the example by excluding from "any office of honor or profit under the
<c03>
government of the United States," and also by excluding as counsellor-at-law, from any court of the United States, every person who has given "” aid or countenance "to the Rebellion, or who has "sought or accepted any office whatever" under it, or who has "yielded to it any voluntary support." By this act, (July 2d, 1862,) and the supplementary act, all rebels are debarred from holding office under the United States, or from practising in the courts of the United States. This exclusion, thus sanctioned by Congress, must be the pole-star of our national policy. If rebels cannot be officers under our government, they ought not to be voters. They should be politically disfranchised, purely and simply as a measure of self-defence, and in order to prepare the way for those guarantees which we seek. "Vipers cannot use their venom in the cold." These are the words of political wisdom as well as of scientific truth, and a great Italian writer did not hesitate to inculcate from them the same lesson that I do now.
Surely recent rebels, who led in secession and held office under the Rebellion, are poor engineers to rally these communities to the support of the National freedmen and the National creditors, and generally to the establishment of those guarantees which are essential to security. Reason and experience warn us to postpone our trust in any such persons. Overcome in battle, they wrap themselves in professions of loyalty, confirmed by an oath,
"As they who, to be sure of Paradise,
Dying, put on the weeds of Dominic,
Or in Franciscan think to pass disguised."
But character is not changed in a day, and that "Southern heart," which was "fired" against the Union, still preserves its vindictive violence. Even if for a moment controlled, who can tell how long it will continue in this mood? There is an exquisite fable of La Fontaine, where a cat was turned into a beautiful woman; but on the night of her marriage, hearing the sound of a mouse on the floor, she sprang from the bed with all her original feline nature; and so a rebel, turned by an oath into a loyalist, will suddenly start in full cry to run down a National freedman or a National creditor. So strong is nature. Horace tells us: Drive it out with a pitch-fork, and it will return. Therefore, I insist, do not put political trust in that man who has been engaged in warring upon his country. I do not ask punishment, I would not be harsh. There is nothing humane which I would reject. I am for gentleness. I am for a velvet glove; but I wish the hand for awhile of iron. I confess that I have little sympathy with those hypocrites of magnanimity, whose cry for the rebel master is only a barbarous indifference towards the slave. Pardon if you will. Nobody shall outdo me in clemency. But do not trust the rebel politically. The words of Shakespeare do not picture too strongly the danger of any such attempt:-
" -thou might 'st hold a serpent by the tongue,
A skinless lion by the mortal paw,
A fasting tiger by the tooth,
As keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold."
(4.) In obtaining guarantees, we must rely upon acts rather than professions, and light our footsteps by "the lamp of experience." Therefore, we turn from recent rebels to constant loyalists. This is only ordinary prudence. As those who have fought against us should be disfranchised, so those who have fought for us should be enfranchised, and thus a renovated state will be built secure on an unfaltering and natural loyalty. For awhile the freedman will take the place of the master, thus verifying the saying that the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. In the pious books of the East it is declared, that the greatest mortification at the day of judgment will be when the faithful slave is carried to Paradise, and the wicked master is sent to hell; and this same reversal of conditions appears in the gospel when Dives is exhibited as suffering the pains of damnation while the beggar of other days is sheltered in Abraham's bosom. Therefore, in organizing this change, we follow divine justice. Surely, nobody can doubt that Robert Small, the heroic slave, who carried a rebel steamer to our fleet and then became our pilot, deserves more of the Republic than a South Carolina official, occupied at that very time as Commissioner to regulate impressments in the rebel army. To accept the latter and to reject the former will be not only the height of injustice, but the height of meanness. It will be a deed "to make heaven weep, all earth amazed."
(5.) Still further, in obtaining guarantees we must look confidently to Congress, which has plenary powers over the whole subject. Congress can do everything needful. It has already begun by excluding rebels from office. It must continue its jurisdiction; whether, through the War Powers, or the duty to guarantee a republican form of government, or the necessity of the case as in territories, is a matter of little importance. It is of less importance under which of its powers this is done, than that it is done. Continuing its jurisdiction, Congress must supervise and fix the conditions of order, so that the National Security and National Faith shall not suffer. Here is a sacred obligation which cannot be postponed.
(6 ) All these guarantees should be completed and crowned by an amendment of the Constitution of the United States, especially providing that hereafter there shall be no denial of the electoral franchise or any exclusion of any kind, on account of color or race, but all persons shall be equal before the law. At this moment, under a just interpretation of the Constitution, three-fourths of the States actually cooperating in the National government are sufficient for this change. The words of the Constitution are that amendments shall be valid to all intents and purposes, "when ratified by three-fourths of the legislatures of the several States," or, according to practical sense, by three-fourths of the States that have legislatures. If a State has no legislature, it cannot be counted in determining the quorum of either House of Congress, where precisely the same question occurs. Any other interpretation recognizes the Rebellion and plays into its hands by conceding its power, through rebellious contrivance, to prevent an amendment of the Constitution, essential to the general welfare.
APPEAL TO THE PRESIDENT.
Such are the practical points to be observed in obtaining the much-needed guarantees. Congress will soon be in session, and to its courageous action, in the exercise of unquestionable powers, we all look with hope and trust. Meanwhile the President, as commander-in-chief, has large military powers, which may be exercised without control until the meeting of Congress. To him I now appeal. Speaking from this platform-surrounded by this concourse of friends-and giving voice to the sentiments of Massachusetts, I cannot fail in respect or honor, while I address him with that plainness which belongs to Republican Institutions:
"Sir, your power is vast. A word from you may make an epoch. It may advance at once the cause of Universal Civilization, or it may quicken anew the Satanic energies of a fearful barbarism. It may give assurance of security and reconciliation for the future, or it may scatter uncertainty and distrust, while it postpones that Truce of God which is the longing of our hearts. As your power is vast, so is your responsibility. Act, we entreat you, so that our country may have no fresh sorrow. Do not hazard emancipation, which is the day-star of our age, and the special jewel in the crown of your martyred predecessor. Do not put in jeopardy all that we hold most dear, by any premature attempt to bring back into the copartnership of the National Government any of those ancient associates who have warred upon their country. Let them wait. You have said that treason is 'is’ a crime,' and not merely a difference of opinion. Do not let the criminals bear sway. Congress has already set the example of excluding them. For the present, follow Congress. Follow the Constitution also, which knows no distinction of color, and do not sacrifice a whole race by resuscitating an offensive Black Code, inconsistent with the National Security and the National Faith. There also is the Declaration of Independence, which now shines like the sun, rejoicing to penetrate every cabin and every bye-way, if you will not stand in its light. Above all, do not take from the loyal black man, and give to the disloyal white man; do not confiscate the political rights of the freedman, who has shed his blood for us, and lavish them upon his rebel master. And remember that justice to the colored race is the sheet-anchor of the national debt."
Speaking always with the same frankness, I ask leave to say briefly to the Secretary of War:-
"Sir, there is room for your energies. That region, which has been won to Union and Liberty by the victory which you organized, must not be allowed to lapse under its ancient masters, the perjured asserters of property in man. It must not be abandoned. Let it be held by arms, until it smiles with the charity of life, and all its people are guarded by an impenetrable shield."
And still speaking with the same frankness, I ask
<c04>
leave to press one controlling consideration upon the Secretary of the Treasury:-
"Sir, you are the guardian of the national finances. Use the peculiar influence which belongs to this position, so that nothing shall be done to impair the national credit. See to it especially that no person in any rebel community is admitted to political power who will spurn the National Faith, sacredly plighted to the national freedman as well as to the national creditor. Such is the ordinance of Providence, that the fortunes of the two are joined inseparably together. Credit is sensitive. It needs that all the resources of the country should be brought into activity-that agriculture should be fostered-that commerce should be revived-that emigration should be encouraged; but this cannot be done without that security which is found in equal laws and a contented people. The farmer, the merchant, the emigrant, must each feel secure. Land, capital and labor are of little value, except on this essential condition. The loyal people, who have contributed so much, and now hold your bonds, trust that this essential condition will not fail through any failure on your part, and that you will not consent to open a political volcano in a vast region whose first necessity is peace. There is an order in all things, and any concession to rebels before security is the cart before the horse."
CONCLUSION.
For myself, fellow-citizens, pardon me if I say that my course is fixed. Others may hesitate; others may turn away from those great truths which make the far-reaching brightness of the Republic; others may seek a temporary favor by a temporary surrender. I shall not. The victory of blood, which has been so painfully won, must be confirmed by a greater victory of ideas, so that the renowned words of Abraham Lincoln may be fulfilled, and "this Nation under God shall have a new birth of Freedom, and government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth." To this end I seek no merely formal Union, seething with smothered curses, but a practical, moral, and political Unity, founded on common rights, knit together by common interests, and inspired by a common faith, where our Constitution, interpreted anew, shall be a covenant with life and a league with Heaven, and Liberty shall be everywhere not only a right, but a duty. John Brown, on his way to the scaffold, where he was to atone with life for a deed of self-sacrifice, stooped to take up a slave-child. That closing act was the legacy of the dying man to his country. That benediction we must continue and fulfil. The last shall be first; and so, in this new order, Equality, long postponed, shall be the master principle of our system, and the very frontispiece of our Constitution. The rebellion was to beat down this principle, by founding a government on the alleged "inferiority of a race." Taking up the gauntlet, I now insist that the insolent assumption of the conspirators shall not prevail. This is not the first time that I have battled with the Barbarism of Slavery. I battle still, as the bloody monster retreats to its last citadel, and, God willing, I mean to "fight it out on this line, if it takes "what remains to me of life.
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1865.
LONG ARTICLES.
If our present number lacks variety, our readers will find it none the less interesting on that account. The article from The Nation, "Will the freed Negro Race at the South die out?" is as timely as it is cogent and conclusive in refuting the rebel-copper head dogma, that, now that emancipation is proclaimed, and the slaves are set free from those who claimed and treated them as chattels personal, there is nothing to expect but the rapid extinction of the colored population of this country! A dogma so malignant in spirit and so foolish in prophecy would be utterly undeserving serious refutation, were it not that colorphobia is so universal, thus preparing the way for its ready acceptance, without investigation or doubt of its soundness. The statistics as to other countries, which the article from The Nation furnishes, will be found instructive in relation to the "dying out" theory. In this connection we readily bear testimony to the able and dignified manner in which The Nation has thus far been conducted, to the careful preparation of its leading articles, to the independence and impartiality of its criticisms, as well as to the beauty and excellence of its typographical dress; and we are gratified to learn that its subscription list is extending in every direction. On the question of slavery and the rights of the freedmen, it is reliable and thorough; and though lacking in dash and passionate declamation, it is true to principle and earnest in vindicating the right. We have no doubt that it will continue to increase in interest and usefulness.
The speech of Mr. Sumner, made at the Massachusetts Republican State Convention last week, which occupies so large a portion of our paper, is certainly one of his ablest and most effective efforts, in which justice and humanity, statesmanship and philanthropy, radicalism and circumspection, logic and eloquence, are most happily blended. It will be read with deep interest at home and abroad, and give strength and impetus to the cause of equal rights in the adjustment of the Union.
The Letter of Gerrit Smith is marked by his characteristic ingenuousness and straight-forward manner of stating his convictions. It is evident that he regards the country as in a very critical condition as pertaining to its peace, safety, unity, and the rights and immunities of the freedmen of the South, and that his tone is somewhat despondent. While it cannot be denied that there is ground for solicitude, and need of sleepless vigilance on the part of all who are truly loyal and freedom-loving, while the nation is passing through its great transition, yet we believe in the sure triumph of liberty and justice in the end, the universal establishment of free institutions, and the constant advancement of the cause of our colored countrymen, in spite of whatever is adverse to this grand result. "There's no such word as fail"-and we are not sorry that we are "old abolitionists"!
MASSACHUSETTS REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION. 
The Republican State Convention assembled on the 14th inst. at Worcester, and was attended with unprecedented numbers. A permanent organization was effected by the election of Hon. Charles Sumner as President, and two Vice-Presidents from each Congressional District, and a large number from the State at large. Among the latter was General B. F. Butler. The several committees on resolutions, finances, &c., were appointed, when Mr. Sumner addressed the Convention at length. He spoke about an hour and a half, and was listened to with marked attention and applause. A stirring speech was also made by Gen. Butler; and Messrs. Bullock and Claflin, the nominees for Governor and Lieutenant Governor, acknowledged the honor by appropriate addresses. A series of excellent resolutions, such as the crisis demands, was unanimously adopted. For want of space, we are reluctantly obliged to defer their publication this week. Among them was the following, which shows strong confidence in the integrity and fidelity of President Johnson:-
Resolved, That Massachusetts, which gave to Abraham Lincoln a unanimous support in Congress throughout his entire term of office, extends cordial welcome and confidence to his successor, and the representative of his principles, Andrew Johnson, "faithful found among the faithless," and pledges to him the same unanimous good will and support in his efforts to restore order among the communities so lately in revolt, and to re-establish government there on the basis of equal and exact justice to all men.
The following popular State ticket was nominated with great unanimity as follows: Governor, A. H. Bullock; Lieut. Governor, Wm. Claflin; Auditor General, H. S. Briggs, of Pittsfield; State Treasurer, Jacob H. Loud, of Plymouth; Attorney General, Chester J. Reed, of Taunton; Secretary of State, Oliver Warner, of Northampton.
Col. Bullock, in the course of his brief but spirited response to his nomination for the Gubernatorial chair, defined his position on the question of reconstruction 
<c05>
and equal suffrage for the freedmen in the following emphatic manner:-
"The triumph of the arms of loyalty will be vastly incomplete without the success of the Christian civilization which those arms have been supposed by us to have carried, under the auspices of the Proclamations of Abraham Lincoln, to the remotest boundaries of the Union. [Great applause.] At this moment, one of the qualities and one of the necessities of that civilization is expressed in the claim for loyal suffrage, and loyal suffrage only [applause,] in the States recently insurgent, without, inequality of race or color, [renewed applause,] respecting only the dignity and rights of human nature, and respecting not at all the lingering traces of the institution that has fallen before the genius of emancipation. [Applause.] That is simple, but that is elemental, and to that I apprehend the North accords to-day, and the South, for its own security, must come at last. [Applause.]"
MEETING OF THE FREEDMEN' AID SOCIETY. A meeting of this Society was held at its rooms in Studio Building on Monday afternoon, for the purpose of considering the expediency of uniting said Society with the ”American Freedmen's Aid Commission," a new association recently organized, partaking of a national character. Rev. E. E. Hale presided.
Rev. J. R. Shiphard, of Chicago, read the Constitution of the American Freedmen's Aid Society, accompanied by some remarks explanatory of its objects and the machinery of its working.
After a discussion, in which Messrs. Prof. F. J. Child, Rev. John Parkman, E. L. Pierce, Esq., W. L. Garrison, Rev. Chas. Lowe and others, took part, it was finally voted that the Society, acting as a branch of the American Freedmen's Union, gives that Union the power, so far as it has a right to do so, to unite in the "American Freedmen's Aid Commission" as its Eastern Department. The Home Society by this step does not extinguish its organization.
PERSONAL. Secretary Stanton and Surgeon General Barnes, of the U. S. Army, arrived in Boston last Friday, and were met at the depot by Samuel Hooper, M. C, whose guests they were during their stay here. Mr. Hooper, with his visitors, made a complimentary call on Governor Andrew and Surgeon General Dale, and afterwards paid a visit to Faneuil Hall. The distinguished officials subsequently visited the Navy Yard, where they were received by Rear Admiral Stringham, and honored with a salute. Secretary Stanton was introduced to many well-known citizens, all of whom expressed no little pleasure with the interview. An ovation would have been tendered him, had he not come for a quiet visit. He left for Washington on Wednesday.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for September, presents the following table of contents:-Article I. Theism and Christianity. II. Lyman Beecher. III. James Clarence Mangan. IV. Radicalism and Conservatism-(being the Address to the Graduating Class at the Cambridge Divinity School, delivered July 17, 1865, by Orville Dewey, D. D.) V. South Carolina, one of the United States. VI. Horace Mann and Antioch College. VII. Spencer's Social Statics. VIII. State Crimes, and their Penalty. IX. Review of Current Literature.
The Examiner is the organ of no sect in religion, and of no party in politics, and conducted with eminent ability. Terms, $5 per annum, in advance.
Wise, Fuller & Co., 245 Washington Street, Boston.
The Radical, for September, has externally changed, and is issued as the first number of a new journal in a pamphlet form. It discusses several topics of interest, and contains the sermon preached by Rev. Robert Collyer, at Cincinnati, before the Unitarian Western Conference. This discourse will well repay a careful reading.
The New Nation has been resuscitated, and appears as a sixteen page quarto. It was started last year to advocate the cause of General Fremont, but was suspended after a temporary existence. General Cluseret, formerly of the staff of Gen. Fremont, is its editor.
CHAMPLAIN VALLEY FAIR. Rev. E. H. Chapin and William Lloyd Garrison have accepted an invitation to address the people at the Champlain Valley Fair, to be held at Vergennes, (Vt.) on Thursday next, Sept. 28th.
DEDICATION OF THE NEW CITY HALL. The new city hall building on School street was dedicated on Monday with appropriate ceremonies, which took place in the spacious and elegant Common Council Chamber, on the upper floor. The gallery and the spare seats on the floor were occupied by spectators, and among those on each side of the chair were the Mayors of Charlestown and Roxbury, Hon. A. H. Rice, Hon. Josiah Quincy, R. B. Forbes, and others.
GYMNASTIC EXHIBITION. Tremont Temple was crowded on Monday evening to witness the performances of a graduating class of Dr. Dio Lewis's gymnastic training school. The class numbered forty, three-fourths of whom were ladies, and the programme embraced exercises with the wands, dumb bells and rings. A number of diplomas were awarded, and the exercises closed by singing the "Star Spangled Banner." The exhibition was highly satisfactory.
FAIR OF THE MASSACHUSETTS CHARITABLE MECHANIC ASSOCIATION. The tenth annual exhibition of this Association commenced in Faneuil and Quincy Halls on Wednesday. Great preparations have been made to render the Fair successful, and ample facilities have been provided for exhibitors. Both halls have been cleared of all incumbrances, and now present an unobstructed area of 43,000 square feet. The two halls are joined by means of a portable bridge. The exhibition room has been divided into nine distinct sections or departments, over each of which a special committee will have charge.
A COLORED JUROR. At the opening of the September term of the Brooklyn City Court on Monday, Mr. Robert Johnson, a colored man, was called and impanneled as a juror. He served on one case, and appeared to act quite intelligently. The fact of the presence of a colored man in the jury box, however, was the cause of considerable remark.
Here is another proof that color-prejudice is vincible. The first colored student at Harvard College, Mr. Richard T. Greener of Boston, entered the Freshman class on Friday. He is a young man of ability and sterling character, and has the best wishes of many who are interested in him for his success.
The colored people of Raleigh, N. C., are to hold a State Convention in that city on the 29th inst., for the purpose among others of asking for the restoration of the elective franchise, which they enjoyed in North Carolina up to the year 1830. Extensive preparations are being made for the accommodation of eminent men from abroad, and also for delegates now being elected in the different counties. Invitations have been sent to some of the most distinguished men in the country to be present.
The Rochdale Observer, well known to be the special organ of John Bright, states that it is not true that the distinguished gentleman is about to pay a visit to America.
Reports at the Freedmen's Bureau show that nearly all the abandoned property in the vicinity of Harper's Ferry, which was taken possession of by the government, has been restored to its owners.
The colored people of Richmond are raising money for a sword to present to Gen. Butler. It will cost about $800.
Charleston papers of the 13th state that exGov. Aiken received a full and complete pardon from the President on the 11th inst.
<c06>
LETTER OF GERRIT SMITH TO MR. GARRISON AND MR. PHILLIPS.
PETERBORO',September 12, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, 
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
MY DEAR FRIENDS-Have you never been tempted to regret that you are "old abolitionists"? I have been tempted to regret that I am one of them. Such a temptation has assailed me, now and then, when I was very anxious to have the people hear and believe what I had to say. In those instances, I could not but feel that, were I not an " old abolitionist," and therefore in the popular judgment hopelessly fanatical and foolish, the obviously true and immeasurably important things I was saying could not fail to command attention. I imagine that you too, who, so much more frequently and earnestly as well as so much more ably than I, have called attention to what concerned the salvation of the country, must at those times, when your hearts were breaking to have your words heard, have been tempted to wish that you were not laboring under the odium and disadvantage of being identified from so early a day, and so unreservedly and devotedly, with the cause of the oppressed. For you must have believed that ten thousand ears, fast closed to your wisdom and eloquence, would have quickly opened, could you have presented yourselves as abolitionists of the present instead of the past; as abolitionists-made -so-by-events; as abolitionists for the occasion; in a word, as abolitionists on the surface, instead of in the texture and the grain.
Some thirty or forty years ago, a good story was often told in this State to explain how it came to pass that, whilst the masses of the Anti-Masons were despised for their Anti-Masonry, Seward, Granger and their other leaders had, nevertheless, an honorable standing. As the story ran, while the cunning leaders were, by their only pretending to believe in Anti-Masonry, still able to preserve their reputation for wisdom and to keep good their claim to the public respect, the silly masses were despised because they really " believed in it." Your and my misfortune, like that of those masses, is, that we really believe in what we profess. Could we but rise above the weakness of this real belief, and be as flexible and accommodating reformers as reputation and interest call for; could we be concerned in our reforms but to an expedient and respectable extent, instead of being absorbed in them; then would we be credited with judicious moderation and practical wisdom; and then would we be listened to by those who, because they count earnestness to be vulgar, and sincerity to be silly, and the possessors of these virtues to be objects of pity and contempt rather than of respect and honor, disdain to listen to us.
By the way, I should like to compare notes with you, sometime, in regard to your and my fall; for that we are fallen is quite obvious. I am aware that you were young men of good prospects. Perhaps you are not aware that I, too, was held to be a promising young man. I was a somewhat prominent politician; I made political speeches; and, so highly was my political wisdom thought of, that, in some very important political State Conventions, the writing of the Address was assigned to me. But in an "evil hour," as many of my friends thought it, I joined the Temperance Society. It is true that thousands joined it without forfeiting the public confidence in their intelligence; but, alas! I "believed in it." So really did I believe in it, that I soon refused to drink alcohol under any name or in any mixture, and soon refused to vote for liquor-selling candidates. From that time, though never before, I was called " eccentric." Not long after, I became active in the Anti-Slavery Cause. I do not forget that many did, without bringing suspicions upon their sanity. But here, again, my misfortune was, that I "believed in it"-and so earnestly as to refuse to vote for Pro-Slavery men. From that day to this, I have been held to be not merely” eccentric," but "crazy." Now, in your self-complacency, you may flatter yourselves that you have not fallen as low as I have. But let me tell you that, if I may judge by the newspapers and common report, you are neither of you very far behind me either in eccentricity or craziness. And why should it not be so? Both of you have "believed in it." Both of you have believed in Temperance and Anti-Slavery quite as deeply as I have. Why, then, should not the public reproaches fall as abundantly upon your simplicity and greenness as upon mine?
But to return from this digression:-if it can be said that hitherto, at one time and another, our longings to be heard have been boundless, more emphatically can it be said of our longings to be heard at the present time. For some thirty years we have been going over the country, each of us with the burden that, for the time being, pressed heaviest upon his soul:-and, oh! what would we not have given to have had the people willing to hear us! For instance, what would not I have given for the public ear when, for ten or twelve years, I was declaring that so great a crime as slavery could not long endure, and that, unless soon put away peaceably, it would go out in blood? What would I not have given to have had my fellow-members of Congress listen to the declaration? And what, too, would I not have given for a patient, thoughtful hearing when, in the very first year of the war, my motto was: "Whichever party gets the negro, gets the victory"? Your messages were no less important than mine. You delivered them, too, with a faithfulness and bravery that no other prophets ever surpassed; and you did this, too, notwithstanding no other people ever turned away from their prophets more scornfully and angrily than did yours from you.
Before going any further, let me ask pardon for this bringing in of myself. It is never to my taste, either when writing or speaking. But the spirit of earnestness in which I have this time taken up my pen is quite too deep and controlling to leave me any concern about matters of taste.
I said that we now, even more than before, long to be heard. But we are "old abolitionists," and your words would, therefore, be too nearly vain. We are Cassandras, and are not to be believed. Even to this day. "Abolitionist,", when used to denote an old and earnest one, is the most unpopular and hated name in the land. No name so grates upon the ear of aristocracy. No name so loathsome to all who affect refinement and disdain vulgarity. There is no name which demagogues wield more freely or with more effect, because there is none so powerful to stir the prejudice, meanness and malignity of the popular heart. Nothing, however, of all this was it necessary to say. In a nation that, from the first, has been ruled, educated, debauched by slavery, "Abolitionist" is of course the worst of all names. Nor will it cease to be the worst until the nation is "born again." That the "old abolitionists" deem themselves entitled to be heard, is no proof of their vanity; for with them human rights have been a life-long study:-and what students were ever less darkened by the spirit of selfishness, or less seduced by the objects of ambition? fishness, or less seduced by the objects of ambition?
I have referred to our various former messages to the people. I doubt not that you agree with me that the messages which, far above all others, they now need, are
1st. The nation is perishing, because she persists in not letting the negro into the human family.
2d. The horrors of the worst of wars-a war of races-await the South, in return for the nation's crime of withholding the ballot from the black man.
The crime of disowning our fellow man is the greatest possible crime against both man and his Maker, and the grossest insult to both. But, although the nation has been guilty of it from her origin, I do not say that she is perishing because of the enormity of the crime. I prefer to say that she is perishing because she deliberately repeats it, notwithstanding all she has recently suffered on account of it. The judgments of Heaven have fallen upon her with unexampled severity, and yet she persists in the wickedness which provoked them. All the treasure, tears and blood expended in this war are the cost of this pre-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
eminent wickedness of proscribing one of the complexions of the human family- one of the varieties of God’s equal children. And, yet, the nation clings to the wickedness, and still refuses to open to the negro any of the strong-barred and century-rusted gates, which shut him out from the enjoyment of political and social rights. The negro is still an outcast Pariah, and still a loathsome leper. I repeat, that the nation is perishing, not so much because of this crime of crimes, as because she "would none of Gods reproof" for it-as because to her contempt of His long-suffering, she adds contempt of His judgments also.
To justify my position, that the nation persists in the crime of shutting the negro out of the human <illegible>, I need not refer to the numberless wrongs and outrages which he suffers at every turn and corner of human relations and human intercourse. Nor need I refer to the continued threats to colonize him, and even to exterminate him, and to the continued declaring that this is the white man’s country. All this, and the <illegible> spirit of all this, is told in the fact, that, in be now-going on “Reconstruction” of the conquered portion of our country, the negro is left out. No more part than the horse or the ox has he in that “Reconstruction.” I do not forget that the denial to the negro of all part in the Government is justified on the ground of his ignorance. But, even were he as comparatively ignorant as he is said to be-but which he is not-it would, surely, be safer to trust ignorant loyalty than intelligent disloyalty-a good heart than a merely learned head.
The nation’s former excuse for not recognizing the manhood of the negro was, that it was not in her power to do so; but the conquering of the South took this excuse entirely away. Nevertheless the nation, instead of now demanding that there be no longer any difference in political rights on account of difference in race or origin, deliberately puts the Southern black man into the hands of the Southern white man. And she does this, too, notwithstanding that the former has so recently proved himself to be her friend and savior, and the latter her enemy and purposed destroyer! Here we have an instance not only of the basest ingratitude and cruelest oppression, but also of the worst from of atheism.
I pass on to that other warning, which you and I would be so glad to sound in the ears of the nation, if only she would deign to listen to “old abolitionists.” Oh that she would, by putting the ballot into the hand of the black man, save the South from a war of races -for in no other way can the South be saved from it! The one thing which the South needs to save her from this fate is the confidence of her blacks; and she can get it only by giving them the ballot. Not until they have the ballot will the sense that they are wronged pass away. Moreover, not until they have it will the whites treat them with the respect due to all men; and which all, whom we would make safe men, must receive. Until that respect is shown to her blacks-in other words, until the ballot is accorded from (for the respect and the ballot go together)-let the South continue to fear their resentment, ay, and their ever-ready-to-burst-out rage. Scoff at it as men will, nevertheless, until the ballot is given to her blacks, a war of races will be the great imminent peril of the South. But in such a war, would not Northern men sympathize, as of old, with the oppressors? Many would; many would not. Possibly, nay, not very improbably, inasmuch as her past punishment has not sufficed to bring her to penitence and decency, the North might be drawn into this Southern war. Every where, however, outside of America, the sympathy would be with the oppressed. But would the blacks know how to carry on a war? They have been learning this very fast, during the last four years. Even sixty years ago, it did not take the blacks of St. <illegible> a long time to learn how to exterminate their oppressors:-and how ignorant those blacks compared with ours!
I said that the blacks must have the ballot ere the whites will respect them. I add, that they must have the ballot ere the whites will cease from those outrages upon them, which cannot fail to provoke fire and word. I hesitate not to say that the condition of the freedmen, if deprived of the ballot, will be worse than was their condition in slavery. In slavery, they had generally the protection, and, not unfrequently, the affection also of their masters; but, henceforth, until they shall rise into the enjoyment of equal rights with others, they will get from others very little either of protection or affection. From the enslaved race, they have become the hated race; and how the South serves those she hates was shown at Andersonville and other Southern prisons. But the worse the condition of the blacks, the more burning their revenge. Their testimony shut out, as it surely will be if their vote is, their property will be a prey to greed, and their wives and daughters and sisters to lust; and <illegible>, caring not to put their life to any other use, they will spend it in wreaking vengeance. Is it said that there are no very unhappy results at the North from restrictions upon the right of suffrage? But, whilst the voters of the North vote for their families, friends and neighbors, the preeminent object of voting at the South, if voting be confined to the whites, will be to crush more and more effectually the helpless blacks.
I need say no more to justify the declaration, that a war of races will follow the denial of the ballot to the black man. Nevertheless, I will say a few things more in connection with the subject of voting.
Am I asked, whether I would have all men vote? I answer that, as a general proposition, I would-and all women too. I see no reason whatever in calling the right to vote a conventional one. If the rights of life and property are natural, then, also, must the right is choose the official guardians of those rights be natural. To say that we have rights, whilst others to the exclusion of ourselves choose who shall control the rights, is to say nonsense. Of course, I admit that voting, like other rights, may be forfeited. They forfeit it who take up arms against their country. It may be restored; but it should not be without ample proofs of penitence and trustworthiness.
Would I, then, insist that all the loyal men of the South, black and white, shall have the ballot? I would not. Slavery brought nearly all the people there into such unnatural relations toward each other, and made them so unnatural, that even the loyal amongst them are hardly competent to exercise all natural rights. The insane man cannot exercise all. Nor can they, so recently slaveholders and slaves. Nor hardly they, who, though not sustaining the relation, were nevertheless under its demoralizing influence. But escaped for two or three years from the perverting and unnaturalizing power of slavery, and the illiterate amongst them being for that time under the nature-restoring exercises of the Common School, the great majority of the loyal at the South will have become, in a good degree, natural enough to exercise the natural right of voting. For the present, let the ballot at the South be confined to the loyal who can read. In the light of what I have said, it can be but a small part even of these who are eminently fit to cast it.
But it is said that the blacks ought not to be allowed to vote, because they would vote as their old masters desire. Why should they not? For when the blacks are possessed of the ballot, they will be respected by the whites, and will be advised, by them to but what is respectable. Thus the ballot in the hand of the black man will gain for him the respect of the white man; and in return for this respect will be the confidence of the black man in the white man. And so full will be this confidence, that he will follow the superior intelligence of the white man at the polls as well as else-where. Say not that he will follow it to wrong. For the putting of the ballot into the hand of the black man will extensively have the effect to bring the white man to consecrate that superior intelligence to the right. It is by this way, far more than by any other, that the Southern white man can be brought up into a just man. The ballot in the hands of the black man! The ballot in the hands of the black man! In how many points of view, this is the only remedy for Southern ruin! In how many points of view, this alone can bring salvation to the nation!
<c02>
We abolitionists are charged with desiring the ballot for the black man because we hate the South. They who charge it count the whites the South. We count in the blacks also. Nevertheless, the rights and happiness of the whites are as dear to us as are those of the blacks. A common humanity forbids that they be dearer. It is because we love the South, that we would have her blacks vote. I add, that one reason why we would have them vote is, that it will make it safe to shorten the time ere which her white masses may be allowed to vote. When the million blacks shall vote, there will be little to fear from the voting of those whose loyalty has hitherto been doubted.
It still suits Northern demagogues to infer that we hated the South because we hated her slavery; but a great reason why we hated slavery was, that we loved the slavery-cursed South. And it still suits them to repeat the ridiculous but nevertheless effective falsehood that we, the abolitionists, caused the war. I can hardly yet stop shaking with laughter when I remember that, in the first year of the war, a man, whose means were reduced by it, declined paying me his debt on the ground that I had got up the war. So far as the opposition of a handful of men to slavery-an opposition depending for its success on changing the heart, and not on killing the body-is responsible for getting up the war, so far, and only so far, are the abolitionists responsible for it. Of like extent and character is the responsibility of Jesus Christ for the wars which grew out of his preaching of righteousness-ay, and his responsibility even for his own crucifixion.
Moreover, Northern demagogues would he to have it believed that it is the abolitionists who call for the punishment of the South. They, especially "the old abolitionists," are the last men to call for it. They generally hold that, in respect to the causes of the war, the North is particeps criminis with the South, and is therefore morally disqualified to inflict punishment upon the South. They hold, too, that the South has already suffered enough, and too much; and that she is an object, not for our revenge, but for our pity and love. Some of them not only deny their disposition to punish her, but the right of the Government to arraign any one of the rebels, even Davis himself, for treason. They argue that such arraignment would be not only a stupendous breach of faith, but an example which despots, the world over, would plead with mighty effect, when claiming their right to shed the blood of captives in civil war. They hold that, thanks to the progress of civilization! the law of civil war, as interpreted by the eminent modern publicists, knows no treason: and that it is, therefore, only the crimes forbidden by that law, such, for instance, as the assassination of the President and the starvation of the prisoners, that we are to punish. 
This reference to the starvation of the prisoners brings to mind the trial of Wirz. I trust that the Government does not contemplate his very severe punishment. I should have thought almost as soon of putting his dogs as himself on trial. Little more responsible is he than they for the crimes of Andersonville. They served his purpose; and he, well-nigh as mere a brute as they, was picked up to serve the purpose of his masters. I trust that he is put on trial mainly to enable the Government to get upon the track of the monsters, who, because he was a brute, chose him to do their monstrous work. It is these monsters who committed the crimes of Andersonville. Their tools, be they dogs or men, are of little account. It is their employers who are responsible for this wickedness, which, amongst the wickednesses of all the earth and all the ages, stands preeminent.
I said that the leaving out of the negro from all part in the work of " Reconstruction" is, of itself, sufficient proof of the shutting of him out of the human family. It is, however, held by many that the "Reconstruction" will not be persevered in. But the bare fact that the national sentiment was such as to permit the entering upon it-such, too, as to permit the already great progress in the boundless wickedness and boundless folly-is enough to forbid nearly all hope of retreat-nearly all hope of return to reason and righteousness. The simple truth is, that the "Reconstruction" but fairly reflects the hatred and contempt of the negro, which still reign in the popular heart. That the stone-hardness of this heart has been broken by the war is but a fancy. That such a war-a war so full of God's loudest calls to repentance, and so abounding in those brave and beautiful and sublime deeds by which the negro earned our love and gratitude and admiration-should be followed by such a " Reconstruction" is ample proof that the war has left us with a disposition toward the negro no better than it was before the war, but, if possible, worse. It is not enough to inspire the hope of our salvation, that some Democrats and many Republicans are for justice to the black man: no, nor enough that, but for the trammels of party, a majority of the voters would be that way. The nation is lost if, over its whole length and breadth, there shall not be a blaze of indignation against the infamous and infernal "Reconstruction."
It is argued that it is better to delay justice to the negro until the " Reconstruction" is consummated. Then will it never be granted. It will, indeed, be gotten-for the negro will bare his stalwart arm to get it. But it will not be granted:-for the sin of postponing a duty increases, instead of overcoming, the guilty indisposition to do the duty. All arguments for delaying justice are groundless. It was a false and atheistic philosophy which held back the great and good Abraham Lincoln from meeting the war of slavery, at the very outset, with a Proclamation of Freedom to the Slave. But the people were not then prepared for it! Nevertheless, God was. Moreover, the doing of the duty by the ruler is the great means of preparing the people for it. It is this, which, more than aught else, educates them up to the level of the duty, inspires their confidence in the duty, and their admiration of the integrity, wisdom and bravery of him who leads in doing it. The timely issuing of such a Proclamation would have lifted up the American people to a mountain-height above their present debasement. The delay in issuing it demoralized them. The demoralization is still going on. Nor, from present appearances, will it cease to go on, until we shall have reached the bottom line of national baseness. Our great intelligence and great numbers and vast resources will not save us. They will but serve to accelerate our downward speed. Oh, when shall our rulers, instead of humoring and debasing us with expedients, bring us under the regenerating and ennobling application of principles!
The delaying of justice is no less a misjudgment than a sin. It assumes that men are not prepared for it, and would not welcome it. They are prepared for it; and scarcely would they get it ere they would rejoice in their experience of it. It is injustice that they are not prepared for. President Lincoln thought that the people were not yet prepared for so righteous a measure as General Fremont's Proclamation. Nevertheless, they were. Even that least healthy part of the people, represented by such newspapers as the New York Herald, welcomed it. Had that Proclamation been allowed to live, and to hasten the issuing of similar Proclamations, it would have mightily educated the people, and greatly shortened the war. The mere assuming that the people are prepared for the right goes far to prepare them for it. They are ashamed to prove themselves to be less than they are taken to be. On the other hand, to assume that they are not for the right is to put it into their heads to be wrong. Had our Government, on the final surrender of the Confederate forces, assumed that the American people were, at last, ready to recognize the human brotherhood, and to recognize human rights, as well under one color of the skin as another, not the North only, but the South also, would have been prompt to justify and honor the assumption. But, alas! the Government has, as foolishly as wickedly, put it into our heads that we must, notwithstanding our recent terrible lessons to the contrary, keep on shutting the black man out of the human family; and so we do keep on in the folly and wickedness.
<c03>
One excuse for the terms of the "Reconstruction" is, that the Rebel State, as well as the Loyal State, has the constitutional right to determine the status of her people. But she has no Constitutional right whatever. No inhabitant of a Rebel State, however loyal he may be, has any more of Constitutional rights than has the "Man in the Moon. "The Rebel States have just the rights-no more, no less-which their conqueror chooses to accord them. That he should interpret the law of war liberally, and deal generously and fraternally with them, and accord them every right compatible with their safety and his own, is his clear, and should be his welcome, duty. But the doctrine that the conquered, when of the same nation with the conqueror, should, therefore, be held to be less absolutely at his disposal, is absurd. The disposal in such case should be more rather than less absolute.
A disposition to repudiate the national debt is manifested in some quarters. Indeed, there has already been legislative action, and that too in New England, which is a step toward its repudiation. In the light of our present temper and tendencies, and especially of the unprincipledness and insanity of the plan of " Reconstruction," the debt is pretty certain to be repudiated. Let that plan go into effect, and let there be no negro vote to counteract the rebel vote, and no negro friendship to counteract rebel enmity, and it cannot be long ere the bonds of the Government will have little or no value. True is it that, in every point of view and in respect to her every interest, the nation must not only not incur the hostility, but must have the friendship of the negro. Humiliating to our impenitent hearts was our recent dependence upon him. Humiliating is our continued dependence upon him. Nevertheless, we must accept it as a part of the penalty of our ages of scorn for him. 
If the whites are to be the only voters of the South, then will they, combined with a repudiating party which will spring up in the North, soon be able to accomplish the repudiation of the national debt. For whilst the Southern negro looks proudly upon that debt as the price of his freedom, in the eyes of the Southern-white man it is the most hateful monument of Southern degradation. 
On our ability to pay the national debt, and on our sense of justice, must rest the expectation that it will be paid. The ability is unquestionable; but what reliance can be placed upon our sense of justice, after we have stripped millions of our innocent countrymen of all the rights of citizenship and manhood? Will not, however, our gratitude to those who lent us the moneys to carry on the war and save the country, impel us to pay the debt? No, not if our gratitude be so feeble and spurious as to forget our immeasurably stronger obligations to that patriotic, generous, affectionate and sublimely forgiving race, who helped us, far more meritoriously than those lenders, to carry on the war and save the country. To all, who ask me whether the national debt will be paid, I return the same short answer: " It will be, if the black man has the ballot; otherwise not."
I spoke of "rebel enmity." I do not mean that the South will necessarily be our enemy. We can win her by loving her. It is, I am aware, saying but little for her to say that she is as good as the North. By the way, laughable as is the idea now, LOVE will yet have play even in the province of statesmanship. Even there, as well as everywhere else, it will be "the fulfilling of the law." We must forgive the South for the Rebellion-especially since we ourselves share so largely in the guilt of it. We must not wrong, wound and degrade her by trying her for treason. We must not try her rulers for it-since that would be trying herself in them. My proposition to win her by love is not a proposition to win her by humoring her prejudices and flattering her vices. This she would see through and despise us for. She will suspect all the demonstrations of our love for her, unless she also sees our allegiance to impartial justice and our devotion to human rights. Moreover, how surely would her sight of such allegiance and devotion serve to lift her up out of errors in which our previous example had helped to sink her, because it was an example of the grossest partiality, and of utter contempt for human rights in the persons of the oppressed and outcast 
But I am making too long a letter; and I must hasten to a close. Our country has seen many dark days, but the darkest of them all is upon her now. For a policy has now been inaugurated, not to say established, which is to make vain her sacrifice of a million lives and ten thousand millions of dollars. The costly victory in this war is, after all, not to prove a victory for righteousness and freedom; but it is to be transmuted by this man-dishonoring and God-defying " Reconstruction" into a victory for unrighteousness and slavery. This unrighteousness, not to speak of its other deeds, puts the loyal of the South, white as well as black, under the feet of the disloyal, and makes a full surrender of our friends to our foes. And that even slavery is to share in this transmuted victory is but too manifest. Some of its technicalities may disappear; but its substance will all remain. A peonage, or serfdom, or some other form of bondage, in which the sufferers shall experience more than the usual tortures and less than the usual alleviations of slavery, is to be the condition of that people, to whom, considering the wrongs we have, for ages, done them, and the magnanimous services which they have notwithstanding rendered us, we owe far more than to any other people on the face of the earth. I said that this is to be their condition. The hard fate is already upon portions of them.
Surely, surely, then, in the light of what is passing, it is not extravagant to say that the nation is perishing; nor extravagant to say that the way is fast preparing for a war of races.
Well, after all, we "old abolitionists" have no reason to be the unhappiest of men. It is true that the refusal of the nation to reap the fruits of its hard-earned victory, and to bless herself with the reign of impartial justice and universal freedom, brings to us a bitterer disappointment than to any other class of persons-for longer and more earnestly than any other had we looked for that reign. But if our disappointment is peculiarly great, so also is our consolation. If the nation is so infatuated as to throw herself away, and this too after all she has suffered to save herself, nevertheless, we are consoled by the reflection that we have done what we could to save her. This we did, not only before the war, but also in the war. In that great peril of our country, our lips and pens and purses were consecrated to her service. Not even our sons-nay, nor even an only son-did we withhold from the bloody strife.
But we will not, even yet, give up all hope of our country's salvation. Nevertheless, whither shall we turn to avoid despair? The Republican Party, on which we relied, has utterly disappointed us. Moreover, it probably could not now save the country, even if it would-since from its lack of courage and of fidelity to principle, and from its consequent divisions, it can hardly fail to sink rapidly into a minority. The Democratic Party, whose ascendency we have so much dreaded, is, but too probably, to become our master. "Better," according to the old saying, "to be determinedly wrong than whifflingly:” more politic, I would rather say. The positively bad character of the Democratic Party is far more efficient to gain influence and votes than the negatively and uncertainly good character of the Republican Party. The Democratic Party, daring to be unjust, attracts by its courage. The Republican Party, not daring to be just, is despised for its cowardice. And now, with no hope from either of the political parties, what shall we do? Shall we, as did David, turn from man to "fall into the hand of the Lord”! But, after all our refusals to listen to him, and after the rank apostasy from Him involved in the plan of "Reconstruction," have we the Lord left to turn to? Has He not forsaken us? "The Lord is not with Israel," said the prophet. But is there not more reason for saying: "The Lord is not with "this nation? 
With warm regard, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
<c04>
THE PRESIDENT AND THE RADICALS.
[Special Despatch to the Public Ledger.]
WASHINGTON. The President will fight his radical war to the bitter end. Within one month after the inauguration of our new President, I advised you on high authority, that in no event would the radical element be favored, and the -whole course of Mr. Johnson since has proved the correctness of that assertion. There is no colder quarter of the city to the destructive faction than the White House. Representatives there from have called and called, sent in card after card, but in most cases the President is too "busy" to attend to them! he is " engaged! "Their calls are less frequent of late, and they have opened the war outside.
It will be futile, though not without probable serious embarrassment to the President in carrying out the work of "restoration" he has so nobly commenced. This is the "new danger that threatens us." As long ago as the 4th of July, the Executive saw the cloud of opposition to the policy rising, and then used the above words. His sagacity-far seeing and penetrating-saw it all. To meet the contest he armed at once, and planted himself squarely on the bulwark of the Constitution. To a well-known Southerner last week, he said, "My chart is the Constitution; I shall not deviate a hair's breadth if I can help it. On that Constitution the States must be restored, and the privileges which it confers must be theirs They are entitled to them, and they shall have them." 
The President is fairly anchored there, and it is because he has so fast a hold upon the helm of the national ship that the waves of fanaticism and discord dash about him. They would beat him from his position, but it will be "thus far and no farther," and they who think otherwise do not know the pilot they are dealing with. 
The list of radical complaints thus far made out, and to be presented immediately after the opening of Congress, is as follows:
1st. Refusal to extend negro suffrage. 
2. The appointment of secessionists as provisional governors.
3d. The free exercise of the pardoning power, wherein were included many who should have been hanged. 
4th. The introduction of arms into the Southern States.
5th. The disbanding of the colored regiments.
6th. The refusal to order a sweeping confiscation.
7th. The restoration of the Southern churches. 
8th. The refusal to arraign Lee, the leader of the rebel hosts, after he had been indicted for treason.
9th. The refusal to try Davis by a military court. 
10th. The apathy shown in the enforcement of the Monroe doctrine as applicable to Mexico.
Such is the list so far, and there is no disputing that it is quite formidable; but, I repeat, the President is ready, not only for the opening gun, but for all the terrific fire that is expected to follow. That the conservative masses-those who love their country and their whole country-will sustain him in solid column, there can be no question, and this is all the President asks. Grant him this support, and he will hand his name down to posterity a second Washington.
THE PRESIDENT ON FREEDOM OF DISCUSSION.
Senator Wilson, at a Republican meeting in Philadelphia, on Saturday night, said:
"A day or two ago, I said to President Johnson, there are differences of opinion in regard to negro suffrage. In my State, we are all one way. We are all for security for the future. We do not ask any indemnity for the past. There is no indemnity for the 326,000 dead heroes who lie under the sod of Southern battle-fields.
There is no indemnity for widows and orphans-none! We can forgive their murderers; but we want security that our sons shall not be murdered in the future. We want loyal men to govern America for-evermore. I asked the President if he made any discrimination among the men who elected him on account of their views on suffrage or on reconstruction. The President said he never had made any such distinctions, and never intended making any in the future- that he was in favor of the freest and fullest discussion of all the questions now arising before us. And so long as we have broad toleration and free discussion, we can go right on, shoulder to shoulder, arguing, discussing and examining these questions that are before us to be solved; and I believe now, as I did during the war, that we will solve these questions right, and that our country will come out in the future glorious and free."
WHERE DID IT COME FROM? It will be remembered that the associated press' report of President Johnson's speech to the Southern delegation contained the following sentence: 
"He did not believe the sensation letter-writers and editors who were endeavoring to create the impression that there exists in the South disaffection and dissatisfaction, for the presence of so many eminent and distinguished gentlemen, representing such a large constituency, fully disproved the fact, and gave the lie to their pestilent and malignant utterances." 
Now neither the full report that was sent on the night of the address to the New York Herald, nor the report revised by the President himself, which has since appeared in the Washington Chronicle, contains anything like the above extract. Where, then, did it come from?-Boston Journal.

DISLOYAL DEMOCRACY. 
Among the resolutions adopted by the Union State Convention of Pennsylvania was the following:
12. That the leaders of the Democratic party stand arraigned before the people of Pennsylvania for constantly obstructing the efforts of the constitutional authorities to maintain the life of the Republic. They did this, 
By inflaming the passions of their ignorant followers against the legally elected officers of the Federal Government, and refraining from all reproach against treason or armed traitors. 
By procuring a decision from the Democratic judges of our Supreme Court, denying the right of the Government to the services of the citizens of this State for the defences of their imperilled country. 
By discouraging men from volunteering into the armies of the Union; thus rendering it necessary to succumb to treason, or to pay large bounties, and so burdening every ward, township and borough in the State with debt, to fill the ranks of our armies.
By opposing the enlistment of negroes for our defence, although one white man less was required for every black one who could be enlisted, and this at the very moment when the battle of Gettysburg was raging on the soil of Pennsylvania, and the result of that decisive battle was uncertain. 
By denying to our soldiers the right to vote while fighting for the flag of our fathers, on the plea that such rights were not allowed by our constitution, and by opposing an amendment which removed their objections, and relieved our brave soldiers from its disability. 
By exaggerating the public indebtedness, denying the public credit, and teaching that the financial resources of the North were unequal to the suppression of the rebellion. 
By a shameful opposition to measures for extending relief to the families of Union soldiers, and by a malignant effort by these means to secure the success of the rebels in the field, or such a protraction of the war as would exhaust the nation in its efforts to subdue their friends. 
By now heaping abuse upon the Government for punishing assassins and their accomplices; by demanding the release of leading traitors; by frowning down all attempts to bring to punishment the fiends who starved our soldiers; and by assuring rebels that neither in person or property shall they be punished for their crimes.

THE SOUTHERN BLACKS. 
The Charleston News of the 4th inst. has a long and carefully considered leader, urging a prompt and thorough acquiescence by the newly chosen South Carolina Convention in the act of Emancipation. It closes thus: 
"Under the circumstances, therefore, we think there can be no ground to question the propriety of immediate emancipation by the convention. We end the controversy-terminate suspense-enter at once upon the measure, necessary to our further action-avoid the peril of intervention by the Government, or the still greater peril of domestic insurrection; inspire the confidence that will trust to us the further fortunes of the race among us; and, possessed of this subject, there is much ground for the assurance that we can act upon it. Our people are well inclined to the negro. They realize his condition better than he does-know that much he does offensive is the result of facts he could not, if he would, control. The negroes are themselves most estimable. They present a record which, for service and order, is without-a parallel; and now, turned headlong into freedom, without preparation, without premonition-by men at war with their masters-and told that they have been wronged and have a heritage of vengeance, they exhibit in their industry, order, patience and propriety an example which is not within the experience or conceptions, even of man. No people have ever been so tried, none have so stood trial; the like causes would incite to outrage the laboring population of any State in Europe; and if there have been disorders, misconceptions, wrongs, the wonder is, not that they should have occurred, but that there should have been the limit to their occurrence. With such a people, if not maddened by injudicious treatment, there is yet a future for us; and it is now for us, in manhood and perfect faith, to enter on it."
Compare this with the constant efforts of the Copperhead journals to malign and stigmatize the Freedmen as incorrigibly lazy, vicious, debased, perverse and stupid!
<c05>
THE BLAIR FAMILY. Thaddeus Stevens delivered a speech at Lancaster, Pa., on the 6th inst., on the policy of reconstruction, in the course of which he alluded incidentally to the Blair family, in return for the notice which Montgomery gave to him in his recent tirade somewhere in Maryland. Mr. Stevens is unusually mild in this instance, and apparently thinks the game is not worth the shot. He says:
"It is far easier and more beneficial to exile 70,000 proud, bloated and defiant rebels than to expatriate 4,000,000 of laborers, native to the soil and loyal to the government. This latter scheme was a favorite plan of the Blairs, with which they had for awhile inoculated our late sainted President. But a single experiment made him discard it and its advisers. Since I have mentioned the Blairs, I may say a word more of these persistent apologists of the South. For, when the virus of slavery has once entered the veins of the slaveholder, no subsequent effort seems capable of wholly eradicating it. They are a family of considerable power, some merit, of admirable audacity and execrable selfishness. With impetuous alacrity they seize the White House, and hold possession of it, as in the late administration, until shaken off by the overpowering force of public indignation. Their pernicious counsel had well nigh defeated the re-election of Abraham Lincoln; and if it should prevail with the present administration, pure and patriotic as President Johnson is admitted to be, it will render him the most unpopular executive-save one-that ever occupied the Presidential chair. But there is no fear of that. He will soon say, as Mr. Lincoln did:
'YOUR TIME HAS COME!'"
Mr. Blair professes to have been always an anti-slavery man, but he discloses the hateful caste prejudice which influences him when he charges " the imperialists," as he calls them, with " propagating the idea that the safety of the country requires the exclusion from Congress of representatives from the South, and thus contributing to fix the conviction upon the public mind that it is necessary to subvert the rule of the white man in the South before that region can be restored to a share in the government". Here is the true end and aim of all his phillipics. It is to preserve an aristocratic " white rule " that he labors. It is for the sake of blotting out the colored man from the roll of citizenship that he pleads in behalf of traitors. He would rather again put power into the hands of Davis, Lee and Stephens, than allow any encroachment upon the exclusive privilege of the whites to rule. Shame upon such loyalty! Such a man has none of the elements of republicanism in him. If he is not a traitor to his government, he is a traitor to the rights of humanity. He wants to deprive the blacks of the only means by which their liberty can be preserved; and then, as he knows very well, the old slaveholders will make their condition so intolerable that they will be forced to fly the country. It is just as well for us to understand that this is the grand object at which the efforts of the whole school of Blairs, Coxes, Fullers, Holdens, Perrys and Sharkeys are driving.-American Baptist.
SOUTH CAROLINA. The election of delegates to the constitutional convention took place throughout South Carolina last week. In the city of Charleston, though several tickets were voted for, no distinct issue was presented. The technical " Union ticket" was defeated by a very large majority, the canvass being controlled by the old managers of local politics. Twenty delegates were chosen, of whom ten are recorded as avowed secessionists or "cooperationists " before the war. 
Among those chosen were Charles Macbeth, mayor during the rebellion, Alfred Huger, many years postmaster of Charleston, Rev. P. N. Lynch, Catholic bishop of South Carolina, lately pardoned by the President, Col. Gaillard, who lost an arm in the rebel service. Gen. Conner, who lost a leg in the same cause, Col. Simonton of the Twenty-fifth South Carolina regiment. With these, of course, were some who have performed less conspicuous service against us, and a few who claim to have been loyal from the start. Dr. Mackay, the most outspoken and decided Unionist of them all, was defeated. 
In other districts, the names of many persons occur among the members elect who have been recommended for pardon by Gov. Perry, but whose cases have not been acted upon. Wade Hampton leads the delegation from Columbia.
The Charleston Courier announces a satisfactory interview at Columbia between Generals Meade and Gillmore and Governor Perry. The interview resulted in the partial restoration of the civil power throughout the State by the full and complete establishment of the civil courts for the trial of all cases, except those of persons of color.
The latter are to continue for the present under the cognizance of Provost Marshal Courts. The Civil Courts are to be opened under the direction of the Governor, and civil and municipal officers are to be permitted to resume their official duties and discharge them without interruption.
A circular from the Freedman's Bureau having advised legal marriages between the freed blacks, the Clerk of the Probate Court of Pike county, Mississippi, has written to Col. Thomas, Assistant Commissioner for that State, expressing his desire to assist in carrying out the provisions of that circular, and also in making written contracts between freedmen and their employers. There are many freedmen who are making verbal contracts, choosing rather to run the risk of loss than to undergo the expense or trouble of foot travel to the nearest location of a bureau office. Col. Thomas replies in a telegraphic order granting the permission, commending the spirit the writer manifests toward his freedmen neighbors in their new position, adding that such a disposition on the part of civil officers throughout the State would relieve the officers of the bureau of immense labor and responsibility, and would be the first step toward doing away with the necessity for such a military organization.
Wirz, the Andersonville butcher of Union prisoners, now on trial in Washington, has asked for the consoling company of two priests. His request has been granted by the War Department, and of course everybody knows what the villain meant when he solicited such consolation. His guilty soul begins to sicken at the approach of his doom, and as he cannot escape the punishment of men, he intends to elude, if possible, the grip of the devil.-Harrisburg Telegraph.
Yesterday as Wirz was on his way from the court room to the Old Capitol, a respectably dressed lady, between fifty and sixty years old, who had been waiting for the opportunity, asked the guard if that was the Andersonville butcher? On receiving an affirmative answer, she, in a frenzy of passion, endeavored to strike Wirz with her umbrella saying, " You wretch! you butcher! you murdered my son at Andersonville!" Failing to reach him, she seized a brick, and implored the guard to let her get at him. She was with some difficulty restrained, and the prisoner conveyed to his quarters. It seems that the old lady was an Ohio widow, who had come on here to get back pay of her sons, all of whom have belonged to the army. One was killed in battle, one murdered at Andersonville, another rendered hopelessly insane by his sufferings in the same slaughter-pen, and one only returned to his home at the close of the war.-Washington corr.
AUGUSTA, Me., Sept. 17. The most destructive fire that ever occurred in Maine passed over this city this morning. The entire business portion of the city, extending from the passenger bridge to Winthrop street, and from the river and above the railroad track, is a smoking mass of ruins. Every lawyer's office in the city, all the banks, two hotels, the post office, the express and telegraph offices, all the dry goods stores, bookstores and clothing establishments in the city, the United States Quartermaster's, the Commissary and Pension offices, the new depot not finished, the Age newspaper office, and many other buildings-in the whole numbering more than a hundred individuals and firms-were burned. Many saved portions or the whole of their stocks of goods, while others lost everything. The banks succeeded in saving all their papers and treasure. The fire was undoubtedly the work of an incendiary. The losses cannot now be estimated, but cannot fall short of half a million of dollars. No estimate of the insurance has as yet been made.
THE FIRE AT NEW YORK. Four million of dollars is the estimated loss of the contents of the bonded warehouse which was destroyed by fire at New York on the night of the 18th inst. The following is a correct list of the goods destroyed:-9000 bales of cotton., 2000 bales, of rags., 20,000 bushels of salt, 3500 bales Manilla hemp, 1700 bales gunny cloth., 1500 bales wool, 15,.000 bags sugar, 18,000 hides, and 4000 bushels wheat.
NEW YORK.,. Sept -12., The Post's special Washington dispatch contains the following: 
"The order mustering out the colored troops enlisted in the Northern States is simply a measure to reduce the army expenses. This order has no effect upon the organization of colored troops which were enlisted in the Southern States by Gen. Ullman and others."
The Tribune's Raleigh correspondent states that the giving of rations to whites will cease on the 15th. Notwithstanding they have immense crops in the field, they continually cry to the Government to " give,"  "give." There arewe- no colored people in Raleigh receiving; rations, they providing for themselves. A good many whites have either sold their nations given them by the Government, or fattened their hogs on them..-
<c06>
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Quincy, Sunday, October 1.
MARRIED-In this city, September 7, by Rev. Gilbert Haven, Lieut. PETER VOGELSANG to Miss MARIA M.DE DE GRASSE, both of Brooklyn, N. Y.
WANTED-For a Physician, lately returned from service in the U. S. Army, board in a private family in a pleasant location in the country, and where a physician is wanted. Accommodation for a horse and carriage will be required, and the whole at a moderate price. Partnership with a physician in good practice would be acceptable.
Address, with terms, description of place, population, &c., "DOCTOR," care of ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator Office, 221 Washington street, Boston.
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age!
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.,
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are "done to a turn."
Broiling; -Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language,
"CHALLENGES THE WORLD"
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler," which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to reoms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day(Fay, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
 If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL-
MOURILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent "Erovapor Stove'' in our families, and hive thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the A-Erovapor Cooking -Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment,.Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUMPETROLUM STOVE Co.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, Iam happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
, EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, 
South Reading, Mass.
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your "single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost out us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the '"double burner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio.			 T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2., 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
 For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMANGENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Petroleum Stove."'' I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves,, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally use, as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
 Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point,, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommended them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safety stoves store for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.
NEW ENGLAND
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D.., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D.., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygne; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Medics, Therapentics and Chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D.., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D.., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, & $$65-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30 , Canton Street, Boston, Mass
Sept 8..
Sept8. 3w
WEST NEWTON
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL
THE next term begins Wednesday, Sept 6, 1865. For particulars, address. NATH'L T. ALLEN.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
PEACE.
BY JOHN B. MORRISON.
From deeds of war
We turn once more
To see the quiet way of peace,
And sheathe the sword,
Too long adored,
To pray that wrong and outrage cease.
Now let the pen
Resume again
O'er mind and heart its regal sway,
To cure the blind,
To teach mankind
How, where, to find life's better way;
To right the wrong,
To swell the throng
Who know the right and dare maintain, 
Till far and wide,
O'er land and tide,
Justice and truth and peace shall reign;
Till men shall know
That they who sow
The wind shall reap the whirlwind fruit;
That right is might,
And truth is light
That bears no tinsel substitute.
All history long
Has rampant wrong
Turned human weal to human woe,
And all the years
Are wet with tears
Of anguish in perennial flow;
And yet to-day
We shun the way
Of peace that lies through righteousness,
While God and truth,
And love and ruth,
Can give no more, and take no less.
New York, Aug. 20, 1865.
-American Baptist.
LITANY.
BY FRANK JACKSON.
From all the turmoil of this busy life,
From all its vain delusions,
From all the billows of its care and strife,
Its battles and confusions,
My weary heart would turn, O Lord, and rest
In sweet repose upon Thy loving breast.
Up through the sin-clouds drifting o'er my head,
Dark, dismal, and appalling,
Up from these gloomy carvens of the dead
From which Thy voice is calling,
My soul is struggling, gracious God, to be
Nearer the cross, to Jesus, and to Thee.
Out of the atmosphere and breath of sin,
Out of the waves of passion,
Out of the death that Satan sendeth in
My soul for hell to fashion,
Lord, bring me forth into Thy life, to be
From death and hell and sin forever free!
Far as the east is from the distant west,
To meet and mingle never,
So far remove my sins, and let me rest
In Thee, my God, forever;
Begin a state of holy living here,
To be perfected in that glorious sphere.
Thus let my life be hid with Christ in God,
In living and in dying,
Thus sanctify me wholly by the blood
That works my purifying,
That all my being may by faith be given
To serve Thee here, and worship Thee in heaven.
—N. Y. Independent.
AFTER ALL.
The apples are ripe in the orchard,
And the work of the reaper is done,
And the golden woodlands redden
In the blood of the dying sun.
At the cottage door the grandsire
Sits pale in his easy chair;
While the gentle wind of twilight
Plays with his silver hair.
A woman is kneeling beside him,
A fair young head is pressed,
In the first passion of sorrow,
Against his aged breast.
And far from over the distance
The faltering echoes come,
Or the dying blast of trumpet,
And the rattling roll of drum.
And the grandsire speaks in a whisper—
"The end no man can see;
But we gave him to his country,
And we gave our prayers to Thee."
The violets star the meadows,
The rose-buds fringe the door,
And over the grassy orchard
The pink-white blossoms pour.
But the grandsire's chair is empty,
The cottage is dark and still—
There's a nameless grave on the battle-field,
And a new one under the hill.
And a pallid, tearless woman
By the cold earth sits alone,
And the old clock in the corner
Ticks on with a steady drone.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
BY GEORGE H. BOKER.
[Extract from a Poem delivered before the Harvard Phi Beta Kappa Society at its last anniversary.]
Nor in your prayers forget the martyred Chief,
Fallen for the gospel of your own belief,
Who, ere he mounted to the people's throne,
Asked for your prayers, and joined in them his own.
I knew the man. I see him, as he stands
With gifts of mercy in his outstretched hands;
A kindly light within his gentle eyes,
Sad as the toil in which his heart grew wise;
His lips half parted with the constant smile
That kindled truth, but foiled the deepest guile;
His head beat forward, and his willing ear
Divinely patient, right and wrong to hear:
Great in his goodness, humble in his state,
Firm in his purpose, yet not passionate,
He led his people with a tender hand,
And won by love a sway beyond command.
Summoned by lot to mitigate a time
Frenzied with rage, unscrupulous with crime,
He bore his mission with so meek a heart
That Heaven itself took up his people's part;
And when he faltered, helped him ere he fell,
Eking his efforts out by miracle.
No king this man, by grace of God's intent;
No, something better, freeman—President!
A nature modeled on a higher plan,
Lord of himself, an inborn gentleman.
AT BAY RIDGE, LONG- ISLAND.
BY T. R.B. ALDRICH.
Pleasant it is to lie amid the grass
Under these shady locusts, half the day,
Watching the ships reflected on the Bay;
Topmast and shroud, as in a wizard's glass;
To see the happy-hearted martins pass,
Brushing the dew-drops from the lilac-spray;
Or else to hang enamored o'er some lay
Of faery regions; or to muse, alas!
On Dante, exiled, journeying outworn;
On patient Milton's sorrowfullest eyes,
Shut from the splendors of the Night and Morn;
To think that now, beneath the Italian skies,
In such clear air as this, by Tiber's wave,
Daisies are trembling over Keats's grave.
—September Atlantic Monthly.
<c02>
The Liberator.
HATRED OF THE NEGRO.
The (London) Spectator of August 26th publishes a letter from its special correspondent at New York, which endeavors to justify the prejudice felt by the white people of the United States against negroes. It disclaims all purpose to justify or excuse the overt acts of persecution to which this prejudice gives rise, yet represents the repugnance as natural and inevitable, and even as "an active moral force among the people of this country." This aversion (he says in another place) "is one of the great moral forces, nay, is the great moral force, which must be taken into consideration in the restoration of this country to tranquillity and prosperity." The deceptive representation, that a hearty dislike of one's neighbor is natural and necessary, is practically a help to the persecution in question as effective as a formal justification of it.
The editor of the Spectator declares his dissent from the statements and conclusions of his correspondent in the following paragraph:-
"We publish, though with regret, a letter from our ‘Yankee' correspondent, expressing in full measure the hatred felt by many persons in the North towards the negro. As a sketch of opinion it is valuable, but we can endorse neither his facts nor arguments. He says 'loathing' between the two races is so deep-seated that amalgamation is impossible; we say that one third of the slaves are, as appears from their color, the result of that amalgamation. He says the presence of negroes in Congress is impossible; we say that it is found easy in Jamaica. He says that the intense irritation created by the marriage of a white woman to a negro—under which term he includes quadroons—proves a natural antipathy; we say that the same irritation is felt in India, where both races are Caucasian, and where no one talks of instinctive antipathies. Indeed, precisely the same difference between the sexes is made in England. If a man marries his housemaid he is thought silly, but there is no forgiveness for a woman who marries her footman. Besides, the assumption that if the negroes enjoy the suffrage they will intermarry with whites is entirely baseless. In India Sudras and Brahmins have identical civil rights, but relations between them, licit or illicit, are simply impossible."
But there are other mis statements in the letter besides those above correctly alluded to and answered by the editor. It seeks to gain favor with the British public for those whose repugnance to the negro it declares to be a natural and necessary fact—namely, the mass of the Northern people—by assuming that the detestation of slavery felt by the North was its reason for engaging in the war. Nothing could be more false. The United States took arms because a war was begun against them by an armed force, having numerous and powerful allies, which had already seized a portion of this nation's territory, and was going on to seize more, with the expressed intention of taking possession of the Capital. It was a war, on our side, simply of self-defence, without any other moral element, at the beginning, than the instinctive desire to maintain our own right position against assault. In the course of the war, "military necessity" caused other considerations to be mixed with this. But for the war movements of the United States for the first year, this was the sole motive.
The "Yankee" who writes to the Spectator assumes also, as a settled matter, that freedom, (real freedom, be it understood, and not the wretched instalments of it or substitutes for it that we have given,) would be, to the great majority of negroes of the present generation, "a boon only in name." Here there is a complete ignoring of the shameful delays and oppositions by our Government and people to the gift of full and universal liberty to all the slaves, and the evil effects of this refusal of justice on our part, are impudently passed to the discredit of liberty itself.
When "Yankee" proceeds to assert that the antipathy of which he speaks "exists here quite as strongly among the anti-slavery people, even the abolitionists, as among those who defend slavery," he does not merely make a misstatement, he tells a lie. Any considerable acquaintance with abolitionists, even a habit of attending anti-slavery meetings, would have made such a mistake impossible to an honest man; and without such acquaintance, the correspondent of the Spectator had no right to make such an assertion.
When he says that "this feeling pervades all classes here, without being affected at all by culture or position," there is a certain degree of truth in the statement, because this base prejudice is found alike among high and low, rich and poor, learned and ignorant. But yet, in this assertion, he ignores and conceals the fact that "this feeling," instead of being a natural one, has been created as well as perpetuated "by culture." The slaveholding class, especially their literary men (and women) and their clergy, have made special efforts to teach this doctrine, (of the impossibility of accepting negroes as the equals of white people,) and the literati and clergy of the North have accepted and echoed it.
It is said that the writer of this infamous letter is Rev. Richard Grant White, the accomplished editor of Shakespeare, and author of "The New Gospel of Peace." I trust, for his credit, that this may be an incorrect report.—C. K. W.
THE RIGHT OF SUFFRAGE.
Congress must decide who shall Vote in the Federal Government—Equality before the Law—Saved by the Negro Ballot.
UNITY, (N. H.,) Sept. 12, 1865. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND— I wrote to you from Ludlow and Bethel, Vt., giving an account of my labors in those places. Since then, I have lectured six times in Lebanon, Enfield and vicinity in this State, and twice in this place, making Equality before God and the Law my theme. My great text is-"ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL." I am in one of the most pro-slavery Democratic Districts of the State. It is good to be here. There are those, in this region, as there are all over the North, who, when brought to the test, deny this great "self-evident truth" that, in theory, underlies our national existence. They have the lying audacity to call themselves democrats. So deep and malignant is their hatred of the negro, that they stultify and degrade themselves, and identify themselves with earth's greatest tyrants, by denying that great principle on which rests the hope of earth's toiling millions. They would rather see this republic blasted from the map of nations by drunken, brutal, slave-breeding and slave-driving rebellious white men, than see it saved by the ballot in the hand of the negro.
In lecturing, I take the ground that Congress (not the President) has a Constitutional right to say who shall take part as voters in administering the Federal Government. The States have a right to decide who shall vote in administering State Government; but Congress alone is empowered to say who shall use the ballot in electing the law-makers and law-executors of the Federal Government. Congress can, also, say whether a State, sueing for admission into the Union, has the necessary Constitutional qualifications for admission.
At the last anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, held in Boston, Jan. 26 and 27, I moved that "the Society petition Congress to propose an amendment of the Constitution prohibiting all distinctions among the people of the different States, based on race or color, in regard to the use of the ballot, and of holding office." This was voted down. I then offered another resolution, that "the Executive Committee be instructed at once to prepare and forward to Congress a memorial asking that it forthwith adopt a rule that neither Louisiana nor any other State shall ever be admitted into the Union, except on the basis of equality, as to the right of suffrage, without regard to color."
This was also voted down by those who controlled the meeting, assuming all the while that they were the special friends of "impartial justice and equal rights." I have never been able to see the justice
<c03>
of their assumption, nor of their voting down the resolutions. I then thought and still think that this is the work to be done by the true friends of justice and freedom. The surest and speediest way to settle the great questions that now threaten the peace and permanence of the republic is for Congress, by amendment of the Constitution, or by positive enactment or declaration, to decide, once for all, that color shall not enter into the qualifications of electors and officeholders in the Federal Government. This Congress has an undisputed right to do. Also, that no State shall ever be admitted with a Constitution basing the elective franchise on color.
Should Congress adopt such a rule the coming session, in one year the people of all classes, in the North, would rejoice in it. They would feel relieved from a heavy burden of conscious wrong and outrage; for there is a consciousness of injustice pervading the North, and will be, so long as the negro, who has saved the republic by his bullet and his blood, is deprived of the privilege of aiding to administer it by his ballot and his loyalty. Let Congress tell the nation and the world what is hereafter to be meant by the phrase, "a republican government." Is class legislation, based on color, consistent with such a Government? Is "equality before the law" the one essential item of the American Republic? Or must human beings be taxed to support a government which excludes them from all participation and representation in it, because of their color or their sex? "Taxation without Representation"! Is this the type and the basis of American democracy? If so, let it be known to all the world; let the line be drawn. The American Republic demands the property and life of the negro, to save the Government Will it now deny him representation because God made him black? Will it seize the property of all the women to sustain the Government, and then deny them representation because God made them women;—while it admits drunkards, drunkard-makers, traitors, robbers, murderers, and those who have butchered half a million of our sons and brothers to representation, to be voters and office-holders because they are white men?
It is true of nations as of individuals—we find what we carry. As a nation, we have carried in our bosomed this great and fatal wrong. We have found the result in the conflict of bullets the past four years. Shall we continue to carry this murderous spirit of foul injustice to the negro? If so, we shall surely, at no distant day, again find—WHAT WE CARRY.
It is also true of nations as of individuals—WE FIND WHAT WE DESERVE. Through its compromises with kidnappers and man-stealers, the republic has been, for seventy-five years, recreant to that self-evident truth of equality before the law that underlies its existence, and which makes it to be regarded as the hope of nations—as "the land of the free and the home of the oppressed of all lands." Never on earth have crimes so deep and horrible been justified by law, and such injustice and cruelty controlled the legislative, judicial and executive branches of a government. Civil war never before visited a nation in such gigantic and bloody proportions as it has visited us. We have deserved it all; and in this four years of blood and anguish, we have found only what we deserved.
Now, in the reconstruction of our national fabric, let us beware how we burden our posterity with a load of crime and blood such as our fathers left to us. To this end, let all who can wield influence by tongue or type, or by both, go to work to bring a power to bear on Congress next session that shall compel it to enact a rule, that henceforth the Federal Government shall be administered on "the self-evident truth that all men are created equal."
How terribly true has the experience of the past four years proved to be the warning of Jefferson to this republic: "God is just, and his justice will not sleep forever!" Let us call on Congress to remember this fact in its reconstruction policy: The republic has been saved by the negro bullet. Now it must be saved, if saved it is to be, by the negro ballot,. Give the negro the ballot as the white man has it, and this Messiah of Nations will live. Deny it to him because of his color, and thus legalize this hatred and injustice to the negro, and the republic must surely, die. God save the American republic as based on the self-evident truth that "ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL"!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
WILL THE FREED NEGRO RACE AT THE SOUTH DIE OUT?
Now that the negroes will be no longer cared for and protected by their masters, they will soon die out before civilization and competition, just as the Indians have." Such, in substance, is the prediction which for the last two months has been so generally in the mouth of the whites of the South, and which has found its way into almost every letter from that quarter of the country. It has chimed in with the prejudices and preconceptions of a large class at the North, and has gone quite the round of the press, unchallenged even where it ought to have been summarily arrested and condemned. The origin and prevalence of this opinion at the South are readily accounted for. The mortality among the blacks has been lately quite striking. The paternity of the thought, also, it is not difficult to trace to the wish, and to the father's partial eyes no flaw is ever seen in the child. If the emancipation of the negro is destined to result only in his extinction, "the sacred institution" is justified in its name, and its overthrow is not a blessing but a curse. The extinction of the race would cut the Gordian knot of the negro problem. With some it is the solacing grumble in which they vent their feelings as they yield to the inevitable necessity of emancipation; with others, we fear, from acts that have lately been reported, the origin of the prediction was not merely a devout wish to behold that particular consummation, but also a determined purpose to help it on themselves. The prophecy, it is evident, will be of use in the future to explain and justify the desired result as a natural one, whatever means have been actually employed to bring it about.
But we must resort to other reasons to explain the belief in the coming doom of the negro, which is held by such patriots as Gov. Brownlow, for example. The same prediction has been expressed, also, in a place whence it derives, perhaps, a kind of official authority, and where it may call for examination, as the assertion of private persons would not, viz., in the Census Report of the United States for 1860. We therefore beg attention to a few facts and considerations which would be, perhaps, dry and uninteresting did they not bear upon a question involving the fate of a numerous race, and the great acts of our national Government in the last three years.
The question is, Is there any sufficient reason for believing that the negro race will, as is the prevalent supposition, inevitably die out, now that it has been freed? There has, indeed, been an unprecedented mortality among the negroes during the last nine months. But this has been owing to temporary causes, to the hardships and exposure, to disease which the negroes have suffered in following our armies, and in the quarters of the large cities where they have congregated to escape from their old masters, and gain the protection of the Union garrisons; to the disturbance in their habits which the change in their condition has effected; and to, the general destitution and suffering which the ravages of war have caused for a time in the South. Similar causes have produced a great mortality among the white population, also, of the South, as well among those who have not been on battle-fields and in camps, as among those that have. When society is again settled, this exceptional mortality will cease with the cessation of its exceptional causes. When the blacks have had their jubilee and holiday, the industrial instinct which the laboring habits of generations have created within them will re-assert itself, and unite with necessity and the demand for their services which the revival of trade and industry in the South will evoke, in sending them to self-sustaining work. Certainly, the experience of the British West Indies in the thirty years since emancipation took place; the experience of Port Royal and the neighboring islands in the last two years; the experience which we had in our free colored population before the war, among whom there was rarely to be found a beggar or a recipient of public charity, proves that the negroes are always willing to work when they can get fair treatment and regular pay, and that they are both able and willing to
<c04>
support themselves if they are given any approach to a fair chance of doing so.
But "'Lo! the poor Indian’—in his past see the future of the negro," our prophets cry. "The contact of a more civilized with a less civilized race is inevitably fatal to the latter," they say with an assured air, as if they were quoting a settled scientific and ethnological law. If such is the general rule, it is a rule that has altogether too many exceptions to admit of its being accepted as absolute or of conclusive force as an argument. The contact of races of diverse character and origin, and of different grades of civilization, is by no means necessarily fatal to either. They may unite together, as the Celtic and Teutonic nations with the Romans, or as the Greeks and the Turks; or they may live side by side for centuries, each filling their separate place in the State, as the light Caucasian Hindoos and the black Turanian tribes in Hindostan. The rude Saxon peasants and burghers not only held out against the supremacy and oppression of the polished Norman lords, against knightly skill and strength, and priestly and legal learning, but eventually, by force of industry and commercial enterprise, regained ascendancy. And where the conflict of races has been ended only by the elimination of one of the antagonistic elements, as many instances, we think, might be adduced where the rugged vigor of the lower race has trampled the higher civilized under foot and out of existence, as where the lower has melted away before the skill and intellect of civilization.
The license of semi-civilized life has often sapped the morale and vital power of cultivated races, as well as the vices of civilized life consumed the savage. In Malacca and Eastern Africa, the Portuguese have become more degraded than the natives among whom they live, and whom they once held as conquered subjects. The same phenomenon is exhibited by the Arabs in Nubia. In South America, the Spanish and Portuguese conquerors are dwindling away, and seem destined to yield the predominance to the mixed races.
The appeal to the fate of the Indian is a good illustration of the attractions which historical analogies have as arguments, and the readiness with which they are accepted as trusted evidence, in spite of their well-known liability to fail in holding good. The fact that history is proverbially our teacher and guide as respects the future, gives an immediate authority to whatever lesson is assumed to be drawn from it, just as the holiness of a mediaeval sanctuary afforded protection and even an odor of sanctity to the rascality of all who get within its walls. For what particular reasons, and in what particular ways, has the contact of the Indian and the white race been fatal to the Indian? Because, as a little reflection will tell every one, the Indian will not be coaxed, and cannot be forced, for any length of time, to steady labor and the peaceful pursuits of civilized life; because he had rather perish than give up his savage independence; because of his defiant pride and passionate vindictiveness, and the incessant hostilities that have been the result of these qualities; because, in too great part, we fear, of the merciless covetousness and hatred of our own race; and, lastly, because all the good tendencies of his nature and those of civilized life are antagonistic, and only in vice does he easily assimilate himself to its members. It has never been found possible to make a useful slave of the Indian. The attempt was made in the West Indies, and failed; and the importation of negro slaves was then first commenced, precisely because it was found impossible to make a slave of the Indian. The negro and the Indian are, perhaps, more opposite in character than any two other races on the earth. The qualities of which the Indian is destitute, and the lack of which unfits him for civilization—docility, patience under injury, respect for superiors, desire of the praise of others, local attachments, aptitude for steady pursuits—the negro possesses in a high degree. It was these virtues that made his long enslavement possible, and they naturally fit him for a place in civilized society. The vice of intemperance, which has made such havoc among the Indians, has never been prevalent in the African race.
The capability of the negro to bear hardships is much greater than that of the Indian. Of the causes, then, that worked the destruction of the Indian, there is only one that is liable to act on the negro, and that is, the excessive and undeserved hatred and cruelty of his white superior. Will those who prophesy a coming fate for the negro similar to that of the Indian, admit that this cause will produce it? There is, at least, no natural cause, no cause arising from the character of the negro, or from the natural workings of the contact and competition of the two races, that affords reason to expect for the negro, now that he is freed, a similar fate to that which is overtaking the Indian.
We cannot reason from the history of the Indian to the probable history of the negro, because of the opposition in character and situation between the two. But if it is possible to draw any trustworthy lesson from the past to guide us in conjecturing the future of the African race, surely we can do so from the history of that part of the same race which formerly was in possession of the same freedom whose effect on the rest of the race it is prophesied will be so fatal. Was our old free colored population, in its lack of the care and protection of masters, dying out before the competition and civilization of the whites by whom they were surrounded, or were they flourishing and augmenting at a fair rate of increase? The official census reports give the increase of the free colored population of the United States since 1800, as follows:
In 1800, 82,28 per cent. In 1840, 20,87 per cent,
1810, 72,00 " 1850, 12,46"
1820, 25,23 " 1860, 12,32"
1830, 36,87 " 
The average of these percentages is 37,43, and the lowest 12,32. But this increase, it may be said, is in great part artificial, caused merely by the number of slaves who have been manumitted or escaped from their masters. Let us see to what extent the lowest rate of increase, that, namely, during the last ten years, will be reduced by separating these artificial elements from the natural increase or the gain of births over deaths. The number of slaves manumitted in the last ten years is estimated, in the Census Report of 1860, at 20,000. From the data which are there given about fugitive slaves, 8,000 may be considered a large estimate for the number of those fugitives who were either numbered among the free colored population or escaped to Canada. The actual increase of 58,521 from 1850 to 1860, given by the Census Report, must, then, be diminished by about 28,000. But, on the other hand, this is nearly balanced by the addition that must be made for the number removed from the country by the Colonization Society, and by the number who have removed to Canada during the last ten years. The former number is about 5,000. The latter number cannot be estimated at less than 15,000; for by the Parliamentary return, for 1851, the colored inhabitants of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick were only 5,968; in upper and Lower Canada they amounted in the same year to about 9,000, making about 15,000 in all; while, by an official return for 1862, printed by order of the House of Commons, there was then in the same provinces a colored population of 34,257. The natural increase, then, of our free colored population between 1850 and 1860 is about 8,000. less than the gross increase of 53,521 given by the Census Report—that is, it is an increase of 45,521 on a population in 1850 of 434,449, or an increase of 10.5 per cent. This per cent, of increase may seem low when compared with that of the white or former slave population of this country. The increase of the white population between 1850 and 1860 is given by the Census Report as 37.97 per cent, and the increase of the slave population as 23.39 per cent. Corrected, however, for the 2,200,000 immigrants that have swelled the increase of the white population, and for the 28,000 manumitted and fugitive slaves, by whom that of the slave population has been diminished, the natural increase of the white and slave population during the last decade was 26.6 and 24.4 per cent respectively; each of which is more than double the increase per cent among the free colored. But when we compare the increase among the free colored in the last decennial period, not with the exceptional increase of population in this country, but with the movement of European populations, it will appear to be a very fair rate of increase. The increase of England and Wales in the last ten years, with the number of those who emigrated from the country added to the increase in the country, was 13.5 per cent. The increase in Scotland, corrected as before for emigration, was only about 9 per cent. The actual increase in France in the same period is only 3.77 per cent, and even when the increase in the country is augmented by the number of immigrants, the total increase will amount to little more than 4 per cent. The increase of the German Confederation, corrected for the emigration to America, is only a frac-
<c05>
tion over 6 per cent. That of Austria is 7.40 per cent.; that of Prussia, about 13 per cent.; that of Russia, 9.80; that of Belgium, 7.6. The average of Italy for the last three quarters of a century is only 9.50 per cent, for each decade; while the increase of the population of the five great European powers taken together, during the last decennial period, is barely above 9 per cent. Yet no serious apprehensions, we imagine, are felt that the population of any of these European States is dying out.
It perhaps may be said that though the increase of the free colored population has not yet fallen below that of European countries, the rapid diminution of the rate of increase which that class has exhibited would soon have changed the per cent from the side of gain to that of loss, and points plainly to an ultimate and not far distant extinction of the race. But a similar constant decline in the rate of increase is shown by our white population, by England, and by several other European countries. The rate of natural increase of the white population of this country has declined by a steady decrease of between one and two per cent, from 33.9 in 1800 to 29.8 in 1840 (vide Census Report for 1860, p. xl.) and to 26.6 in 1860. The rate of increase in England for the last forty years has been about one per cent, less every decennial period. In the last decennial period, the rate of natural increase diminished about two per cent In Austria the rate of increase has diminished fourteen per cent in all in the last four decades. If we could disengage the natural rate of increase of our free colored population from the other circumstances that formerly gave the reported increase a factitious magnitude, it would be found, we think, that the diminution in the rate has not been so excessive as to justify any serious apprehensions. In the first part of the present century, the emancipation acts of many Northern States increased the number of the free colored by thousands; and that number was augmented in a much greater proportion than it has ever been since by manumission, for then slavery was regarded as an institution not sacred, but destined soon to die out, and manumission was an act not frowned upon by society, and made almost impossible by legal impediments, but encouraged and admired, and the freeing of all the slaves on an estate upon the death of the master was a common occurrence. It is noticeable, moreover, that in the last twenty years the rate of increase has altered scarcely at all; the rate between 1850 and 1860 being only a tenth of one per cent less than the rate of increase in the ten years previous.
In the Census Report of 1860, the slow increase in the free colored population of the Northern States is maintained to be due in great part to "their indifference as a class to virtuous moral restraint," a fact which is shown beyond all doubt, by the presence of the large proportion of 36.22 per cent, of mulattoes among the whole free colored population. "This development of the Census," it is said furthermore, "indicates with unerring certainty the gradual extinction of the race, in proportion as, whether free or slave, they become more diffused among the dominant race," as they will be, it is added below, by the extinction of slavery. This mischievous cause and the fatal result which "with these lights before us we need not look forward to centuries to develop," are expatiated on at length. But when we turn to the tables that give the proportion of the mulattoes to the total free colored population, which are the luminaries that we are told will reveal these shadows of coming events, we find a set of facts which can only be made to point to these conclusions by very ingenious twisting.
We find that the proportion of the mulattoes to the total free colored population throughout the United States has diminished, instead of increased, in the last decennial period. In the Northern States, it is true, the proportion of the mulattoes to the whole free colored population of those States in 1860 is 2 per cent, more than in 1850. But such a small gain in ten years is totally inadequate to account for the 30 per cent, of mulattoes among the free colored population of the Northern States; and in the Southern States, where the proportion of mulattoes among the free colored is 40.77 per cent, the proportion diminished 2.18 per cent. If the great proportion of mulattoes among our free colored population is due to "an unfavorable moral condition among them" at any time, the diminution of the proportion of mulattoes since 1850 shows that this condition has ceased to exist in any but a very trifling degree; and the fact, which is exhibited by these same tables, that the proportion of the mulattoes among the slaves increased over 3 per cent, in the last decennial period, shows that this "unfavorable moral condition" is certainly amended by the transition of the race from slavery to freedom. The simple explanation of the great proportion of the mulattoes among the free colored is that, from the superior intelligence and spirit of the mulattoes, from their more generally holding the position of house-servants, and sometimes from peculiar relations to their masters, a much greater proportion of them have gained manumission or made their escape from slavery.
The slow increase of our free colored population in the last few decades—slow, that is, in comparison with the rapid rate of the rest of our population—is due to their anomalous condition as a small body of former slaves, or the descendants, more or less removed, of slaves—to the legal disabilities, social persecutions, physical hardships, and frequent personal violence to which the influence of slavery and the slave power exposed them; and, especially, to the great mortality resulting among them from the incongenial climate of the Northern States in which large numbers had to take refuge. In the Report of a Commission appointed by the Secretary of War in 1863 on the condition of the Freedmen, a table of deaths in six Northern and five Southern cities is given, which shows that the mortality in Northern cities is much greater among the colored than among the whites, while in Southern cities the average is about the same. The fact that the falling off of the rate of increase immediately, followed that period (about 1830) when the change in public feeling toward the negro took place, is significant of the true causes of the lessening of the increase. Two other causes which contributed, though in a less degree, to the same result may be mentioned. A disproportion ate part of the free colored were beyond the productive age, the reason of which was probably the preference shown to the aged slaves in manumission—a reason which also explains the otherwise strange contradiction that while the mortality among the free colored was much greater than among the whites, the average length of life among the free colored was also greater. The temporary accession of this class made the increase of the permanent body of the free colored seem less. There was also an injurious inequality between the sexes. The announcement of Gov. Andrew some little while ago, that there was an excess of 40,000 females in the State of Massachusetts excited considerable attention. In the free colored population of the Southern States, in 1860, the excess of females was even greater in proportion to the whole body. It amounted to 12, 000 in a population of only 260,000, or thirteen women to twelve men. This circumstance also contributed to retard the increase of the free colored class. That in spite of all these adverse circumstances, our old free colored population before the war not only sustained itself against the competition of the white race by which it was surrounded, but steadily augmented by natural increase at a rate, at its lowest, greater than the average of the five great European powers, proves, as conclusively as anything can be proved in regard to the future, that the rest of the race in the South, now that it also has been freed, is not destined to become extinct from any natural decrease or any ordinary adversity of circumstances, and affords us good augury of its future progress in the congenial climate of the South, relieved from most of those anomalous obstructions which checked the growth of our old free colored population.
At a recent meeting of the London Anthropological Society, men of scientific aspirations, as we remarked in a former article, gravely announced that, in their opinion, the white race in America is degenerating and will probably become extinct. The realization of this absurd prediction is only a little less improbable than the realization, from natural causes, of the prediction which we have been discussing. We do not expect that the blacks at the South, with the responsibilities of freemen which they will now have, will increase as rapidly as when they were slaves. But the extinction of the race can be argued only on the supposition of the exercise of excessive oppression and cruelty towards them by the whites. Their own hearts will tell the people of the South whether that supposition is a calumny on their justice and charity and Christianity, or not. We, for our part, will not yet entertain the supposition; but we would have the friends of the freedmen aware of their natural capabilities and natural prospects; we would have those, if there are any such, who are inclined to use the prophecy of the natural dying out
<c06>
of the freed negro race at the South, as an excuse for doing what they can to bring that result about, know that the pretext will not avail them; and we would have the country know to what cause that result, if it does take place, will have to be assigned.—The Nation, New York.
EQUAL REPRESENTATION.
The National Constitution provides (Art. 1, Sec. 3), that "representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included in the Union, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other persons." The country had become accustomed under this provision to see twenty or thirty members of Congress representing the slaves, but chosen by their masters and their foes, and legislating expressly to tighten and perpetuate the shackles upon their constituents. By the force of this Constitution, when, under the President's Proclamation, the slaves became "free persons," they were entitled to full and equal representation in Congress and in the electoral college, with the most favored of our population. The apportionment of representatives is made every ten years, and was made in 1861; for the present, the freedmen will have only the three-fifths representation to which they were entitled in servitude; but when the new apportionment shall be made, the Constitution guarantees to them full equality with other "free persons" in the basis of representation. If the freed population shall number four millions, and the State of New York shall contain four millions of inhabitants, both will be entitled to the same number of representatives in Congress, and in the electoral college. There is an apparent exception in the matter of Senators, and Senatorial electors, but as the freedmen will exceed the population of any single State, they will stand for more than one State's representation in the Senate. Under the present provisions of the National Constitution, therefore, the freedmen will be entitled to full and equal representation in Congress and the electoral college. This is not the demand of modern radicals; it is the provision of the fathers of the Republic. If this is a recognition of negro equality, that doctrine is written plainly and indelibly in the National Constitution. For that document does not recognize any distinctions on account of color or nationality. It places all free persons on precisely the same footing. It provides for them absolute equality of representation.
It is settled, then, by the supreme law of the land, that the freedmen shall be represented in Congress and in the electoral college. Can it be an open question who shall elect their representatives? If the suffrage is denied to them, the whites of their respective States will choose congressmen and electors who will stand for the freedmen. Bear in mind that these classes are antagonistic in supposed interests; that the antagonism of the war has arrayed them against each other; for the one was wholly loyal, and the other, with few exceptions, disloyal; that the theory of the old dominant faction is that the freedmen "must be kept down." Consider, then, the enormity of conceding to the former rulers of the South the privilege of sending of Congress forty members on the pretence of representing the freedmen! Forty members of Congress, and forty members of the electoral college, might, in many cases, control the legislation and the whole government of the country. Have the whites of the South done anything to entitle them to this superiority above the loyal men of the North?
For this is the real question. Shall the whites of the South have a greater voice in the National Legislature than the same number of people in New England and New York? In many of the Southern districts, the freed population will equal the whites in numbers—and if the former are not admitted to the ballot, the latter will, in such case, count just twice as much as their peers at the North. The vote of a congressional district at the North is from twenty-five to thirty thousand; count the freedmen under the Constitution, but deny them votes, and one-half as many electors would be required at the South to choose a congressman. This is not a forced supposition, even under the three fifths rule. In the Raleigh (N. C. district—(in 1852, the latest at hand for comparison)—14,858 voters elected a congressman, while, in New York, the votes ranged from 25,000 to 30,000 in each district; and yet in these counties in North Carolina there were 5,686 male whites over twenty years of age, who could not read and write. The population of the disorganized States will be about eight millions of whites and four millions colored. After counting in the latter as a basis of representation, two whites at the South will have the same value and force at the ballot-box, as three of the most intelligent and worthy loyal men at the North.
Is this to be endured? It is not a question of negro equality. It concerns our own rights and honor—the rights and honor of every loyal citizen in the North. We accept the constitutional rule of equal representation. But we demand that the people lately in rebellion shall have no superior privileges over us. Grant that their votes are as good as those of men who have never struck with red hands at the nation's life. The same number of electors shall stand for no more in Mississippi than in New York—for no more in South Carolina than in Massachusetts. We have a right to insist on our own equality, and to establish it in any plan of restoration on a firm and sure basis. Votes North shall count as much as rotes South, to elect Congressmen or Presidents. There is a plain and just method to secure this result. In one way or another it must be secured, and the sooner the spirit of the Constitution is embodied in suffrage, the better for the united and restored country.—Utica Herald.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
IS a concentrated extract of the choice root, as combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this has, of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the following complaints:—
Scrofula, Scrofulous Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, &c.
Syphilis or Veneral Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient is left in comparative health.
Female Diseases are caused by Scrofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarsaparilla, while it was not. When you have used AYER'S, then, and not till then, will you know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the diseases it cures, we refer you to Ayer's American Almanac, which the agent below named will furnish gratis to all who call for it.
AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS, for the cure of Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropay, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner Pill.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best Aperients in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass, and sold by all druggists.
Aug. 4. 2m.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing 
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to 
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

