Our Foreign Relations
THE HON. CHARLES SUMNER’S SPEECH AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE, NEW-YORK CITY.
<c01>
THE LIBERATOR.
EXTRA.
<illegible>FOREIGN RELATIONS;
<illegible> Perils from England and France; The <illegible> and Conditions of Intervention by Mediation; And also by Recognition; The Impossibility of any Recognition of a New Power with Slavery as a Corner-Stone; And the Wrongful Concession of Ocean Belligerency.

SPEECH
OF THE
HON CHARLES SUMNER,
BEFORE THE
CITIZENS OF NEW-YORK, AT COOPER INSTITUTE,
September 10, 1863.
Cooper Institute was filled to overflowing with a politic and enthusiastic audience, convened to the Hon. Charles Sumner deliver his address on the subject of our Foreign Relations.
Long before the time appointed for opening <illegible> meeting, every seat was occupied and the platform and sisters were crowed with spectra<illegible>.
When the distinguished Senator made his appearance, he was greeted with the warmest <illegible> of approval, cheer following until the fast hall shook with the ringing
<Illegible>
<c02>
the conflict; but the examples of history show how difficult this has been.
The seven United Provinces of Holland, under that illustrious character, William of Orange, the predecessor and exemplar of our Washington, rose against the dominion of Spain, upheld by the bigotry of Philip II., and the barbarity of his representative, Alva; but the conflict, though at first limited to the two parties, was not slow to engage Queen Elisabeth, who lent to this war of Independence the name of her favorite Leicester and the undying heroism of Sidney, while Spain resented by the Armada. The United Provinces of Holland, in their struggle for Independence, were the prototype of the United States of America, which I need not remind you, drew into their contest the arms of France, Spain, end Holland. In the rising of the Spanish Colonies which followed, there was less interposition of other nations, doubtless from the distant and outlying position of these Colonies, although they were not bay, although they were not beyond the ambitions out reach of the Holy Alliance, whose purposes with regard to them were so far thwarted by Mr. Canning backed by the declaration of Mr. Munroe —known at the Monroe doctrine—that the British Statesman felt authorised to bout that he had called a New World into existence to redress the balance of the Old. Then came the straggle for Greek Independence, which, after a conflict of several years, darkened by massacre, but relieved by an exalted self-sacrifice, shining with names like Byron and Bozarris, that cannot die, at length challenged the powerful interposition of England, France, and Russia. The Independence of Greece was hardly acknowledged, when Belgium, renouncing the rule of the Netherlands, claimed her’s also, and here again the Great Powers of Europe were drawn into the contest. Then came the effort of Hungary, inspired by Kossuth, which, when about to prevail, aroused the armies of Russia. There was also the cotemporaneous’ effort of the Roman Republic, under Mazzini, which when about to prevail, aroused the bayonets of France. And lastly, we have only recently witnessed the resurrection of Italy, inspired by Garibaldi, end directed by Cavour; but it was not accomplished until Louis Napoleon, with his well-trained legions, carried the imperial eagles into the battle. 
Such are famous instances, which are now so many warnings. Ponder them and you will see the tendency, the temptation, the irresistible fascination, or the commanding exigency under which, in time past, Foreign Nations have been led to take part in conflicts for Independence. I do not dwell now on the character of the various interventions, although they have been mostly in the interest of Human Freedom. It is only as examples to put us on our guard that I now adduce them. The fort prints all seem to lead one way.
But even our war is not without its warnings.’ If thus far in its progress other nations have not intervened they have not succeeded in keeping entirely aloof. The foreign trumpet has not sounded yet; but more than once the cry has come that we should soon hear it, while incidents have too often occurred, exhibiting an abnormal watchfulness of our affairs and an uncontrollable passion or purpose to intermeddle in them with signs of unfriendly feeling. Of course, this is applicable especially, if not exclusively, to England and France. 
PERILS FROM ENGLAND
1. There is one act of the British Cabinet which stands foremost as an omen of peril—foremost in time, foremost also in the magnitude of its consequences. Though plausible in form, it is none the less injurious or unjustifiable. Of course I refer to that inconsiderate Proclamation in the name of the Queen, as early as May, 1861, which, after raising Rebel Slave-mongers to an equality with the National Government in Belligerent Rights, solemnly declares “neutrality” between two equal parties as if the declaration of equality was not an insult to the National Government, and the declaration of neutrality was not a moral absurdity, offensive to reason and all those precedents which make the glory of the British name. Even if the Proclamation on could be otherwise than improper at any stage: of such a Rebellion, it was worse than a blundering that early date. The apparent relations between the two Powers were more than friendly. Only a few months before, the youthful heir to the British throne had been welcomed everywhere throughout the United States—except in Richmond—as in the land of kinsmen. And yet, immediately after the tiding of the Rebel assault upon Fort Sumter—before the National Government had begun to put forth its strength—and earn without waiting for the its, arrival of our newly-appointed Minister, who was known to be at Liverpool on his way to London, the Proclamation was suddenly launched. I doubt it if any well-informed person, who has read Mr. Dallas’s dispatches of 3d May, 1861, recounting a conversation with the British Minister, will vindicate it in point of time. Clearly the alacrity of this concession was unhappy, for it bore an air of defiance, or at least of heartlessness toward an ally of kindred blood engaged in the maintenance of its traditional power against an infamous pretension. But it was more unhappy still that the good genius of England did not save this historic nation, linked with so many triumphs of freedom, from a fatal step, which, under the guise of “neutrality,” was a betrayal of civilization itself. 
It is difficult to exaggerate the consequences of this precipitate, unfriendly, and immense concession which has been and still is an overflowing fountain of mischief and bloodshed—has font dedicate cades;—first, in what it vouchsafes to Rebel slave mongers on sea and in British ports, and secondly in the impediments which it takes from British subjects ready to make money out of Slavery;—all of which has been declared by undoubted British authority. Lord Chelmsford of professional rent renown as Sir Frederick Thee per, now an Ex-Chancellor, used these word recently in the House of Lords” If the Southern Confederacy had not been recognized as a belligerent Power he agreed with his noble and learned friend (Lord Brougham), that, and these circumstances, if any Englishman were to fit out a privateer for the purpose of assisting the Southern States against the Northern States, he would be guilty of piracy” But all this was changed by the Queen’s Proclamation. For the Rebel slave monger there is the recognition of his flag for the British subject there is the opportunity of trade. For the Rebel slave monger there is fellow hip and equality; for the British subject there is a new customer, to whom he may lawfully sell Armstrong guns and other warlike munitions of choicest British workmanship, and Lord Palmerton tells us, even ships of war too, to be used of behalf of Slavery). What was unlawful is suddenly made law-
<c03>
ful while the is taken from an odious felony. It seems almost superfluous to add, that such a concession, thus potent in its reach, must have been a direct encouragement and overdue to the rebellions. Slavery itself was exalted when barbarous pretenders battling to found a new Power in its hateful name —without so much as a single portion the ocean where a prize could be carried for condemnation—were yet, is the fact of this essential deficiency, swiftly acknowledged as ocean belligerents, while, as a consequence, their pirate ships, cruising for plunder in behalf of Slavery, were acknowledged National ships, entitled to equal privileges with National ships of the United States. This simple statement it enough. It is vain to say, that such a concession was a “necessity.” There may have been a strong temptation to it, constituting, perhaps, an imagined necessity, as with many person: is there is a strong temptation to Slavery itself. Brit such a concession to Slavemongers, fighting for Slavery, can be vindicated only as Slavery is vindicated. As “well undertake to declare “neutrality” between Right and Wrong—between Good and Evil—with a concession to the latter of Belligerent Rights, and then set up an apology of “necessity.”
2. It was natural that an act so essentially unfriendly in character and also in the alacrity with which it was done, should create throughout England an unfriendly sentiment toward us, easily stimulated to a menace of war. And this menace was not wanting soon afterward, when the two Rebel emissaries on board the Trent were seized by a patriotic, brave commander, whom highest fault was, that, in the absence of instructions from his own Government, he followed too closely British precedents. This accident—for such it was and nothing else—was misrepresented, and, with an utterly indefensible exaggeration, was changed by the British nation, backed by the British Government, into a cases bell as if such an unauthorized incident, which obviously involved no question of self-defense, could justify war between two civilized Nations. And yet, in the face of a positive declaration from the United States, that it was an accident, the British Government made preparations to take part with Rebel slave mongers, and it fitly be gun such ignoble preparations by keeping back on the British people the official dispatch of 30th November, 1861, where our Government, after announcing that Capt. Wakes had acted “without any instructions,” expressed a trust that “the British Government would consider the subject in a friendly temper,” and promised “the best disposition on our part.” It is painful to recall these things. But they now belong to history, and we cannot forget the lesson they teach. 
3. But this tendency to espouse the side of Slavery: appears in small things as well as great, become; more marked in proportion to the inconsistency involved. Thus, for instance, where two British subject a “suspected” of participation in the Rebellion were detained in a military prison, without the benefit of habeas corpus, the British Minister at Washington a was directed by her Majesty’s Government to complain of their detention at an infraction of the Constitution of the United States, of which this intermeddling Power assumed for the time to be the “expounder;” and the case was accordingly presented on this ground. But the British Cabinet, in its instinctive aptness to mix in our war, if only by diplomatic notes, seemed to have forgotten the British Constitution, under which, in 1848, with the consent of the leaders of all parties—Brougham and Derby, Peeler and D’Israeli—the ha bees corpus was suspended in Ireland, and the Government was authorized to apprehend and detain such persons as they shall suspect.” The bill sanctioning this exercise of power went through all stages in the House of Commons in one day, and on the next day it went through all its stages in the House, of Lords, pawing to be a law without a dissenting rote. It will hardly be believed that Lord Russell, who now complains of our detention of “suspected,” persons as an infraction of the Constitution of the United States, was the Minister who introduced this bill and that on that occasion he used these words: “I believe in my can science that this measure is calculated to prevent insured action, to preserve internal peace, to preserve the unity of the empire, and to save the throne of these realms and the free institutions of this country.”
4. The complaint about the habit corpus was hardly answered when another was presented, on account of the effort to complete the blockade of Charleston, by sinking at its mouth ships laden with stone, usually known as the “stone blockade.” In common times her Majesty’s Government would have shrunk from any termed ling here. It could not have forgotten that history, early and late, and especially English history, abounds similar incidents; that as long ago as 1456, as, the stage of Calais by the Duke of Burgundy, and also in 1628, at the memorable siege of Rochelle by Cardinal Richelieu, ships laden with stone were sunk in the ton that during the war of the It evolution, in 1778, six vessels were gunk by the British commander in the Savannah River, not far from this very Charleston, as a protection against the approach of the French and American naval forces; that in 1804, under the direction of the British Admiralty, an attempt was made to choke the entrance into the harbor of Boulogne by sinking stone vessels, and that in 1809 the same blockade was recommended to the Admiralty by no less a person than lord Dun Donald, with regard to another port, saying, “Ships filled with stone will ruin forever the anchorage of Aix, and some old vessels of the line well loaded would be excellent for the purpose.” But at this complaint by the British Cabinet becomes doubly strange, when it is considered that one of the most conspicuous treaties of modern history contained solemn exactions by England and France, that the harbor of Dunkirk, whose prosperity was regarded with jealousy, should be permanently “filled up,” so that it could no longer furnish its accustomed hospitalities to commerce. This was the Treaty of Utrecht, in 1713.But by the Triple Alliance, only four years later. France was constrained to stipulate again that nothing should be omitted “which Great Britain could think necessary for the entire destruction of the harbor,” and the latter Power was authorized to send commissioners as “occular witnesses of the execution of the Treaty.” These humiliating provisions were renewed in successive treat of down to the peace of Versailles in 1783, when the immunity of that harbor was recognized with American dependence. But Great Britain, when compelled to open Dunkirk, still united with the Dutch in closing the Scheldt, or as a British writer expresses it, she “became bound to assist in obstructing this navigation” (Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol. X. p. 77, article S, France), one of the two reasons put forth by Great Britain for in breaking peace with France in 1792. and entering upon has world-converting war was that this revolutionary Power had declared it would open the Scheldt. And yet it is Great Britain, thus persistent in closing ports and riven, that now interferes to warn us against a stone blockade.” 
5. The same propensity and the same inconsistency will be found is another instance, where an eminent
<c04>
<illegible> Foreign Secretary. Did not hesitate, from is place in parliament to chare the United States with making medicines and surgical instruments contraband contrary to all common laws of war contrary to all proceeds and excluding the some ignorant and barbarous age’s. Thus exclaims the noble lord, Now I have nothing is as of the propriety of making these things contra bond. My simple object is to exhibit the spirit against which we are to guard. It would be difficult to believer that such a display could be made in the fact of the historic fact exposed in the entire of peter Phymley’s Letters that Parliament 1908, by large majorities prohibited the exportation of Peruvian Back into any territory occupied by France and that this necessity measure was introduced by no less a person that Mr. Percival and commenced by him on the ground that the severest pressure was already felt on the continent from the went of this article and that it was of great importance to the armies of t he enemy. (<illegible> Parliament Debated), Such is authentic British precedent, in an age neither ignorant nor barbarous which is now ostentatiously forgotten. 
6. This same recklessness, which is of such evil omen, breaks forth again in a dispatch of the Foreign Secretary, where he undertakes to communicate to Lord Lyons the judgment of the British Cabinet on the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. Here at least, you will my, there can be no misunderstanding, and no criticism; but you are-mistaken. Such an act, having such an object, and being of such unparalleled importance, would, under any ordinary circumstances, when great passions found no vent, have been treated by the Minister of a Foreign Power with supreme caution, if not with sympathy; bat, under the terrible influence of the hour, Lord Russell, not content with condemning the Proclamation, misrepresents it in the most barefaced manner. Gathering his condemnation into one phrase, he says, that it “makes Slavery at once legal and illegal,” whereas it is obvious, on the face of the Proclamation, to the most careless observers, that, whatever may be its faults, it ii not obnoxious to this criticism, for it mates Slavery legal nowhere, while it makes it illegal in an immense territory. An official letter, so incomprehensible in motive, from a statesman usually liberal if not cautions, must be regarded as another illustration of that irritating tendency, which will be checked only when it is fully comprehended.
7. The activity of our navy is only another occasion for criticism in a similar spirit. Nothing can be done anywhere to please our self-constituted monitor. Our naval officers in the West Indies, acting under instruction modeled on the judgments of the British Admiralty are reprehended by Lord Russell in a formal dispatch. The judges in our Prize Court are Indecently belittled by this same Minister from his place in Parliament, when it is notorious that there are several who will compare favorably with any British Admiralty Judge since Lord Stowell, not even excepting that noble and upright magistrate, Dr. Lushington. And this same Minister had undertaken to throw the British shield over a newly-invented contraband trade with the Rebel slavemonger a via Metamoras, claiming that it was is “a lawful branch of commerce,” and “a perfectly to legitimate trade.” The Dolphin and Peterhoff were two ships elaborately prepared in London, for this illicit commerce, and they have been duly condemned as such; in it their seizure by our cruisers was made the occasion of official protest and complaint, with the Insinuation of “vexatious capture and arbitrary interference,” followed by the menace that, under such circumstances, “it is obvious Great Britain mast Interfere to protect her flag.” 
8. This persistent, inexorable criticism, even at the expense of all consistency or of all memory, has also broken forth in forms incompatible with that very “neutrality,” which was so early declared. It was bad enough to declare neutrality when the question was between a friendly Power and an insulting Barbarism; but it is was worse after the declaration to depart from it, in words only. The Court of Borne, at a period when it powerfully influenced the usages of nations, instructed it is cardinal Legate, on an important occasion, first, and above all things, to cultivate “indifference“ between the parties, and in this regard his conduct was to be so exact that not only should no partiality be seen in his conduct, but it should not be remarked even “ in the words of his domestics.” (Wicqnefort, Parfait Ambassadeur, Liv. ii., p. 144). If in that early day, before it earn and telegraph, or even the newspaper, neutrality was disturbed by “words,” how much more so now, when every word is multiplied indefinitely, and wafted we know not where—to begin, wherever it falls, a subtle, widespread and irrepressible influence. But this injunction is in plain harmony with the refined rule of Count Bernstoff, who in his admirable dispatch on this subject, at the time of the Armed Neutrality, says sententiously, “Neutrality does not exist when it is not perfect.” It must be clear and above suspicion. Like the reputation of a woman, it is lost when you begin to talk about it. Unhappily there is too much occasion to talk about the “neutrality” of England. I say nothing of a Parliamentary utterance that the National cause was “detested by a Urge majority of the House of Commons,” or of other most unnatural speeches. I confine myself to official declarations. Here the case is plain. Several of the British Cabinet, including the Foreign Secretary and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, two great masters of “words,” have allowed themselves. In public speeches, to characterize offensively our present effort to put down Rebel Slavemongers, as “a contest for empire on one side and for in dependence on the other.” Here were “words,” which, under a specious form, were understood to give encouragement to Rebel Slave mongers. But they were more specious than true—revealing nothing but the side espoused by the orators. Clearly on our side it is a eon test for Rational life, involving the liberty of a race. clearly on the other side it is a contest for Slavery, in order to secure for this hateful crime IK w recognition and power. Our Empire is simply to crush Rebel Slavemongers. Their Independence is simply the unscreened power to whip women and sell children. even if at the beginning, the National Government made no declaration on the subject, yet the real character of the war was none the less apparent in the repeated declarations of other side, who did not hesitate to assert their purpose to build a no Power on Slavery—as in the Italian campaign of Louis Napoleon against Austria, the object was necessarily apparent, even before the Emperor tardily at’ Milan put forth his life-giving Proclamation that Italy should be free from the Alps to the Adriatic, by which the war became, in its declared purpose, as well as in reality, a war of Liberation. That such a Rebellion should be elevated by the unnatural words” of a Foreign Cabinet, into a respectability of if which it is obviously unworthy, is only another sign which we must watch. 
9. But these same orators of the British Cabinet, not content with giving us a bad name, have allowed themselves to pronounce, against us on the whole case. They declared that the National Government cannot succeed in crushing Rebel Slavemongers, and that dismemberment is inevitable. “Jefferson Davis,” says one of them, “has created a nation.” Thus do these representatives of declared “neutrality” degrade us and exalt Slavery. But it is apparent that their annunciation though made in Parliament and repeated at public meetings, was founded less on any special information from the seat of war. disclosing its secret, than cm political theory, if not prejudice. It is true that our eloquent it teacher, Edmund Burke. In his famous letter to the Sheriffs of Bristol, vogue most persuasively that Great Britain could not proceed In reclaiming the colonels which had declared themselves independent. His reasoning, rather than his wisdom, seems to have en
<c05>
tered into and possessed the British statement of our day who do not take the trouble to see that the example of the one is not applicable to the other that the cloudless were battling to found a new power on the corner stone of liberty equality and happiness to all men which out slavemongers are battling to found a new power on the corner stone of slavery. The difference is such as to become a contrast of that whatever was once generously said in favor of American Independence now tell s with unmistaken force against this now <illegible> pretensions.
No British statesman saw the past more clearly than Lord Russell when long ago, in striking phrase, he said that England, in her war against our fathers, “had engaged for the suppression of liberty (<illegible> parliament Debates 2d series Parliamentary Debates, 2d series. Vol. viii. p. 1.036, April 16. 1823) but this precisely what Rebel Slavemongers are now doing. Men change; but principles are the same no was then. Therefore, do I say, that every sympathy formerly bestowed upon our fathers now belongs to no their children, stirring to uphold their work against bad men, who would not only break it in pieces but put in its stead as new piratical Power, whose declared object is “ the suppression of Liberty.” And yet British ministers, mounting the prophetic tripod, presume meat oracular to foretell the doom of thin Be public, Their prophecies do not disturb my confidence. I do not forget how often false prophets have appeared—including the author of the Ocean a. who published a demonstration of the impossibility of monarchy in England only six months before Charles II, entered London amid salvos of cannon, and the hurrahs of be people. Nor do I stop to consider how for such prophecies uttered in public places by British Ministers are consistent with that British “neutrality” which is so constantly boasted. Opinions are sometimes allies more potent than subsidies, especially in an age like the present. Prophesies are opinions proclaimed and projected into the future, and yet these are given freely to Rebel Slavemongers. There is matter for reflection in this instance, but I adduce it now only as another illustration of the times. Nothing can be more clear than that whosoever assumes to play the prophet becomes pledged in character and pretension to sustain his prophecy. The learned Jerome Card an, professor and doctor, and also dabbler in astrology, of great fame in the middle ages, undertook to predict the day of his death, and he maintained his character as a successful prophet by taking his own life at the appointed time. If British Ministers, who have played the prophet, escape the ordinary influences of this craft it will be from that happy nature, which has suspended for them human infirmity and human prejudice. But it becomes us to note well the increased difficulties and dangers to which on this account the Rational cause is exposed.
10. But it is not in “words only—of speeches, dispatches or declarations—that our danger ties. I am sorry to add that there are acts also with which the British Government is too closely associated. I do not refer to the unlimited supply of “munitions of war,” so that our army at Charleston, like our army at Vicksburg, is compelled to encounter Armstrong guns out Blakcley guns, with all proper ammunition, from England; for the right of British subjects to sell these articles to Rebel Slavemonger a was fixed when the latter, by sudden metamorphosis, were changed from lawless vagrants of the ocean to lawful Belligerents. Nor do I refer to the swarms of swift steamers, “a pitchy cloud warping on the Eastern wind,” always under the British flag, with contributions to Rebel Slavemongers; for these, too, enjoy a kindred immunity. Of course, no Royal Proclamation can change wrong into right or make such bushings otherwise than immoral; but the Proclamation may take from it the character of felonry. But even the Royal Proclamation gives no sanction to the preparation in England of a natal expedition against the commerce of the United States. It leaves the Parliamentary Statute, as well as the general Law of Nations, in full efficacy to restrain and punish such an offense. And yet in the face of this obvious prohibition, standing forth in the text of the law, and founded reason “before human statute purged the common weal,” also exemplified by the National Government, which, from the time of “Washington, has always guarded its ports against such outrage, powerful ships have been launched, equipped, fitted out and manned is England, with arms supplied at sea from another English vessel, and then, assuming that by this insulting hocus pocus all English liability was avoided, they have proceeded at once to rob and destroy the commerce of the United States. England la* been their natal bases from which were derived the original forces and supplies which enable them to sail the sea. Several such ships ore now depredating on the ocean, like Captain Kidd, under pretended commissions—each in itself’ a naval expedition. As England is not at war with the United States, then ships can be nothing else than pirates; and their conduct is that of pirates. Unable to provide a Court for the trial of prizes, they revive for every captured ship the barbarous Ordeal of Fire. Like pirates, they burn all that they cannot rob. Flying from sea to sea, they turn the ocean into a furnace and melting-pot of American commerce. Of these incendiaries the most famous is the Alabama, with a picked crew of British sailors, with “trained gunners out of her Majesty’s naval reserve,” and with everything else from keel to topmast British! which, after more than a year of unlawful havoc, is still burning the property of our citizens, without once entering a Rebel slavemonger port, but always keeping the umbilical connection with England, out of whose womb she sprung, and never losing the original nationality stamped upon her by origin, so that at this day she is a British pirate ship—precisely as a native-born Englishman, robbing on the high seas, and never naturalized abroad, is a British pirate subject.
It is bad enough that all this should proceed from England. It is bard to bear. Why is it not stopped at once? One cruiser might perhaps elude a watchful Government. Bat it is difficult to see how this can occur once —twice—three times-, and the cry is still they sail Two powerful rams are now announced, like stars at a theater. “Will they, too, be allowed to perform T I wish there were not too much reason to be Eave that all the performances are sustained by a prevailing British sympathy. A Frenchman, who was accidentally a prisoner on board the Alabama at the destruction of two American ships, describes a British packet in sight whose crowded passengers made the sea mound with cheers as they witnessed the captured skips handed over to the flames. The words of Lucretius were verified: Suava etiam belli certamina magna tueri. But these same cheers were echoed in Parliament, as the builder of the piratical craft gloried if Lis deed. The verse which filled the ancient theater with glad applause declared a sympathy with Humanity; but English applause is now given to Slavery audit* defenders; “I am an Englishman, and nothing of Slavery is foreign to me.” Accordingly, Slavery is helped by English arms, English gold. English ships, English speeches, English cheers. And yet for the honor of England let ft be known that there are Englishmen who have stood firm and unshaken amid this painful recurrence. Their names cannot be forgotten. And still more tot the honor of England let It be spoken that the working classes, who were called to suffer the most, have bravely borne their calamity without joining with the enemies of the Republic. Their chews have been for Freedom and not for Slavery. 
But the cheers of the House of Commons seems to prevail in her Majesty’s Government Municipal Law is violated, while International Law, in its most solemn obligation to do unto others u we would have them do
<c06>
<illegible>
Since the earliest stage of the its existence the National Government ad asserted a disturb between the two cases and so has the supreme court although these are words of story which have been latterly quested in the contrary, but the authority of the Supreme court in positive on both the points into which the British apology is divided. The first of these is that, even if a ship of war” cannot be finished, the offense is not complete until the armament is put aboard so that where the ship through fitted out and equipped in a British port awaits her argument at see she is not his to arrest. Such her as apology is an insults to the understanding and to common sense as if it was not on obvious that the offences begins with the laying of the of the heal for the hostile ship, knowing it to be such and in this spirit the supreme court has decided that it was not necessary to find that a ship on leaving port was a round or in a condition to commit hostilities for fitness are restrained from such acts as are calculated to involve the country in a war( U.S vs. quaky & peters 445) the Second apology assumes that even if the armament were aboard so that the ship of war was complete at all points still the expedition would be lawful if the juggle of a sale were audacity employed. But on this point the supreme court speaking by chief Justice Marshall has left no doubt of this do berate and most authoritative judgment. In this case before the court the argument was aboard. But cleared as if the juggle of sale were adroitly employed. But cleared as cargo, the men too were abound but cleared as cargo the men too were bound but enlisted for a commercial voyage the ship through fitted out to cruise against a nation with which we were at peace was not commissioned as privateer and did not attempt to act as such until she had reached the River la Plats were a commission was contained and the crow resealed yet the in the face of these extenuating circumstances it was declared by the whole court that the neutrality of the United stated had been violated so that the guilty ship could not afterward be recognized as legitimate curser. All theses disguise were to no purpose. The court penetrated them every one saying that if such a ship could lawfully sail there would e on our par a fraudulent neutrality disgraceful to our Government, of which no nation would be the dope” (The garners wheat 471 and also four other case in some volumes). 7But a neutrality worse even than that condemned in advance by our supreme court of which no nation would be the dupe is now served out to us which nothing but the fatal war spirit that has entered into Great Britain can explain. There was a time when the Foreign Secretary of England truly eminent as stales man and as orator Mr. Canning said in the House of Commons If was must come let it come in the shape of satisfaction to be demanded for injuries of rights to be asserted, of interests to be protected, of treaties to be fulfilled. But, in God’s same let it not come on in the poetry, pettifogging way of fitting out ships in our harbors to cruise for gain. At all events let the country disdain to be sneaked into a war.” (Caning’s Speech. Vol. v. p. 51.) These noble words were uttered in reply to Lord John Russell and his associates in 1823, on their proposition to repeal the foreign Enlistment Act and to overturn the statute safeguards of British neutrality.’ But they upon now with greater force than then.
Even if it be admitted that “ships of war.” like “monitions of war.” may be sold to a Belligerent, as is asserted by the British Prime Minister, echoing the Lord Chief Baron, it is obvious that it can be only with the distinction, to which I have already alluded, that the sale is a commercial transaction, pure and simple, and not in any respect, a hostile expedition fitted out in England. The ship must be “exerted” as an articles commerce, and It most continue such until its arrival at the belligerent port, when alone can it be fitted eat and commissioned as a “ship of war,” when its hostile character will commence. Any attempt is England to impart to it a hostile character, or in one word, to make England its naval ten, must be criminal; but this is precisely what has been done. And here are the leonine footprints which point so badly. 
11. But not content with misconstruing the decisions of our Supreme Court, in order to make them a cover for natal expeditions to depredate on our commerce, our whole history is forgotten or misrepresented. It is forgotten, thus, as early as 1793, under the administration of Washington, before any Act of Congress on the subject, the National Government recognized its liability, under the Law of Nations, for ships fitted out in its ports to depredate on British commerce; that Washington, in a Message to Congress describes such ships as vessels commissioned or equipped in a warlike form within the limits of the United States,’ and also as “military expeditions or enterprises.” (Americans State Papers, Vol. i. p. 22.) and that Jefferson. in vindicating this policy of repression, said, in a letter to the French Minister, that “it was our wish to preserve the morale of our citizens from being vitiated by courses of lawless plunder and murder;(lid, 148,) that, on this occasion the National Government made the distinction between munitions of war’s which a neutral might supply in the way of commerce to a belligerent, and ships of war,” which a neutral was not allowed to supply, or even to segment with arms; that Mr. Hammond, the British Plenipotentiary at that time, by his letter of 8th May;, 1733, after complaining of two French privateers fitted out at Charleston, to cruise against British Commerce, expressly declares that he considers them “ breaches of that neutrality which the United States profess to observe, and direct contraventions of the Proclamation which the President had issued,” ( Wharton’s State Trials. p. 49.) and that very soon then were criminal proceedings, at British Instigation, on account of these privateers, is which it was affirmed by the Court, that such ships could not be fitted out is neutral port without a violation of international obligations; that, promptly thereafter ward, on the application of the British Government, a statute was enacted, in harmony with the Law of Nations for the better maintenance of our neutrality; that, in 1818, Congress enacted another statute is the nature of a Foreign Enlistment Act, which was proposal as an example by Lord Castlereagh, when urging a similar nature upon Parliament; that in 1823 the conduct of the United States on this whole bead was proposed as an example to the British Parliament by Mr. Canning; that, in 1837. daring the rebellion in Canada’s on the application of the British Government, and to its special satisfaction, as was announced in Parliament by Lord Palmerton, who was at the time Foreign Secretary, our Government promptly declared its purpose “ to maintain the supremacy of those laws which bad been passed to fulfill the obligations of the United States toward all nations where should be engaged In foreigner domestic warfare;” and, not satisfied with its exiting powers, undertook to as additional legist ion front Congress; that Congress proceeded at once to the enactment of another statute, calculated to meet the immediate exigency, wherein It was provided that collectors, marshals and other officers shall “ seize and detain any which may be provided or prepared for any military expedition or enterprise against the territories or dominions of any Foreign Prince Power.” (Statutes at Large, Vol. r. p. 212.). It is something forget these things; but it is convenient to forget still further that on the breaking out of the Crimean War, is 1634, the British Government. Jointly with France, made another appeal to the United States. to the our outsets “should rigorously abstain from taking part In armaments of Russian privateers, or in off other measure opposed to the unties of a strict neutrality” and this appeal, which was declared by the British Government to be “in the spirit of just reciprocity.” was answered of our part by a sincere and detrained vigilance, so that not a single British or French ship (offered from any cruiser fitted out in our ports. And it us also convent lent to forget still further the solemn obligations of Treaty, binding both parties, by which it is translated.
“That the subjects and citizens the two nations shall not be any acts of hostility or violence against each other for accept.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
<Illegible> But at the date of this Treaty in 1794, there was little legislation on the subject in either country; so that the Treaty in harmony with the practice, testifies to the requirements of the Law of Nations, as understood at the by both Powers.
And yet, forgetting all these things-whish show now faithfully the National Government has acted, both in measures of repression and measures of compensation- also how often the British Government has asked and received protection at on hands, and how highly our example of neutrality has been appreciated by leading British statesmen—end forgetting also that " spirit of just reciprocity" which, beside being the prompting of an honest nature, had been positively promised—ship after ship is permitted to leave British ports to depredate on our commerce: and when we complaint of this outrage. so unprecedented and so unjustifiable, all the obligations of International Law are ignored, and we are petulantly told that the evidence against the ships is not sufficient under the state; and when we propose that the statue shall be tendered efficient for the purpose precisely as in past times the British Government under circumstances has stringent, proposed to us, we are pointedly repelled the old baronial declaration, that there must be no change in the laws of England; while to cap this strange Insensibility. Lord Palmerton, in one of the tact debates of the law Parliament brings against us a groundless charge of Infidelity to our neutral duties during the Crimean war. When the fact is notoriously the reverse, and Lord Russell, in the same spirit, imagines an equally groundless charge, which is records in a dispatch, that we hare recently enlisted men in Ireland, when notoriously we have dune no such thing. Thus all the obligations of reciprocal service and good will are openly discarded, while our public conduct, as well in the past as the present, is openly misrepresented.
12. This flagrant oblivion of history and of duty, which seems to be the adopted policy of the British Government, has been characteristically followed by a flat refusal to pay for the damages to our commerce caused by the hostile expeditions. The United States, tinder Washington, on the application of the British Government, made compensation fur damages to British commerce under circumstances much less relations, and still further, by special treaty, made compensation for damages " by vessels originally armed" in our ports. Which is the present case? Of course, it can make no difference—not a pin's difference—if the armament is carried out to sea, in another vessel from a British port, and there transshipped. Such an evasion may be effectual against a Parliamentary statute, but it will be impotent against a demand upon the British Government according to the principles of International Law; for this law looks always at the substance and not the form, and will not be diverted by the trick of a pettifogger. Whether the armament is put on board in port or at sea, England is always the moral late, or, according to the language of Sir William Scott, in a memorable ease, the "station" or "vantage ground,"—which he declared a neutral country could not be. (Tweed Embroiders, 3 Robinson, R. 162.) Therefore the early precedent between the United States and England is in every respect completely applicable, and since this precedent was established—not only by the content of England but at her motion—it must be accepted on the present occasion as an irreversible declaration of International duty. Other nations Blight differ, but England is bound. And now it is her original interpretation, first made to take compensation from ns, which is flatly rejected when we ask compensation from her. But even if the responsibility for hostels expedition fitted out in British ports were not plain, there is something in the recent conduct of the British Government calculated to remove a doubt. Pirate ships are reported on the stocks, ready to be launched, and when the Parliamentary statute is declared insufficient to stop them, the British Government declines to amend it, and so doing, it openly declines to slop the pirate ships, saying, "if the Parliamentary statute is inadequate, then let them sail" It is not needful to consider the apology. The act of declension is positive, and its consequences are no low positive, fixing beyond question the responsibility of the British Government for there criminal expeditions. In thus fixing this responsibility, we but follow the suggestions of reason, and the text of an approved authority, whose words have been adopted in England.
"It must be laid down as a maxim, that a sovereign, who, knowing the crimes of his subjects, as for example that they practice privacy on strangers, and being also able and obliged to hinder it, does not hinder it, renders himself criminal, because he has consented to the bad action, the commission of which he has subjects openly and frequently commit, and, as to his power of hindering the evil, this likewise is always presumed, unless the went of it be clearly proved."
Such are the words of Bulimia, in his work on Natural Law, quoted with approbation by Phil more in his work on the Law of tenuous—(Phillimore, Vol. i. p. 237.) Unless these words are discarded as "a maxim"— While the early precedent of British demand upon us for compensation is also rudely rejected-it as difficult to see how the British Government can avoid the consequences of complicity with the pirate ships in all their lawless devastation. But I forbear to dwell on this accumulating liability, amounting already to many millions of dollars, with accumulating exasperations also. Mr. Present object is accomplished, if I make you see which way danger lays.
13. But beyond acts and words this same British rabbi shows itself in the official tone, which has been adopted toward the National cause in its unparalleled struggle—especially throughout the correspondence of the British Forcipes Office. Of course, there is no friendship in any of these letters. Nor is there any sympathy with the National championship against Rebel Slave-mongers, nor one word of mildest dissent even from the miscreant apostolate which was preached in their behalf. Naturally the tone is in harmony with the sentiment. Hard, curt, captious, cynical, it evinces an indifference to those kindly relations which nations ought to cultivate with each other, and which should be the study of a wise statesmanship. The Malay rune muck and such is the favorite diplomatic style in dealing with us. This is painfully conspicuous in all that concerns the pirate ships. But I can well understand that a Minister, who so easily conceded Belligerent Rights to Rebel Scaremongers, and then so easily permitted their ships to sally forth for piracy, would be very indifferent to the tune of what he wrote. And yet even outrange may be sootier or softened by gentle words; but none such have come out of British diplomacy to us. Most deeply do I regret this too suggestion failure. And believe me, fellow-citizens. I say these things with sorrow unspeakable. And only in discharge of my duty on this occasion. when, face to face, I meet you to outsider the aspects of our affairs abroad.
14. But there is still another head of danger in which all others culminate. I refer to an intrusive Mediation or, it may be, a Recognition of the Slave-monger pretensions as an Independent Nation; for such prepositions have been openly made in Parliament and constantly urged by the British press, and, though not yet adopted by her Majority Government they have never been repelled on principle, so that they constitute perpetual cloud, threatening to break, in our foreign relations. It is plain to all who have not forgotten history, that England never can be guilty of such Recognition without an unpardonable apostasy; nor can see intervene by way of Mediation except in the interests of Freedom. And yet such are the strange " elective affinities" newly born between England and Slavery; such is the towering blindness, with regard to our country, kindled to that which prevailed in the time of George Greenville and Lord North, that Leer Majesty's Government, instead of repelling the preposition, simply adjourn it, mean while adopting the attitude of one watching to strike. The British Minister at Washington, of model <illegible>whose individual desire for peace I cannot doubt, tells his Government in a dispatch which will be found in the last Blue Book, that as yet he sees no sign of the conjuncture at which Foreign Powers may step in with property and effect to put a stop to the effusion of brand." Here is a plain assumption that such a conjuncture may occur. But for the present we are left free to waged to battle against Slavery without any such Inter <illegible> in arrest of our efforts.
Such are same of the warnings which lower from the English <illegible> over the graves of Wilberforce and <illegible> from those sacred graves are <illegible> strange on English voices. crying out <illegible>for you are the people of our choice whom we welcome promptly to ocean rights with Armstrong guns and morel expeditions equipped in our ports and an whom lavish sympathy always and the prophecy of success while for you, uphold the republic and oppose Slavery we have hard words, <illegible> and the <illegible> of war."

PESILS FROM FRANCH.
If we cross the <illegible> into France, we shall not be encouraged much. And yet the Emperor, though acting habitually in concern with the British Cabinet, has not intermeddled so illogically or displayed a temper of an little international amiability. The correspondences <illegible> direction even at the most article<illegible> to be desired in respect of form. Nor has little to be single blockade-runner under neither the French nor a single pirate ship from a French port. But spite of <illegible> things, it is too apparent that the Emperor takes <illegible>against us in at least four important <illegible> act opposability, plainly off cursively. The <illegible> Minister of France was <illegible> by Frederick <illegible> Great as "the
<c02>
Coachman of Europe"—a title which belongs now to Louis Napoleon. But be must not try to be "coachman of America."
1. Following the example of England Louis Napoleon has acknowledged the Rebel Slave-mongers as ocean Belligerents, to that with the sanction of France, our ancient ally, their pirate ships. although without a single open port which they can call their own, enjoy a complete immunity as lawful cruisers, while all who sympathize with them may furnish supplies and munitions of war. This fatal concession was aggravated by the concurrence of the two great Powers, But. God be praised their joint act though capable of giving a brief vitality to Slavery on pirate decks, will be impotent to confirm this intolerable pretension.
2. Sinister events are not alone, and this recognition of Slavery was followed by an expedition of France, in concurrence with England and Spain, against our neighbor Republic, Mexico. The two latter Powers, with becoming wisdom, Terr boob withdrew; but the Emperor did not hesitate to enter upon an invasion. A French fleet with an unmatched iron-clad, the consummate product of French naval art, is now at Vera Cruz. and the French army after a protracted siege has stormed Puebla and entered the famous Capital. This far-reaching enterprise was originally said to be a sort of process. served by a general, for the recovery of outstanding debt due to French citizens. But the Emperor in a mystic letter to Gen. Foray gave to it another character. He proposed nothing less than the restoration of the Latin race on this side of the Atlantic, and more than intimates that the United States must be restrained in power and influence over the Gulf of Mexico and the Antilles. And now the Archduke Maximilian of Austria has been proclaimed Emperor of Mexico under the protection of France. It is obvious that this imperial invasion, though not openly directed against us, would not have been made, if our convulsions had not left the door of the continent ajar, so that foreign powers may now bravely enter in. And it is more obvious that this attempt to plant a throne by our side would "hare died before it saw the light," had it not been supposed that the Rebel Slave-mongers were about to triumph. Plainly the whole transaction is connected with our affairs, and I know not if it may not be a stepping-stone to some actual participation in the widening circle of the war. But it can be little more than a transient experiment—for who can doubt that this imperial exotic, planted by foreign care and propped by foreign bayonets, will disappear before the ascending glory of the Republic.
3. This enterprise of war was followed by an enterprise of diplomacy not less hardy. The Emperor, not content with stirring against us the Gulf of Mexico, the Antilles, and the Latin race, entered upon work of a different character. He invited England and Russia to unite with France in tendering to the two Belligerents (such is the equal designation of our Republic and the embryo Slave-monger mockery!) their joint Mediation to procure "an armistice for six months, during which every act of war, direct or indirect, should provisionally cease on sea as well as on land, to be renewed if necessary for a farther period." The Cabinets of England and Russia, better inspired, declined the invitation, which looked to little short of Recognition itself. Under the armistice proposed all our vast operations must have been suspended—the blockade itself must have ceased— while the Rebel ports were opened on the one side to unlimited imports of supplies and military stores, and on the other side to unlimited exports of cotton. Trade for the time would have been legalized in these ports and Slavery would hare lifted its grinning front before the civilized world. Not disheartened by this failure, the Emperor alone pushed forward his diplomatic enterprise against us, as he had alone pushed forward his military enterprise against Mexico, and he proposed to our Government the unsupported mediation of France. His offer was promptly rejected by the President. Congress by solemn resolutions, adopted by both Houses, with singular unanimity, and communicated since to all foreign governments, announced that such a proposition could be attributed only "to a misunderstanding of the true state of the question and the real character of the war in which the Republic is engaged; and that it was in its nature so far injurious to the national interests that Congress would be obliged to consider its repetition an unfriendly act." This is strong language, but it frankly states the true position of our country. Any such offer, whatever may be its motive, must be an encouragement to the Rebellion. In an age when ideas prevail and even words become things, the simple declarations of statesmen are of incalculable importance. But the head of a great nation is more than statesman. The imperial proposition tended directly to the dismemberment of the Republic and the substitution of a ghastly Slave-monger nation.
Baffled in this effort, twice attempted, the Emperor docs not yet abandon its policy. We are told that "it is postponed to a more suitable opportunity;" so that he too waits to strike, if the Gallic cock does not sound the alarm in an opposite quarter. Meanwhile, the development of the Mexican, expedition shows too clearly the motive of mediation. It was all one transaction. "Mexico was invaded for empire, and mediation was proposed in order to help the plot. But the invasion must fail with the diplomacy to which it is allied.
4. But the policy of the French Emperor toward our Republic has not been left to any uncertain inference. For a long time public report has declared him to no unfriendly and now public report is confirmed by what he has done and said. The ambassadorial attorney of Rebel slave mongers has been received by him at the Toiletries; members of Parliament, on an errand of hostility to our cause, have been received by him at Fontainebleau; and the official declaration has been made that he desires to recognize the Rebel Slave-mongers as an independent Power. This has been hard to believe, but it is too true. The French Emperor is against us. In an evil hour, under temptations which should be scouted, he forgets the precious traditions of France whose blood commingled with ours in a common cause; he forgets the sword of Lafayette and Rocha bean flashing by the side of the sword of "Washington and Lincoln, while the lilies of the ancient monarchy floated together with the stars of our infant flag; he forgets that early alliance, sealed by Franklin, which gave to the Republic the assurance of national life, and made France the partner of her rising glory; He pietas, hue price fides,—minibus date Lila planes; and he forgets still more the obligations of his own name,— how the first Napoleon surrendered to us Louisiana and the whole region West of the Mississippi, saying, " this accession of territory establishes forever the power of the United States, and gives to England a maritime rival destined to humble her pride;" and he forgets also how he himself, when beginning his Intervention for Italian Liberty, boasted proudly that France always stood for an "idea;" and, forgetting these things, which mankind cannot forget, he seeks the disjunction of this Republic, with the spoliation of that very territory, which had come to ns from the first Napoleon, while France, always standing for an "idea" is made under his auspices to stand for the "idea" of welcome to a new evangel of Slavery, with Mason and Slidell as the evangelists. Thus is the imperial influence thrown on the side of Rebel Slave mongers? Unlike the ancient Gal, the Emperor forbears for the present to fling his sword into the scale; but ho flings his heavy hand, if not his sword.
But only recently we have the menace of the sword. The throne of Mexico has been offered to an Austrian Archduke. The desire to recognize the Independence of Rebel Slave mongers has been officially declared. These two incidents are to be taken together—as the complements of each other. And now we are assured by concurring report, that Mexico is to be maintained as an Empire. The policy of the Holy Alliance, originally organized against the great Napoleon, is now adopted by his representative on the throne of France. What its "despot authors left undone the present Emperor, nephew of the first, proposes to accomplish. It is paid that Texas also is to be brought under the Imperial Protectorate, thus ravishing a possession, which belongs to this Republic, as much ns Normandy belongs to France. The "partition" of Poland is acknowledged to be the great crime of the last century. It was accomplished by Three Powers, with the silent connivance of the rest; but not without pangs of remorse on the part of one; of the spoilers. "I know," said Maria Theresa to the ambassador of Louis XVI... "That I have brought a deep stain on my reign by what has been done in Poland; but I am euro that I should be forgiven, if it could be known what repugnance I had to it." (Flag-san, Histoire de la Diplomatic Françoise, "Vol. vii. p, 125.) But the French Emperor seeks to play on this continent the very part which of old caused the contrition of Maria Theresa; nor could tie "partition" of our broad country—if in an evil hour it were accomplished—fail to be the great crime of the present century. Trample upon the Republic in France—trample upon the Republic in Mexico—it remains to be seen if the French Emperor can prevail as trample upon this Republic. I do not think he can; nor am I anxious on account of the new Emperor of Mexico, who will no as powerless as King Chanute against the rising tide of the American people. His chair must be withdrawn or he-will be overwhelmed.
And here I bring to an end this unpleasant review. It is with small satisfaction, and only in explanation of our relations with Foreign Powers, that I have accumulated these instances, not one of which, small as well as great, is without its painful lesson, while they all testify with a single voice to the perils of our country.

II.—FOREIGN INTERVESNTION, BY MEDIATION OR INTERCESSION.
But there is another, branch of the subject, which is not less important Considering all these things and especially how great Powers abroad have constantly menaced intervention in our war, now by criticism and now by proffers of Mediation, all tending painfully to something further, it becomes ns to see what, according to the principles of International Law and the examples of history, will justify Foreign Intervention, In any of the forms which it may take. And here there is one remark which may be made at the out-set. Nations are equal in the eye of International Law so that what is right for one is right for an. It follows that no nation can justly exercise any right which it is not bound to concede under like circumstances. Therefore, should our cages be reversed, there is nothing which England and France have now proposed or which they may here after propose which it will not be our equal right to propose when Ireland or India once more rebel, or when Trance is in the throes of its next revolution. Generously and for the sake of that International Comity, which should not be lightly hazarded, we may reject the precedents they now furnish; but it will be hard for then to complain if we follow them.
Foreign Intervention is on its face inconsistent with every idea of National Independence, which in itself is nothing more than the conceded right of a nation to rest undisturbed so long as it does not disturb others. If nations stood absolutely alone, dissociated from each other, so that what passed in one had little or no influx-
<c03>
Once in another, only a tyrannical or intermeddling spirit could fail to recognize this right. But civilization itself, by drawing nations nearer together and bringing them into one society, has brought them under reciprocal influence, so that no nation can now act or suffer by self alone. Out of the relations and suggestions of good neighborhood-Involving, of course, the admitted right of self defense-springs the only justification or apology which can be found for Foreign In position in the affairs of another country, whatever form it may take. Much is done wider the name of "good offices." whether in the form of Mediation or Intercession; and much also by military power, whether in the declared will of superior force or directly by arms. Recognition of Independence is also another instance. Intervention in any form is interference. If peaceable, it must be judged "by its motive and tendency; if forcible, it will naturally be resisted by force.
Intervention may be between the or more nations, or it may be between the two parties to a civil war; and yet again, it may be where there is no war. foreign or domestic. In each case, it should be governed strictly by the game principles, except, perhaps that, in the case of a civil war. there should be a more careful consideration, not only of the rights, but of the susceptibilities of a nation so severely tried. This is the obvious suggestion of humanity. Indeed, Intervention between nations is only a common form of participation in foreign war; but intervention in a civil war is an intermeddling in the domestic concerns of another nation. Of course-whoever acts at the joint invitation of the belligerent parties, in order to compote a bloody strife, will be entitled to the blessings which belong to the peacemakers; but, if uninvited, or acting only at the invitation of one party, he will be careful to proceed with reserve and tenderness, in the spirit of peace, and will confine his action to a proffer of good offices in the form of Mediation or Intercession, unless ho is ready for war. Such a proffer may be declined without offense. But it can never be forgotten that, where one side it obviously fighting for Barbarism, any Intervention, whatever form it may take—if only by captious criticism, calculated to give encouragement to the wrong side, or to secure for it time or temporary toleration, if not final success—is plainly immoral. If not contrary to the Law of Nations, it ought to be.
Intervention, in the spirit of Peace and for the sake of Peace, is one of the refinements of modem civilization. Intervention, in the spirit of our, if not for the sake of war, has filled a large space in history, ancient and modern. But all these instances may be grouped under two heads; first, Intervention in external affairs; and. secondly. Intervention in internal affairs. The first may be illustrated by the Intervention of the Elector Maurice of Saxony, against Charles V.; of King William against Louis XIV.; of Russia and France, in the seven years' war; of Russia again between France and Austria, in 1805, and also between France and Prussia, in 1806; and of France, Great Britain, and Sardinia, between Turkey and Russia, in the war of tie Crimea.
The Intervention of Russia, Austria, and Prussia, in the affairs of Poland; of Great Britain among the native Powers of India; and of the Allied Powers under the continued inspiration of the Treaty of Pints, in the French Revolution, are illustrations of the second head. But without dwelling on these great examples, I shall call attention to instances, which show more especially the growth of intervention, first, in external and, then, in internal affairs. And hero I shall conceal nothing. Instances, which seem to be against the principles which I have at heart, will at least help to illustrate the great subject, so that you may see it as it is.

INTERVENTION IN EXTERNAL AFFAIRS.
1. First in order, and for the sake of completeness, I speak of intervention in external affairs, where two or more nations ore parties.
As long ago as 1645, France offered Mediation between what was then called " the two crowns of the North," Sweden and Denmark. This was followed in 1648, by the famous Peace of "Westphalia, the beginning of our present Law of Nations, which was negotiated under the joint Mediation of the Pope and the Republic of Venice, present by Nuncio and Ambassador. Shortly afterward, in 1655, the Emperor of Germany offered his Mediation between Sweden and Poland, but the old historian records that the Swedes suspected him of seeking to increase rather than to arrange pending difficulties, which was confirmed by his appearance shortly afterward in the Polish camp. But Sweden, though often belligerent in those days, was not so always, and, in 1672, when war broke forth between France and England on one side, and the Dutch Provinces on the other, we find her proffering a Mediation, which was promptly accepted by England, who Justly rejected a similar proffer which the Elector of Brandenburg, ancestor of the kings of Prussia, had the hardihood to make while marching at the head of his forces to join the Dutch. The English notes on this occasion, written in what at the time was called "sufficiently bad French, but in most intelligible terms," declared that the Electoral Proffer, though under the pleasant name of mediation, (par le dour nom at mediation,) was in reality an arbitration, and that, instead of a Mediation, unarmed and disinterested, is was a Mediation, armed and pledged to the enemies of England. (Wicouefort, L'Einbassadeur, vol. i. p. 135).
 Such are some of the earlier instances, all of which have their lesson for us. But there are modern instances. I allude only to the Triple Alliance between Great Britain, Prussia and Holland, which, at the close of the last century, successively intervened, by a Mediation, which could not be resisted, to compel Denmark—which had sided with Russia against Sweden—to remain neutral for the rest of the war; then in 1791 to dictate the terms of peace between Austria and the Porte; and lastly in 1792, to constrain Russia into an abandonment of her designs upon the Turkish Empire, by the peace of Jassey. On this occasion the Empress of Russia, Catharine, peremptorily refused the Mediation of Prussia and the Mediating Alliance made its approaches through Denmark, by whose good offices the Empress was finally induced to consent to the Treaty. "While thus engaged in a work of professed Mediation, England, in a note to the French Embassador declined a proposition to act as Mediator between France and the Allied Powers; leaving that world-embracing war to proceed. But England has not only refused to act as Mediator but has also refused to submit to a mediation. This was during the last war with the United States, when Russia, at that time the ally of England, proffered her Mediation between the two belligerents, which was promptly accepted by the United States. Its rejection at the time by England, causing the prolongation of hostilities, was considered by Sir James Mackintosh less justifiable, as "a mediator is a common friend, who counsels both parties with a weight proportioned to their belief in his integrity and their respect for his power; but he is not an arbitrator to whose decision they submit their differences where award is binding on them." The peace of Ghent was concluded at last under Russian Mediation. But England has not always been belligerent. "When Andrew Jackson menaced "letters of marque against France, on account of a failure to pay a sum stipulated in a recent Treaty with the United States, King William IV. proffered his Mediation between the two powers; but happily the whole question was already arranged. It appears also that, before our war with Mexico, the good offices of England were tendered to the two parties, but neither was willing to accept them, and war took its course. Such are instances of interference in the external affairs of nations, and since International Law is to be traced in history, they furnish a guide which we cannot safely neglect, especially in view of the actual policy of England and
France.

INTERVENTION IN INTERNAL AFFAIRS.
2. But the instances of Foreign Intervention in the internal affairs of a nation are more pertinent to the present occasion. They are numerous and not always harmonious, especially if we compare the new With the old. In the earlier times such Intervention was regarded with repugnance. But the principle then declared has been sapped on the one side by the conspiracies of tyranny, seeking the suppression of liberal institutions, and on the other side, by a generous sympathy, breaking forth in support of liberal institutions. According to the old precedents, most of which will be found in the gossiping book of Wicquefort, from whence they have been copied by Mr. Wildman, even Foreign Intercession was prohibited. Hot even in the name of charity could one ruler speak to another on the domestic affairs of his. Government. Peter, King of Arragon, refused to receive an embassy from Alphonzo, King of Castile, entreating mercy for rebels. Charles IX., of France, a detestable monarch, in reply to ambassadors of the Protestant princes of Germany, pleading for his Protestant subjects, insolently said taut ho required no tutors to teach him how to rule. And yet this same sovereign did not hesitate to ask the Duke of Savoy to receive certain subjects "into his benign favor and to restore and re-establish them in their confiscated estates." (Guizot's Cromwell, vol. ii. p. 210.) In this appeal there was a double inconsistency; for it was not only an interference in the affairs of another Prince but it was in behalf of Protestants, only a few months before the massacre of St. Bartholomew. Henry III., the successor of Charles, and a detestable monarch also, in reply to the Protestant embassadors, announced that he was a sovereign prince, and ordered them to leave his dominions. Louis XIII. was of a milder nature, and yet when the English embassador, the Earl of Carlisle, presumed to speak in favor of the Huguenot a, he declared that no interference between the King of France and his subjects could be approved. The Cardinal Richelieu, who governed France so long, learning that an attempt was made to procure the Intercession of the Pope, stopped it by a message to his Holiness, that the King would be displeased by any such interference. The Pope himself, on another recorded occasion, admitted that it would be a pernicious precedent to allow a subject to negotiate terms of accommodation through a foreign Prince. On still another occasion, when the King of France, forgetting his own rule, interposed in behalf of the Barbering Family, Innocent X. declared, that as he had no desire to interfere in the affairs of France, he trusted that his Majesty would not interfere in his Queen Christina of Sweden, on merely hinting a disposition to proffer her good offices for the settlement o: the unhappy divisions of France, was told by the Queen Regent that she might give herself no trouble on the subject, and one of her own Ministers at Stockholm declared that the overture had been properly rejected. Nor were the States General of Holland less sensitive. They even went so far as to refuse audience to the Spanish Ambassador, seeking to congratulate them on the settlement of a domestic question, and, when the French Ambassador undertook to plead for the Roman Catholics, the States, by formal resolution, denounces his conduct as inconsistent with the peace and constitution of the Cephalic, all of which was communicates to him by eight deputies, who added by word of mouth whatever the resolution teemed to want in plainness of speech.
Nor is, England without similar examples. Louis
<c04>
XIII. Shortly after the marriage of his sister Henrietta Maria with Charles I., consented that the English ambassador should interpose for the French Protestants; but when the French ambassador in England requested the repeal of a law against Roman Catholics, Charles presume to into meddle in English affairs. Even as late as 17445, when, after the battle of Culloden, the Dutch ambassador in France was induced to address the British Government in behalf of Charles Edward, the Pretender, to the effect that if taken he should not we treated as a rebel, it is recorded that this Intercession was greatly resented by the British Government, which, not content with an apology from the unfortunate official, required that he should be rebuked by his own government also. And this is British testimony with regard to Intervention In a civil war, even when it took the mildest form of Intercession for the life of a prince.
But in the face of these repulses, all these nations at different times have practiced Intervention every variety of form. Sometimes by Intercession or "good offices, only," sometimes by Mediation, and often by arms. Even these instances attest the intermeddling spirit, for wherever Intervention was thus repulsed, it was at least attempted.
But there are two precedents belonging to the earlier period, which deserve to stand apart, not only for their historic importance, but for their applicability to our times. The first was the effort of, that powerful minister, who during the minority of Louis XIV. Swayed France—Cardinal Margarine—to institute a Mediation between King Charles L and his Parliament. The civil war had already been waged for years; good men on each side, had fallen, Falkland fighting for the King and Humpden fighting for the Parliament, and other costliest blood had been shed on the fields of Worcester, Edgehill Newbury, Marston Moor, and Naseby. When the ambitions cordial wishing to serve the King, according to Clarendon, promised "to press the parliament so imperiously, and to denounce a war against them, if they refused to yield what was reasonable." For this important service he selected the famous Pompons de Believe, of a family tried In public duties— himself President of the Parliament of Paris and a peer of France—conspicuous in personal qualities, as In place, whose beautiful head preserved by the graver of Manuel is illustrious in art, and whose dying charity lives still in the great hospital of the Hotel Die at Paris. On his arrival at London, the graceful ambassador presented himself to that Long Parliament which knew so well how to guard English rights. Every overture was at once rejected, by formal proceedings, from which I copy these words: "We do declare that we ourselves have Men careful on all occasions to compose these unhappy troubles, yet we have not, neither can, admit of any Mediation or interposing betwixt the King and us by any foreign Prince or State; and we desire that his Majesty, the French King, will rest satisfied with this our resolution and answer.'' On the committee which drew this reply was John Selden. Unsurpassed for learning and ability in the whole splendid history of the English bar, on every book of whose library was written, "Before every thing. Liberty," and also that Harry Vans whom Milton, in one of his most inspired sonnets, addresses, as "Vane, young in yean, but in sage counsel old, Than whom an ester Senator ne'er held
The helm of Rome, when gowns not arms repelled The fierce Epilog and the African bold."
The answer of such men may well be a precedent to us; especially should England, taking up the rejected policy of Maharini. Presume to gaud any ambassador to stay the Republic in its war with Slavery.
But the same heart of oak, which was so strenuous to repel the Intervention of France, in the great question between King and Parliament, was not less strenuous even in Intervention—when it could serve the rights of England or the principles of religious liberty. Such was England when ruled by the great Protector, called in his own day "chief of men." Ho nation so powerful as to be exempt from that irresistible intercession, where beneath the garb of peace there was a gleam of arms. From Franca, even under the rule of Maharini, ho claimed respect for the Protestant name, which he insisted upon making great and glorious. From Spain, on whose extended empire the sun at that time never ceased to shine, he insisted that no Englishman should be subject to the Inquisition. Beading to his council a dispatch from Admiral Blake, announcing that he had obtained justice from the Viceroy of Malaga; Cromwell said "that he hoped to make the name of Englishman as great as ever that of Roman had been." In this same lofty mood he turned to propose his Mediation between Protestant Sweden and Protestant Bremen, "chiefly bewailing that being both his friends they should so despitefully combat one against another;" " offering his assistance to a commodious accommodation on both sides," and "exhorting them by nap means to refuse any honest conditions of reconciliation."— (Melton's Prose Works, Volt VI p. 315. 16.) Here was Intervention between nation and nation; but it was soon followed by an Intervention in the internal affairs of a distant country, which of all the acts of Cromwell is the most touching and sublime. The French ambassador was at Whitehall urging the signature of a treaty, when news unexpectedly came from a secluded valley of the Alps— far away among those mountain torrents which are the affluent of the Po—that a company of pious Protestants, who had been for centuries gathered there, where they kept the truth pure " when our fathers worshiped stocks and stones," were now suffering terrible persecution from their sovereign, Emanuel of Savoy; that they had been despoiled of all possessions and liberties, brutally driven from their homes, given over, to a licentious and infuriate violence, and that when they turned in self-defense, they had been "slain by the bloody Piedmonts, that rolled mother with infant down though rocks;" and it was reported that French troops took part in this dismal transaction. The Protector heard the story, and his pity flashed into anger. He declined to signs the treaty until France united with him in securing justice to these humble sufferers, whom he called the Lord's people. For their relief he contributed out of his own purse £2,000, and authorized a general collection throughout England, which reached to a large sum; but, beside giving money, he set apart a day of Humiliation and Prayer for them. Nor was this all. "I should be glad," wrote his Secretary, Thule, "to have a most particular account of that business, and to know what has become of these poor people, for whom our very souls here do bleed." (Vaughan's Protectorate, Vol. I. p. 177.) But a mightier pen than that of any plodding secretary was enlisted in this pious Intervention. It was John Milton, glowing with that indignation which his sonnet on the massacre in Piedmont has made immortal in the heart of man, who wrote the magnificent dispatches, in which the English nation of that day, after declaring itself'' linked together with its distant brethren, not only by the same type of humanity, but by joint communion of the some religion," naturally and gloriously insisted that "whatever had been decreed to their disturbance on account of the Reformed Religion should be abrogated, and that on end be put to their oppressions." But not content with this cull upon the Prince of Savoy, the Protector appealed to Louis XIV., and also to his Cardinal Minister; to the States General of Holland: to the Protestant Cantons of Switzerland; to the King of Denmark; to Gustavo's Adolph's, and even to the Protestant Unitarian Prince of remote Transylvania; and always by the pen of Milton—rallying these Princes and Powers in joint entreaty and intervention, and "if need be to some other speedy course, that such a numerous multitude of our innocent brethren may not miserably perish for want of succor and assistance." The Regent of Savoy, who was the daughter of Henry IV., professed to be affected by this English charity, and announced for her Protestant subjects "a free pardon, and also such privileges and graces as cannot out give the Lord Protector a sufficient evidence of the great respect borne both his. Person and mediation."— (Guido's History of Cromwell, Volt ii. p. 811-19; Melton's Prose Works, vol. vat, p. 318-37.) But there was still delay. Meanwhile, Cromwell began to inquire where English, troops might debark in the Prince's territories, and mooring, anxious to complete the yet unfinished treaty with England, Joined in requiring an immediate pacification in the valleys and the restoration of these persecuted people to their ancient liberties. It was done. Such & the grandest intervention of English history, inspired by Milton, enforced by Cromwell, and sustained by Louis XIV., with his Cardinal Minister by his side, while foreign nations watched the scene.
But this great instance, constituting an inseparable part of the glory of the Protestor, is not the last occasion on which England intervened in behalf of the liberties of Protestants. Troubles began in France with the revocation of the edict of Nantes; but these broke forth in the rebellion of the Commissars, smarting under the revocation. Sheltered by the mountains of the Evenness, and nerved by their good cause, with, the device "Liberty of Conscience "on their standards, they made head against two successive Marshals of France, and perplexed the old age of Louis XIV., whose arms were already enfeebled by foreign war. At lost, through the mediation of England, the great monarch made terms with his Protestant rebels, and the civil war was coded. (Merlin, article, Minister.)
Intervention, more often armed than unarmed, showed itself in the middle of the lost century. All decency was set aside when Frederick of Prussia, Catharine of Russia, and Maria Theresa of Austria invaded and partitioned Poland, under the pretext of suppressing anarchy. Here was Intervention with a vengeance, and on the side of arbitrary power. But such is human inconsistency, there was almost at the same time another intervention in the opposite direction. It was the armed intervention of France, followed by that of Spain and Holland, in behalf of American Independence, But Spain began Intervention here by an offer of Mediation, with a truce, which was accepted by France on condition that meanwhile the United States should be independent in fact. (Martens Newels Causes Celebes, Volt I. p. 434,) Then came, is 1788, the Armed Intervention of Prussia, to sustain an illiberal faction in Holland, which was followed afterward, by the compact between Great Britain, Prussia, and Holland, known as the Triple Alliance, which began the business of its copartner ship by an Armed Intervention to reconcile the insurgent provinces of Belgium, to the German Emperor and their ancient Constitution. As France began to be shaken by domestic troubles. Mediation in her affairs was occasionally proposed. Among the papers of Burke is a draft of a Memorial written in 1791, in the name of the Government, offering what he calls "this healing mediation." Then came the vast coalition for Armed Intervention in France to out down the lie public. But even this dreary cloud was for a moment brightened by a British attempt in Parliament, through successive debates, to institute an Intercession for Lafayette, immured in the dungeons of European despotism. "It is reported," said one of the orators, "that America has solicited the liberation, of her unfortunate
<c05>
adopted fellow-citizen. Let British magnanimity be calles in aid of American gratitude, and exhibit to man kind a noble proof, that wherever the principles of genuine liberty prevail, they never fail to inspire sentiments of generosity." (Parliamentary History, Vol. xxxi. p. 38; Vol. xxxii. p. 1348.)
Meanwhile France, against which all Europe intervened, played her part of Intervention, and the scene was Switzerland In the unhappy disputes between the aristocratic and democratic parties, by which this Republic had been distracted, French Mediation had already become chronic, beginning in 1738, when the found a partial apology in the invitation of several of the Cantons and of the Government of Genes; occurring again in 1768, and again in 1784 The mountain Republic, breathing the air of Freedom, was naturally moved by the-convulsions of the Frusta Revolution. Civil war ensued, and grew in bitterness. At last, when France herself was composed under the powerful arm of the First Consul, we find him turning to compose the troubles of Switzerland. He was a military ruler, and always steed under the instincts of military power. By an address dated at the palace of St. Cloud, Bonaparte declared that, already for three yean the Swiss had bees slaying each other, and that, if let to themselves, they would continue to slay each other, for three years more, without coining to any understanding, that, at first, he had resolved not to interfere in the affairs, but that he now changed his mind, and announced himself at the Mediator of their difficulties proclaiming, confidently, that his Mediation would be efficacious as became the great people in whose name is spoke. (Garden Histoire des Traits dot Paris, Vol. viii. p. 21.) Deputies from the Cantons, together with all the chief citizens, were summoned to Paris, in order to declare the means of restoring the union, securing peace and reconciling oil parties. Of course, this was Armed Mediation; but Switzerland was weak and France was strong, while the declared object was union, peace and reconciliation. I know not if all this was accomplished, but the civil war was stifled, and the Constitution was established by what is entitled in history, the Act of Mediation.
From that period down to the present moment, Intervention in the internal affairs of other nations has been a prevailing practice, now cautiously and peaceably; now offensively and forcibly. Sometimes it was against the rights of man; sometimes it was in their favor. Sometimes England and France stood aloof; sometimes her took part. The Congress of Vienna, which undertook to settle the map of Europe, organised a universal and perpetual Intervention in the interest of monarchical institutions and existing dynasties. This compact was renewed at the Congress of Aix la Chappell, in 1818, with the explanatory declaration that the fire great Powers would never assume jurisdiction over questions concerning the rights and interests of another Power, except at its request, and without inviting such Power to take part in the conference. Bat this concession was obviously adverse to any liberal movement. Meanwhile, the Holy Alliance was formed especially to watch and control the revolutionary tendencies of the age; but into this combination England, to her honor, declined to enter. The other Powers were sufficiently active. Austria, Russia, and Prussia did not hesitate at the Congress of Lave Bach, in 1840, to institute an Armed Intervention for the suppression of liberal principles in Naples; and again, two yean later, at the Congress of Verona, these same Powers, together with France, instituted another Armed Intervention to suppress liberal principles in Spain, which ultimately led to the invasion of that kingdom and the overthrow of its Constitution. France was the belligerent agent, and would not be turned aside, although the Duke of Wellington at Verona and Dr. Canning at home sought to arrest her armies by. The Mediation of Great Britain, which Mediation was-directly sought by Spain and directly refused by France. The British Government, in admirable letters, composed with unsurpassed skill and constituting a noble page of International Law, disclaimed for itself and denied tooter Powers the right to require changes in the internal institutions of Independent States, with the menace of hostile attack in cote of refusal; and it bravely declared to the Imperial and Royal Interventionists, that "so long as the struggles and disturbances of Spain should be confined within the circle of her own territory, they could not be admitted by the British Government to afford any plea for foreign interference," and in still another note it repeated that " a menace of direct and imminent danger could alone, in exception to the general rule, justify foreign interference,'' (Phillimore's International Law, Vol. iii. pp. 757-66.) These were the words of Mr. Canning; but even Lord Castlereagh, in an earlier note, had asserted the same limitation, which at a later day had the unqualified support of Lord Grey and also of Lord Aberdeen. Justly interpreted they eave no apology for Armed Intervention except in a case of direct and imminent danger, when a nation, like an individual, may be thrown upon the great right of self-defense.
But Great Britain bore testimony by what she did, as well as by what she refused to do. Even while resenting the Armed Intervention of the great conspiracy, her Government intervened sometimes by Mediation and sometimes by arms. Early in the contest between Spain and her Colonies, she consented on the invitation of Spain to act as Mediator, in the hope of effecting reconciliation; but Spain declined the Mediation which she had invited. From 1812 to 1823 Great Britain constantly repeated her offer. In the case of Portugal she went farther. Under the counsels of Mr. Canning, whose speech on the occasion was of the most memorable character, she intervened by landing troops at Lisbon; but this Intervention was vindicated by the obligations of treaty, Next came the greater instance of Greece, when the Christian Powers of Europe intervened to arrest a protracted struggle and to save this classic land from Turkish tyranny, Here the first step was a pressing invitation from the Greeks to the British and French governments for their Mediation with the Ottoman Porte. These Powers, together with Russia, coffered the much-desired Intervention, which the Greeks at once accepted and the Turks rejected. Battle lad already raged fiercely, accompanied by barbarous massacre. "Without delay, the Allied forces us re directed to compel the cessation of hostilities, which was accomplished by the destruction of the Turkish fleet at Nazarene, and the occupation of the McRae by French troops. At last, under the continued Mediation of these Powers, the independence of Greece was recognized by the Ottoman Porte, and another Free State, consecrated to Freedom, took its place in the Family of Nations. Bent Mediation in Turkish affairs did not stop here. The example of Greece was followed by Egypt, whose provincial chief, Mahomet Ali, rebelled, and, by a genius for war, succeeded in dispossessing the Ottoman Porte not only-of Egypt, but of other possessions also. This civil war was first arrested by temporary arrangement at Katonah in 1833, under the Mediation of Great Britain and France, and, finally ended by an Armed Mediation in 1840, when, after elaborate and irritating discussions, which threatened to involve Europe, a treaty was concluded at London between Great Britain, Russia, Austria, and Prussia, by which the Pasha was compelled to relinquish some of his conquests, while he was secured In the government of Egypt, as a perpetual vassal of the Porte. France, dissatisfied with the terms of this adjustment, stood aloof from the Treaty, which found its apology, such as it had, first, in the invitation, of the Sultan, and secondly, in the desire to preserve the integrity of the Turkish empire as essential to the balance of power end the peace of Europe; to which reasons may also be added the desire to stop the effusion of blood.
Even before the Eastern questions were settled, other complications had commenced in "Western Europe. Belgium, restless from, the French Revolution of 1830 rose against the House of Orange and claimed her Independence. Civil war ensued; but the Great Powers promptly intervened, even to the extent of arresting a Dutch army on its march. Beginning with an armistice, there was a long and fine-spun negotiation, which, assuming the guise alternately of a pacific Mediation, and of an Armed Intervention, ended at lost in, the established separation of Belgium from Holland, and its Recognition as an Independent Nation. Do you ask why Great Britain intervened on this occasion? Lord John Russell. In the course of debate at a subsequent day, declared that a special motive was "the establishment of a free constitution." (Mansard's Parliamentary Debates, 3d series, volt xenia., p. 417-66— House of Commons, July 11, 1847.) Meanwhile the peninsula of Spain and Portugal was torn by civil war. The regents of these two kingdoms respectively appealed to Great Britain and France for aid, especially in the expulsion of the pretender Don Carlos from Spain, and the pretender Dom Miguel from Portugal. For this purpose the Quadruple Alliance of these Powers was formed in 1834. The moral support derived from this Treaty is said to have been important; but Great Britain was compelled to provide troops. This Intervention, however. was at the solicitation, of the actual governments. Even after the Spanish troubles were settled, the war still lingered in the sister kingdom, when in 1847, the Queen appealed to Great Britain, the ancient patron of Portugal, to mediate between herself and. her insurgeat subjects, and the task was accepted, in the declared hope of composing the difficulties in a just and permanent manner, " with all dim regard to the dignity of the Crown on the one hand and the Constitutional liberties of the Nation on the other." The insurgents did not submit until after military demonstrations. But peace and liberty were the two watchwords here.
Then occurred the European, uprising of 1848. France was once more a Republic; but Europe, wiser grown did not interfere in her affairs, even so much as to write a letter. But the cage, was different with Hungary, whose victorious armies, radiant with liberty regained, expelled the Austrian power only to be arrested by the armed intervention of the Russian Czar, who yielded to the double pressure of an invitation from. Austria and a fear that successful insurrection might extend into Poland. It was left for France at the same time In another country, with a strange inconsistency, to play the part which Russia had played in Hungary. Rome, which had risen against the temporal power of the Pope, and proclaimed the Republic, was occupied by a French army, which expelled the republican, magistrates, and. though fifteen years hare already passed since that unhappy act, the occupation still continues. From, this military Intervention Great Britain stood aloof In a dispatch, dated at London Jan. 88. 1349, Lord Palmerston has made a permanent record to the honor of his country. His words are as follows: " Her Majesty's Government would upon every account, and not only upon abstract principle, but with reference to the general interests of Europe, and from the value which they attach to the maintenance of peace, sincerely deprecate any attempt to settle the difference between the Pope and his subjects, by the military interference of foreign Powers." (Phillimore, International Law, Vol. ii., p. 676,) But he gave further point to the whole position.
<c06>
of Great Britain, in contrast with France, when he said "Armed Intervention is assist in retaining a bad government would be unjustifiable." (Ibid, 448.) Such was the declaration of the Lord Palmers ton of that day. But how much more unjustifiable must be assistance to found Minister insisted that the differences should be <illegible> mandated by "the diplomatic interposition of friendly Powers, " which he declared a much better mode of set foreign arms. In harmony with this policy Great Britain during this same year united with France in providing of Naples, the notorious Bombay in the hope of helping Not dishearten by rebuff, these two government <illegible> sovereign against the harsh system of politics good citizens thrust without any trial into the went of two governments that gave it at once withdraw their Ministers from Naples. The sympathy of Russia was the wrong side, and Prince Gorehakoff forethought, our a circular that "to endeavor by threats or a meaning cessions in the internal affairs of his government, is nation of the strong over the weak." This was practically at the Congress of Paris, when, admitting the prized that no government has the right to intervene in the internal affairs of other nations, he this rule becomes equally a right and a duty; that peace must not be and that, therefore, the Congress must let the King of Naples know its desire for an amelioration of his system of government, and must demand of him an agency for political offenders suffering without a trial. This is the intervention which it proposed was on the side of humanity.
<Illegible> I must draw this part of the discussion to a <illegible> although the long list of instances is not yet exhausted. Even while I speak, we hear of Intervention by England and France, in the civil war between the Emperor between the Emperor of Russia on the one side and the poles whom he claims as subjects on the other side; but takes the part of the existing government while the Poland they have intervened against the existing government. In the face of positive declarations of her trait the British and French Admirals have <illegible> their forces with the Chinese; but thus far in Poled although there is been unarmed. In both these instances we witness the same tendency, directed, it may be, by the interests or prejudices of the time, and so for side of liberal institutions. But alas! For human consistency-the French Emperor is now intervening in Mexico with armies and navies, to build a throne for <illegible> Austrian Archdukes.

BRITISH INTERVENTION AGAINST SLAVERY,
But there is one long-continued intervention by Great Britain which speaks now with controlling power; and it is on this account that I have reserved it for the close of what I have to be on this head. Though not with out original shades of dark, it has for more than half a century been a shining example to the civilized world I refer to that Intervention against Slavery which from its first adoption, has been no constant and brilliant as to make as forget the earlier Intervention for Slavery when, for instance, Great Britain at the peace of United intervened to extort the detestable privilege of supplying slaves to Spanish America at the rate of 4,800 yearly for the space of shirt year, and then again at the peace of Aix la Chappell haggled for a yet longer <illegible> to this ignoble intervention; nay it almost makes ns forget the kindred intervention, at once most, <illegible> and criminal, by which this Power counteracted of efforts for the prohibition of the slave-trade even in its own colonies, and thus helped to fasten Slavery upon Virginia and Carolina. The abolition of the Slave-trade by act of Parliament in 1307 was the signal for a change of history.
But curiously, it was the whites who gained the first fruits of this change by a triumphant intervention for the suppression of Christian Slavery in the Barbary States. The old hero of Acre. Sir Sidnery Smith, released! from Ms long imprisonment in France, sought to organize a "holy league" for this Intervention, the subject was discussed at the Congress of Vienna; and the agents of Spain and Portugal, anxious for the punishment of their piratical neighbors, argued that, because Great Britain had abolished for itself the traffic in African slaves, therefore it must sees that whites were no longer enslaved in the Barbary States. The argument was less logical than humane. But Great Britain undertook the work. With a fleet complete at all points consisting of five line-of-battle ships, five heavy frighten four bomb-vessels, and five gun-brigs, Lord Vermouth approached Algiers, where he was joined by a consider able Dutch fleet, anxious to bike part in this Intervention. "If force must be resorted to." said the Admiral in his General Orders, "we nave the consolation of knowing that we light in the sacred cause of humanity and cannot fail of success." A single day was enough—with such a force in such a cause. The formidable ensiles of the great slavemonger were battered to pieces, and he was compelled to sign a Treaty, confirmed under a salute of twenty-one guns which in its first article stipulated "The Abolition of Christian Slavery forever." Glorious and beneficent Intervention! Not inferior to that renowned instance of antiquity, where the Carthaginians were required abolish the practice of sacrificing their own children's a Treaty which has been called the noblest of history because it was stipulated in favor of human nature. The Admiral, who had thus triumphed, was hailed as an Emancipator. He received a new rink in the peerage and a new blazonry on his coat of arms. The rank is of course continued in his family, and on their shield, in perpetual memory of this great transaction, is still borne a Christian slave holding aloft the cross and dropping his broken fetters. But the personal satisfaction of the Admiral was more than rank or heraldry. In his dispatch to the Government, describing the battle and written at the, be says: "To have been one of the humble instruments in the hands of Divine Providence for bringing to reason a ferocious government and destroying forever the insufferable and hurried system of Christian Slavery, can never cease to be a source of delight and heartfelt comfort to every individual; happy enough to be employed in it" (Osier's Life of Vermouth, pp. 297, 334, 432.)
But I have said too much with regard to instance, which, though beautiful and important, may be regarded only as a parenthesis in the grander and more extensive Intervention against African Slavery, which was already organizing, destined at lost to embrace the whole Human Family. Even before Wilberforce triumphed in Parliament. Great Britain intervened with Napolean in 1806, to induce him to join in the abolition of the slave-trade: but he fairly refused, What France would not then yield, was extorted from Portugal in 1810; from Sweden shortly afterward; and from denmark in 1814. An ineffectual attempt was made to enlist Spain even by the temptation-if pecuniary subsidies; and also to enlist the restored monarch of France, Louis XVIII. Even by the offer of a sum of money outright or the cession of a West India Island, in consideration of the desired abolition. Had gratitude to a benefactor prevailed, these Powers could not have resisted; but it was confessed by Lord Castlereagh in the British Government, that there was a distrust of the British Government "even among the better classes of people," who thought that its zeal in this behalf was prompted by a desire injure the French Colonies and commence, rather than by benevolence. But the British Minister was more successful with Portugal, which was induced, by poniard equivalents, to execute a Supplementary treaty in January, 1815. This was followed by the declaration of the Congress of Vienna, on motion of Lord Castlereagh, 15th February, 1815, denomneing the African slave-trade." as inconsistent with the principles of humanity and universal <illegible> Meanwhile Napoleon returned from Ells, and what the British Intervention failed to accomplish with the Bourbon Monarch, and what the Emperor had <illegible> refused, was now spontaneously done by him doubtless in the hope of conciliating British sentiment his hundered days of power were signalized by an ordinance abolishing the slave-trades in France and her colonies. Louis XVIII. once again restored by British arms and with the shadow of Waterloo upon France, could not do less than ratify this imperial ordinance by could not do less than ratify this imperial ordinance by a royal assurance that "the truth was henceforth forever forbidden to also the subjects of his most Christian Majesty." Holland came under the same influence and accepted the restitution of her colonies, except the entire abolition of the slave-trade in the restored colonies, and also everywhere else beneath her flag. Spain was the most indocile; but this proud menarche, under whose auspices the African slave-trade first came into being, at last voided. By the Treaty of Madrid, of 2d September, 1817. extorted by Great Britain it stipulated the immediate abolition of the trade north of the Equashor, and also, after 1820, its abolition everywhere, in consideration of £400,000, the price of Freedom, to be point by the order contracting party. In vindleation of this Intervention, Wilberforce declared in Parliament that " the grant to Spain would be more than repaid to Great Britain in commercial advantages by the opening of a great continent to British industry,"-all of which was impossible if the slave-trade was allowed to continue under the Spanish flag.
 At the Congress of Aix In Chapelle in 1818, and of Verona in 1822, Great Britain continued her system of Intervention against Slavery, Her primacy in this cause was recognized by European Powers, It was the common remark of continental publicists that she "made the cause her own. "(I Phillimore International Law. 339.) One of them portrays her vividly "since 1810 waging incessant war against the principles of the slave-trade, and by this crusade, undertaken in the name of Humanity. making herself the declared protesters of the African race." (Cuss, Cause <illegible> de Drat Maritime, Vol. I p. 157, Vol. ii. pp. 362, 613 These are the words of a French authority. According to him, it is nothing less than "an incessant war" and a "crusade," which she has waged and the position which she has waged and the position which she has achieved is that of "Protectors of the African race." In this character she has not been content with imposing her magnanimous system upon the civilized world, but she has carried it among the tribes and chiefs of Africa, who by this omnipresent International were summoned to renounce a barbarous and criminal custom. By a Parliamentary Report, it appears<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Mark 1850, there were twenty four creations in force, <illegible> Great Britain and foreign <illegible> Powers for Congress of the slave-trade and also forty-two <illegible> between Great Britain and the native of Africa.
For this Intervention was not only by twenties; it walks by correspondence and circulars. And here I speech a part of the subject which illustrates the enemy of this Intervention. All British minister <illegible> were so many pickets on outstand guard in attempts where they resided. They were held to any perceive by which the cause could be promoted, translating and printing documents against the <illegible> especially in countries where unhappy it will perused. There was the Pope’s Bull of 1839, such Lord Palmerston did not hesitate to transmit for purpose to his agents in Cubs, Brazil, and even in heavy seen of whom were unsuccessful in their due to obtain its publication, although, curiously accept, it was published in Turkey. (Parliamentary 25 Class c.p 73. Class D. p. 15).
Such a <illegible> could not stop at the abolition of the traffic Accordingly Great Britain, by act of Parliament. <illegible> authorized all the slave in her own posessness and thus again accrued to herself the primary of safety cause. The Intervention was now openly debarred and them again accrued to her the primary. The Intervention was our openly to be against Slavery itself. But it assumed its positive character while Lord Palmerston was foreign Secretary and I say this sincerely, to his great honor. Throughout his long life, among all the various <illegible> it which he has acted there is nothing which <illegible> remembered hereafter with such gratitude. By <illegible> in field. It was in no respect behind the famous world’s Convention against Slavery, held at London in June 1840 with Thomas Clarken, the pioneer Abolition as President, for the strongest declarations of that Convention are adopted expressly by Lord Palmstron a the sentiments of her Majority Government and communicated officially to all British <illegible> in foreign land. The Convention declared the utter injustice of Slavery in all its forms; and the it inflicted upon its miserable victims; and the necessary of employing every means, moral, pacific, and reception for its complete abolitions-an object most dear the <illegible> members of the Convention, and for the consummation of which they are especially assembled.” These words became the words of the British Government, and an <illegible> letters, were sent over the world. (Per<illegible> Paper, 1841, Vol. xxx. Class B. p. 33).
But it was not enough to declare the true principles. Tomy must be enforced. Spain and Portugal was sent to end-over to create in these countries a public feeling is favor of the abolition of Slavery,” was desired by Lord Palmerton to effort all the assistance and protection in his power for pronouncing the object of his journey.” (I bid, p. 128.) British <illegible> in foreign countries sometimes back. This was corrected by another circular addressed to all the four quarters of the any officer, holding an appointment under the British Government should either directly or indirectly, hold or be interested in slave property.” The Parliamentary Papers, much attest the university of this instruction, show the competence with which it was executed. The Counsel at Rio Janeiro. in slaveholding Brazil, had along the domestic three negro slaves, “one a ground and the other a waiter and a woman he was forced to hire as a nurse to his children:” but he discharged them at <illegible> under the Anti-Slavery discipline of the British Foreign office and Lord Palmerston in a formal dispatch “express his satisfaction.” (Ibid, 1842, Vol.<illegible> Class B. p. 732.) In Cubs, at the time of the reception there was not a single resident officer holding under the British Crown “who was entirely free from the charge of countenancing Slavery.” But only a few days afterward it was officially reported, that there was not a single British officer residing there who had not <illegible> or was not at least preparing to relinquish the <illegible> practice.” (Bird. p. 206.) This was quick work. Thus was the practice according to the rule. Every person, holding an office under the British Government was constrained to set his face against Slavery and the way <illegible> or the slave of another; nothing, <illegible> or indirectly.
<illegible>
But even low while I speak this same conspicuous <illegible> sacred cause is announced by the recent <illegible> from Europe. The ship canal across the Isthmus <illegible> first attempted by French influence under the auspices of the <illegible> of Egypt is most zealously opposed by Great Britain-for the declared reason, that in its contraction in conscience suction. Not even to complete <illegible> improvement bringing the East and the West <illegible> for which mankind has waited throughout long centuries will Great Britain depart from the <illegible> which she has so <illegible> declared. Slavery is wrong therefore it cannot be employed. The canal most stop it cannot be built without “forced labor.”

GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO INTERVENTION.
And <illegible> I close the history of Foreign Intervention. The whole subject will be seen in these instances, teaching clearly <illegible> to avoid and what to follow, in this <illegible> law of Nations like history gives its best <illegible> but for the sake of plainness I now gather up <illegible> conclusions.
Foreign Intervention is armed or unarmed although another the two are not easily distinguishable. An <illegible> Intervention meaty has in it the menace of arms or it may be war in disguise. If this is the case, <illegible> be trusted accordingly.
Arms Intervention is war and nothing less. Of come it can be vindicated only as war, and it must be rested as war. Believe as I do, most profoundly, <illegible> war can never be a game, but must always be a <illegible> when it be not a duty to be performed swiftly and <illegible> that a nation, like an individual, is not permitted so take the sword, except in just self-defense-I <illegible> the same <illegible>in Armed Invention, which becomes a just invasion just in proportion as it departs <illegible> all that Intervention which is moved by a <illegible> intermeddling spirit, because such <illegible> whatever may be its professions, is essentially<illegible> as when Russia, Prussia and Austria, <illegible> Poland when the Holy Alliance intermeddled everywhere, and menaced even America: or when Russia <illegible> illegal invaluable and scandalous. Its <illegible> can be found only in the effrontery that <illegible> right.
German Intervention is of a different character. If <illegible> it may be regarded as obtrusive but <illegible> It may assume the form of Mediation or <illegible> of good offices at the invitation of both parliament in the case of civil war, at the invitation of the <illegible> With such invitation this <illegible> proper and <illegible> But if known to be <illegible> to the doubtful character. But if known to be <illegible> to the desires of both parties, or to the desires authority <illegible> both parties, or to the desires <illegible> and <illegible> When the act of Intervention
<c02>
most not be forgotten that in the case of a give civil war, any mediation or indeed any proposition which does not enjoin submission to the original authority is in its nature adverse to that authority for it assumed to a certain extract the separate existence of the other party, and accusers for it temporary immunity and a opportunity if not independences, Congress therefore was right for declaring to Foreign Powers that any renewed effort of mediation in out affairs will be regarded and an unrelentingly act.
There is another case of unharmed intervention which is cannot criticize it is where a nation intercedes or interposes in favor of Human Rights or to secure the overthrow of some gnomons wrong as where Cromwell pleaded with noble interlocution for the secluded. Protestants of the Alpine valleys where Great Britain and France declared their sympathy with the Greeks struggling to Independence had where self against slavery everywhere through our the world.
The whole lessons on this head may be summed up briefly All intervention in the internal affairs of another nation is contrary to law and reasons, and can to be vindicated only by overruling necessity If you intervene by war these must there be the necessity of self-defense, If you intervenes by Medication or Intercession them must you be able to speak in behalf of civilization endangered or human nature insulted. But there is no power which is bound to this human of policy absolutely as England, especially is there soon which is so fixed beyond the possibility of retreat or change in its opposition to slavery what ever shape it may assumes whether it be the animating principle or even the service of a solitary domestic.

III—INTERVENTION BY RECONGNITION.
There is at species of foreign Intervention, which stands by itself, end has its own illustrations. Therefore, I speak of it by itself. It is where a Foreign Power undertakes to acknowledge the independence of a colony or province which has renounced its original a lenience, and it may be compendiously called innerves. by Recognition alone is strictly applicable to the act of the original Government, renouncing claim of allegiance and at last acknowledging the Intendances which has been In dispute. But it is an act of intervention only where a Foreign Government steps between the two parries. Of course, the original Government is so for neater of He position, that may select own time in making this Recognitions But the question arises at what time and under what circumstances can this Recognition be made by a Foreign Power. It is obvious that a Recognition proper at one time and coder special circumstances would not be proper at another and under different circumstances. Mr. Canning acid with reference to Spanish America, that “ if be piqued himself upon anything it was upon the subject of time and head added that there were two ways of proceeding, “one vent recklessly and with hurried, Tied course to the object, which, though soon reached, might be almost as soon lost, mad the other was by course so strictly guarded that no principle was violate and no offense given & to other Powers.” (Hansard’s Parliamentary Debates, 2d Series. Vol xii. p,7, 8.) These are words of wise statesmanship. and they present the practical question which most occur in every of Recognition. “What condition of the controversy will justify this Intervention.
And here again the whole matter can be best explained by historic instances. The earliest case is that Switzerland, which led the way, as long ago as 1307 by breaking off from the House of Hapsburg;, while original cradle was in a Swiss Canton. But Austria did not acknowledge the Independence of the Republic until the peace of Westphalia, more than three countries and a half after the struggle began under William Tell. Meanwhile, the Cantons bad lived through the vicissitudes of war foreign and domestic, and had formed treaties with other Powers, including if Pope. Before Swiss Independence was unknown-ed, the Dutch conflict In pan under William of Orange. Smarting under intolerable grievances, and with a price set upon the head of their illustrious Stand-holder, the United Provinces of the Netherlands in! 1572 renounced the tyrannical sovereignty of Philip IL and declared themselves independent. In the history of Freedom this an important epoch. They were Protestants, battling for rights denied, and Queen Elizabeth of England, who was the head of Protestantism, acknowledged their Independence, and shortly after gave to it military aid. The contest continued, sustained on the part of Spain by the genius of Parma and Spinhola, and on the side of the infant Republic by the youthful talent of Maurice, son of the treat Cardholder; law did Foreign Powers stand aloof. In 1594, Scotland, which was Protestant also, under James VL, after-ward the first James of England, treated with the insurgent Provinces as successors of the houses of Bur-guidy and Austria, and in 1596 France also entered into alliance with them. But the claims of Spain seemed un-dying for it was not until the peace of Westphalia, nearly eighty year after the revolt, and nearly seventy ears after the Declaration of Independence, that this Power consented to the Recognition of Dutch Independence. Non does this example stand alone even at that early day. Portugal in 1640 also broke away from Spain and declared herself independent, under the Duke of; In guns as King. A year had scarcely passed when Charles L of England negotiated a treaty with the new Sovereign.. The contest had already ceased, but not the claim; for it was only after twenty-six Tears that Spain made this other Recognition.
Traversing the Atlantic Ocean in space and more than a century in time, I come to the next historic instance which is so interesting to us all, while as a precedent it dominated the whole question. The long discord be-twine the colonies and the mother country broke forth in blood on the 19th April 1775. Independence was declared on the 4th July, 1776. Battles ensured; Trenton. Princeton, Brandywine, Saratoga, followed by the Winter (Valley Forge. The contest was yet undecided, when on the 6th February, 1778, France entered into a Treaty of Amity and Commerce with the United States, containing, among other things, a Recognition of their independence, with mutual stipulations between the two parties to protect the commerce of the other, by; convey on the ocean, “against all attacks, force and violence;” (Statutes at Large, Vol viii., p. 16), and this Treaty pm the 15th March was communicated to the British Government by the French Ambassador at Lon-don, with a diplomatic note in which the United States are described us “ in full possession of the Independence pronounced by the Act of 4th July, 1776,” and the British Government is warned that the King of France, “in order to protect effectively the legitimate commerce of in objects and to sustain the honor of his flag, has taken further measure with the United States.”—Mar-tens Novellas causes electrets Vol i., p 406.,) A further Treaty of Alliance, whose declared object was the main-the Independence of the United States, has been signed on the same day: but this was not communicated nor is there any evidence that it was known to the British Government at the time. The communication of the other was for it was in itself an open Recognition of the new Power, with a promise of protection to its commerce on the ocean, while the war yet flagrant between the two parties. As Such, it must be regarded as an Armed Recognition, constituting in itself a belligerent act—aggravated and explained by the circumstances under which was made—the warning, in the nature of a menace, by which it was accompanied—the clandestine preparations by which it was preceded—and the corsairs to cruise again British commerce, which for some time had been allowed to swarm under the American flag from French ports. It was so accepted by the British Government. The British Minister was sum-mainly withdrawn from Paris; all French vessels in British harbors were seized, and on the 17th March a message from the king were brought down to Parliament, which was in the nature of a declaration, of war against France. In this declaration there was no allusion to any thing but the Treaty of Amity and Com-motif, olhciallv communicated by the French Ambassador, which was denounced by hoe majesty as an “provoked and unjust aggression on the Lonor of his crown and the essential interests of his kingdoms, contrary to the law of nations, and is jurors to the rights of every For if Power in Europe” Only three days later, on the 21nt March, the Commissioners of the United States were received by the King of France, in solemn and with all the pomp and ceremony acceded by the Court of Versailles to the representatives of Sovereign Powers. War ensured between France and Great Britain on land and sea. in which Holland and Spain wand took pan against Great Britain. With such al lies a just Great Britain by Provisions Articles signed at Paris 30th November, 1782. acknowledged the United States “to be free, sovereign, and indecent and declared the boundaries thereof:
The success of colonial Independence was contagious, and the contest for it presented another historic instance more discussed and constituting a precedent, if possible, more interesting still This was when the Spanish Colonies in America, following the Northern example. broke away from the mother country and declared them-selves independent. The contest began as early as 1810.: but it was long continued and extended over an immense region—from New Mexico California in the to cape Horn in south-washed by two vast oceans—tracked by mighty rivers and divided by left; mountain —fruitful in silver—capped with snow and shunting with violence fire. At last the united states satisfied that the ancient At last the united states United States, slating with volcanic satisfied that the ancient power of Spain had practical! coasted to exist. beyond a reasonable chance of restoration. and that the contest was ended, acknowledged the Independence of Mexico and live other provinces. But this act was approached only after frequent debate is Congress. where Henry Clay took an existent part. and after most careful consideration in the cabinet, where John Quincy Adams. as Secretary of State, shed upon the question all the light the light of his unsurpassed knowledge’s derived from long practice, as well as from laborious stud y, of International Law. The judgment on this occasion must be regarded as an authority. President Munroe in a Special Message, on the 8th March. 1822, twelve of years after the war began—called the attention of congress to the state of the contest which he said had non-reached such a stage and been attended with such decisive success of: the part of the provinces, that it merits the most profound consideration whether their the rank of independent nations, with all the ad-vantages incident to it, in their intercourse with the, United States is not complete” After setting for the de factor condition of things, he proceeded: “ Thus it is manifest that all these provinces are not only in the roll insolvent of their independence, but, conceding the state of the war end other circumstances that it not the most remote prophet of their being deprived of the it. In promising their Recognition the President declared that it was done under a through conviction that it is in strict accord with the law of nations. And further alertest manner our friendly relations with either of a
<c03>
the parties.” In accordance with this recommendation. Congress authorized the Recognition. Two years later, the same thing was done by Great Britain, after much debate diplomatic and parliamentary. No case of International duty has born illustrated by a cleared eloquence, an ampler knowledge or a purer wisdom. The dispatcher were written by Mr. Canning, and upheld by him in Parliament; but Lord Liverpool took part in the dissension-succinctly declaring, that there could be no right to Recognition “while the contest was actually going on,” a conclusion which was cautiously but strongly enforced by Lord Landowner and nobly vindicated in an Oration, reviewing the whole subject, by that great publicist <illegible> James Mackintosh (Mackintosh’s Works Vol. iii. p. 438.) All inclined to Recognition but admitted that it could not take place so long as the contest continued; and that there must be “such a contest as exhibits some equality of force, so that if the combatants were left to themselves, the issue would be in some degree doubtful.” But the Spanish strength throughout the whole continent was reduced to a single castle in Mexico, an island on the cost of Chili, and a small army in Uppers, While in <illegible>Ayers no Spanish soldier had set for fourteen years. “Is this a contest,” said Mackintosh “approaching to equality? Is it sufficient to render the independence of such a country doubtful? Does it deserve the name of a contest?” It was not until 1825 that Great Britain was so far satisfied as to acknowledge this independence, France followed in 1830; and Castilian pride relented in 1832, twenty-two years from the first date of the contest.
The next instance is that of Greece, which declared itself Independent January 27,1822. After a contest of more than five years, with alternate success and disaster, the Great Powers intervened forcibly in 1827; but the final Recognition was postponed till May, 1832. Then came the instance of Belgium, which declared itself Independent in October, 1830, and was promptly recognized by the Great Powers who intervened forcibly for this purpose. The last instance is Texas, which declared its Independence in December, 1835, and defeated the Mexican Army under Santa Anna, making him prisoner, in 1836. The power of Mexico seemed to be overthrown, but Andrew Jackson, who was then President of the United States, in his Message of December 21,1836, laid down the rule of caution and justice on such an occasion, as follows: “The acknowledgement of a new State as independent and entitled to a place in the family of nations, is at all times an act of great delicacy and responsibility; but more especially so when such State has forcibly separated itself from another, of which it had formed on integral part and which still claims dominion over it. A premature recognition under these circumstances, if not looked upon, as justifiable cause of was, is always liable to be regarded as a proof of an unfriendly spirit.” And he concluded by proposing that our country should “keep aloof” until the question was decided “beyond civil or dispute.” During the next year—when the contest had practically ceased and only the claim remained-this new Power was acknowledged by the United States, who was followed in 1840 by Great Britain. France and Belgium. Texas was annexed to the United States in 1845, but at this time Mexico had not joined in the general recognition.

PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO RECOGNITION.
Such are the historic instances which illustrate Intervention by Recognition. As in other cases of Intervention, the Recognition may be armed or unarmed, with an intermediate case, where the Recognition may seem to be unarmed when in reality it is armed, as when France simply announced its Recognition of the Independence of the United States, and at the same time prepared to maintain it by war.
Armed Recognition is simply Recognition by Coercion. It is a belligerent act constituting war, and it can be vindicated only as war. No nation will undertake it, unless ready to assume all the responsibilities of war, as in the recent cases of Greece and Belgium, not to mention the Recognition of the United States by France. But an attempt, under the guise of Recognition, to coerce the dismemberment or partition of a country is in its nature offensive beyond ordinary war; especially when the country to be sacrificed is a Republic and the plotters against it are crowned heads. Proceeding from the consciousness of brutal power, inch an attempt is an insult to mankind. If Armed Recognition at any time can find apology, it will be only where it sincerely made for the protection of Human Rights. It would be hard to condemn that Intervention which saved Greece to Freedom.
Unarmed Recognition is when a Foreign Power acknowledges in some pacific form the Independence of a colony or province against the claim of its original Government. Although excluding all idea of coercion, yet it cannot be uniformly Justified.

NO RECOGNITION WHERE THE CONTEST IS STILL PENDING
And here we are brought to that question of “time,” on which Mr. Canning so pointedly piqued himself, and to which President Jackson referred, when he suggested that “a premature Recognition” might be “looked upon as a justifiable cause of war.” Nothing is more clear than that Recognition may be favored at one time, while it must be rejected at another. So far as it assumes to ascertain Rights instead of Facts, or to anticipate the result of a contest, it is wrongful. No Nation can undertake to in judgment on the rights of another Nation without its consent. Therefore It cannot declare that de jure a colony or province is entitles, to Independence; but from the necessity of the case and that international intercourse may not fail, it may ascertain the facts, carefully and wisely, and, on the actual evidence, it may declare that de facto the colony or province appears to be in possession of Independence, which means, first, that the original Government is dispossessed beyond the possibility of recovery, and secondly, that the new Government has achieved that reasonable stability with fixed limits which gives assurance of a solid Power. All of this is simply fact and nothing more. But just in proportion as a Foreign Nation anticipates the fact, or imagines the fact, or substitutes its own passions for the fact, it transcends the well-defined bounds of International Law. “With-out the fact of Independence, positive and fixed, there is nothing but a claim. Now nothing can be clearer than that while the terrible litigation is still pending, and the Trial by Battle, to which appeal has been made, is yet undecided, the fact of Independence cannot exist. There is only a paper Independence, which, though reddened with blood, is no better than a paper empire or a paper blockade, and any pretended Recognition o it is a wrongful Intervention, inconsistent with a just neutrality, since the obvious effect must be to encourage the insurgent party. Such has been the declared judgment of our country and its practice, even under circumstances tempting in another direction, and such also was the declared judgment and practice of Great Britain with reference to Spanish America.
The conclusion, then, is clear. In order to justify Recognition, it must appear beyond doubt that de facto the contest is finished, and that de facto the new Government is established secure within fixed limits. These are conditions precedent, which cannot be avoided without an open offense to a friendly Power, and an open violation of that International Law which is the guardian of the peace of the world. It will be for us shortly to inquire if there be not another condition precede, which civilization in this age will require.
Do yon ask now if Foreign Powers can acknowledge our Slave-monger embryo as on Independent Nation? There is madness in the thought. A Recognition, ac-companied by the breaking of the blockade, would be war—impious war—against the United States, where Slave-mongers would be the allies and Slavery the inspiration. Of all wars in history none more accursed; none more sure to draw down upon its authors the judgment alike of God and man. But the thought of recognition—under existing circumstances—while the contest is still pending—even without any breaking of the blockade or attempted coercion, is a Satanic absurdity, hardly less impious than the other. Of course, it would unbluehingly assume that, in fact, the Slave-mongers had already succeeded in establishing an Independent Nation with an untroubled government, and a secure conformation of territory—when, in fact nothing is established—nothing is untroubled, nothing is secure— not even a single boundary line; and there is no elemen of Independence except the audacious attempt; when, in fact, the conflict is still waged on numerous battle-fields, and these pretenders to Independence have been driven from State to State—driven away from the Mississippi, which parts them—driven back from the sea which surrounds them—and shut up in the interior or in blockaded ports, so that only by stealth can they communicate with the outward world. Any Recognition of such a pretension, existing only as a pretension, scouted and denied by a whole people with invincible armics and navies embattled against it, would be a flaming mockery of Truth. It would assert Independence as a fact a hen notoriously it was not a fact. It would be an enormous lie. Naturally a Power thus guilt would expect to support the lie by arms.

IV.—IMPOSSIBILITY OF ANY RECOGNITION OF REBEL SLAVE-MONGERS WITH SLAVERY AS A CORNER-STONE.
But I do not content myself with a single objection to this outrageous consummation. There is another of a different nature. Assuming, for the moment, what I am glad to believe can never happen, that the new Slave Power has become Independent in fact, while the national flag has sunk away in the centest, there is an objection which, in an age of Christian light, thank God! cannot be overcome—unless the great Powers which, by solemn covenants, have branded Slavery, shall forget their vows, while England, the declared protrectress of the African race, and France, the declared champion of “ideas,” both break awar from the irresistible logic of their history and turn their backs open the past. Vain is honor; vain is human confidence, if these nations at a moment of high duty can thus ignobly fail. “Renown and grace is dead.” Like the other objection, this is of fact also; for it is founded on the character of the Slave-monger pretension claiming Recognition, all of which is a fact. Perhaps it may be said that it is a question of policy; but it is of a policy which ought to be beyond question, if the fact, be established. Something more is necessary than that the new Power shall be de facte Independent. It must be de facte ft to be Independent, and from the nature of the case every nation will judge of this fitness as a fact. In undertaking to acknowledge a new Power, you proclaim its fitness for welcome and association in the Family of Nations. Can England put forth such a proclamation in favor of the whippers of women and sellers of children? Can France permit Louis Napoleon to put forth such a proclamation?
And here, on the threshold of this iniquity, the true state of the question must not be forgotten. It is not whether old and existing relations shall be continued with a power which permits Slavery; but whether relations shall be begun with a new Power, which not merely permits Slavery, but builds its whole intolerable pretension upon this Barbarism. “No New Slave State” is a watchword with which we are already familiar; but
<c04>
even this cry does not reveal the full opposition to this new revolt against Civilization; for even if disposed admit a new Slave State there must be, among men who have not yet lost all sense of decency, an undying resistance to the admission of a New Slave Power, having such an unquestioned origin and such an unquestioned purpose as that which now <illegible> in perney and blood before the civilized world, seeking Recognition for its criminal ohimers. Here is nothing for nice casuistry. Duty is as plain as the moral law of the multiplication table.
Look for a moment at the unprecedented character of this pretension. A president had been elected by the people, to the Autumn of 1860, who was known to be against the extension of Slavery. This was all. He had not yet entered upon performance of his duties, But the Slave-mongers saw that Slavery at home must suffer under this popular Judgment against its extension, and they rebelled. Under this inspiration, State after State pretended to withdraw from the Union and to construct a new Confederacy, whose “corner stone” was Slavery. A Constitution was adopted, which declared in these words: (1) “No law denying or impairing the right of property in negro slaves shall be passed;” and (2.) “In all territory, actual or acquired. the institution of Negro Slavery, as it new exists in the Confederate States, shall be recognized and protected by Congress and the Territorial Government,” Do not start These are the authentic words of the text You will find them in the Constitution.
Such was the unalterable fabric of the new Government Nor was there any doubt or hesitation in proclaiming its distinctive character. It’s Vice-President, Mr. Stephens, who thus far had been remarked for his moderation on Slavery. as if smitten with diabolic light, undertook to explain and vindicate the MagnaCarta just adopted. His words are already familiar: but they cannot be omitted in an accurate statement of the case. “ The New Constitution,” he said, “has put at rest for ever all the agitating questions to our peculiar institution, African Slavery, as it exists among us,” which he proceeds to declare “was the immediate cause of the late rupture and present revolution.” The Vice-President then announced unequivocally the change that bad taken place. Admitting that “It was the prevailing idea of the leading statesmen at the foundation of the Old Constitution that the enslavement of the African was wrong in principle, socially, morally and politically, and that it was a violation of the laws of nature,” be denounces this idea as “fundamentally wrong” and proclaims the new government as “founded upon exactly the opposite idea.” There was no disguise. “‘lts foundations. “be avows,” are laid, its corner-stone rests upon the great truth, that the negro is not equal to the white man; that Slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition.” If Not content with exhibiting the untried foundation, be boastfully claims for the new government the priority of Invention. “Our new Government,” he vaunts, “is the fist in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth. This stone, which was rejected by the first builders, is become the chief stone of the corner.” And then, as if priority of Invention were not enough, be proceeds to claim for the new Government future supremacy, saying that it is already “a growing power, which if true to itself, its destiny and its high mission, will become the controlling power upon this continent”
Since Satan first declared the “corner-stone’’ of his new government and openly denounced the Almighty throne, there has been no blasphemy of equal audacity. In human history nothing but itself can be its parallel. Here was the gauntlet thrown down to Heaven and Earth, while a disgusting Barbarism was proclaimed as the new Civilization, Two years have already passed, but as the Rebellion began, so it is now. A Governor of South Carolina in a message to the Legislature as late as 3d April. 1863. took up the boastful strain and congratulated the Rebel Slave-mongers that they were “a refined, cultivated and enlightened people,” and that the new Government was “the finest type that the world ever beheld.” God save the mark! And a leading journal, more than any other the organ of the Slave-mongers, has uttered the original vaunt with more than the original brutality. After dwelling on “the grand career and lofty destiny” before the new Government, The Richmond Examiner of 28th May. 1863, proceeds as follows: “Would that all of us understood and laid to heart the true nature of that career and that destiny and the responsibility it imposes. The establishment of the Confederacy is, verily, a destines reaction again the whole count of the mistaken civilization of the age. For Liberty. Equality and Fraternity, we have deliberately substituted Slavery, Subordination and Government Reverently we feel that our Confederacy is a God sent missionary to the nations with great truths to preach. We must speak thus boldly; but whose hath ears to hear let him near.” It is this God-sent missionary to the nations which it is now proposed to welcome at the household hearth of the civilized world.
Unhappily there are old notions, still tolerating Slavery, already in the Family; but now, for the first time in history a new nation claims admission there, which not only tolerates Slavery, but, exulting in its shame, strives to reverse the judgment of mankind against this outrage, and to make it a chief support and glory, so that all Recognition of the new Power will be the Recognition of a sacrilegious pretension,
“With one vast blood-stone to the mighty base.”
Elsewhere Slavery has been an accident; here it is the principle. Elsewhere it has been an instrument only; here it is the inspiration. Elsewhere it has been kept back in a becoming modesty; here it is pushed forward in all its brutish nakedness. Elsewhere it has claimed nothing but liberty to live; here it claims liberty to rule with unbounded empire at home and abroad. Look at this candidate Power as you will, in its whole continued existence, from its Alpha to its Omega, and it is nothing but Slavery! Its origin is Slavery: its mainspring is Slavery; its object is Slavery, wherever it appears, whatever it does, whatever form it takes, it is Slavery alone and nothing else, so that, with the contrition of Satan, it might cry out,
Me miserable! which way shall I fly
Infinite wrath and infinite despair;
Which way I fly is hell; myself am hell
The Rebellion is Slavery in arms; Slavery on horseback; Slavery on foot; Slavery raging on the battlefield; Slavery raging on the quarter-deck, robbing, destroying, burning, killing, in order to uphold this candidate Power. Its legislation is simply Slavery in statutes; Slavery in chapters; Slavery in sections—with an enacting clause. Its Diplomacy is Slavery in pretended ambassadors; Slavery in cunning letters; Slavery is cozening promises; Shivery in persistent negotiations —ell to secure for the candidate Power its much desired welcome. Say what you will; try to avoid it if yon can; you are compelled to admit that the candidate Power is nothing else than organized Slavery, which now in its madness—surrounded by its criminal clan, and led by its felon chieftains-braves the civilization of the age. Therefore any Recognition of this Power will be a Recognition of Slavery itself, with welcome and benediction, imparting to it new consideration and respectability, and worse still, securing to it new opportunity and foothold for the supremacy which it openly proclaims.
In ancient days the candidate was robed in white, while at the Capitol and in the Forum, he canvassed the people for their rotes. The candidate Nation, which is not ashamed of Slavery, should be robed in black, while it conducts its great canvass and asks the votes of the Christian Powers. “Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to night,” at the outrage proceeds; for the candidate gravely asks the international Recognition of the claim to hold property in man: to sell the wife away from the husband; to sell the child away from the parent; to shut the gates of knowledge; to appropriate all the fruits of another’s labor. And yet the candidate proceeds with the canvass—although all history declares that Slavery is essentially barbarous, and that whatever it touches it changes to itself; that it barbarizes laws; barbarizes business; barbarizes manners; barbarizes social life, and makes the people who cherish it barbarians. And still the candidate proceeds— although it is known to the Christian Powers that the partisans of Slavery are naturally “ filibusters,” always apt for lawless incursions and for robbery; that, daring latter years, under their instigation and to advance their pretensions, expeditions, Identical in motive with the present Rebellion, were let loose in the Gulf of Mexico, twice against Cuba, and twice also against Nicaragua, breaking the peace of the United States and threatening the repose of the world, so that Lopez and “Walker were the predecessors of Beau regard and Jefferson Davis. And yet the candidate proceeds—although it is obvious that the Recognition which is urged will be nothing less than a solemn sanction by the Christian Powers of Slavery everywhere through out the new jurisdiction, whether on land or sea, so that every ship, which is a part of the floating territory, will be Slave Territory. And yet with the phantasm that man can hold property in man shooting from his lips; with the shackle and lash in his hands; with Barbarism on his forehead; with Filibusterism in his recorded life; and with Slavery flying in his flag wherever it floats on land or sea; the candidate clamors for Christian Recognition. It is sad to think that there has been delay in repelling the insufferable canvass. “Is thy servant a dog that he should do this thing “ It is not necessary to be a Christian; it is sufficient to be a man—in order to detest and combat such an accursed pretension.
If the recognition of a de facto Power was a duty Imposed upon other nations by International Law, there would be no opportunity for objections founded on principle or policy. But there is no such duty. International Law leaves to each nation, precisely as the municipal law leaves to each citizen, what company to keep or what copartner ship to form. No company and no copartner ship can be forced upon a nation. It is all a question of free choice end acceptance. International Law on this head is like the Constitution of the United States, which declares: “New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union.” Not must but may; it being in the discretion of Congress to determine whether the State shall be admitted. Accordingly, in the exercise of this discretion, Congress for a long time refused to admit Missouri at a Slave State. And now the old Missouri Question, in a more outrageous form, on a grander theater, “with monarchs to behold the swelling scene”—is presented to the Christian Powers of the world. If it were right to exclude Missouri, having a few slaves only and regarding Slavery merely as a temporary condition, it must be right to exclude a pretended nation, which not only boasts its millions of slaves, but passionately proclaims the perpetuity and propagation of Slavery as the cause and object of its separate existence.
Practical statesmen have always treated the question of Recognition as one of policy—to be determined on the facts of the ease—even where the Power was de facto established; as appears amply in the debates of the British Parliament on the Recognition of Spanish America. If we go behind the practical statesmen and
<c05>
consult the earliest oracles of International Law we shall and that, according to their most approved words, not only may Recognition be refused, but there are considerations of duty this way which cannot be evaded. It is not enough that a pretender has the form of a Commonwealth. “A people,” says Cicero, in a definition copied by most juristis, “is not every body of men however congregated, but a gathered multitude, associated under the sanction of justice and for the common good.”- <illegible> (I)e. Repub. Lib. I., 25) And again he goes so far as to say, in the Republic, “when the king is unjust, or the aristocracy, or the people itself, the Commonwealth is not vicious <illegible> Of course a Commonwealth that was <illegible> would not be recognized.
But Grotins, who speaks always with the magisterial voice of learning and genius, has given the just conclusion, when he presents the distinction between a body of men, who being already a Recognized Commonwealth, are guilty of systematic crime, as, for instance of piracy, and another body of men, who not yet Recognized as a Commonwealth, are banded together for the sake of systematic crime-oceleris cause count. (de Jure Belli, <illegible> Pacis, Lib. iii., cap. 3, 2) The latter, by a happy discrimination he places beyond the pale of honor and fellowship; <illegible> criminals cause <illegible> But when before in all history have creatures, wearing the human form, proclaimed the criminal principle of their association with the audacity of our Slavemongers?
It might be argued, on grounds of reason and authority even, that the declared principle of the pretended Power, was a violation of international Law. Eminent magistrates have solemnly ruled, that in the development of civilization, the slave-trade has become Illegal, by a law higher than any statute. Sir William Grant, one of the ornaments of the British bench, whose elegant mind was governed always by practical sense, adjudged that “this trade cannot, abstractedly speaking have any legitimate existence.” (Amedics, 2 Acton R. 240); and our great authority, Mr. Justice Story, in a remarkable judgment,
declared himself constrained “to consider the trade against the universal law of society.” (La Jeune Eugenic, 2 Mason R. 451.) But the arguments which are strong against any Recognition of the slave-trade, are strong also against any Recognition of Slavery itself.
It is not however, necessary, in the determination of present duty, to assume that Slavery, or the slave- trade, is positively forbidden by existing International Law. It Is enough to show that according to the spirit of that sovereign law which “sits empress, crowning good, repressing ill, “and according also to those commanding principles of Justice and humanity, which cannot be set at naught without a shock to human nature it self, so foul a wrong as Slavery can receive no voluntary support from the Commonwealth of Nations, It is not a question of law but a question of Morality. The Rule of Law is sometimes less comprehensive than the Rule of Morality, so that the latter may positively condemn what the former silently tolerates. But within its own domain the Rule of Morality cannot be less authoritative than the Rule of Law itself. It is, indeed, nothing less than the Law of Nature and also the Law of God. If we listen to a Heathen teacher we shall confess its binding power. “Law,” says Cicero, “is the highest reason implanted in nature, which prescribes those things which ought to be don’t, and forbids the contrary.”-(De Legibus, Lib. i cap. 5.) This law is an essential part of International Law, at is also Christianity itself, and, where treaties fail and usage is silent, it is the only law between nations. Jurists of all ages and countries have delighted to acknowledge its authority. If it spoke only in the still small voice of conscience, A celebrated professor of Germany in our day, Savagely, whose name is honored by the students of jurisprudence every where, touches upon this monitor of nations, when he declares that “there may exist between different nations a common consciousness of Right similar to that which engenders the Positive Law of particular nations.”- System des heutigen Romischen Richts, L. vii., cap 11. & 11) But this common consciousness of right is identical with that law, which, according to Cicero, is “the highest reason implanted in nature.” Such is the Rule of Morality.
The Rule of Morality differs from the Rule of Law in this respect: that the former finds its support in the human conscience; the latter in the sanctions of public force. But moral power prevails with a good man as much as if it were physical. I know no different rule for a good nation than for a good man. I am sure that a good nation win not do what a good man would scorn to do.
But there is a rule of prudence superseded to the Rule of Morality. Grotius in discussing treaties does not forget the wisdom of Solomon, who, in not a few places, warns against fellowship with the wicked, although he adds, that these were maxims of prudence and not of law.-(Lib. ii, cap. 15, & 9.) And he reminds us of the saying of Alexander, “that those grievously offended who enter the service of Barbarians.’’ (Ibid, & 11.) But better still are the words of the-wise historian of classical antiquity, who enjoins upon a Commonwealth the duty of considering carefully, when sued for assistance, “Whether what is sought is sufficiently pious, safe, glorious, or on the other hand unbecoming;- (Sallust Fragm., iv. 2.) and also those words of Scripture which after rebuking an alliance with Ahab, ask with scorn. “Should it thou help the ungodly?” (2 Chron., xiv., 2)
If the claim for Recognition be brought to the touch-stone of these principles, it will be easy to decide it.
Vain it is to urge the Practice of Nations in its behalf. Never before in history has such a candidacy been put forward in the name of Slavery; and the terrible outrage is aggravated by the Christian light which surrounds it. This is not the age of darkness. But even in the Dark Ages, when the Slave mongers of Algiers “ had reduced themselves to a government of state,” the renowned Louis IX “ treated them as a nest of wasps.” (1 Phillimore. p. 80.) Afterward but slowly they obtained “the rights of legation” and “the reputation of a government;” but at last weary of their criminal pretensions, the aroused vengeance of Great Britain and France blotted out this Power from the list of nations, Louis XL, who has been described as “the sovereign who best understood his interest” indignant at Richard III. of England, who had murdered two infants in the tower, and usurped the crown, sent back his embassadors without holding any intercourse with them. This is a valuable precedent; for the parricide usurper of England had never murdered so many infants, or usurped so much as the pretended Slave Power, which is strangely tolerated by the sagacious sovereign who sits on the throne of Louis XL. But it is not necessary to go so far in history; nor to dwell on the practice of nations in withholding or conceding Recognition. The whole matter is stated by Burke with his customary power:
“In the case of a divided kingdom by the Law of Nations, Great Britain, like every other Power, is free to take any put she pleases. She may decline, with more or less formality, according to her discretion, to acknowledge this 
new systems of she may recognize it is as a government de facto, setting aside all discussion of its original legality, and considering the ancient monarchy as at an end. The Law of Nations leaves our court open to lit choice. The declaration of a new species of government on new principle! is a real crisis in the politics of Europe.” (Thought! on French Affairs, 1791.) 
Another eloquent publicist. Sir James Mackintosh, while urging on Parliament the Recognition of Spanish America, says, “The reception of a new State into the society of civilized nations by those sets which amount to recognition is a proceeding which, as it has no legal character, if purely of a moral nature;” and he proceeds to argue that since England is “the only anciently free State in the world, far nor to refuse her moral aid to communities struggling for liberty, is an act of unnatural harshness.” (Mackintosh’s Works, Vol. iii. p. 438.) Thus dues he vindicate Recognition for the sake of Freedom. How truly he would have repelled any Recognition for Slavery, let his life testify. 
But. perhaps, no better testimony to the practice of nations can be found than in the words of Vattel, whose work, presenting the subject in a familiar form, has done more, during the last century, to fashion opinion on the Law of nations than any other authority. Hero it is briefly:
“If there be any nation that makes an open profession trampling justice under foot, of despising and violating the right of others, whenever it finds an opportunity, the interest of human society will authorize all other to humble and chartist it.” (Book in, cap. 4, & 70.) “ To form and airport an unjust pretension it to do an injury not only to him who is interested in this pretension, but to mock at justice in general and to injure all nations.” (Ibid.) He who assist an odious tyrant-he who declares for an unjust and rebellious people-violates his duty.” (Ibid, & 56) “As to those monster, who under the title of sovereigns, render themselves the scourges and horror of the human race, they are savage beasts, whom every brave man may justly exterminate from the face of the earth.” (Ibid.) “ But if the maxims of a religion tend to establish it by violence and to opprest all those who will not embrace it, the law of nature forbids us to favor that religion or to contract any unnecessary alliance with its inhuman followers, and the common safety of mankind invites them rather to enter into an alliance a garnst such a people; to repress such outrageous fanatics, who disturb the public repose and threaten all nations.” (Ibid, Book ii, cap 12, & 162.)
Vainly do you urge this Recognition on any principle of the Comity of Nations. This is an expansive term, into which enters much of the refinements, amenities, and Lospitalities of Civilization, and also something of the obligations of moral duty. But where an act is prejudicial to national interests, or contrary to national policy, or questionable in morals, it cannot be commended by any considerations of courtesy. There is a paramount duty which must not be betrayed by a kiss. For the take of Comity, acts of good will and friendship not required by law are performed between nations; but an English Court has authoritatively declared that this principle cannot prevail “where it violates the laws of our own country, the Law of Nature, or the Law of God;” and on this adamantine ground it was decided that an American slave, who had found shelter on board of a British man-of-war, could not be recognized as a slave. (Forbes v. Cochrane, 2 Barn. and Cream. R. 448.) But the same principle would prevail against the Recognition of a new Slave Nation.
Vainly do you urge this Recognition on any reason of Peace; There can be no peace founded on injustice; and any Recognition is on injustice which 
will cry aloud, resounding through the universe. You may seem to have peace; but it will be only a smoothened war. destined to break forth in a war more direful than before.
Thus is every argument for Recognition repelled, whether it be under the sounding words. Practice, of Nations, Comity of Nations, or Peace. There is nothing in Practice, nothing in Comity, nothing in Peace, which is not against any such shameful surrender.
But applying the principles which have been already set forth; assuming what cannot be denied-that every Power is free to refuse Recognition-, assuming that it is not every body of men that can be considered a Commonwealth, but only “those associated under the sanction of justice and for the common good;” that men “banded together for the take of systematic crime” cannot be considered a Commonwealth; assuming that every member of the Family of Nations will surely obey
<c06>
the Rule of Morality; that it will skunk fellowship with the wicked that it will not “cater into the service of Barbara’s;” that it will avid what in “unbecoming” and to that only which is “plus safe, and <illegible> and that above all things it will not eater into an <illegible> “to help the ungodly” assuming these things-every such member must reject with indigestion a now <illegible> declared principle of association is an essentially wicked. Here there can be no question. The case in plain, nor is any language of <illegible> or soon too strong to express the Irrepressible <illegible> to such a pretension, which, like vice, “to be <illegible> needs only to be seen. Surely there can be no Christian Power which will not leap to expose it, saying with irresistible voice; (1). No new sanction of Slavery. (2.) No new quickening of Slavery in its active and aggregative Barbarism. (3.) No new encouragement to the “filibuster” engendered by Slavery. (4) No new creation of Slave territory, (5.) No new creation of a Slave Navy. (6) No new Slave Nation. (7.) No installation of Slavery as a new Civilization. But all this <illegible> will fall, if Recognition <illegible>-from which Good Lord deliver us! Nor will this 
Be the end of the evil.
Slavery, through the new Power, will take its place in the Parliament of mankind, with an the <illegible> of an independent Nation, ready always to uphold and advance itself, and organized, as unrelenting Propagandas of 
The new faith. A Power, having its inspiration in such a Barbarism, must be essentially barbarous founded on the asserted right to whip women and to <illegible> children, it must assume a character of disgusting hardihood and, openly professing a determination of revolutionize the Public Opinion of the world, it must be in open schism with Civilization itself, so that all its influences will be wild, savage, brutal and all its offspring kindred in character.
<Illegible>
Such a Power from its very nature, must be <illegible> at home “tempered only by assassination,” with cotton-fields instead of <illegible>
while abroad it must be aggressive, dangerous and revolting, in itself a Magnum Latrocinium, whose fellowship can have noting but “ the
filthiness of Evil” and whose very existence will be an intolerable nuisance, When Dante, in the vindictive judgment which he hurled against his own Florence, called it bordelle, he did not use a too strong for the mighty House of <illegible> which the Christian Power are now asked for the first time to license, Such must be the character of the new Power. But though only a recent wrong, end pleading no prescription, the <illegible> audacity of its nature will hesitate at nothing: nor is there anything offensive or detestable which it will not absorb into itself. It will be an Ishmael with its land against every man. It will be a brood of Harpies defiling all which it cannot steal. It will be the spurning all as fools who do not see likewise, and bellowing forth in savage egotism:
Know the, we Cyclops are a race above
Those air-bred people and their <illegible>-nursed Jove:
And learn our power proceeds with the and thane
Not as Jove wills, but <illegible>
Or worse still, it will be the soulless monster of Frankenstein- the wretched creation of moral science without God-endowed with life and nothing else-forever raving madly, the sandal to humanity-powerful only for evil-whose destruction will be essential to the peace of the world.
Who can welcome such a creation! Who can consort with it! There is something loathsome in the idea. There is contamination even in the thought. If you live with the lame, says the ancient proverb, you will learn to limp; if you keep in the kitchen you will small of smoke; if yon touch pitch you will be defiled. But what lameness as pitiful as that of this pretended Power; what smoke as foul as its breath; what pitch on defiling as its touch! It is an Oriental saying that a cistern of rose-water will become impure if a dog be dropt into it; but a continent of rose-water with Rebel Slave mongers would be changed into, a vulgar Imagine, if you please, whatever is most disgusting, and this pretended Power is more disgusting still. Naturalists report that the pike will swallow anything except the toad, but this it cannot do. The experiment has been tried, and. though, this fish, in its voracity; always gulps whatever is thrown to it. Yet in tribally’ it spews this nuisance from its throat. Bat our Slave monger pretension is worse than the toad; and yet there are Foreign Nations which, instead of spewing at forth, are already turning it like precious morsel on the tongue.
But there is yet another ground on which I make this appeal. It is a part of the triumphs of Civilization that no Nation can act for itself alone. Whatever it does for good or for evil affects all the rest. Therefore a nation cannot forget its obligations to others. <illegible> does International Law, when it declares the absolute Equality of Independent nations, cast upon ail
nations the duty of considering well how this privilege shall be bestowed, so that the welfare of ail may be best upheld. But the whole Family of Nations would be degraded by admitting this new pretension to any <illegible> much less to any equality. There can be no reason for such admission; for it can bring nothing to the general weal. Civil society is created for safety and tranquillity. Nations come together and fraternize for the common good. But this hateful pretension can nothing but evil for civil society at home or for nation in their relations with each other. It can show no title to Recognition; no passport for its travels; no old creation. It is all new; and here let me borrow the language of Burke on another occasion: It is not a new Power of an old kind. It is a new Power of new <illegible> When such a questionable shape is to be admitted for the first time into the brotherhood of Christendom, it is not a mere matter of idle curiosity to consider how far its Letter.) The greatest of corporations is a nation; the sublimest of all associations is that which is composed of nations, independent and equal, knit together in the bonds of peaceful Fraternity as a great Christian Commonwealth. The Slavemongers may be a corporation us fact; but no such corporation can find a place in that sublime Commonwealth. As were admit the Thugs. whose first article of fuith is to kill a stranger-or the Buccaneers, those old “brothers of the coast,” who plundered on the sea-or better still, revive the old Kingdom of the Assassins, where the king was an assassin, surrounded by counselors and generals who were assassins, and all his subjects were assassins. Or yet again, better at once and openly recognize Anti-Christ, who is the supreme and highest impersonation of the Slave Power.
Amidst the general degradation that would follow such an obeisance to Slavery, there are two Christian Powers that would appear in sad and shameful eminenes. I refer to Great Britain-the declared “protectress of the African race”-and to France; the declared champion of “ideas”-who, from the very largess of their pledges are so situated, that they cannot desert the food old cause and turn their backs upon civilization without a criminal self-stultification, which no amount of apologies can concent. Where then would be British, devotion to the African race! “Where then would be French devotion to ideas)-Remembered only to point a tale and show how nations had fallen. Great Britain knows less than France of National vicissitudes; but such an act of wrong would do something in its influence to equalize the conditions of these two cations. Better for the fast-anchored isle that it should be sunk beneath the sea, with its cathedrals, its castles, its fields of glory, Runnymede. “Westminster Hall and the home of Shakspearc, than that it should do this thing. In other days England has valiantly striven against Slavery; and now she proposes to surrender, at a moment when more can be dune than ever before against the monster wherever it shows its bead, fur Slavery every where has its neck in this Rebellion. In other days France has valiantly striven for ideas; and now she too proposes to sureneder, although all that she has professed to have at heart is involved in the doom of Slavery, which a word from her might hasten beyond recall. But it is in England, more even than in France, that the strongest sentiment for Rebel Slave mongers has been manifest. Constituting a moral mania, which menaces a pact and con carder with the Rebellion Itself-as when au early Pope. The head of the Christian Church, did not hesitate to execute a piratical convention with a pagan enemy of the Christian name. It only remains that the new coalition should be signed, in order to consummate the unutterable degradation. It was the fate of Oedipus, in his saddest story of antiquity, to wed his own mother without knowing it; but England will wed the Slave-Power with full knowledge that the relation, if not incestuous, is vile. The contracting parties will be the Queen of England, and Jefferson Davis the Rebel Slave-monger patron of “repudiation.” It will only remain for this virtuous Lady, whose pride it is to seek justice always, to bend in pitiful abjectness to receive as a plenipotentiary at her Conan the author of the Fugitive Slave Bill.
A Slave monger Power will take its seat at the great council-board, to jostle thrones and benches, while it overshadows Humanity. Its foul attorneys, reeking with Slavery, will have their letter of license, as the ambassadors of Slavery, to rove from court to court, over foreign carpets, talking, drinking, spitting Slavery, and nosing that air which has been nobly pronounced too pure for a slave to breathe. Alls! For England’s Queen.’ reduced, led, and drawn away from the cause or Wilberforce and Clarkson to sink into unseemly dalliance with the scourges of women and the auctioneers of children. Alas! For that Royal Consort, humane and great. whose dying voice was given to asauage the temper of that ministerial dispatch by which, in an evil tour, England was made to strike hands with Rebel Slavemongers; for the councilor is needed now to saw he land which he adorned from an act of inexpiable shame. Alas! for England, vowed a thousand times to the cause of the African race and knit perpetually by her best renown to this assured loyalty, now plunging into adulterous Lemon with Slavery-recognizing he new and impious Protestantism against Liberty itself-and wickedly becoming the Defender of the Faith even as professed by Rebel Slave mongers.
And for all this sickening immorality I hear but one declared apology. It is said that the Union permitted and still permits Slavery; therefore Foreign Nations may recognize Rebel Slave-mongers as a new Power But here is the precise question. England is still in diplomatic-relations with Spain, and was only a short time ago in diplomacy relations with Brazil, both permitting Slavery; but these two Powers are not new; they are already established; there is no question of their Recognition; nor do they pretend to found empire on Slavery. There is no reason in any relations with them why a new Power, with Slavery as its declared “corner-stone,” whose gospel is Slavery and whose evangelists are Slave-mongers. Should be recognized in the Family of Nations. If Ireland were is triumphant rebellion against the British Queen, complaining of rights denied, it would be our duty to recognize her as an Independent Power but if Ireland rebelled, with the declared object of establishing a new Power, which should be nothing idea
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
a glint salon and a nuisance to the world then it would be over duty p spurn the infamous pretension and no triumph of the Rebellion could change this plain and attestable heromagity, and yet in the face of this commanding rule are told be expect the Recognition of Beebe slavemongers.
But an aroused Public Opinion the world's collected with and retuned reason in England and France will for to the that Civilization is save from this shock and the nations themselves from the terrible retributive which never sooner or later must surely attest it. No power can afforded to life itself before mankind and openly vote a new and untrammeled charter to injustice and cruelty. God is an unsleeping more can armies fleets. bulwarks of towers along the stop' prevail against His mightly anger, There is but one word which the christian powers can utter to any application for this archly Recognition. It is simply and custoerly now with an emphasis that shall silence argument and extinguish hope itself. And this proclamation should go forth swiftly. Every moment of hesitation is a moment of specify casting its lengthening shadow of dishonor. Not to discourage is to encourage not to beast is to blues. Let his simple world be uttered and slavery will shrink away with a mark on its forehead like claim a perpetual vigilant without welcome or fellowship as that it can only dis. Let this simple word be uttered and the judicious slave power will be o better than the Flying Dutchman. That famous cart which darkened by piracy and murder was doomed to a perpetual cruise unable to enter a port:-
Faint and despairing in their water bier
To every friendly shore the sailor's street:
Reopened from poet to port they sue in vain,
And track with glow unsteadily sail the main
Humblest of God and main THE time shall end
Its view strange horror to the storm shall lend.
V.-No CONCESSION OF OCEAN BELLIGHERENCY WITHOUT A PRICE COURT EGPECIALLY TO REBEL SLAVEMONGERS.
Too much bare I spoken for Your patience, if not enough for the cause. But there is yet another topic which I have referred to the last, because logically there belongs there, or at least it can be beat considered in the gathered light of the previous discussion. Its immediate practical interest if great. I refer to the concession of Belligerent Right, being the first stage to Independence. Great Britain led the war in acknowledge the embryo Government of Rebel Slavemongers as Belligerents on sea as well as on land, and, by a Proclamation of the Queen, declared her neutrality between the two parties, thus lifting the embryo Government of Betel Slavemongers, which was nothing else than organized and aggressive Slavery, to an equality on a well as on land, with its ancient ally the National Government. Here was a blonder if not a crime Not merely in the alacrity with which it was done, but in doing it at all It was followed immediately-, by France, and then by Spain, Holland, and Brazil. The concession of Belligerent Rights on land was only! a name and nothing more; therefore I say nothing about it. But the concession of Belligerent Right on the' Ocean is of a widely different character, and the two' reasons against the Recognition of the independence of' the embryo the Tenunent are applicable also to this concession. First. The ember Government has no maritime or naral Belligerent Rights", de facto; and secondly' an embryo Government of Rebel Slavemongers cannot have the character de facto which would justify the concession of maritime naval Belligerency; as that, Could the concession be vindicated on the first ground, it must fail on the second.
The concession of Ocean Belligerency to a Letter of Lioenoe from the consenting Powers to every Slavemongers cruiser, or rather it is the countersign' of these Powers a to the commission of every such cruiser. Without such countersign the slave monger cruiser would be on outlaw, with the no right to enter a single foreign port. The declaration of Belligerency gives to him legel competency, and admits him to testify by flag and arms, without such competency he could have no flag? And no right to bear arms on the ocean. Burke sententiously describes it as an intermediate Treaty which puts rebels impose cession for the Law of Nations" And this is plainly true.
The magnitude of this concession may be seen in three aspects, first in the immunities which it confers; putting as embryo government of Bebop Slavemongers on an equality with established governments a, making its cruisers lawful instead of piratical, and opening to them boundless facilities at sea and in port, so that they may obtain supplies and even hospitality. Secondly in the degradation that it fattens upon the National Government, which is condemned to see its ships treated on an equality with the chips of Keble Slavemongers, and also the just rule of "neutrality" between Belligerent Powers called in to fetter its activity against a giant felony. And thirdly, it may be seen in the disturb! net to commerce which it sanctions, by letting loose lawless sea-raven, armed with Belligerent Rights—including the right of search—whose natural recklessness is left unbridled, and without any remedy even from diplomatic intercourse. The ocean is a common highway; but on this account it is for the interest of all who share it, that it should not be disturbed by predatory hostilities. Such a concession should be made with the greatest caution, and then, only under the necessity of the cage, on the overwhelming authority at the fact ( for, from beginning to end, it is simply a question of fact, absolutely dependent on those conditions and prerequisites without which Ocean Belligerency cannot exist.
As a general rule. Belligerent Rights are conceded only where a rebel Government, or contending party in a civil war has acquired such form and body that for the time being, within certain limits, it is sovereign the facto, so far at least as to command troops and to administer Justice. The concession of Belligerency is the recognition of such limited sovereignty, which bears the same relation to acknowledged Independence as gristle bears to bone. It is obvious that such sovereignty may exist de facto on land without existing de facto on the ocean. It may prevail in armies and yet fail in navies. In short, the fort may be one way on land said the other way on the ocean; nor can it be inferred on the ocean simply from its existence on the land. Since every concern in adverse to the original Government, and is made only under the necroeity of the case, it must be carefully limited to the actual fact. Indeed, Mr. Canning, who has shed so much light on these topics, openly took ground that Belligerency in not no much a principle as a fact." And the question then arises, whether the Rebel Slavemongers have acquired such de facto sovereignty on the ocean as entitles them to Ocean Belligerent rights.
There are at least two " facts" which are patent to all first, that the rebel Slavemongers have not a single port it into which even legal cruisers can take their prizes or adjudication; and secondly, that the ships which now presume to exercise Ocean Belligerent rights in their name—constituting the Rebel slavemonger navy, which a member of the British Cabinet said was " to be Created"—were all " created" in England, which is the nevel base from which they sally forth on their predatory cruise without once entering a port of their own pretended Government.
These two "facts' are different in character. The first attaches absolutely to the pretended Power, rendering it incompetent to exercise Belligerent jurisdiction on the ocean. The second attaches to the individual ships, rendering them piratical. But these simple and unquestionable " facts are the key to unlock the present question.
From the reason of the case, there can be no Ocean belligerent without a port into which it can take its prizes. Any other rule would be absurd. It will not be enough to sail the sea, like the Flying Dutchman; the Ocean Belligerent must be able to touch the land and that land its own. This proceeds on the idea of civilized warfare, that something more than naked force is cessentail to the completeness of a capture. According to the earlier rule, transaction of property was accomplished by the "permutation" of the captured ship within the port of the Belligerent, or as it was called, infra presidia A s early an 1414, under Henry V, of England there was an Act of Parliament, requiring privateers to bring their prizes into a port of He kingdom, and to make a laceration thereof to a proper officer, before undertaking to dispose of them, (Running to us statutes), Vol. I., p. 491) But the modern role into interposes an additional check upon lawless violence by requiring the condemnation of a competent court. This rule, which is among the most authoritative of the British Admiralty, will be found in the famous letter of Sir William Scott and Sir John Nichol, addressed to John Jay, as follows: "Before the ship or goods can, It disposed of by the captors, there must be a regular judicial proceeding, wherein both parties may be said and condensation there from as prize is a Court of Admiralty judging by the Law of Nations said Treaties." This is explicit. But this rule is French as well as English. Indeed it is a part of International Law. A seizure is regarded merely as a preliminary act, which does not divest the property, though it paralyzes the right of the proprietor. A subsequent act of condemnation, by a competent tribunal, is necessary to determine if the seizure is valid. The question is compendiously called prize or we prize. A where the property of neutrals is involved this requirement becomes of absolute importance. In conceding belligerency, the entire customary belligerent rights with regard to "neutrals are conceded also, so that the concession puts in leopard neutral commerce. But without dwelling on this point, I content myself with the authority of two recent French writers, if. Haut faille, in his elaborate work, says "the cruiser is not recognized as the profiteer of the object seized, but he it self to bring them to fore the tribunal and obtain a sentence declaring them to be prize." (Hacutefeuiville Des Droits des devoirs des Nations natures, Vol iii, p. 299, 323, 352.) And a later writer. H. Eugene Caocly, whose work has appeared since our war began, says, "usage, which evidently has it source in natural equity, requires that, before proceeding to divide the booty, there should be, an inquiry as to the regularity of the price; and to this and, energy prize tain from an enemy should be carried before the Judge established be the Sovereign of the captor." Cauchy Droit Maritime International, Vol i., p. 65,66) But if this Power, calling itself belligerents cannot comply with this conditions; if it bes no port into which it can bring the captured ship, and no court, according to the requirement of the British Admiralty, with "a regular Judicial proceeding wherein both parties may to heard," it is clearly not in a situation to despots of ship or foots at prize.' Whatever may be its force is either respects, it lacks a vital element of Ocean Belligerency. In that semi-sovereignty, which constitutes Belligerently on land, there must be a provision for the administration of justice, without which there is nothing' but a mob. In that came'semi-sovereignty on the ocean there most be a similar provision. It will not be enough that there should be ships duly commissioned to take
<c02>
prizes there must also be courts to try them, and the letter are not less important than the further.
Lord Russell himself who was not swift no make this concession has been led to confess the necessity of Prime courts on the part of ocean belligerents and than to expose the irrational character of his own work. In a letter to the live pool chamber of commerce dated 1st January 1862 occasioned by the destruction of British cargoes the Minister says; The owners of any British property not being contraband of war on board a federal vessel captured and destroyed of was on board a ate vessel of war may claim in a consecrate prize court compensation for destruction of such property" (Wheaton's Elements Lawrence's edit p. 1024 But if there be no parse court then justice must fail and with this failure trembles in fact the whole wretched pretension of ocean Belligerency-except in this galvanism of a queen's oriole national cabinet concession.
If a cruiser may at any time burn prizes, it is only because of some exceptional exigency in a particular case, and not according to any general rule,. The general rule declares that there can be no light to the a prize, If there be no port into which It may be earned. The right of capture end the right of trial are the complements might of each other-through which a harsh prerogative is supposed to be- rounded into the proper form of civil-lied warfare. Therefore, every ship and cargo burned by the captors, for the reason that they had no port, testifies that there are without that vital sovereignty on the ocean, which is needed in the exercise of Belligerent jurisdiction, and that they are not Ocean Belligerents in fact, Naymore; all these bonfires of the sea cry out against that power, which by a precitate confession of a false Belligerency furnished the torch. As well invest the rebellion Rajahs of India, who have never tasted slat water, with this Ocean prerogative, so that they too Bay rob and burn; as well constitute land-locked Poland, now in arms for Independence, an Ocean Belligerent; or enroll mountain Switzerland in the same class; or join with Shakespeare in making inland Bohemia a country with hospitable ports on the ocean.
To aggravate this concession of a false Belligerency, the ships and all built, rigged, armed and manned in Great Britain. It is out British oak and British iron that they are constructed: rigged with British ropes; made formidable, with British arms; supplied with British gunners and navigated by British crews, so as to constitute in all respects a British naval expedition. British ports supply the place of Rebel Slave monger ports. British ports are open to them when their own are closed. British ports constitute their naval bass of operations and supplies, furnishing every thing needful, except an officer—the ship's papers—and a court for the trial of the prizes—each of which is essential to the legality of the expedition. And yet these same ships, thus equipped in British ports and never touching a port of the pretended government in whose name they rob and burn,—being simply a rib taken out of the side of England and contributed to a Slave monger Rebellion, — receive the farther passport of Belligerency from the British Government when in fact the Belligerency does not exist. The whole proceeding, from the laying of the keel in a British dockyard to the bunting flames on the ocean, is a mockery of International Law and an insult to a friendly Power.
The case is sometimes said to be new; but it is new only inasmuch as no such "parricide: is provided against but in express terms. It was not anticipated. But the principles which govern it are as old as justice and humanity, in the interests of which Belligerent Rights are said to be conceded. Here it is all reversed, and it is now apparent that, whatever may have been the motives of the British Government, Belligerent Rights have been conceded in the interests of injustice and inhumanity. Burning ships and scattered wrecks are the witnesses. If such a case is not condemned by International Law, then has this law lost its virtue? Call inch cruisers by whatever polite term most pleases the ear, and you do not change their character with their name, without a home and without a legal character, they are mere gypsies of the sea, who by their criminal acts have become disturbers of the common highway, outlaws and enemies of the human race.
But there is a precedent, which shows how impossible it is for a pretended Power, without a single port, to possess Belligerent Rights on the ocean, and how impossible it is for the ship of such pretended Power to be anything but a felon ship. James II. Of England, after he had ceased to be de facto king and while he was an exile without a single port, undertook to issue Letters of Marquee. It was argued unanswerably before the Privy Council of William III., that whatever might be the claims de jute of a deposed prince, he could not receive from any other sovereign "international privileges:" "that, if he could grant a commission to take the ships of a single nation, it would in effect be a general license to plunder, because those who wars to commissioned would be their men judges of whatever they took; and that the reason of the thing which pronounced that robbers and pirates, when they formed themselves into a civil society, became just enemies, pronounced also that a king without territory, without power of protecting the innocent or punishing the guilty, or in any way of administering justice, dwindled into a pirate if he issued commissions to seize the goods and ships of nations, and that they who took commissions from him must be held by legal inference to have associated' sceneries causes,' and could not be considered at members of civil society." (Phillimore, International Law, Vol i. 40L) These words are strictly applicable to the present case. Whatever may be the force of the Rebel Slavemongers on land, they are no better on the ocean than the "deposed prince"—"without power of protecting the innocent or punishing the guilty, or in any way of administering justice;" and, like the prince, they too have "dwindled into a pirate," except so far as they may be sustained by British Recognition.
And there is yet another precedent, which shows that the appropriation of a captured ship or cargo without judicial proceedings is piracy. The case is memorable. It is none other than that of the famous Capt. Kidd, who, on his indictment for piracy, as long ago as 1698, produced a commission in justification. But it was at once declared that it was not enough; he must also show a condemnation, of the captured ship. The Lord Chief Baron of that day said that if he had acted pursuant to his commission, he out to have condemned ship and goods; that by not condemning them he showed his aim, mind and intention; and that he did not act in that case by virtue of his commission, but quite contrary to it; that he took the ship and shared the money and goods, and was taken in that very ship—so that there is no color or practense that he intended to bring this ship to England to be condemned, or to have condemned it in any of the English plantations; and that while men pursue their commissions they must be justified; but when they do things not authorized or ever intended by them, it was as if they had no commissions. (Hargrave's State Trials, Vol. v. p. 314) Capt. Kidd was condemned to death and executed as a pirate. If he was a pirate, worthy of death, then, by the same rule, those rovers who burn ships, rob cargoes, and adorn their cabins with rows of stolen chronometers—without any pretense of a Prize Court—must be pirates, worthy of death likewise.
But without now considering more critically what should be the fate of those ocean-incendiaries, or what the responsibilities of England, out of whom they came, I content myself with the conclusion that they are not entitled to Ocean Belligerency.
But even if Rebel Slavemongers coagulated in embryo Government, have arrived at that semi-sovereignty de facto on the ocean which justifies the concession of Belligerent Rights, yet the Christian Powers should indignantly decline to make the concession, because they cannot do so without complicity with a shameful crime. Here I avoid details. It is sufficient to say, that every argument of fact and reason—every whisper of conscience and humanity—every indignant outburst of an honest man against the Recognition of Slave-monger Independence is equally strong against any concession of Ocean Belligerency. Indeed such concession is the half-way house to Recognition, and it can be made only whose a nation is ready, if the fact of Independence be sufficiently established, to acknowledge it—on the principle of Vattel that "whosoever has a right to the end has a right to the means." (Book IV. chap. v. sec. 60). But it is equally clear, that where a nation. on grounds of conscience, must refuse the Recognition of Independence, it cannot concede Belligerency, for where the end is forbidden the means must be forbidden also. But the illogical absurdity of any such concession by Great Britain, so persistent always against Slavery and now for more than a generation the declared "protectress of the African race," becomes doubly apparent when it is considered, that every Rebel ship built in England and invested with Ocean Belligerency, carries with it the law of Slavery, so that the ship becomes an extension of Slave Territory by British concession.
And yet it is said that such a monster is entitled to the concession of ocean rights, and the British Queen is made to proclaim them. Sad day for England when another wicked compromise was struck with Slavery, kindred in nature to that old Treaty, which mantles the cheeks or honest Englishmen as they read it, by which the slave-trade was protected and its profits secured to British subjects! I know not the profits which have been secured by the destruction of American commerce; but I do know that the Treaty of Utrecht, crimson with the blood of slaves, is not so reckless as that reckless Proclamation, which gave to Slavery a frantic life, and held for a time, nay still helps the demon, in the rage with which it battles against Human Rights. Such a ship, with the Law of Slavery on its deck, and with the flag of Slavery at its mast-head, sailing for Slavery, burning for Slavery, fighting for Slavery, and knowing no other sovereignty than the pretended government of Rebel Slavemongers, can be nothing less, in spirit and character, than a Slave-Pirate and the enemy of the human race. Like produces like, and the parent Power, which is Slavery, must stamp itself upon the ship making it a floating offense to Heaven, with no limit to its audacity—wild, outrageous, impious, a monster of the deep to be hunted down by all who have not forgotten their duty alike to God and man.
Meanwhile there is one simple act which the justice of England cannot continue to refuse. That fatal concession of Ocean Belligerency, made in a moment of eclipse, when reason and humanity were obscured, must be annulled. The blunder-crime must be renounced, so that the Slave-pirated may no longer sail the sea, burning, destroying, robbing, with British license. Then will they promptly disappear forever, end with them will disappear the occasion of strife between two Great Powers, who ought to be, if not as mother and child, at least as brothers among the Nations. And may God in his mercy help this consummation!
And here I leave this part of the subject, founding my objections on two grounds:
1. The embryo government of Rebel Slavemongers has not that degree of sovereignty on the ocean which is essential to Belligerency were.
2. Even if it possessed the requisite sorcreignty, no
<c03>
Christian Power can make any such <illegible> to it without a shameful complicity with Slavery.
Both of these are objections of fast. Either is sufficient. But even it the Belligerency seems to the established as a fact, still its <illegible> in this age of Christian light would seem to be impossible, unless under some temporary aberration, which, for the honor of England and the welfare of Humanity, it is to be hoped will speedily pass away.

OUR DUTIER
Again, fellow-citizens, I crave forgiveness for this long trespass upon your patience. If the field that we have traversed has been ample, it has been brightened always by the light of International Justice, exporting clearly from beginning to end the sacred landmarks of duty. I have been frank, disguising nothing and keeping nothing back; so that you have been able to see the perils to which the Republic to exposed from the natural tendency of war to breed war, as exhibited in the examples of history, and also from the fatal proclivity of Foreign Powers to intermeddle, as exhibited in recent instances of querulous criticism or intrusive proposition, all adverse to the good cause, while pirate ships have been permitted to depredate on our commerce; then how the best historic Instances testify in favor of Freedom, and how all Intervention of every kind, whether by proffer of mediation or otherwise, becomes intolerable when its influence tends to the establishment of that soulless anomaly a professed Republic built on the hopeless and everlasting bondage of a race—and especially how Great Britain is sacredly engaged by all the logic of her history and all her traditions in unbroken lineage against any such unutterable baseness; then how all the Christian Powers, constituting the Family of Nations, are firmly bound to set their faces against any Recognition of the embryo Government of Rebel Slavemongers on two grounds; first because, its Independence it not in fact established; and secondly, because, even if in fact established, its Recognition is impossible without criminal complicity with Slavery; and lastly, how these same Christian Powers are firmly bound by the same two-fold reasons against any concession of Ocean rights to this hideous pretender.
It only remains that the Republic should lift itself to the height of its great duties. War is hard to bear— with its waste, its pains, its wounds, its funers. But in this war we have not been choosers. We have been challenged to the defense of our country, and in this sacred cause, to crush Slavery. There is no alternative. Slavery began the combat, staking its lift and determined to rule or dis. That we may continue freemen there must be no slaves; so that our own security is linked with the redemption of a race. Blessed lot, amidst the harshness of war, to wield the arms and deal the blows under which the monster win surely fall! The battle is mighty, for into it Slavery has entered the Spirit of Evil. It is persistent, for such a gathered wickedness, concentrated, aroused and maddened, man have a to-nacity of life, which will not yield at once. But might will not save it now; nor time either.
That the whole war to contained in Slavery may be seen, not only in the acts of the National Government, but also in the confessions of the Rebel Slavemongers. Already the President, by Proclamation, has announced that the slaves throughout the whole rebel region "are and henceforward shall be free," and. in order to give the fullest assurance of the irreversible character of this sublime edict, he has further announced "that the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons. "Already an enlightened Commission has been constituted, to consider how these thronging freedmen can, be best employed for their own good and the national defense. And already the sons of Africa, as mastered soldiers of the Union, have put forth a discipline and a bravery, not unworthy of their fathers of old, when the prophet Jeremiah said, "Let the mighty men come forth, the Ethiopians that handle the shield;" (chap, xlvi., v. 9,) and still further, by their stature, by their appearance in the ranks and even by the unexpected testimony of sanitary statistics—according to which for every black soldier disabled by sickness there are more than ten white, thus making the army health, of the black ten times as sure as that of the white—by all these things, they have shown that the Father of History, who to our earliest classical authority, was not entirely mistaken when he spoke of Ethiopia as "the most distant region of the earth, whose inhabitants are the tallest, most beautiful, and most long-lived of the human race." (Herodotus III., 114.) But even if these acts of the National Government were less significant, all doubt is removed by the Rebel Slave-mongers themselves, who, in Satanic audacity, openly avow that Slavery is the end and aim of the Government which they seek to establish, so that every blow which is struck by them to struck for Slavery. Therefore, in battling against the Rebellion we battle against Slavery. Freedom to the growing inspiration of our armies and the just inscription of our banners. By this sign conquer. Such a war to not in any just sense, a war of subjugation; but a war of Liberation—in order to save the Republic from a petty oligarchy of task-masters, and to rescue four millions of human beings from a cruel oppression. Not to subjugate but to liberate to the object of our Holy War. And yet British statesmen, forgetting for the moment all moral distinctions—forgetting God, who will not be forgotten—gravely announce that our cause must fail! Alas! individual wickedness is too often successful; but a pretended Nation, suckled in wickedness and boasting its wickedness—a new Sodom, with all the guilt of the old, waiting to be blasted, and yet, in its effrontery, openly seeking the fellowship of Christian Powers—to doomed to defeat. Toleration of such a pretension to practical Atheism. Chronology and geography are both offended by it. Piety stands aghast. In this age of light, and in countries boasting civilization, there can be no place for its barbarous plenipotentiaries. As well expect crocodiles crawling on the pavements of London and Paris, or the carnivorous idols of Africa installed for worship in Westminster Abbey and Notre Dame.
Even if the Republic were less strong, yet I am glad, to believe that the Rebellion must fail, from the essential impossibility of any such wicked success. The responsibilities of the Christian Powers would be increased by our weakness. Behind our blockade there would be a moral blockade; behind our armies there would be the aroused judgment of the civilized world. But not on this account can we hesitate. This to no time to stop. Forward; forward. Thus do I, who formerly pleaded so often for peace, now sound to arms. But it to because, in this terrible moment, there to no other way to that sincere and solid peace without which there will be endless war. Even on economic grounds, it were better that this war should proceed, rather than recognize any partition, which, beginning with humiliation, must involve the perpetuation of armaments and break out again in blood. But there to something worse than waste of money; it is waste of character. Give me any peace but a Liberticidal peace. In other days, the immense eloquence of Burke was stirred against a Regicide peace. But a peace founded on the killing of a king to not so had as a peace founded on the killing of Liberty; nor can the saddest scenes of such a peace be so sad as the daily life which to legalized by Slavery. A Queen on the scaffold to not so pitiful a sight as a woman on the auction-block. Therefore, I say again, Forward! Forward!
But while thus steady in our purpose at home, we most not neglect that proper moderation abroad, which becomes the consciousness of our strength and the nobleness of our cause. The mistaken sympathy which Foreign Powers now bestow upon Slavery—or it may be the mistaken insensibility—under the plansible name of "neutrality," which they profess—will be worse for them than for us. For them it will be a record of shame which their children would gladly blot out with tears. For us it will be only another obstacle vanquished in the battle for Civilization, where unhappily false friends are mingled with open enemies. Even if the cause shall seem for a while imperiled from Foreign Powers, yet our duties are none the less urgent. If the pressure be great, the resistance must be greater; nor can there be any retreat. Come weal or woe this to the place for as to stand.
I know not if a Republic like ours can count even now upon the certain friendship of any European Power, unless it be the Republic of William Tel The very name is unwelcome to the full-blown representatives of old Europe, who forgot how proudly, even in modern history, Venice bore the title of Serenissima Respublica. It will be for us to change all this, and we shall do it, Our successful example will be enough. Thus far we have been known, chiefly through that vital force which Slavery could only degrade but not subdue. Now at last, by the death of Slavery, will the Republic begin to live. For what to life without Liberty? Stretching from ocean to ocean—teeming with population—bountiful in resources of all kinds—and thrice-happy in universal enfranchisement—it will be more than conqueror. Nothing too vast for its power; nothing too minute for its care. Triumphant over the foulest wrong ever inflicted—after the bloodiest war ever waged—it will know the majesty of Right and the beauty of Peace-prepared always to uphold the one and to cultivate the other. Strong in its own mighty stature—filled with all the fullness of a new life and covered with a panoply of renown, it will confess that no dominion to of value which does not contribute to human happiness. Born in this latter day and the child of its own struggles, without ancestral claims, but heir of all the ages—it will stand forth to assert the dignity of man, and wherever any member of the Human Family is to be succored, there its voice will reach—as the voice of Cromwell reached across France even to the persecuted mountaineers of the Alps. Such will be this Republic; upstart among the nations. Aye! as the steam-engine, the telegraph and chloroform are upstart. Comforter and Helper like these, it can know no bounds to its empire over a willing world. But the first stage to the death of Slavery.
We have returns from 179 towns in Vermont, leaving 60 towns to hear from. The vote for Governor thus far is as follows:
Counties. Smith, Rep. Redfield, Cop.
Addison—14 towns....1,609 277
Bennington—9 towns.....1,189 536
Caledonia—15 towns......1,896 1,078
Chittenden—complete....2,446 748
Essex—3 towns....... 165 28
Franklin—9 towns........ 1,429 603
Grand Isle—complete..... 317 182
La Moille—5 towns....... 816 321
Orange—complete........2,753 1,631
Orleans—11 towns........ 1,196 320
Rurland—18 towns........2,155 783
Washington—17 towns 2,442 1,167
Windham—17 towns......2,654 1,000
Windsor—complete.......4,092 1,177
Total............25,159 9.911
Smith's majority so far..........15,248
<c04>
TWO RUSSIAN VILLA VILLLAGES,
From All the Year Round
I am about to describe two Russian villages that I know;-thee Small and the Black. One shows Russia at its best; the other shows the ordinary state of things below the surface-polish of the capital.
The Small village was unlike any Russian country village I had ever seen. The proprieter of the place; either wisely or by good luck, had placed the whole management in the hands of a man of the rights stamp; not one of the engineering comets who pass over the Russian scientific horizon, dazshing the native vision with schemes promianing fabulous percentage; not an avaricious and tyrannical Niemits; not a crafty, pilfering Rues; but a plain, practical man, who could understand that his own and his employer's interests were best consulted by the material improvement of the people under his control. He had been reared on a small farm in Ayrshire, and knew all the practical shifts and expedients necessary in dealing with poor people and poor land; he possessed that indomitable energy and perseverance which has made many of the once heathery hills and boggy plains of Scotland the most fruitful farming land in the worlds. Catherine, Paul, Alexander, Nicholas, have all employed Scotchmen in their navies armies, and manufactories; and these men and their descendants are to be found naturalized and prosperous in many parts of Russia.
On the estate of the Small village I found a beetroot-sugar mill, a large saw mill, corn mills, a vodki distillery, excellent stables, cow houses, dairy, store-rooms, conservatory, garden, hothouses, all kept in the utmost order. The people, who looked clean and cheerful, had been cleared of the sheepish, sullen, cringing air of serfdom, and they looked me in the race. In addition to his farming operations, this good manager had established a small foundry and mechanics' shop, where both iron and brass goods were cast and manufactured. In the mechanics' shop I saw about thirty men and boys busy at work, with files, hammers, and chisels of English manufacture. There were a blacksmith's shop with fire forges, a joiner's shop, a painter's shop, and a large department for the making of carts, sledges, and all finds of wheels. It may be worth notice, that the rims of Russian wheels are made in one piece, and not in sections, as in England. Birch-trees of the proper size are cut down and trimmed to the length and thickness required, are boiled for from for-and-twenty to forty hours in a large caldron of water, and are then bent, fastened, and laid up for a year or two to season. Naves and spokes are afterward put in by a rude contrivance, and the one joint is made very secure with iron plates and bolts. A wheel made in this way, and shod with half or three-quarter inch iron, will last an immense time on the high road. On the soft unmacadamized roads in the interior no iron is necessary. The bearings of these wheels are so broad that it is almost impossible to overturn the carts and carnages set on them. Thousands of such wheels were made in the Small village, and sent every year to the various markets. Beside these, I saw ploughs, harrows, and portable thrashing machines, in course of manufacture; while I was looking over the estate several persons from considerable distances arrived with articles fox repair, and orders for new goods.

The wooden one-storied huts of the people were clean, well built, well thatched, and had glass windows. Separate places were provided for cows, horses, pigs, and poultry; adjoining each hut was a strip of land, composing the garden and farm of its occupant; a post with a printed board at the top, facing the main road, set forth the name of the possessor of each allotment. Although the snow on the ground made it impossible to see the state of cultivation, it was evident from the abundance in the little barns and yards, and from the general appearance of the peasants, that, their old slovenly lazy habits were giving place to industry and self-respect On inquiry, I found that on this estate, serfdom had been abolished for some years, and that the work was all done by free Russian laborers. The Lady Obrassoff had freed her serfs, and by a judicious system of encouragement and assistance was gradually making men of them.

"It is true," said the steward, "we pay more for labor now, and we have to give them pasture-land and wood at a mere nominal price. But we get more work for our money, and by-and-by the small farms let out will become more valuable, and pay higher rent, although madame's income from her land has been for a time reduced considerably. The profits of her works, too, are already so much, increased, that, on the whole, we thrive under the new system. This will not be the case with many other proprietors who have not taken care to conciliate the people, and find good work for the surplus population. At first, I was much put to it for workers in the mills and shops, many of the people having heard of high wages in Moscow and St. Petersburg, rushed there, but most of them have since returned, bringing report home that in the great towns work is scarce and living high, and that, on the whole, they find themselves better off in the Small village. I expect that as soon as the serfs are free to go where they choose, great bodies of them will rush to the capital and huge towns, expecting high wages. This will glut the labor-market in places already fully stocked, and they will return to their native places. For a time they may cause great loss and annoyance to those who possess land and works in the interior, but a few years will remedy the evil."

In the Winter of 1863, many serfs, who had been spontaneously freed by their barons, rushed to Moscow. When I was in Moscow last, the city swarmed with masses of starving peasantry seeking work and finding none; on a late country journey I saw thousands crawling back to their villages and begging their way.

Visiting madame at the great house, I found an English governess at home with her there, in the heart of Russia. It is a general practice among the better classes in Russia to educate their children, especially girls, at home. Placed under the charge of a chief governess, a young Russian lady is often attended by a retinue of tutors, comprising a German, a Frenchman, an Italian, and an Englishman, beside Russian dancing, drawing and music masters. I knew a case in which a young lady's education cost her guardians two pounds a day, for teachers' and governesses' fees alone. All must be natives of the country whose language they profess to teach, and must come, or profess to come, from their capital. Scotch or Irish men or women are tabooed, either as governesses, teachers, or companions.

Having complimented madame on the improving condition of her estate,

"Ah, yes," she said, "my steward has done wonders outside, and we have not been idle inside. All things are changed, and oh, how much better it is! Formerly, when the people were my own, I was obliged to have seventeen or eighteen servants of one kind and another in the house, to wait on us four ladies, and then we were not half served. Now, we have only five hired servants, all free, beside the gardener and coachman; and from these we get better attendance. We are quieter, there is less waste and stealing, and the cost is not one-half. The effort was at first hard work, for, sometimes when we were teaching them to be free—poor things—they did not know what it meant. But we persevered, and now I am very happy. It will be a long time, however, before I get the idea out of my old head that these independent creatures are my children. Lucy" (the English governess) "and Sanya have started a school for the peasants' children. At first they bribed the little things, and even the parents, before they could get them to come; now, they have too many. The young ladies also visit the sick and the aged; and Lucy has lately taken to remonstrating with the few lazy and drunken fellows in the village. About a year ago, she gave me a little book of Scripture tales, of which I am extremely fond; it is in English. Well, we three Russians soon translated it into Russ, intending to get it printed for circulation among the peasants and their children. But yon see, at my, last confession I had to tell the priest what I and my girls had done. He saw the manuscript, and prohibited the publication."
"And will you not publish it?"
"Oh no; it would be wrong. I dare not. It is as much as I can do, to get the school carried on. But come here into this corner; I want to tell you about Lucy. That young lady has a strong determined character, and must have been trained in good principles. During the first three months she was in my family, she effected a great change in it. Yon know how abjectly the peasants behave when they ask a favor or receive one!"

"Yes; they cross themselves, bow down their heads level with their heels, kiss your feet, grovel on the very ground, and kiss the earth you walk on."

"So it is, and we are so much accustomed to it that this servility seems natural. They will do it to our children when occasion requires, crawling and grovelling before, them. Poor young things, what can they imagine but that the abject souls are dogs and pigs compared with themselves? I have seen one little fellow, not disposed to grant a request to a great sprawling man, join to his denial a kick in
<c05>
the face. Well? One day after Lacy had been a short time here, two male peasants came is and beggar their prostrations before the young girls; they had a petition to make tome, and wished for their intersession. Sanya, although she is a good girl, took it quits in order, as part of her natural birth right. Not so Lacy; I was in the next room, and heard her say,' Get up, men, and stand on your feet like human beings; I will not hear a word while you lie on the floor; and looking through the curtains I saw her with her fingers in both ears. Sanya, said, Lucy dear, let them go on, they are only music's.' They are men,' said Lucy; and turning to them, she said,' now listen and remember what I tell you; never go on your knees, sad kiss the ground to me again. I won't have it; you must kneel to God only, Stand up and make your request in a respectful manner, then I will hear you, and help you if I can.' The music's didd not understand her; they stated In blank astonishment; they heard her words of rebuke, but supposed that they had not been abject enough; and again east themselves down at full length. Lucy ran into my arms and burst into tears. My Sanya could not for a long time understand it, but I hope I did; and the end is, that this abominable practice, has been peremptorily abolished in lay family.
Now, let me describe my visit to the Black village, or, as the Russians call it, "Churnoi Deravonie"
WE (for I was not alone) arrived about 10 o'clock, la fine time and humor for breakfast, but saw very few evidences of life as, we passed down the road between the straggling poverty-stricken shapeless hovels of mud and wood. On approaching the baronial residence and farm offices, we found a small crowd of some twenty peasant men and women assembled at one of the barn-doors, where a middle-aged lady was gesticulating with direful energy to the assembled peasants. The lady was dressed in a to wrapper, had tied her head up in a comfortable woolen shawl, had put her hands in good warm fur gloves, and wore on her feet a pair of long velvet boots lined with rabbit-skin. The peasants seemed as if they had just risen from consuming fever. They were lean and wan and haggard; with their hair matted, their poor clothing tattered, and their aces fixed in sullen discontent. The lady, busy among her " souls," did not appear to notice our approach. She was too great a passion to attend to anything but the outpouring of net wrath. 
"Dogs! sons and daughters of dogs! Is this the service you pay your baronet Pigs and swine! Is this a time to come to your work? Rats and vermin! You should have been here at four o'clock, and now it is ten; Defilement of mothers! I will have every one of you whipped. And you, tsarist, who ought to be an example, are the wont of the whole pack of thieves. You came here at this hour with seventeen souls, when you ought to have had forty here at four o'clock to thrash and put that rye away. Devils you all are! If my brother were well, he would punish you like sons and daughters of dogs that you are!
The old tsarist, quite unconcerned under all this abuse, merely shrugged his shoulders until the; reached his ears, and held out his two hands from his sides with each finger as far separate from its neighbor as possible. If any one will put him in this posture, and stare fixedly before him until his eyes are glassy, he will have achieved the universal deprecatory careless shrug of Russia.
"What's to be done, baroness?" he asked. "I have been fighting the pigs all the morning to get them to come, but, the deuce takes it, they say they are all unwell, and cannot work. See! These are all I could get, and I had to pull them off their beds to bring them here, and, deuce take me, they are not worth bringing But what's, to be done, baroness? It's God's doing."
Go into the barn and work, you whelps," said my lady. "Tsarist, drive them, in, you old fool. Be quick, pig." And here she gave the old fellow a side blow with her gloved hand which made him stagger back. But, recovering himself, he pretended to make furious assault on the poor invalids, cuffing, kicking, and pushing them to the door of the barn, through which they huddled and disappeared.
"Now then, you old fool," said the lady, "go and bring the others.
"And who will watch these, baroness"
"I will be off, thief."
"I'll try, baroness. But they won't come."
"Begonia, devil, and obey my orders" Again she essayed to strike the man, but he started off in quick time to the village.
The language used toward these poor people did not astonish me. It is the usual style toward serfs. But it is not often that a lady is the speaker. I had Men told of this baroness that she was a Tartar, and a Tartar she assuredly was. Observing us as the old tsarist left, she came hurriedly over to us. "Ah, bless me, is it you, my dears? Forgive me, you young ladies; I did not see you sooner. You are welcome, my darlings. How is your mother I Sanyo, who is this you bring with you?" (I am introduced, and touch the Tartar's glove.) "You see what awful work we have with these serfs, sir? They think that since their freedom has been so much talked of, they are not to work any more. They are perfectly unmanageable. My brother's illness has forced me to take them in hand, and I'll let them know I as not to be played with. Now go to the house, dears, and take off your things. I will be with you as soon as I see these peasants at work." And off she went into the barn.
The house was large and dilapidated. When we drove into the front yard we found all silent and empty. No one came to take charge of our horses, or usher us in. Our coachman could not leave his horses, one of them being rather restive: so, after hallowing for some time, I was obliged to enter unannounced. Just inside the door, and coiled up in a corner like a huge boa-constrictor, lay what I suspected was the porter sound asleep. I gave him a shake, but this had no effect. I then kicked his legs, but he only groaned. Seeing a jug of water on a little table in the passage, I poured it on him. He started up half awake and made a fierce butt at me with his head. Fortunately he missed me, and came down on the floor, head first. This had only the effect of so far rousing him that, when he looked up through his long tangled hair and saw a baron standing over him inquiring for some one to take the horses is hand, he jumped up and dived in at a side-door, bawling, "Gregory! Visitors!" Following close at his heels I found him tearing at the beard of another fellow, who was sleeping on a wooden bench. Gregory being awakened and informed of what was wanted, dived into a passage, shouting, "Evan! Visitors 1" Finding that I had not yet got at the right man, I again followed, and, crossing a back court, entered an outhouse filled with straw. Here, I found Gregory polling Evan by the legs out of his comfortable bed of straw. As soon as he became sensible that visitors were at the door with horses, Evan seized a long pole with an iron hook on the end of it, plunged it among the straw, and, after various failures, ultimately succeeded in fishing out by their grey ragged coats his two stable assistants. Thus reinforced, he leisure proceeded to the front and took possession of our cattle. The battering-ram was ready by this time to act his part of lackey, and conducted us into the house. Several female heads popped out at various doors as we passed on, indicating a numerous if not a select retinue, and our conductor presently opening a door at the end of a passage, shouted "Visitors!" and left us on the open threshold. Advancing a few steps, we were in the presence of the lord and lady of the "souls," the pigs and dogs, vermin and devils.
The master of the house was an invalid. On one side he was nearly powerless, and he had partly lost his speech from palsy. His other aide, however, was still serviceable, and with his sound arm he was flourishing a crutch at a red-shirted peasant who stood within reach: nor did it end in a flourish, for the crutch came down upon the moushick's back as I entered. I wondered the fellow did not run; but, looking down, I found that he was tied to the great arm-chair in which his paralytic lord was cushioned. The man's offense was, that in exercising the razor on his master's face he had made a deep gash. That he might be safely within reach of punishment the poor fellow was always tied to the chair while he dressed his master.

On a sofa lay a lady of portentous dimensions, enveloped in a loose robe by no means carefully arranged. Her face was hidden by a dense mass of very long hair, and in her arms she held a cat of Russian Dread and wondrous size. On her knees on the floor was a young woman, who had is one hand a large comb, while the other grasped the locks of her lady, and she combed and searched and scratched, and picked away the particles of scurf which are apt to collect on all heads and all hair. Cleaner skins, cleaner heads, and cleaner hair, do not exist anywhere than among Russians of this class, for the process through which madame was going is a daily process, in which she and all the Russian ladies take delight. As the baron was still making wild efforts to castigate the unfortunate barber, and as his lady seemed unconscious of our presence, I turned to my companions for counsel. But the young birds were flown. I was alone in that august presence; Thinking discretion the beat part of valor, I precipitately followed, and soon found my companions, by the sound of their laughter, in another room. There
<c06>
We wafted nearly half an hour, during which time I received the following items of information a grading our baron which, as he is one of <illegible> clam, shall be <illegible>,
He had been an official in a hospital department, or something of that kind, at Croustades or <illegible>, for many years. It was his duty <illegible> dispense the stores and necessaries. His salary <illegible> below two pounds a week, and this seemed to <illegible> for payment of the rent of a good <illegible>, and <illegible>. It had given his daughter an <illegible>, and a dowry of more than two thousand pounds on her marriage-day. It had educated his <illegible> a young man now nearly ready to enter the <illegible> an officer; and had kept him in pocket-money. If had bought the Black village, and made its <illegible> sister, the Partar, for twelve years on the <illegible>factotum, in the absence of the baron himself, but age and inefficiency will make themselves <illegible> even in government places, and the baron <illegible> retired to enjoy nobility on his estate, among the hundred and seventy souls, out of when he had always tried to get the almost amount of work and book, and from whom he received with daily <illegible> the least possible amount of service.
"Ah, this horrid emancipation proposed" <illegible> his sister to me, after she came in and ordered coffee, " It is a most shocking act of injustice of man, and would never have done such a witched thing. He is a-well! we shall all be raised. My brother paid twenty thousand <illegible> rubles for this estate and the souls on it, and by what right done the emperor take them from us without, <illegible> compensation? We are already fleeting the <illegible> effects of it. Not one of these maulsticks will <illegible> for us if he can help it. Even last <illegible> part of our rye crop was suffered to rot on the <illegible> because I could not get them to cut it down in this. Think of ten souls, out of seventy, coming to the reaping-field, and these ten cutting only twenty-five sheaves a day such, instead of one hundred, which they can easily cut if they choose!"
Here a servant entered the room carrying <illegible> cups, followed by another with broad, and a <illegible> with the coffee-pot. Madam looked and <illegible>
"Where is the cream, you fool!"
"Then is no cream, baroness." "And six <illegible> in the stable!'
Off she ran to make sure. One of the <illegible> had got to the cream and lapped it all up.
"Are you boiling the eggs!"
"Baroness, there are no eggs."
"No eggs, and houseful of poultry!"
"The nests have been found empty."
"Oh, Heaven help us! The thieving <illegible>, they will drive me mad! Quick, you fond of a <illegible>, and bring the butter that was made yesterday."

"Baroness, there is no butter. The young <illegible> dogs and the pigs got into the cellar and ate it all up"
"Liar!" roared the Tartar lady, and <illegible> girl out of room: the girl screaming as a<illegible>, "It is God's truth!"
Give such pigs liberty!" said the lady, reaching her house, and yet you see how we are served, We dare not punish them now as we used to, and they don't care for my cuffing. Last July the young baron, my nephew, was here on a visit, and fat some fault he lashed a peasant with his warp, and cut him over the eye with the handle. What do you think the wretch did? He complained to the"-I did not catch the name, but it was one of the "icks"-"and there has been no end of trouble over since about it. Ah! we used to get good work out of the maulsticks once. They paid forty-some of the clever ones fifty and sixty-rubles book when they were out at work, and those at home were<illegible> and willing to slave for us five days every week. But now we can neither go book form these where away, nor work from those who <illegible>. Heaven knows how it is all to end; but I think the world is turning upside down. The mud is <illegible> to the top. We shall all soon be slave to our own serfs."
 "But, my dear madame" I said, "why do you not adopt Madame Obrassoff's plan! Give then, their freedom at once, a few dictions of land, and time to pay?"
"And who is to work our land?"
"You must work it by hired laborers."
"And when are we to get them, and how pay them?"
"That you must provide for; the surplus of these peasants, if fairly treated, will work for you after to time."
"Not one of them! You are a foreigner, and don't understand these people. They are all reveling in the anticipation of a life of idleness and high wages. They are already dividing and picking out the best land for their share. As for paying for it, or working of us nonsense! A maulstick is never satisfied Give him land, and he will ask for pasture, Give him pasture, and he will ask for wood. What he don't get, he will steal, No, our land most be cultivated by machinery and engines; and where the money is to come form I can't tell. Those who can buy engines, and wait twenty years for a return of capital, may hold on. As for us, we are ruined, and most sell what remains to us for what it will bring, if a customer can be found. That, Mr. Englishman, is the condition to which we are coming, if the barons don't soon put a stop to this emancipation folly!"
A deciteen of land measures nearly three <illegible> This quantity has been for many year selling in: Russia form three to ten rubles, according a quality. The serfs for not in law belong to the barons. personally, but the land does; and the serfs <illegible>, by manual edict, long ago made fixtures on the land, so by a curious fiction, whoever possessed the land possessed the serfs or souls on it. although not slaves by name, they were really as much slaves as any African negroes are the property of any American planters. Now the emancipation <illegible> severs that connection totally. A serfs is no longer a fixture on his master's land. He is no longer a serf, but a free mama. He can go where he <illegible> The land is the baron's, but these now free people must live on it or by it. The edict, therefore, joins that a certain portion of it, five or six decisions, shall be sold to each male peasant, and this he must pay the baron fifteen rubles for such decision. The general price of land in the market being (as I am informed) not one-half of this sum, the price seems to be a fair one, involving compensation; so on this head the barons would seem to have little cause of complain. But as the peasants are poor, it is decreed that they are to have nine years to pay in, at a stipulated sum per annum. Or if the baron be willing-and, indeed, whether to be willing or no-the serfs in a village may <illegible> money from the State, by becoming security for each other, and pledging their land, to pay the baron off at once. Thus, they can become immediately and wholly independent, with the State for their only creditor, while the baron obtains the wherewith to farm his own remaining lands. But such arrangements not being thought sufficient to meet the present need of the great mass of poor barons, the State has further devoted a large sum to be expended in loans for a long time, at low interest, on the security of the land, to these poor baronial proprietors, Such, with some other arrangements of less moment, are the terms of the famous emancipations edict now at mist in last in force.
THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY.- The following incident is one worth noting by the collector of facts for future histories of the Great Rebellion: The Rebels, on the 30th June last, passed through wells villa, York Country, Pa., and were greeted with <illegible> sympathy by he Copperhead men and women of the town. Three days afterward. And unarmed Negro was quietly passing along the street, when these same sympathizers raised the cry of "horse-thief," and one the they pursued him with a gun. The negro quietly submitted, and was walking along with his captor, <illegible> five more men, armed to the teeth, came up, and one of them, named Jeremiah Spohr, deliberately and without a word, shot him. The negro fell, when Spohr shot him a second time as he lay upon the ground. The party then dragged the still living victim by the heels with a strap into a field, where they proceeded to bury him, Observing that he still moved, one of them ride to cut his throat, but the knife used was too blunt; whereupon a rifle was discharged into his head, and the poor which at length ceased to breathe, the body was left on the ground. A Week afterward a coroner's <illegible> caused the arrest of the murders, who frankly acknowledged their guilt; but the Grand Jury ignored the bill against them. The correspondent who sends these partialness states that the prosecutors are Republicans, and the defendants Copperheads. York rejoices in a Democratic majority of about 3,000.
NEGRO FATTH.- A Beaufort correspondent of The Boston Traveler says that the negroes at that puts have great faith into the triumph of our arms before Charleston, and as a proof thereof, says some of them are even delaying to take into themselves new wives, in the hope that their old ones may be captured <illegible> the city
