THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 10. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1628.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
WHO DID IT?
The abolition agitation lasted thirty years, and succeeded in making thousands of people in the North and in the South hate each other. A great many foolish and wicked things were done on both sides, but on our side the John Brown raid was the climax of the experiment. It painted the recklessness and devilishness of abolitionism in their true colors, and made men everywhere shudder for the safety of the government.
From the raid itself, however, were might have recovered. Only a few men were actually engaged in it. But abolitionism, instead of standing aghast at so fearful a demonstration of fiendish passions, or disowning the purpose of the murderers who had shocked the moral sense of the civilized world, hastened to glorify the outrage and canonize John Brown! Republican newspapers applauded Brown's courage, and called him a martyr to a good cause and a great truth. On the day he was hung, a meeting was held in this city, and orations were delivered by members of Christian churches-all of them filled with praises of John Brown. Similar meetings were held in other cities and towns, all over New England. And the South believed that these <illegible> spoke the scutiments, if not of the whole North, at least of the Republican party. Who wonders that the people of the South trembled for their safety when the candidate of this party was elected to the Presidency? Who wonders that they wished to cut loose from a Union which was to be governed four years by men who could applaud John Brown's raid at Harper's Ferry?
It is sometimes denied that this outrage and its endorsement had anything to do with the war. We are told that secession was planned years before it was consummated. So it may have been. But the men who planned it had no hold upon the hearts of the people. They were universally distrusted and repudiated. When they were candidates for office, they were voted down. When they dared lisp the secret of their schemes, they were at once denounced and shunned by the men of all parties. They were few in number and bankrupt in influence until John Brown invaded Virginia, and was applauded all over the North as the great hero-martyr of the age. Then the Disunionists took heart, and they knew that if they could keep this outrage before the people, and secure the election of a Republican President, their triumph would be certain. Secession became a fact beyond peradventure.
Who did it? The John Brown applauders did it! They did not justify secession; for it stands to day and must stand forever without justification. But they did what led to it; and what the conservative men of the North warned them would lead to it. They aroused the hatred of the whole South, by justifying an outrage.
See what the recklessness of these men has done and is doing for us! Six hundred thousand men have left their Northern homes, and are periling their lives to restore a Union, which, but for abolitionism, would never have needed the drawing of a single sabre in its defence. We applaud their patriotism, for the Union can only be saved by such sacrifice. But we cannot forget the moral treason which makes the sacrifice necessary. We cannot forget the men who canonized John Brown.-Providence (Democratic!) Post.
This is the audacious form in which the latent sympathy with the Southern traitors is every where beginning to crap out in all that is left of Northern pro-slavery democracy-the democracy of the bottomless pit, in which "devils with devils damned firm concord hold." 

SUMNER'S RESOLUTIONS
Is it not execrable, that just at the time when our armies are advancing into the Southern States, the unscrupulous secession leaders should have put into their hands such a fire-brand as Sumner's subjugating resolutions? Is it possible that this monomaniac can entertain the thought of holding in such a dependent state five or six millions of the white race? His resolutions go just to this point, if they go to any point. Such a fanfaronade mess of stuff never insulted the intelligence of the country. To suppose that the people can assent to them is to suppose them lost to all appreciation of that beautiful distribution of local power, by towns, counties and States, that makes the basis of the country. They form, it is true, a subordinate feature to the nationality, but still they are the perennial fountains of that noble public spirit that is the source of our country's triumphs.
Now the ends of these resolutions cannot be carried out without palpable violation of the covenant that makes us one country-the" Constitution. To pretend to be true to this instrument, and to advocate the doctrines laid down here, is to insult the common sense of men. It cannot be done. It were folly to waste words here. It is no time to entertain these resolutions now, nor at any other time; for they are in the nature of treason to this instrument, and deserve to be branded as such by everyman who loves his country. Congress has no more right to carry out their doctrine than it has to come into Boston, and manage its schools and highways.
But look at the effect of this execrable business! Beauregard can say to his hesitating troops: Here is evidence that the North mean subjugation, entire subjugation, and nothing but this. If the people endorse has wholesale wiping out of States at one Abolition swoop, Beauregard would be right. It is because this is not the intention of the North; because it is fighting not to overthrow, but to restore the authority of the Constitution, that the Union feeling is seen coming out to welcome the old flag. These very people all the Border States besides, late these wholesale emancipationists-these intermeddlers with their local affairs-about as intensely as they hate the Secessionists. Such is the sum of every expression of sentiment that comes up, in every way, from these States. They are classed there as much their enemies as the Secessionists. They deserve to be so classed. To support such a series of resolutions as summer has introduced, and pretend to support the Constitution and the Union, is a solemn mockery of oaths taken before God and man.
While loyal Union men rejoice in the exhibition of love for the Union flag seen in the late expedition to Florence, Alabama, let expressions go forth condemnatory of this insulting and disorganizing proposal of Sumner. There is no use of mincing this business. The party men who thrust such firebrands on the country must be cast off, root and branch, or this country never will see peace and restored prosperity; and it is because there are signs of a rising against such detestable disunion work that we have faith that the Old Flag will soon wave in triumph over the whole country.-Boston Post.
<c02>
From the Richmond Examiner Extra, Feb. 22.
INAUGURAL ADDRESS OF JEFF. DAVIS. 
FELLOW CITIZENS,-On this, the birthday if the man most identified with the establishment of American Independence, and beneath the monument erected to commemorate his heroic virtue and those of his compatriots, we have assembled to usher into existence the permanent government of the Confederate States. Through this instrumentality, under the favor of Divine Providence, we hope to perpetuate the principles of our Revolutionary fathers. The day, the memory and the purpose seem fitly associated.
It is with mingled feelings of humility and pride that I appear to take, in the presence of the people and before High Heaven, the oath prescribed as a qualification for the exalted station to which the unanimous voice of the people has called me. Deeply sensible of all that is implied by this manifestation of the people's confidence, I am yet more profoundly impressed by the vast responsibility of the office, and humbly fed my own unworthiness. 
In return for their kindness, I can only offer assurances of the gratitude with which it is received, and can but pledge a zealous devotion of every faculty to the service of those who have chosen me as their Chief Magistrate.
When a long course of class legislation, directed not to the general welfare, but to the aggrandizement of the Northern section of the Union, culminated in a warfare on the domestic institutions of the Southern States-when the dogmas of a sectional party, substituted for the provisions of the constitutional compact, threatened to destroy the sovereign rights of the States, six of those States, withdrawing from the Union, confederated together to exercise the right and perform the duty of instituting a government which would better secure the liberties, for the preservation of which that Union was established. 
Whatever of hope some may have entertained that a returning sense of justice would remove the danger with which our rights were threatened, and render it possible to preserve the Union of the. Constitution must have been dispelled by the malignity and barbarity of the Northern States in the prosecution of the existing war. The confidence of the most hopeful among us must have been destroyed by the disregard they have recently exhibited for all the time-honored bulwarks of civil and religious liberty. Bastiles filled with prisoners, arrested with-out civil process or indictment duly found; the writ of habeas corpus suspended by Executive mandate; a State Legislature controlled by the imprisonment of members whose avowed principles suggested to the Federal Executive that there might be another added to the list of seceded States; elections held under threats of a military power; civil officers, peaceful citizens and gentle women incarcerated for opinion's sake, proclaimed the incapacity of our late associates to administer a government as free, liberal and humane as that established for our common use. 
For proof of the sincerity of our purpose to maintain our ancient institutions, we may point to the constitution of the confederacy and the laws enacted under it, as well as to the fact that through all the necessities of an unequal struggle, there has been no act on our part to impair personal liberty or the freedom of speech, of thought or of the press. The courts have been open, the judicial functions fully executed, and every right of the peaceful citizen maintained as securely as if a war of invasion had not disturbed the land.
The people of the States now confederated became convinced government of the United States had fallen into the hands of a sectional majority, who would pervert that most sacred of all trusts to the destruction of the rights which it was pledged to protect. They believed that to remain longer in the Union would subject them to a continuance of a disparaging discrimination, submission to which would be inconsistent with their welfare, and intolerable to a proud people. They therefore determined to sever its bonds, and establish a new confederacy for themselves. 
The experiment instituted by our Revolutionary fathers, of a voluntary union' of sovereign States for purposes specified in a solemn compact, had been perverted by those who, feeling power and forgetting right, were determined to respect no law but their own will. The government had ceased to answer the ends for which it was ordained and established. To save ourselves from a revolution which, in its silent but rapid progress, was about to place us under the despotism of numbers, and to preserve in spirit, as well as in form, a system of government we believed to be peculiarly fitted to our condition, and full of promise for mankind, we determined to make a new association, composed of States homogeneous in interest, in policy, and in feeling.
True to our traditions of peace and our love of justice, we sent commissioners to the United States to propose a fair and amicable settlement of all questions of public debt or property which might be in dispute. But the government at Washington, denying our right to self-government, refused even to listen to any proposals for a peaceful separation. Nothing was then left to us but to prepare for war. 
The first year in our history has been the most eventful in the annals of this continent. A new government has been established, and its machinery put in operation over an area exceeding seven hundred thousand square miles. The great principles upon which we have been willing to hazard everything that is dear to man, have made conquests for us which could never have been achieved by the sword. Our confederacy has grown from six to thirteen States; and Maryland, already united to us by hollowed memories and material interests, will I believe, when able to speak with unstifled voice, connect her destiny with the South. Our people have rallied with unexampled unanimity to the support of the great principles of constitutional government, with firm resolve to perpetuate by arms the rights which they could not peacefully secure. A million of men, it is estimated, are now standing in hostile array, and waging war along a frontier of thousands of miles. Battles have been fought, sieges have been conducted, and although the contest is not ended, and the tide for the moment against us, the final result in our favor is not doubtful. 
The period is near at hand when our foes must sink under the immense load of debt which they have incurred-a debt which, in their effort to subjugate us. Las already attained such fearful dimensions as will subject them to burthens which must continue to oppress them for generations to come. 
We, too, have had our trials and difficulties. That we are to escape them in future is not to be hoped. It was to be expected when we entered upon this war that it would expose our people to sacrifices and cost them much, both of money and blood. But we knew the value of the object for which we struggled, and understood the nature of the war in which we were engaged. Nothing could be so bad as failure, and any sacrifice would be cheap as the price of success in such a contest.
<c03>
But the picture has its lights as well as its shadows. This great strife has awakened in the people the highest emotions and qualities of the human soul. It is cultivating feelings of patriotism, virtue and courage. Instances of self-sacrifice and of generous devotion to the noble cause for which we are contending, are rife throughout the land. Never has a people evinced a more determined spirit than that now animating men, women and children, in every part of our country. Upon the first call, the men fly to arms; and wives and mothers send their husbands and sons to battle, without a murmur of regret.
It was, perhaps, in the ordination of Providence, that we were to be taught the value of our liberties by the price which we pay for them. 
The recollections of this great contest, with all its common traditions of glory, of sacrifice and of blood, will be the bond of harmony and enduring affection amongst the people; producing unity in policy, fraternity in sentiment, and joint effort in war.
Nor have the material sacrifices of the past year been made without some corresponding benefits. If the acquiescence of foreign nations in a pretended blockade hat deprived us of our commerce with them, it is fast making us a self-supporting and an independent people. The blockade, if effectual and permanent, could only serve to divert our industry from the production of articles for export, and employ it in supplying commodities for domestic use.
It is a satisfaction that we have maintained the war by our unaided exertions. We have neither asked nor received assistance from any quarter. Yet the interest involved is not wholly our own. The world at large is concerned in opening our markets to its commerce. When the independence of the Confederate States is recognized by the nations of the earth, and we are free to follow our interests and inclinations by cultivating foreign trade, the Southern States will offer to manufacturing nations the most favorable markets which ever invited their commerce. Cotton, sugar, rice, tobacco, provisions, timber and naval stores will furnish attractive exchange. Nor would the constancy of these supplies be likely to be disturbed by war. Our confederate strength will be too great to tempt aggression; and never was there a people whose interests and principles committed them so fully to a peaceful policy as those of the Confederate States. By, the character of their productions they are too deeply interested in foreign commerce wantonly to disturb it. War of conquest they cannot wage, because the constitution of their confederacy admits of no coerced association. Civil war there cannot be between States held together by their volition only. The rule of voluntary association which cannot fail to be conservative by securing just and impartial government at home, does not diminish the security of the obligations by which the Confederate States may be bound to foreign nations. In proof of this, it is to be remembered that, at the first moment of asserting their right of secession, these States proposed a settlement on the basis of a common liberality for the obligations of the general government.
Fellow-citizens, after the struggles of ages had consecrated the right of the Englishman to constitutional representative government, our colonial ancestors were forced to vindicate that birthright by an appeal to arms. Success crowned their efforts, and they provided for their posterity a peaceful remedy against future aggression.
The tyranny of an unbridled majority, the most odious and least responsible form of despotism, has I denied us both the right and remedy. Therefore we are in arms to renew such sacrifices as our fathers made to the holy cause of constitutional liberty. At the darkest hour of our struggle, the provisional gives place to the permanent government. After a series of successes and victories, which covered our arms with glory, we have recently met with serious disasters. But in the heart of a people resolved to be free, these disasters tend but to stimulate to increased resistance. 
To show ourselves worthy of the inheritance bequeathed to us by the patriots of the Revolution, we must emulate that heroic devotion which made reverse to them but the crucible in which their patriotism was refined.
With confidence in the wisdom and virtue of those who will share with me the responsibility, and aid me in the conduct of public affairs; securely relying on the patriotism and courage of the people, of which the present war has furnished so many examples, I deeply feel the weight of the responsibilities I now, with unaffected diffidence, am about to assume; and, fully realizing the inadequacy of human power to guide and to sustain, my hope is reverently fixed on Him whose favor is ever vouchsafed to the cause which is just. With humble gratitude and adoration, acknowledging the Providence which has so visibly protected the confederacy during its brief but eventful career, to Thee, O God. I trustingly commit myself, and prayerfully invoke Thy blessing on my country and its cause!

Selections.
SICKNESS IN THE ARMY-SAVING THE UNION.
Ticknor & Fields, Boston, have just published highly important and profoundly suggestive pamphlet, entitled "A Letter to Mrs.-, and other Loyal Women, touching the Matter of Contributions for the Army, and other Matters connected with the War, by S. G. Howe." The following extracts from it deserve to be thoughtfully pondered. After referring to the proverbially slow action of the Medical Bureau in reporting the actual sickness and mortality in the army, Dr. Howe says:-
Fortunately, the Sanitary Commission, not tied up by red tape, has sent out its inspectors, (earnest medical men, who look to prevention of disease,) into all parts of the field. These Inspectors, after careful personal inspection of over three hundred regiments, have made over four hundred reports. Each report gives answer to some seventy-five questions, prepared with a view to show the sanitary condition, and the mortality of the troops.
The vast amount of vital statistics contained in these reports has been carefully tabulated by E. B. Elliott, (a very able statistician in the employ of the Commission,) and is already published.
They show that the constant rate of sickness in the army of the Potomac is sixty-three to one thousand men; in the army of the West, one hundred and sixteen to one thousand men; in Western Virginia, one hundred and sixty-two to one thousand men!
This means, in plain English, that more than sixty thousand of our soldiers are sick every day. True, every man who is reported unfit for duty is included in this return. He may have only a headache or a cold; a cut or a sprain; and may be on duty again tomorrow. But allowing that only one-third are really ill, you have more than twenty thousand sick soldiers; and can answer, as well as I can, the ques-
<c04>
tion so constantly put, "What in the world can they do down there, with so many hospital clothes?"
But there is a fearful truth revealed by these stubborn statistics, which will shock our people when it is fully comprehended. There must of course be much sickness and many deaths among six hundred thousand men, let them be where they may. It would be at about the rate of one in a hundred, yearly, if they were at home. But our soldiers in the army of the Potomac are dying at the rate of three and a half in a hundred yearly; and in the army of the West, at the rate of five in a hundred!
Try to conceive the awful truth told by these figures. Calculate the rate upon six hundred thousand men; and look steadily at the product, not as some vague and abstract estimate, but as an awful fact. Ponder it all the more sadly, because it tells far more severely upon our misguided brethren of the South. Think of seventy-five stalwart young men from the North, laid out cold and stiff every day! Think of over five hundred soldiers, in the very bud and blossom of manhood, dying every week! Think of half a regiment of Union troops buried every seven days!-twenty-seven whole regiments laid low in a year, not by the sword, but by disease!
Merciful Heaven! it almost drives one mad, when with this fearful fact before his eyes, and the wail of mothers and sisters, of widows and orphans in his ears, he is told to be patient and silent; and to-hope, at least, that the Government will be drifted by events away from its serve-God-and-Mammon policy of saving the Union, and saving too the constitutional rights of that institution which is the accursed root of all our bitterness and sorrow, and the only cause of disunion!
Was ever such sacrilegious perversion of words? Constitutional right to hold men in slavery! As though all the constitutions ever made, from that of Sodom down to ours, could create right out of wrong, or hold back such fiery punishments of sin as are now raining down upon our devoted land? Republican slaveholders! as though a man holding fellow-men as slaves can be any more properly called a republican, than one habitually stealing can be called an honest man!
Pardon this outburst; but I lose patience at the delay to strike a righteous and killing blow into the very stomach of this rebellion by proclaiming emancipation under the war power, and enforcing it as fast and as far as we can; since every week's delay costs five hundred lives, and every month's two thousand; to say nothing of the demoralization which is going on.
The Athenians rejected a plan to destroy their enemies, because it required them to do wrong; we reject a plan because it requires us to do right, and to destroy a wrong!
War, bloody civil war, is direful, barbarous, and brutalizing; and it can be justified and sanctified only by high religious and moral motives. Are we justified and sanctified in fighting as we do, slaying and destroying the young and thoughtless part of our people, and bequeathing countless evils upon our posterity, if it be only to avenge a supposed insult to a flag, or forcibly repair a broken political pact, or secure commercial advantages?
Answer, ye bereaved mothers, ye mourning widows, are these things worth the blood of your sons and your husbands? And ye, over whose dear ones the demon of war hovers on black wings, and may soon clutch in his bloody claws, do you not ask a higher price for the dread sacrifice than gratified national pride, and material national gain? May you not ask for it the freedom of millions of slaves, and the blessings of coming generations?
Besides, our soldiers are the children of the nation, and the Government has no moral right to deny them the benefits of the highest moral incentives it can place before them. We can raise their real wages more by giving them a noble task of freeing men from bondage, than by any amount of pay and bounty.
More than this: we must raise the moral standard of our war, if we would have our country come out of it with honor, instead of conquering by dint of greater numbers and greater strength.
Our men in the field do not lack food, or clothing, or money, but they do lack noble watchwords and inspiriting ideas, such as are worth fighting and dying for.
The Southern soldier has what at least serves him as such; for he believes that he fights in defence of country, home, and rights; and he strikes vehemently, and with a will.
Our men, alas! have no such ideas. The Union is to most of them an abstraction, and not an inspiring watchword. The sad truth should be known-that our army has no conscious noble purpose; and our soldiers generally have not much stomach for fight.
Look at the opposing armies, and you will see two striking truths. First, the Northern men are superior in numbers, virtue, intelligence, bodily strength, and real pluck; and yet, on the whole, they have been out-generalled and badly beaten. Second, the Northern army is better equipped, better clad, fed and lodged; and is in a far more comfortable condition, not only than the Southern army, but than any other in the world; and yet if the pay were stopped in both, the Northern army would probably mutiny at once, or crumble rapidly; while the Southern army would probably hold together for a long time, in some shape, if their cause seemed to demand it.
The animating spirit of the Southern soldier is rather moral than pecuniary; of the Northern soldier, it is rather pecuniary than moral. 
Of course, moral here does not mean virtuous. Anger, hate, revenge, and the like, are among the forces which intensify the morale of the Southern army, and give to it the snap which is so lamentably lacking on our side. 
Intensify the morale of our army by higher purposes, by nobler motives, and you will see bow much stronger is a virtuous, than a vicious cause, when men are made to feel that it is so; and how much more hardy and plucky is a Northern than a Southern man.
Our men are in a false position; not strategically, but morally. The assertion, in all oar mouths, that the war shall, somehow, destroy slavery, is too abstract for them. Men do not go to the death on abstractions. Put it in the concrete, that the war shall destroy slavery, and you give the soldier a conscious noble purpose-that of helping to emancipate four millions of men, women add children from cruel bondage. The danger to the Union, if no higher consideration, justifies such a policy. As for the power to enforce emancipation, we shall not know whether we have it, until we try. As for the right, if we may block up harbors, and destroy one source of our national pride, we may set men free, and destroy die only source of our national shame.
Let then indignant and fiery words go forth from the White House,-" Death to every resisting rebel! freedom to every friendly bondsman! honor and promotion to whoever brings to our side most helpers from the other!" Let these be adopted at head-
<c05>
quarters, and repeated by generals and colonels, and you will see an answering spirit in the ranks, showing what Northern men are, and what they can do; especially when they hear (as they would) the echoing cheers and blessings on the new policy, from all the women and all the male men of the North.
Try to look a little at the matter, Madam, I pray you, from my point of view, if only for a moment.
In wars carried on by regular armies, moral considerations arc of little weight; and they become lighter as discipline rises. Hence the seemingly impious proverb, that God is always on the side of the heaviest battalions.
Men shrink instinctively from danger, and fear death. All wars and fighting are carried on in view of this. But training enables the veteran to overcome fear, so that the commander may count almost as surely upon his men marching up to the cannon's mouth, as though they were machines, let the cause in which they fight be what it may. If he has ten thousand men, and his enemy only eight, the chances in his favor are as ten to eight.
Not so with contending peoples; not so in irregular campaigns; not so with half disciplined armies. In these, the moral nature resumes its sway; and that side is strongest, (almost irrespective of numbers.) on which the passions are most thoroughly aroused.
A people deeply excited, intensified (so to speak) into disregard of danger and death by hot religious zeal, by fiery patriotism, or by any elevating passion, is unconquerable by any amount of numbers, by any length of persecution, by any thing, in short, save battalions made up of old callous military machines.
History is full of examples where people with nothing for defence save their passions have successfully resisted invaders who had every thing but passions.
In our war the passions go for much; the discipline as yet for comparatively little.
The North and the South stand in hostile array. Their troops are about equally well, or rather equally ill disciplined. The Southern leaders, playing their old game of brag, by the help of men in buckram, and of paper battalions, display a long front and a vast force. But history will probably show that the North has five-fold more men, ten-fold more material, and a hundred-fold more of warlike power and resources. And more even than all this, the North has one immense advantage,-an advantage which might have settled the war long ago, and spared much blood and treasure, to wit: that in the very midst of the enemy's country, there were at least four millions of people, (one-third of the whole population,) who, if not repelled by her, would have risen up and hailed her soldiers as friends and saviors, and utterly paralyzed and crippled the South.
Now why is it that, with this overwhelming force-with these immense advantages-the North has not already overrun and vanquished the South?
Is it not partly, at least, because the heart of the army has not been impassioned by earnest and high motives, as it might have been?
I have seen men so impassioned and intensified in Greece, in France, in Poland. I have been among our troops, and have failed to find the men so earnest for work and fight as to forget about pay, and to rise above the instinctive dread of danger. There is courage in them, doubtless, as there is heat in iron; but it is latent as yet.
The North, if let alone long enough by selfish powers abroad, and juggling politicians at home, will surely conquer. But, alas! she will conquer in virtue of being the richest and strongest, while my heart yearns to have her conquer in virtue of her cause being the best, and her men the bravest.
Our cause will be the best, and our soldiers will be the bravest, when we write emancipation on our banners; and this war, forced upon us by our enemy, will be justified and sanctified by the noble end to which we shape it.
In the vaunted days of chivalry, brave knights went up and down on the earth, seeking glory by fighting to redress some foul wrong, or to set free some innocent captive. One would think that chivalry had died out from the race, or from the land; for here stand thousands of really brave officers, all girded for battle; before them are foul wrongs to be redressed, and captives pining to be free. Would you not think that some swords would leap from their scabbards, and that, with orders, or without orders, some young men would find or make opportunities for doing deeds worthy of Christian knights?
I am glad to have known one act of heroism-to have seen one who, leaving what is dearest behind, and taking life in hand, has gone boldly into the land of bondage where the captives are most numerous; there, alone and unaided, to do such works of liberation as a cool head and brave heart may find to do. That one, however, is not of our race and color.
It must be confessed that there is a lack of ardor and earnestness in our army for anti-slavery work. Some explain it in one way, some in another. My way is this. Instinctive feelings work blindly, and impel men to action Ions before they are conscious of purposes. The fact of human slavery in the midst of freedom bred this strife. But down at the very root of it, the blind instincts of conservatism and of democracy are fiercely contending. The strife would be short were it not for the prejudice of race, which strengthens conservatism, while it ties one hand of democracy. Most of our regular land and naval officers are conservative; so are many of our volunteer officers; and so is the great majority of the army of political office-holders, whose chiefs give the watch-words of the war; but who give no such words as stir the hearts of the people, and of the soldiers.
Such men have, and must have, though unconsciously, a sympathy with the aristocracy of the South, and they hesitate to strike vehemently at its stronghold, and smash it in pieces. They have no enthusiasm for such work, and of course inspire none in the army. The task is reserved for democracy; not such as we have had,-but for true democracy, when it shall strike in and save a perishing country. God grant it may strike in time to save it and the cause of human freedom, without which it is not worth saving!

SLAVERY AND LIBERTY ETERNALLY IN CONFLICT
We give, below, another extract from the valuable work just published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston, entitled "The True Story of the Barons of the South, or the Rationale of the American Conflict," by Rev. E. W. Reynolds, of Watertown, N. Y.
Slavery and freedom can never be married so long as hell is alien to heaven. Their characters and tendencies, their aims and desires are completely hostile. Slave society rests upon robbery,-for it holds by force what it has no claim to bold in equity; asserting that clam of property in man which is repugnant to natural justice. Free society rests upon the voluntary industry of the people, and is guarded by equity. Slave society tyrannizes over the weak; free society extends over the weak the protection of taw. Slave society makes brute force supreme; free society makes justice supreme. In slave society a
<c06>
handful of aristocrats govern the State, and the masses of the inhabitants are disregarded like cattle. In free society, political power is distributed among all the people; and the most vigorous thinker is the mightiest man. In slave society, everything is at the mercy of an unthinking an I capricious despotism, and the tendency of community is irretrievably downward; but in free society great questions are settled by discussion, by reflection, by reason,-every man's interest is sale, because natural justice is revered, and everything is open to investigation, and so the community is continually being elevated and fortified by the private conscience and public intelligence.
Such are the two hostile interests that have been subsisting in this Republic from the beginning. Our fathers, with many scruples and doubts, set them up house-keeping, in the same edifice, because they supposed that slave society would soon die a natural death, and they were scarcely prepared to kill it by violent means. For seventy years these two types of society have been developing in the nation,-each according to its nature, each obedient to its own instinct. In the exact ratio of their growth has been their aggression upon-each other. When the house began to resound with their strife, all the peace-makers turned out to settle the quarrel. The more they tried to settle it, the more fiercely the quarrel raged; and, step by step, by a series of ineffectual compromises that only irritated what they were expected to heal, we have journeyed on to civil war. 
Suppose you plant Canada thistles on one side of your garden and a bed of strawberry plants on the opposite side, and charge them not to meddle with each other! You will soon find that they will meddle with each other,-not because they are wilful, but because each must obey the law of its own nature. Now slave society and free society have their peculiar instincts, and each develops agreeably to its own law. THEY MUST ENCROACH UPON EACH OTHER; THEY MUST CONFLICT; THEY MUST QUARREL:-and what God and Nature have thus made hostile, we cannot join together in harmony. Slave society imbues those who grow up under its spirit with a despotic and lawless disposition. Free society imbues people with a sense of justice, liberalizes and elevates toe mind, and prepares the heart to feel the liveliest sympathy for the weak and the oppressed. Thus, the tendencies of the two systems, by their legitimate operation, involve collision and strife. How can we help ourselves? Can the man who was nourished at the breast of despotism be otherwise than tyrannical? Can the offspring of liberty disown his mother, or resist the generous impulses that spring from his blood? We must all have noticed how vain it is to attempt to override or suppress an hereditary trait; and these instincts that are born with us, and fostered by the society in which we are reared, CANNOT BE CONTROLLED BY ANY ARBITRARY EDICT. We may as well make up our minds to face the fact, first as last: There will be no peace-at best, only a short truce, WHILE THESE BELLIGERENTS OCCUPY THE SAME HOUSE. May we not have a public opinion in America that shall recognize this fact without longer delay? 
We have all railed, more or less, at the ultra men of the South; but we might as well rail at the Canada thistles when they manifest a desire to monopolize the garden. They are obeying the instincts of slave society, and our entreaties and expostulations-as the event has repeatedly proved-might as well have been addressed to thistles as to that class of men.
Suppose a company of Indian Thugs come into the neighborhood, buy a certain amount of real estate, and settle among us. It is the profession of the Thug to murder, and in him the tendency to murder has the force of an instinct. Murders are perpetrated, the community is in arms, and the Thugs are disposed of agreeably to law and equity. But, however heinous the crime, it was no greater than was to have been expected, in view of the habits of the Thugs. So with slave society. All its habitudes and instincts are aggressive and destructive. We are not denying that individual slaveholders may be very fair men. Some natures are proof against the worst social influences. We speak of the system of slavery in its essence and general effects. And we say that the most odious developments of Southern society are the legitimate outgrowths of slavery,- things which it is idle to protest against, so long as we foster the seed that produces them. 
We have complained, also, against the ultra antislavery men. But, candidly and philosophically viewed, what have they done but obey the instincts of free society? It was just as natural for free society to develop the Abolitionist party as it was for your strawberry bed to throw out "runners" toward the Canada thistles. How futile it is to quarrel with any settled tendency of nature! How unwise it is to ignore such facts, instead of accommodating ourselves to them! We might as reasonably attempt to resist gravitation, or any other natural law, as attempt to carry out a peace policy in violation of these immutable conditions. Free society fills every bosom that is open to its influences with the love of free institutions,-with the love of justice, mercy, and manhood; and it inspires us, at the same time, with an irrepressible abhorrence of the injustice, the profligacy, and the ignorance which are the fruits of slavery. Under this influence, it is impossible that men' should bold their peace. The full heart will make its emotions audible in burning words. Almost involuntarily-almost against a man's will -he thunders oat his hatred of tyranny, and chants the hymns of Freedom. It is the holy spirit of God that impels his utterance, and timidity and compromise have no padlocks strong enough to shut the mouth of a live man, when the trumpet sounds and the hour has come.
The great lesson which this eventful epoch is to teach our people is devotion to liberty, and hatred of every influence that would qualify the principle or abridge the Messing. As our spiritual life has its fountain in Christ, and as the Church derives all its vitality from the Divine Spirit, so our political life has its spring in liberty, and the strength of the Republic lives in the spontaneous enthusiasm of free men.
Liberty, then, as the inalienable right of every man, of every race, as the spring of perpetuity and the crown of glory in the State, should be the song and joy of the nation, marching to battle or exulting in victory. Through all the ages to come, it should usher the citizen to the post of duty in peaceful days, and fire him with antique heroism in the boor of danger. Mothers, with loyal fingers, should sprinkle their children in its name. Fair brides should be wedded to the peal of its auspicious bells. Old men, while reviving the pageantry of youth, should rehearse its inspiring story. Statues should rise to its honor in every village. Banners should blazon its conquests. Literature should embalm its fame in the majestic march of historical periods, and in the splendor of epic verse. And Religion-be holding in liberty her own co-worker-should invest it with spiritual sanctions, and awe the hearts of men before it with all the terrors of a righteous Providence.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power: and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THIS PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ORATION OF HON. GEORGE BANCROFT.
Washington's Birth-Day (Feb. 22) was commemorated in the city of New York by a public meeting of the city authorities at the Cooper Institute. The great building was densely crowded long before the meeting was organized. After the reading of Washington's Farewell Address by George H. Moore, Esq., an able and elaborate Oration was delivered by Hon. George Bancroft. Below was some extracts from it.
At last "we have fallen on evil days." "The propitious smile of Heaven"-such are the words of Washington-" can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and right." During eleven years of perverse government those rule were disregarded, and it came to pass that men who should firmly avow the sentiments of Washington and Jefferson and Franklin and Chancellor Livingston were disfranchised for the public service; that the spotless Chief Justice whom Washington placed at the head of our Supreme Court could by no possibility have been nominated for that office, or confirmed. Nay, the corrupt influence invaded even the very home of justice. The final decree of the Supreme Court, in its decision on a particular case, must be respected and obeyed; the present Chief Justice has on one memorable appeal accompanied his decision with an impassioned declamation, wherein with profound immorality which no one has as yet fully laid bare, treating the United States as a shrew to be tamed by an open scorn of the facts of history, with a dreary industry collecting evidences of cases where justice may have slumbered or weakness been oppressed, compensating for want of evidence by confidence of assertion, with a partiality that would have disgraced an advocate neglecting humane decisions of Colonial Courts, and the enduring memorials of colonial statute-books, in his party zeal to prove that the fathers of our country held the negro to have "no rights which the white man was bound to respect." he has not only denied the rights of man and the liberties of mankind, but has not left a foothold for the liberty of the white man to rest upon.
That ill-starred disquisition of Taney, who, I trust, did not intend to hang out the flag of Disunion, is the fountain head of this rebellion: that offence to the conscious memory of the millions convulsed our country with the excitement which swept over those of us who vainly hoped to preserve a strong and sufficient, though narrow isthmus that might stand between the conflicting floods. No nation can adopt that judgment as its rule, and lice; the judgment has in it no element of political vitality. I will not say it is an invocation of the dead past; there never was a past that accepted such opinions. If we want the opinions received in the days when our Constitution was framed, we will not take them second-hand from our Chief Justice; we will let the men of that day speak for themselves.        
How will our American magistrate sink when arranged as he will be before the tribunal of humanity; how terrible will be the verdict against him, when he is put in comparison with Washington's political teacher, the great Montesquieu, the enlightened magistrate of France, in what are esteemed the worst days of her monarchy! The argument from the difference of race which Taney thrusts forward with passionate confidence, as a proof of complete disqualification, is brought forward by Montesquieu as a scathing satire on all the blood of despots who were supposed to uphold slavery as tolerable in itself. The rights of mankind, that precious <illegible> which had no equivalent in the language of Hindustan, or Judea, or Greece, or Rome, or any ante-Christian tongue, found its supporters in Washington and Hamilton; in Franklin and Livingston; in Otis, George Mason and Gadsden; in all the greatest men of our early history.
Washington not only upheld the liberty of the ocean. He was a thorough Republican. And how has our history justified his preference! How has this very  rebellion borne testimony to the virtue and durabiliry of popular institutions! The rebellion which we are putting down was the conspiracy of the rich, of opulent men, who count laborers as their capital. Our widely-extended suffrage is not only utterly innocent of it-it is the power which will not fail to crush it. The people prove their right to a popular government; they have chosen it and kept it in healthy motion, they will sustain it now, and hand it down in its glory and its power to their posterity. And this is true not only of men who were born on our soil, but of foreign born citizens. Let the European skeptic about the large extension of the suffrage come among us; and we will show him a spectacle wonderful in his eyes, grand beyond his power of conception. That which in this contest is marked above all that has appeared is the oneness of heart and purpose with which all the less wealthy classes of our people of all nationalities are devoted to the flag of the Union.
The foreigners whom we have taken to our hearts, and received as fellow-citizens, have been true to the country that had adopted them; have been sincere, earnest, and ready for every sacrifice. Slavery is the slow poison which has wrought all the evil: and a proud and selfish oligarchy are the authors of the conspiracy.
If the views of Washington with regard to the slave-trade commend themselves to our approbation after the lapse of nearly ninety years, his opinions on slavery are so clear that if they had been followed, they would have established peace among us forever. On the 12th of April, 1786, he wrote to Robert Morris: "There is not a man living who wishes more sincerely than I do to see a plan adopted for the abolition of slavery." This was his fixed opinion; so that in the following month, he declared to Lafayette: "By degrees the abolition of slavery very certainly might and assuredly ought to be effected, and that, too, by legislative authority." On the 9th of September of the same year, he avowed his resolution "never to possess another slave by purchase," adding "it being among my first wishes to see some plan adopted by which slavery in this country may be abolished by law."
In conformity with these views, the old Confederation of the United States, at a time when the convention for framing our Constitution was in session, by a unanimous vote prohibited slavery forever in all the territory that then belonged to the United States; and one of the very first acts of Washington as President was to approve a law by which that ordinance might "continue to have full effect."
On the 6th of May, 1794, in the midst of his cares as President, he a plan for the sale of lands in Western Virginia and Western Pennsylvania, and after giving other reasons for his purpose, he adds: "I have another motive which makes me earnestly wish for the accomplishment of these things; it is indeed more powerful than all the rest, namely: to liberate a certain species of property which I possess, very repugnantly to my own feelings.
And, in less than three months after he wrote that Farewell Address to which we have this day listened, he felt himself justified in announcing to Europe his hopes for the future in these   words: "Nothing is more certain than that Maryland and Virginia must have laws for the gradual abolition of slavery, and at a period not remote."
But though Virginia and Maryland have not been wise enough to realize the confident prediction of the Father of his Country-though slavery is still permitted in the District of Columbia, from which Madison desired to see it removed-the cause of freedom has been steadily advancing. The line of 36 deg. 30 min., which formed a barrier to the progress of skilled labor to the southward, has been effaced. Our country with <illegible> bound crossed the Rocky Mountains; and the wisdom of our people, as they laid the foundations of great empires on the coast of the Pacific, has brought about that to-day, from the Straits of Bhering to the Straits of Magellan, the waves of the great ocean as they roll in upon the shore, clap their hands in joy; for all along that wide region the land is cultivated by no hands but those of the free. Let us be grateful to a good Providence which has established liberty as the rule of our country beyond the possibility of a relapse.
For myself, I was one who desired to postpone, or rather hoped altogether to avoid the collision which has taken place, trusting that society by decrees would have worked itself clear by its own innate strength, and the virtue and resolution of the community. But slavery has forced upon us the issue, and has lifted up its hand to strike a death-blow at our existence as a people. It has avowed itself a desperate and determined enemy of our national life, of our unity as a republic, and henceforward no man deserves the name of statesman, who would consent to the introduction of that element of weakness and division into any new territory, or the admission of another slave State into the Union. Let us hope rather that the prediction of Washington will prove true, and that Virginia and Maryland will soon take their places as free States by the side of Ohio and Pennsylvania.
<c02>
THE CAUSES AND PROBABLE RESULTS OF THE AMERIOAN CIVIL WAR.
The Hon. Arthur Kinnaird and Mrs. Kinnaird invited a number of gentlemen and ministers of various denominations to their residence, 2 Pallmall, East,. on Friday evening, to meet the Venerable Bishop of Ohio, who was asked to give information on the present war in the United States. Additional interest attached to the occasion from the presence of Mr. Thurlow Weed, a leading American politician of the Republican school, to which Mr. Lincoln belongs, and of Mr. Bancroft Davis, a nephew of Bancroft the eminent American historian.
The company having assembled in the drawing-room, Mr. Kinnaird explained that his object in    calling his friends together was to aid in removing the misapprehensions which prevailed in regard to the unhappy conflict now raging in America. It could not be denied that among certain classes in this country, there was a disposition to favor the South; and there was also a general want of information as to the causes which had brought about the present disruption. He had, therefore, taken this opportunity, just before the meeting of Parliament, to ask their American friends to give explanations as to these causes, and as to the probable results of the war.
Bishop Mellvaine then rose, and made a lengthened and interesting statement on the whole subject of the war, and its causes, proximate and remote. He opened with an emphatic denial of the assumption, put forward in some quarters, that there was an inherent and irreconcilable incompatibility of union and association between the people of the North and South respectively. The close intercommunication in all matters-educational, ecclesiastical and social-which prevailed between the two parts of the country, prior to the disruption, entirely negatived the allegation in question. If, then, the division could not be accounted for by natural antagonism of races or sections-what was the cause? It was an institution; not the people, not man, but a thing. It was simply slavery, and nothing else. The Rt. Rev. Prelate then entered on an historic resume, to show that the disruption is only the culminating point of a conspiracy, prepared and steadily kept in mind by the slave power for thirty years past. He traced the origin of the secession to the promulgation of Calhoun's doctrine of " Nullification," which asserted tat an individual State, not agreeing with a law passed by the general Congress, might nullify it within its own boundaries; a principle which was the seed of secession. He next adverted to the effect produced upon the slaveholding interest by the adoption of the Missouri Compromise, prohibiting the formation of new slave States North of 36 30 north latitude; and by the growth of population, and the consequent increase of the political weight of the free States, while the slave States were almost stationary.
The election of Mr. Lincoln was (he said) only a pretext, a mere convenient moment, for the out-break of the slaveholding conspiracy, so long prepared, under the operation of the circumstances which he had detailed. The rebellion had sometimes been attributed to the operation of the tariff laws, but neither the Morrill Tariff, nor any other cause, had the weight of a feather in the matter, except this question of slavery, and the power of extending it to the (as yet) unoccupied territories of the Union. The Bishop next combatted the pretext of "a legal right of Secession" in the individual States of the Union, quoting the provisions of the Federal Constitution which proved its fallacy. Its assertion was, in fact, equivalent to that of "a legal right to destroy Government." The question was, not "the legal right of Secession," but the legal right of Revolution." What, he would next ask, were the matters of grievance put forward by the seceded States-what the pleas for Revolution? Just nothing.    The only serious plea was that fugitive slaves who had escaped to the Free States were more or less prevented from being returned to their owners, and that certain States had enacted personal liberty laws, conflicting with the Fugitive Slave Law. The law of Ohio, for example, freed every slave putting his foot upon its soil; and the practical operation of this law of liberty was illustrated by an interesting example. The Right Rev. Prelate dwelt at considerable length on this and kindred points, referring in detail to events in Virginia, which exhibited in a strong light the tyrannous proceedings of the leaders of Secession in keeping down, by armed intimidation, the large substratum of Union feeling in that, and, as he believed, in other Southern States. Among the facts bearing on the last-named point, he had just received a  copy of the Memphis Appeal, a journal published in Tennessee, a Secession State, and it contained an  article regretting the failure of attempts to organize the militia, and declaring that "If the Federal troops were to march in, thousands upon thousands would welcome their approach,"
The Bishop's statement was followed by conversational remarks and questions, in which the Rev. J. Hampden Gurney, the Rev. William Arthur, Mr. Joseph Hoare, the Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, Mr. G. Rochfort Clark, the Rev. James Davis, Mr. Kinnaird, and other gentlemen took part. A leading point in this discussion was the cause of the alleged want of English sympathy toward the North. This was attributed by Mr. Joseph Hoare to the fact that, as yet, there had not been the slightest sign that if the North were at once restored to power, the condition of the slave would be one atom improved. (Hear.) Mr. Rochfort Clark having asked information as to the past policy of the United States Government in regard to the amelioration of slavery, and as to whether the suppression of the rebellion would not be followed by the re-establishment of the Union on the same principles as formerly-
Mr. Thurlow Weed gave some details in regard to the policy of the Whig or Republican party, to which the present Federal Government belongs. As to the prospects of the future, he said they not only desired but expected emancipation as the fruit and result of the war. Slavery was, and would be, burned out of every rod and acre of territory conquered from the rebels. The slaves of rebels were confiscated, while those of the loyal would be paid for, so that by process of war and by legal enactment, if the United States Government were successful, slavery would cease to exist.
The discussion was continued by the Rev. New man Hall and the Rev. S. Minton. The Rev. William Arthur gave inter alias some details on the mutual misapprehension in the two countries (England and America) as to the feelings of each toward the other. He also asserted the existence of a pro-slavery feeling among certain classes and in certain organs of the English press. The Rev. Henry Stevens, on the other hand, declared that, from travelling widely throughout the country, he was convinced that the supposition of any English sympathy with slavery or slaveholders was entirely groundless. He believed that, as there had been no evidence of any tendency among Americans to put down this monster evil, the war had been permitted by Providence as the means for its extinction. (Hear, bear.) Bishop Mcllvaine again rose, and replied with much earnestness to various points which had been urged in the course of the debate. He dwelt     emphatically on the difficulties which beset the United States Government in connection with the subject of slavery, and the fallacy of schemes resting on the proclamation of immediate emancipation, or involving submission to the dismemberment of the Union. With evident and deep feeling, the Bishop expostulated on the want of consideration for these things among the people of England, and also on England's virtual support of slavery by the import of its very pabulum-slave grown cotton. 
Mr. Bancroft Davis also delivered an address, in the course of which he urged that the United States Constitution did not recognize property in slaves, and had not the word "slave" in it.   He proceeded to show, by a variety of facts, that the war was one of slaveholding aggression on the part of the South. London Record of Feb. 3d.
Emancipation is evidently deferred. We see that the speech to be delivered by Wendell Phillips before the "League," is postponed until the 12th of March-"necessarily," it is said. We shall be surprised if, when that day arrives, it is not put off indefinitely. Mr. Phillips, with all his abolition zeal, has got more sense than, we were about to say, all his associates in a body. He sees that with every triumph of the arms of the United States, the Union and the Constitution are the more sure to be restored; and that, as these are confirmed, abolition dwindles, until, when the authority of the Government is complete, the rights of the States are assured, and abolition is dead. It will then never lift its head again, as a political engine, and the occupation of its advocates will be gone. Mr. Phillips sees this-the veil is on the hearts of many others, so that they cannot or will not discern the inevitable course of events.-Boston Courier. [Spite and nonsense!]
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FKIDAY, MARCH 7,1862.
LETTEES TO GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LETTER III.
MY DEAR FRIEND AND COADJUTOR:
There are some of our Anti-Slavery friends in England, who are not disposed to give any countenance to the rebels, or to wish them any success; nevertheless, they have no cheering word for the North, and evince no sympathy with the Government. They are neither on one side nor on the other; they cannot perceive that the struggle has any particular connection with the cause of negro emancipation in special, or of human liberty in general. Hence, they marvel at the, deep interest taken in it by the American Abolitionists, and have sorrowfully come to the conclusion that, in sustaining the Government, we have abandoned our high vantage ground, lowered our moral standard, and allowed ourselves to be carried headlong by a strong tide of popular feeling. Their sincerity is not to be questioned; and, for one, I thank them for their friendly solicitude and admonitory counsel, while none the less wondering at what seems to me their lack of sound discrimination as pertaining to American affairs at the present crisis.
How is it, after so many years of faithful and generous cooperation, that they fail to see the intimate relation of this Southern rebellion to the Anti-Slavery movement; or to find in it the most cheering evidence of the growing power and victorious march of that movement? Have they forgotten the state of the country before the banner of immediate emancipation was flung to the breeze-how the slave oligarchy held unquestioned sway over the religion and politics, the government and legislation, the press and the pulpit, the literature and business of the whole country? Then "order reigned in Warsaw"-despotism supreme on the one hand, and subjugation absolute on the other. Then quietude prevailed throughout the land-the quietude of the grave, where there is "no work nor device," and where "the dead do all forgotten lie." Then there was no agitation, but all was peace-the peace engendered by universal moral degeneracy and the rankest political corruption. At length, in the order of divine appointment, the Anti-Slavery struggle commenced, that henceforth there should be neither peace nor quietude, but rather tumult and strife, until the overthrow of the republic through incorrigible impenitence, or its salvation through the liberation of every bondman, and obedience to the Higher Law. Have they forgotten, by some inexplicable loss of memory, the long eventful history of that struggle-how, from the time that the first number of the Liberator made its ominous appearance, the Southern dealers in human flesh instinctively clutched at every weapon their brutality could wield, and resorted to every device their villany could frame, in order to suppress all discussion of the question of slavery? These haughty oppressors had every thing on their side, excepting God and justice. The North was swarming with religious and political accomplices, who left nothing undone to prevent the spread of the new heresy. Abolitionism was every where fiercely denounced, and its advocates,-"like angels' visits, few and far between,"-were universally ridiculed, insulted, ostracised. Mob violence became epidemic. No Anti-Slavery meeting could be held in any village or hamlet, however remote or obscure, without hostile demonstrations. You, my dear Thompson, knew by early experience and a memorable residence here, what trials and perils thronged in the pathway of the faithful advocate of the slave at that tumultuous period. But the struggle went on-every inch of ground being as desperately contested by the minions of the slavocracy as was ever field of battle. Year after year, Abolitionism was hissed down, howled down, mobbed down, voted down, trodden down, but would not stay down. Over it the powers of hell could exercise no control, and maintain no mastery. In every encounter, it grew stronger, and more assured of ultimate victory. In vain did the church excommunicate it, the pulpit anathematize it, the press calumniate and caricature it, the mob assail it; in vain were scoff, and sneer, and falsehood, and deception, and menace, and violence resorted to; in vain did wealth, and respectability, and piety, and political demagoguism combine their ample means and mighty forces to crush it out of existence; it was never defeated in argument, nor intimidated by numbers, nor compelled to relinquish the ground on which it stood, because based upon reason, supported by justice, inspired by humanity, and guarded by an omnipotent arm. Steadily but surely, it has won its way from heart to heart, from fireside to fireside, from city to city, from one extremity of the country to the other, till it can no longer be safely trifled with or despised. All the while, naturally and inevitably, by the law of repulsion, the slave oligarchy have been growing more and more seditious, and rendered more and more uncomfortable in their relations to the North. At length, the vast moral change effected in public sentiment, through the Anti-Slavery movement, culminated at the ballot-box in a political triumph of the Free States on the territorial issue, by the election of Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the Republican party. This triumph indicated no wish or design to interfere with slavery as already existing in the Slave States, or to repudiate any of the pro-slavery guaranties contained in the Constitution; but it showed a determination to allow no further territorial expansion of slavery, and for the first time entrusted the policy of the government to the hands of the North. The political campaign was hotly contested; and I am confident that there was not an English Abolitionist who did not regard its result as triumph to the cause of freedom, and as indicating a hopeful and progressive state of things in the United States. Certainly, the Southern lords of the lash looked upon it as a most disastrous defeat; it filled them with rage and despair; it proclaimed that the day of their tyrannical dominion was ended; it drove them to open rebellion.
By their own recorded declarations, they would have seceded just as promptly if John C. Fremont had been elected four years previous; for their motto has always been to "rule or ruin." They would have broken up the Union at any period, from George Washington down to Abraham Lincoln, if there had then been the same relative growth of Anti-Slavery sentiment as now. In short, they came into the Union only to play the part of masters and overseers, not only to their slaves, but to the whole country. They cared nothing for a republican form of government, provided they could be the governing party. Their usurpation being overthrown, and despairing of ever reestablishing it, they have gone out like the unclean spirits of old, but not without rending the body.
Is not this a hopeful state of things? Is it to be regarded as a very slight or a very dubious matter by any friend of the slave on either side of the Atlantic? Granted that the North is still far from being up to the true Anti-Slavery standard; that the Government still hesitates to strike the one decisive blow, which it may lawfully give, to crush the rebellion and terminate the war, without returning evil for evil; that a fugitive slave is occasionally sent back from the camp by an upstart officer; that there is danger of future compromises, as the federal forces march on to victory. Nevertheless, the fact stands "open and palpable as a mountain," that it is owing to the increasing strength and general prevalence of Anti-Slavery sentiment at the North, that these slave <illegible> conspirators have seceded in hot haste, declaring that with them endurance has passed its bounds, and they will never again consent to be in the same Union with the people of the Free States. Are we, as Abolitionists, never to recognize that we have made any progress, because we have not yet effected all that we have been so long struggling to accomplish? For one, I am disposed to shout and sing, "Glory! Halleluia!" And when it is reproachfully said by the enemies of freedom, that, had
<c04>
it not been for the Abolition agitation, there would have been no secession, I accept the statement as a splendid tribute to the power of truth, the majesty of justice, and the advancement of the age. Of course, if there had been no slaveholders in the land, there would have been no Abolitionists-no pro-slavery mobs-no civil war-no dissolution of the Union-but freedom, peace, prosperity and happiness would have been the inheritance of the people from the Atlantic to the Pacific.  Let the responsibility rest and the retribution fall on the heads of the oppressors! 
yours, for the jubilee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq.
IMPORTANT PUBLIC MEETING.
Last evening, a public meeting of citizens of New York was to have been held, and undoubtedly was held, in the Cooper Institute, in response to the following inspiring invitation:-
"All citizens of New York who rejoice in the downfall of treason, and are in favor of sustaining the national government in the most energetic exercise of all the rights and powers of war, in the prosecution of its purpose to destroy the cause of such treason, and to recover the territory heretofore occupied by certain States, recently overturned and wholly subverted, as members of the Federal Union, by a hostile and traitorous power, calling itself  'The Confederate States'; and all who concur in the conviction that said traitorous power, instead of achieving the destruction of the nation, has thereby only destroyed slavery, and that it is now the sacred duty of the National Government, as the only means of securing permanent peace, national unity and well-being, to provide against its restoration, and to establish in said territories democratic institutions, founded upon the principles of the Great Declaration, "that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," are requested to meet at the Cooper Institute, on the 6th day of March inst., at 8 o'clock, P. M., to express to the President and Congress their views as to the measures proper to be adopted in the existing emergency." 
Appended to this Call are the names of the following gentlemen, acting as a committee of arrangements:-
Wm. Curtis Noyes,           
Park Godwin,                    
J. W. Edmonds,                
Edgar Ketchum,               
Charles L. Brace,              
Rev. E. Thomson,       
A. W. Morgan,                 
Andrew Bowden,          
Dr. R. T. Hallock,            
Sigismund Lasar,              
Richard Warren,               
Horace Greeley,                
Wm. Cullen Bryant,         
Edward Gilbert,                
Charles T. Rodgers,       
George Bancroft,               
Erastus D. Culver,
George B. Cheever,D.D.,            
Wm. C. Russell,               
S. S. Jocelyn,                    
Theodore Tilton,              
Samuel E. Lyon,              
James Wiggins,
Alexander Wilder,
James McKaye,
Charles Gould,
Robert L. Darragh,
William Goodell,
Rev. S.R. Davis,
Dexter Fairbank,
Rev. Mansfield French,
David Magie,
Cephas Brainerd,
John T. Wilson,
James Freeland,
Charles Butler,
Peter Cooper,
Rev. J. R. W. Sloane,
J. E. Ambrose,
Samuel Wilde,
H. A. Hart, M. D., 
Rev. Nathan Brown,
Adon Smith,
Rev. John Duer,
Thomas L. Thornell,
Oliver Johnson,
 George Wm. Curtis. 
We were kindly invited to be present, and to participate in the proceedings.  It would be well worth a trip to New York to attend such a gathering for such a purpose. [See our letter to Col. McKaye, in the next column. 
THE EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION. We are sure that all our subscribers will read with lively interest the Address to the Public which we publish in another column, in behalf of the Educational Commission lately organized in Boston, under the most promising auspices, for the education and moral training of the liberated bondmen and bondwomen at Port Royal.   Appended to it is precisely the information which those who are writing to us on the subject desire to obtain. The names of the officers, and of the members of the various committees, with their special functions, are given, so that all inquiries may be intelligently addressed.  The chairman of the committee on teachers is George B. Emerson, Esq.   On Monday last, a large number of instructors and assistants sailed in the steamer Atlantic from New York to Port Royal. All of them were required to take the oath of allegiance.  What a missionary field is opening in benighted Carolina!   And how naturally educational effort follows emancipation! 
Of course, the efficiency and usefulness of the Educational Commission will depend very much on the amount voluntarily contributed by the benevolent to its funds.  Let that amount be large, and promptly supplied.
Dr. Tyng, the venerable Rector of St. George's Episcopal Church, in New York, delivered an address, not long since, in the Church of the Puritans, introductory to a concert by the Hutchinson Family for the benefit of the daughters of soldiers slain or disabled in the present war.  The reporter of the Tribune says:- 
"He closed by welcoming the Hutchinson Family, who had left their mountain home to come down among the people, and cheer them with the gladsome songs of Freedom. There were places where such strains could not be echoed, but the time had come when, throughout the loyal North, they could sing the strongest words in behalf of Right and in rebuke of Wrong. Even there (in the Church of the Puritans), old conservatives like himself could not help feeling free to speak an honest word for liberty. Somehow, the atmosphere of that church was infectious (applause), and before the people would know it, they would be all standing and working in glorious harmony with the indefatigable William Lloyd Garrison, and then they would wonder why they had stood so long any where else.  As for himself, he was resolved to stand by that cause which sought to sweep away every obstruction to the proper development of Republican Freedom in this nation." (Applause.)
A late Southern paper, the Courier, published at Bowling Green, recently the head quarters of the rebel army in Kentucky, insolently said :-  
"When we have independence, and shall grant free trade to our former oppressors, then will come the proud hour of the final and complete triumph of the South.  Look at the map of America, and see how we tear from the vitals of the old Union nearly all that is valuable.  We then will be seated on the throne of the new continent-the true seat of all constitutional government and republican liberty-holding in servile dependence our former oppressors!  We will hold their very means of living in our hands.  Lower our tariff, and they will sink-raise it, and they will lick the dust beneath our feet.  Then we will hold them in bonds to keep the peace, to catch our slaves, to bend before our word, the dependent and feudatories of the TRUE MEN of America. At every session they will fill the lobbies of our Congress with committees to beg for mercy in the adjustment of the details of our tariff- begging for the bread which we will give to them, because we love mankind. (!) At each returning session of our Congress, you will see them fawning around the throne they will acknowledge, returning to us our fugitives, and in every way endeavoring to propitiate the people they so insolently attempted, in the old Union, to enslave-the last instance in history of the ' members rebelling against the belly.'"
WEST CAMBRIDGE, MARCH 3, 1862 BRO. GARRISON: E. H. Heywood, Esq., spoke very interestingly and eloquently here last evening, in the Unitarian church, on 
"The Cause and Cure of the War." A large audience was in attendance, and listened with deep interest to his remarks; and while he had the sympathy of most of his audience, the few who dissented from him were quite won by his calm, candid course, and confessed that there was "more in that side of the case than they had thought" Mr. H. has such a sweet and happy way of saying strong things, that he disarms prejudice, and half converts an opponent before he knows it.  His lecture convinced some people here that denunciation is not necessarily connected with Anti-Slavery; that Justice and Humanity can be advocated without shocking the good sense and taste of a cultivated congregation.  I will not attempt a report of the lecture, but conclude with the hope that Mr. Heywood will have as many calls to repeat it in our cities and towns as he can respond to, satisfied that it will help forward the good cause.
Very truly yours, c.
<c05>
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THE RIGHT AND DUTY OF THE GOVERNMENT.
BOSTON, March 4, 1862. 
COL. JAMES MCKAYE:
DEAR SIR,-I feel honored by the invitation which has been extended to me, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, to be present at a public meeting to be held at the Cooper Institute, in New York, on Thursday evening next. Other engagements, will prevent my attendance, except in spirit. Most heartily do I subscribe to the statement in your call, that the " hostile and traitorous power, calling itself ' The Confederate States,' instead of achieving the destruction of the nation, has thereby only destroyed slavery; and that it is now the sacred duty of the National Government, as the only means of securing permanent peace, national unity and well-being, to provide against its restoration." Whoever else may have the folly or hardihood to do so, the Southern traitors themselves will not deny the validity of this statement.  In raising the standard of rebellion, they voluntarily and defiantly assumed all the responsibilities of their perfidious act, and declared themselves ready and eager to meet all its consequences, whether extending to the confiscation of  their property, the emancipation of their slaves, the outlawry of their persons, or the forfeiture of their lives. Whatever claims they once had upon the Constitution, as loyal citizens of the United States, ceased the first moment they declared themselves out of the Union, set up their hostile confederacy, and  made war upon the Government. The punishment of treason is death. Death is the extinction of ail constitutional rights. In such a case, the power of the Government, in the exercise of its legitimate functions, is absolute; and, surely, it is not for those who have halters around their necks to call it in question.  It is now the glorious prerogative of the Government to "create a soul under the ribs of death," by proclaiming liberty to every bondman at the South, and by establishing upon her soil "democratic institutions founded on the principles of the Declaration of Independence." 
In view of their recent staggering defeats, the Southern traitors will not deny that they have failed to destroy the Republic; or that, solely to guard and perpetuate slavery and slave institutions, they have plunged the country into all the horrors of civil war; and, therefore, that the abolition of slavery is " the only means of securing permanent peace and national unity."  They instinctively perceive and frankly avow, that there is an "irrepressible conflict" between liberty and slavery, free institutions and slave institutions; and they are consistently carrying out their anti republican doctrines.  Fearful as is the guilt they have incurred, I hold that they are to be far less abhorred than those at the North, who, under the mask of loyalty, are for treasonable ends denying to the Government the right to remove the source of the rebellion, and to uproot the cause of all our national troubles. I prefer the Charleston  Mercury to the New York Journal of Commerce,  the Richmond Enquirer to  the  New  York Herald,  the Norfolk Day-Book to the Boston Courier.  Give us the devil, "going about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour," rather than the devil in the garb of "an angel of light," trying to deceive even the very elect! 
Over the so-called "Confederate States," ever since his inauguration, President Lincoln has been as unable to exercise governmental jurisdiction as over China or Japan. They have rendered it impossible for any officer of the Government to exist, or any law of the land to be enforced, within their limits. They have trampled upon the national flag, made the slightest manifestation of loyalty to the Union perilous to life, exhibited entire unanimity of sentiment in their treasonable designs, and as thoroughly ignored all constitutional relations and obligations as though no such instrument as the Constitution of the  United States had ever been heard of. Nor, to this hour, is their position changed one hair's breadth.  Hitherto they have acted under a temporary provisional arrangement; now they are acting under a recognized Constitution, designed to be permanent, and have duly inaugurated a President, with all the machinery of independent government.  Their treason is now organized and consolidated rebellion, compelling obedience to its bloody decrees in the name of law and order, and by virtue of constitutional authority.  Their avowal is still one of undying hostility to that Union which they once professed to adore, and to that Constitution which they formerly lauded as the perfection of human reason, the bulwark of national security, the ark of civil and religious liberty. Their voice is still for war-fierce, revengeful, sanguinary, fratricidal war-" war to the knife, and the knife to the hilt."  They have left nothing undone to destroy the Government, to paralyze every branch of industry, to jeopardy  the safety of  peaceful  and  prosperous commerce, to throw upon the shoulders of the loyal North a crushing weight of debt and taxation, to fill the land with lamentation and <illegible> and to redden the soil with blood.  Thus they have forfeited all rights and immunities; they have brought upon themselves all the tremendous penalties of treason; they have challenged the Government to mortal combat, and staked every thing upon the issue.   Not one of their Northern abettors is so audacious as to deny the right of the Government, under these circumstances, to confiscate their property to the fullest extent-property in houses and lands, in ships and goods, in cattle and swine-property recognized as legitimate throughout the world, and in all ages; but when it is proposed to include slave property also, which is based upon robbery and oppression, and therefore has no rightful existence in this or in any other land, then a hue-and-cry is instantly raised, in the name of the Constitution, against the exercise of this right, as though it were a sacrilegious act! Is not this palpable complicity with the Southern traitors, and ought it not to excite universal indignation and abhorrence! It is a vicious rejection of the law of nations for the basest purposes, and a practical betrayal of the Government itself. But it needs no other answer than is contained in the following truthful declaration of John Quincy Adams:- "From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way in which it can be interfered with. Not only the President of the United States, but the Commander of the Army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
The Government, then, being clothed with this power, and refusing to wield it, is to be held as responsible for the continuance of slavery as though it had just created the system, and reduced four millions of the people to the condition of chattels. It occupies to the slave population the position which Pharaoh did to the children of Israel in Egypt. It can "let the people go," and blow the trump of jubilee throughout the land; and not to do so is to evince infatuation and to court destruction. Every hour that it delays is pregnant with future judgments,-symbolized by the plagues of frogs and lice, of fire and hail, of locusts and darkness, the murrain of beasts, and the slain of the first-born in the old Egyptian kingdom. Every hour that it delays, it is to be held responsible for a fearfully criminal waste of life and treasure, and for the needless prolongation of a rebellion more desperate in spirit and design than any to be found in the annals of the world. It has now an opportunity to strike a blow for justice, humanity, freedom, the rights of mankind, and to terminate the most dreadful system of oppression that ever cursed the earth, that has never been equaled in beneficence and glory. To allow this opportunity to pass unimproved, no matter on what pretence, will be such comprehensive iniquity as only He can measure and punish whose command is, " Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings." 
Let the will of God be done, and let all the people say, Amen! Yours, to break every yoke,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
<c06>
A LOYAL NEGRO WHIPPED TO DEATH.
The following letter is taken from the New York Times. It bears every mark of authenticity, and should be published in every newspaper throughout the country and the civilized world. "The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel." The abominable cruelties of the slaveholders in the rebel States should be held up to the reprobation of mankind. Will the Northern States have any fellowship with such a system, the natural fruits of which are cruelty and murder? Will England, that boasts of its Emancipation Act, have any alliance with men-stealers and men-slayers, who shed innocent blood? Let the universal voice of free people, everywhere, say, "O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honor, be not thou united." And what shall be said of American military officers, who officiate as human bloodhounds in delivering up loyal slaves to their rebel masters? They are a disgrace to the army. to the country, and to human nature! Instead of being permitted to wear a sword, or be decorated with an epaulette, should not Government cashier each officer so offending-
"And put in every honest hand a whip,
To lash the rascal naked thro' the world!"
A Letter from General Hooker's division, dated January 10th, says:- 
"One of the most cruel and atrocious deeds of the barbarous slave-master was perpetrated by one Samuel Cox, living five miles below Port Tobacco, who is said to be an ex-State representative, a returned rebel  the captain of a cavalry company organized for the rebel army, but disbanded by the rebel troops, and a contraband trader. When Col. Dwight of the Excelsior Brigade scoured that portion of the country with his regiment, Jack Scroggins, a slave, represented to the Colonel, that Cox and his confederates had secreted a large amount of ammunition and arms; and true enough, these arms and ammunition were found in Cox's house, and in an adjoining marsh. The regiment moved down to its present encampment above Hilltop. Jack joined them, and this was about eleven miles from his home. Cox dared to lay claim to his slave, and under the promise that he would not harm the slave, he was surrendered up to him; but not without difficulty, for the men protested and forcibly rescued him, when an officer rode up, and declared he would shoot the first man that again interfered with the master: and thus was this man returned to bondage, by an officer of the United States army. Such was the reward of distinguished loyalty! 
Cox, the cursed fiend, tied the man to his horse, and rode at a rapid rate, the poor slave running to keep up behind him. When he left the regiment, he had on a pair of good shoes, but when he reached his master's house his shoes were gone, and his bleeding feet were found to be bursting open from coming in contact with pebbles and stones. He had been dragged eleven miles behind his master's horse! They arrived home in the evening about eleven o'clock, on Friday. He tied him to a tree, and called his overseer, Franklin Roby, and a man by the name of John Robinson. They commenced whipping him about 12 o'clock, and whipped him until 3 o'clock, three hours, taking turns with the whip-when one was tired and breathless, another would take the lash.
The only words he uttered, up to 2 o'clock, were, 'I shall not live after this.' 'Oh, no, you rascal, I intend to kill you', said Cox. 'Mr. Cox,' said Robinson, 'he is dying.' 'No, he is not; he is stout-hearted, and able-bodied; he can stand as much more. However, give me the whip; let his blood be upon my head,' replied Cox. The lash was then applied until about two hours before day. About 3 o'clock he was cut down, and sank to the earth insensible. He had on a new cotton shirt when they began to whip him, and when they were done, there was nothing left of it but the collar-bands and wristbands. Then commenced the rubbing down to bring back sensibility, but all of no avail. Their unfortunate victim breathed his last before sundown on Saturday evening. Thus perished a loyal negro at the hands of a traitor."
The foregoing story, I regret to say, is intrinsically probable. Just such cruelty is to be expected of a slaveholder, under the circumstances mentioned, and just such unspeakable baseness is to be expected of many officers of our army and functionaries of our government. I have seen the same narrative in some other paper, perhaps the Tribune, but I have clipped the above from the American Missionary of this month, for the sake of the just comments prefixed to it. But I wish to add, that the narrator should have told us two things more. Was it Col. Dwight (of the Excelsior Brigade) who delivered up a slave who had given such decisive proof of loyalty, to a rebel slaveholder. on his promise that he would not harm the slave? And who was the officer that, when the humaner soldiers were helping their fellow patriot, came up and interposed his authority in aid of the rebel and against the loyalist? These two things should be known, and it is to be hoped that the original reporter, or some other, will give these two names the public infamy which they deserve.
So greatly has the moral sense of Americans generally been depraved-a result inevitable to those who tolerate slavery as well as to those who actively maintain it-that very few people will recognize the fact that each of these officers of the Excelsior Brigade, both he who first made the surrender and he who enforced it, was guilty of a crime far worse than an ordinary murder; a crime that should cover him with infamy, and make him ashamed, henceforth, to look into the face of a decent man or woman. But every upholder of the Government, and opposer of the rebellion, ought to see that conduct like this is the worse sort of aid and comfort to the enemy, and the worse sort of discouragement to those who, while wishing to assist the Federal army, are at the same time most able to assist it by information and otherwise. What sort of General is he who hangs a deserter from the enemy after his intentions have been proved good, and his information true? Two officers of the Excelsior Brigade, in General Hooker's Division, have committed a worse folly, a more outrageous act of disloyalty, than this. Setting aside their baseness as men, looking away from the moral aspect of their conduct, and considering them U.S. officers 
merely, the very least penalty they should suffer would be to be stripped of their uniforms, and drummed out of camp in presence of the whole regiment. Meanwhile, let us hare their names. C.K.W.
THE QUESTION OF THE WAR.
Has the Federal Government a Constitutional right to re-enslave those whom their enslaves have set free?
BOSTON, Feb. 25, 1862. 
DEAR GARRISON: The question now pending before the nation, as to the relations of the Federal Government to slavery, is not, Has Congress or the President a constitutional and legal right to abolish slavery in the rebel States-but, Has the Government a constitutional right to re-enslave those whom their former masters have set free? When South Carolina adopted the Act of Secession. she adopted an Act of Emancipation to every slave in her borders. The Act of Secession was an Act of Abolition. The Act that took the State out of the Union, constitutionally and legally took every slave out of slavery. Every slave in every rebel State is, before the laws and Constitution of the United States, as free as Jeff. Davis or Abraham Lincoln. Has the Federal Government a constitutional right re re-enslave them? Send this question home to every heart and every head. NO! is my answer. That Government has no more right to re-enslave those whom their pretended owners have set free, than to go to Africa, and seize and enslave 
her children. By the Act of their former enslavers, every slave, in every rebel State, is declared forever free. Every chain and fetter was broken by the Act of Secession. A traitor can have no rights under the government which he is warring to overthrow. Shall Congress claim and exercise the constitutional right to reduce these freed men, women and children to chattel slavery? The war is not for <illegible>; for, in the rebel States, there is no slavery to abolish; but are we fighting to re-enslave those whom their enslavers had set free?
BE THIS THE QUESTION OF THE HOUR.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
"THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM". We call the attention of the friends of freedom universally to the advertisement, in another column, of this interesting Serial of Sermons, Orations, Popular Lectures, &e. The numbers already printed deserve the widest circulation, especially those containing the speeches of Hon. M.D. Conway, Wendell Phillips. &c.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE PEOPLE.
It may not be inappropriate for one, who has made such common and perhaps indiscriminate use of the term people, to attempt an explanation of the idea intended to be conveyed by it. This was suggested by listening to an able and eloquent lecture upon that subject by Rev. E. H. Chapin, of New York. The term people, he said, represented nothing tangible of definite; sometimes the synonym of the grossest crimes as well of the highest virtues. Thence it followed that the popular phrase, Vox populi vox Dei, was far too sweeping to convey a literal truth. In attempting to define my own opinion of its real and most comprehensive meaning, although perfectly clear in my own mind, as a tangible truth it was capable neither of analysis nor any definite signification. Not long since, when speaking upon this subject, a gentleman observed-"It was the people who crucified our Savior: how do you reconcile that?" No, said I, it was not the people, it was the rabble; there was no such element as the people in those days. It was an unpremeditated, perhaps a thoughtless answer, but it was an impromptu definition of what I understand by the term as I use it. It is the calm, rational sense of the individual as distinguished from the excited passions and inflamed prejudices that prevail in times of unwonted oppression or misguided zeal; the enlightened conscience rather than the bigotry and superstition flowing from ignorance and religious fanaticism. In accordance with this theory, there has been very little opportunity for the normal development of this element in the great drama of the world's history. Yet, as there is nothing new under the sun, there have been epochs in all ages when this latent, reserved power has sent forth a clear and distinct utterance in the midst of the greatest political convulsions, at which thrones have trembled, and kings have been compelled to listen to the eternal principles of human rights.
As in the most depraved and degraded individual, we sometimes see occasional gleams of inspiration and contrition worthy of a noble nature, so in this vague, fickle stratum of society, possessing neither form nor substance, but universally recognized by the appellation of the masses, signifying numbers, or the common people, denoting position, we have known instances when, in the midst of the greatest darkness and corruption, the hidden springs of human nature have sent up their gushing fountains of sensibilities and emotions that ally it to the divine, though obstructed in their flow by the grossest enormities that can result from the ungovernable passions consequent on ignorance and oppression.
Blackstone has laid it down as a law of human nature which governs society, that justice is so closely interwoven with the happiness of every individual, that self-interest requires obedience to its laws. Then it follows, as the highest happiness can be attained only in the most perfect freedom, the independence of the masses is the first thing to be gained.
Thus all history is full of imperfect attempts at this, and one principle after another has been wrested from unwilling monarchs, not by methods we could endorse, but by such means as the circumstances and intelligence of the times afforded. The executions of Charles I., of Louis XVI. and his Queen, though unwarranted by every principle of even legal justice, were the outburst of the people's indignation for the recovery of their God-given rights, which had been ruthlessly trampled down by the tyrants of the preceding reigns; and as soon as the rigors of the sceptre were sufficiently relaxed to give breath to the stifled impulses, pent up like the raging fires of a volcano, the reaction was terrific.
In proportion to the diffusion of knowledge and the predominance of ideas over brute force, we find this element assuming a more definite and exalted character. Paradoxical as it may seem, it is to our own country we must look for the highest proof of this assertion; for no where else have the people been allowed such free development, or to take such an active part in political affairs.
Though at this juncture, presenting the most anomalous aspect to the eyes of foreign nations, and involving ourselves in such a strange commingling of opposite interests as scarcely to know where we do stand, the free school system has been working its beneficent results among us, and the spirit of freedom, surrounded by the most adverse circumstances, has been gradually diffusing its leaven of righteousness, which is yet to exalt us as a nation unparalleled in history when the days of our purification are ended.
Beginning, then, at the formation of this government, it was clearly the voice of the people that slavery should not be recognized; since only two of the thirteen colonies stood out against the original draft of the Constitution. It is true that the intelligent, honest convictions the majority yielded to the sordid passions of the minority, following the short-sighted policy which is the bane of all nations-the sacrifice of a principle for the attainment of a present end. It is true that the Constitution once adopted, the people yielded implicit obedience to all its provisions, as they pledged themselves to do, by entering into that compact. It is true that they have allowed the petty oligarchy of the South to transcend the limits of that document, and bind themselves in a thraldom, the like of which existed not on the continent of Europe, where a people boasting of self-government submitted to wrongs and indignities a king never dreamed of imposing.
It is not the first time the base passions of a partisan faction have gained unlimited control by working on the fears of the majority. Then, again, the people have been constantly duped and betrayed by their representative leaders, who have a fearful responsibility to bear in this matter.
Mr. Foster says it is a misapplication of terms to confound the government with the administration, since the former represents the people directly in Congress assembled. In one sense it does, and in another it does not. There is a difference between the unorganized mass, which is, properly speaking, the constructive element, and the organizing force of the legislative department. It is said that when organization begins, freedom parts with a portion of self. When a man accepts an office under the Government, he pledges himself to observe all its requirements, and is no longer the independent unit, free to act out his own individual convictions. If his sentiments change on any question therein concerned, be must resign his office before he can consistently give them expression. The same is true of the church. The ministry and representative members are the expositors of the creed and tenets of their respective organizations, to which the great body of the <illegible> yield their indiscriminate assent, regardless and many of them ignorant of the true position in which they are thus placed, relative to the vital questions of the age.
God has so constituted the human soul, that the perception of a truth and the ability to appreciate a great idea are not dependent on opportunities for culture, but are the common birthright of all. Only here and there an individual has the ready gift to arrange his thoughts in a systematic form of expression, either with his pen or in easy flow of speech; but the masses are ever ready to give their unerring verdict upon the merit or demerit of such productions.
It would be an insult of the humanity of any age to say that the Fugitive Slave Law was the voice of the people. Rather let it remain as the sad memento of the bewildered intellect and demoralization of one who fell a victim not only to the temptations of office, out also to that heaviest scourge of all nations, love of the wine cup; and in his fall his power for evil was proportionate to the strong hold his remarkable qualities had given him upon the affections of the people. How far Boston, the far-famed city of mobs, represents the intelligent convictions of the people, let the event of the past year testify. So far back as 1835, when Wm. Lloyd Garrison was secreted in a jail to have his life, (for which let Massachusetts forever <illegible> her head in shame when it is spoken,) it was a <illegible>ob in broadcloth, representing the commercial interest which dragged him through the streets of Boston.
<c02>
When, some fifteen years after, George Thompson was silenced within the walls of Faneuil Hall by the same interest summoning to its aid the renegades of all ranks, the heart of the Commonwealth enthusiastically welcomed him to her midst. In the ever memorable winter of 1861, when the stillness of a New England Sabbath was invaded by the reappearance of the same element under the imposing pomp of a mayoralty at its head, with the concealed purpose of assassinating Wendell Philips if it had dared, the clock wag already sounding the hour when the devil had gone the length of his chain, and the eve of the people's uprising to settle scores with the aristocracy in broadcloth and its ever concomitantally, the rabble of the streets.
It was neither the rashness of John Brown on the one side, nor the utter corruption of the North on the other, which began and carried out the plot that involved the sacrifice of himself and his no less noble coadjutors. It was the organic sin baptized into our national existence at its birth which had bound us in chains of adamant to be the scavengers of the South, and resistance would have been then, as now, the prelude to a civil war, as his resistance to its fundamental laws was the precursor of his own martyrdom. He carried with him the sympathy of the people, and to-day witnesses his glorious resurrection, shaking the four corners of the earth. Whatever may be the conditions of this Union as a consequence of the victories now perching on our banners, in view of which every Abolitionist must needs tremble at the well grounded fear that the end of the war may not witness the end of slavery, it is upon the leaders the fearful responsibility must rest. Should emancipation be declared to-day, even, it is at their door lies the immense loss of life and treasure, to have prevented which required no violation of the provisions of the Constitution. Of course, we Abolitionists know how the whole war might have been avoided; but in judging for the people, we must assume their stand-point. Were it not for confounding the distinctions of vice and virtue, it might be said that the North had been more than conscientiously observant of the constitutional rights of the South, and, consequently, it was too much to expect that she should strike out of existence at the first blow what she had been so carefully guarding. Justice and expediency, however, demanded it.
Perhaps it is owing to my intensely conservative temperament that makes me confess to some degree of respect for John Bull. It is not strange to me that England should become warped and prejudiced towards us in view of our whole existence as a nation, and the absurd position we must now present to the eyes of a stranger. Suppose the principality of Wales should set itself up as an independent oligarchy, presuming to dictate terms to the rest of Great Britain, to which no resistance should be made, would we have any respect for the English Government? Should one of its members of Parliament strike down the Earl of Shaftesbury, or John Bright, for words spoken in debate upon the floor of the House of Commons, and no reparation be demanded, or apology offered, should we not say that it had lost all self-respect, or else it had not strength to defend itself? We stand in that light to-day. Although the stride from James Buchanan to Abraham Lincoln was as great as could reasonably be expected, and we understand how, in the chain of events, all these contradictions and absurdities occur, others may not be able to do it, I mean the mass of the English people. As a government, we stand precisely to-day where we did in the palmiest days of Pierce and Buchanan. The positive vice of the South has arrayed against it the negative virtue of the North. That is all that can be said in defence of general principles, and that is as far as an aristocratic government will dare to go in search of morality.
Reverse the picture. Suppose, the question of universal suffrage was the exciting theme of the British public, and that the nobility, fearing the waning of power from their own hands, had risen in rebellion against the Queen and the constitutional party, because a new ministry had been appointed more favorable to the interests of the people. She and her cabinet, desiring to gain the favor of the nobles, ignore all mention of the real question at issue, and will not even permit Ireland to help put down the rebellion. Very likely, America would affect not to know what they were fighting for, and would be waiting to see on which side the almighty dollar is most likely to think, before sympathizing with either side. Let me not be misunderstood as defending England. I do not think any of us are capable of impartial judgment on either side, but let not America think to shield herself from the world's scorn till she has brought forth fruits meet for repentance.
Worcester. S. E.W.
ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC
BY THE
Committee on Correspondence of the Educational Commission.
The condition of the negroes who, in one way or another, have passed from the control of masters engaged in rebellion against the Government, and are now under the protection of the United States, collected in large bodies near several of the principal military centres, demands prompt and serious attention. It is well known that the public authorities, soon after the capture of Port Royal, humanely deputed an Agent to look after the interests of the thousands of shires who, by the flight of their former proprietors, were left at large in that neighborhood. The wants and dangers of these negroes, which are not essentially different from those of the fugitive and deserted slaves congregated at Fortress Monroe, have been brought before us in a letter from the Government Agent, which was printed in the Boston news papers, and has been widely circulated. Abandoned to themselves, they are now suffering from the lack of the clothing hitherto provided by their masters. The majority, scattered over a considerable space, and beyond the supervision of our military officers, are under no law or government, and will be likely to abuse their newfound liberty to their own hurt; while those who live in the neighborhood of our camps will inevitably be corrupted by contact with our soldiers. Without some help, direction and restraint, these unhappy creatures, the victims of an institution for which nearly every citizen of the United States is in some measure accountable, may soon sink into a deeper misery than even they have known, and become not only vicious, but ungovernable and very dangerous. The people of the North owe at least thus much to the subject-people of the South that their condition shall not be the worse for our invasion. The care and control formerly exercised by masters (and sometimes conscientiously and benevolently exercised,) we must, therefore, assume-not simply as a charity, but as a matter of the plainest obligation. And if we would not fall below those of whose disregard of human rights many of us are accustomed to speak in strong terms; if we would not stand convicted before them and before God of that spurious philanthropy of which we have been accused, we must sec to it that these slaves gain something by exchanging servitude for liberty. We must actually receive these black men into the great human family, to which we allow they belong; we must teach them how to live in that freedom which, up to this time, we have not been willing to concede, or if willing to concede, not able to secure them. Their right to property, both in their persons and in the products of their labor, and also the right of family, may be considered as already recognized. We are now called upon to provide for their education, and that in the widest sense; not such an education as makes them safe and profitable servants, but such as is required by other moral beings living in human society; an education which shall make them industrious, thrifty, self- supporting; orderly, temperate, self-respecting; which shall excite the unquenchable thirst for improvement, and unfold their now almost undeveloped
<c03>
mental and spiritual faculties. Proceeding thus, with due regard to their circumstances and capacities, not ignoring their present unfitness, but honestly striving to remove their disabilities, we must do our best to prepare them or their posterity to enter into all the privileges and blessings of an advanced civilization. We may hope and aspire to do for these step-children of nature all that their masters have failed to do, but we must certainly begin by doing what their masters did not and could not omit. Whatever uncertainty may rest upon the future of these negroes, the duty of the present hour is plain. So far as is required, we must first make provision for their immediate bodily wants, and preside over their labor, regarding it, however, as a condition indispensable to their civilization that they should, as soon as possible, be made to take care of themselves: we must also enforce order and justice , we must begin at once the work of intellectual and religious instruction.
Our second duty is to explore and survey the field before us. We are to study a momentous question, involving, sooner or later, the rights and happiness of millions. Providence has accorded to us the most favorable opportunities; it has, as it were, given out to us the problem under the easiest conditions. We have at port Royal a few thousands of blacks (probably very good specimens of the kind) on their own ground, engaged in their customary employments, with their usual means of living, in a society by themselves, unmolested by the prejudice, jealousy, and conflicting interests of a surrounding white population, and under the protection of the sovereign power. As a matter of pure curiosity, the problem how a happy community may be made out of these unfortunate beings is intensely interesting; as imposed upon us by common humanity, and by our connection with a Government that has protected slavery, it is a problem we cannot decline to take up without confessing ourselves either hard of heart, or mere sentimentalists and hypocrites. Finally, as opening possibly a way to solve the most difficult problem submitted to our people, this inquiry is unspeakably exciting and important.
For the purposes above hinted at, an association has been formed in Boston, under the name of The EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION, which proposes, under the patronage and as an auxiliary of the Government, to undertake the care and education of the negroes now in the custody and protection of the United States. It is hoped that by means of this association, an interest will be awakened in the whole subject of our duties towards the African race in America. It is hoped that the operations of the Society will be so conducted as not to be embarrassed by political differences, and that in the prosecution of its objects, a sterling philanthropy, a warm zeal for the rights of one party, and a deep conviction of the duty of the other, will not be disjoined from patience and moderation, justice and wisdom.
HENRY I. BOWDITCH, 112 Boylston st., Boston.
SAMUEL CABOT, JR., Park Square, Boston.
FRANCIS J. CHILD, Cambridge.
ANNA LORING, 32 Derne street, Boston.
ELLEN JACKSON, 2 Hamilton Place, Boston.
THE EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION was founded the 7th of February, 1802, and was organized by the choice of the following officers:-
President-His Excellency John A. Andrew, Governor of the Commonwealth.
Vice Presidents-Rev. Jacob M. Manning, Rev. Edward E. Hale. Rev. F. D. Huntington, D.D., Rev. T. B. Thayer, Rev. J. W. Parker, D.D., Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Hon. Jacob Sleeper, Dr. Robert W. Hooper.
Treasurer-Mr. William Endicott, Jr.
Secretary-Mr. Edward Atkinson.
Committee on Teachers-Mr. George B. Emerson, Dr. LeBaron Russell, Mr. Loring Lothrop, Rev. Charles F. Barnard, Mrs. Anna Lowell, Miss Hannah Stevenson.
Committee on Clothing-Mrs. Samuel Cabot, Jr., Mr. George Atkinson, Mr. Edward Jackson, Mrs. J. A. Lane, Mrs. William B. Rogers.
Committee on Finance-Mr. Edward Atkinson, Mr. Martin Brimmer, Mr. William Endicott, Jr., Mr. James T. Fisher, Mr. William I. Bowditch.
Committee on Correspondence-Dr. Henry I. Bowditch, Prof. Francis J. Child, Dr. Samuel Cabot, Jr., Miss Ellen Jackson, Miss Anna Loring.
The sole condition of membership of the Educational Commission is the contribution of Five Dollars to the funds.
All contributions of money for the objects of the Commission should be sent to the Treasurer, William Endicott, Jr., Esq., care of C. F. Hovey & Co., Summer Street, Boston.
Donations of Clothing may be sent to the Educational Commission's Committee on Clothing, care of Wellington, Gross & Co., 103 Devonshire Street, Boston.
Letters relative to the subject of Clothing for the Negroes may be directed to George Atkinson, Suffolk Bank Building, State Street, Boston.
Letters relating to Teachers should be addressed to George B. Emerson, Esq., Pemberton Square, Boston.
Letters on the general subject of the Objects and Operations of the Commission, or upon the Formation of Local Associations of the same kind, may be addressed to Henry I. Bowditch, 112 Boylston Street, Boston.
NORTHERN MISSIONARIES FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. The steamer Atlantic sailed from New York for Port Royal on Monday afternoon, with a large cargo of army stores, and about sixty persons who accompany Mr. Edward L. Pierce, the government agent in charge of the plantations and contrabands at Port Royal. The New York Post furnishes the following particulars of the embarkation:-
"These person's were all recommended by the National Freedman's Relief Association, and its auxiliary, the Education Commission at Boston. Three-fourths of the whole number are men who are to be the superintendents of the abandoned estates, and will direct the labors of negroes, who are to be employed in such agricultural pursuits as cotton-culture and raising vegetables for their own support and for the use of the army at that point.
Twelve or fifteen of the passengers are ladies, who will become teachers of an industrial school, which will be at once established at Port Royal, under the superintendence of Rev. M. French, of this city. Mrs. Senator Harlan, of Iowa, is Among the ladies, who will assist in some department of the work. Rev. Dr. Floy, of the Methodist Episcopal church of this city, is passenger by the Atlantic. He went to Port Royal for the purpose of preparing for missionary efforts among the negroes.
A portion of the superintendents and teachers who are employed under the regulations, so far as the government is concerned, explained in Mr. Chase's letter to the 'contraband' agent, receive compensation from the associations in this city and Boston; but some are
volunteers. Among the number are men of almost all trades, and some professions. There are several physicians, and one or two clergymen. Quite a number, especially of those from Boston, have been teachers, and are liberally educated; others of them are quite familiar with agricultural operations.
About three thousand dollars' worth of agricultural implements, including ploughs, hoes, and others in most common use, have been purchased by Mr. Pierce, and will be taken to Port Royal in the Atlantic. He takes also a quantity of seeds, including one barrel contributed from the Patent Office at Washington; as well as some medicines, and other necessary articles.
From this city, forty barrels and boxes of clothing, seven or eight boxes of shoes, and two sewing machines, are sent for the use of the negroes from the Association in this city. The sewing machines will be used in the Industrial School. Besides these, a large number of boxes and packages of all sorts, containing contributions for the contrabands, and from many persons, were put on board the Atlantic.
From Boston, about twenty-five boxes of clothing, with many other barrels of goods and other 'notions,' have been forwarded."
The following are the names of the teachers from Boston:-
E. W. Hooper, Wm. C. Gannett, J. E. Zachas, J. F. Sisson, J. W. R. Hill, D. F. Thorpe, T. Edwin Ruggles, F. G. Barnard, Richard Soule, Jr., Dr. Chas. H. Brown, Jas. E. Taylor, Daniel Bowe, Samuel D. Phillips, Geo. M. Wells, Miss Mena Hale, Miss M. A.
<c04>
Waldeck, E. S. Philbrick, Geo. H. Blake, Dr. A. J. Wakefield, lsaac W. Cole, Jas. H. Palmer, David Mack, J. M. F. Howard, Dr. Jas. Waldock, Leonard Wesson, Wm. E. Peck, Frederick A. Eustis, Wm. S Clark. Jules L. De Croix, Mrs. Elizabeth B. Hale, Mrs. Helen H. Winsor.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY AND THE CONTRABANDS.
Secretary Chase has sent a letter to Mr. Edward L. Pierce, the Government Agent at Port Royal in charge of the "Contrabands." After acknowledging in term of commendation the receipt of his Report, already published, Mr. Chase says:-
"The whole authority of this Department over the subjects of your Report is derived from the 5th Section of the Act to provide for the Collection of Duties, and for other purposes, approved July 13, 1861, by when the President is authorized to permit commercial intercourse with any part of the country declared to be in a state of insurrection under such Rules and Regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, who is himself authorized to appoint the officers needed to carry into effect such Permits, Rules and Regulations.
As incidental to this authority, alone, have I any power to sanction any measures for the culture of the abandoned estates in the Port Royal or any other district. It is, indeed, in the highest degree essential to commercial intercourse with that portion of the country, that the abandoned estates be cultivated, and the laborers upon them employed. I do not hesitate,
therefore, to continue your agency with a view to the general superintendence and direction of such persons as may be engaged in such cultivation and employment.
It is understood that an Association of judicious and humane citizens has been formed in Boston, which may act in concert, or be consolidated with a similar Association in New York and other cities, and that, through the agency of these Associations or one of them, persons may be employed to proceed with the sanction of the Government, to take charge of the abandoned plantations under the general plan suggested by yourself, and which is fully approved by this Department.
You will, herewith, receive copies of orders addressed to the Quartermaster of New York, and General Commanding at Port Royal, directing that transportation and subsistence, with all other proper facilities, be afforded to the persons thus engaged.
You will, therefore, receive applications for the employments indicated, and will select and appoint such applicants as you think best fitted, and assign each to his respective duty; it being understood that compensation for services to be rendered will be made by the Association, while subsistence, quarters and transportation, only, will be furnished by the Government, unless Congress shall otherwise provide. All engagements made by you will, of course, be subject to be terminated by the Government, whenever any public exigency shall require.
As Agent of the Department, you will also give all suitable support and aid to any persons commissioned or employed by these Associations, for the religious instruction, ordinary education, or general employment of the laboring population.
It is also my wish to prevent the deterioration of the estates, to secure their best possible cultivation under the circumstances, and the greatest practical benefit to the laborers upon them, and by these general purposes your own action will be guided.
Reposing great trust in your intelligence, discretion and benevolence, the Department confides this important mission to you, with confident expectation of beneficial results.
(Signed)
S. P. CHASE,
Secretary of the Treasury."
NATIONAL FREEDMAN'S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
At a large and enthusiastic meeting of citizens of New York, held at the Cooper institute, on the evening of Thursday, the 20th day of February, 1862, William C. Bryant in the chair, a Committee was appointed to take such measures as may be necessary for the relief and protection of the Emancipated Negroes, now with and near the National forces in the rebel States, and to act as a National Committee to correspond and cooperate with other Committees throughout the country on the same subject.
At a meeting of the Committee, held on Friday evening, Feb. 21, Mr. Bryant in the chair,
It was Resolved, That an appeal be made at once to the humane throughout the country to form Auxiliary Committees, and contribute means and efforts toward the object in view.
Therefore, the undersigned appeal to the people throughout the whole land to aid in the work, and appoint Committees in all cities, villages and towns, to cooperate with the Parent Committee.
The object in view is one of the highest interest and importance, namely, that of aiding to solve the problem, what shall we do with the negroes when emancipated.
Already thousands of slaves have been practically emancipated by the events of the war, and great additions will be made to the number as our armies continue to advance.
To teach them civilization and Christianity, to imbue them with notions of order, industry, economy, and self-reliance, to elevate them in the scale of humanity by inspiring them with self-respect, is the work that is before us. To this end we ask the cooperation of the wise and the good everywhere. 
There is an immediate and pressing necessity for clothing for the freedmen at Port Royal and its vicinity, and donations for that purpose of plain substantial clothing, new or secondhand, suitable for men, women and children, are asked for without delay, to be sent directed to the Association, at No. 320 Broadway, New York.
Donations in money may be sent to Joseph B. Collins, the Treasurer, at No. 40 Wall street.
New York, Feb. 22, 1862.
COMMITTEE.
STEPEN H. TYNG, WM. ALLEN BUTLER,
CHARLES GOULD, GEORGR C. WARD,
CHARLES C. LEIGH, WM. C. BRYANT,
FRANCIS Y. SUAW, BENJAMIN C. WANDALL,
JOHN W. EDMONDS, MANSFILED FRENCH,
EDGAR KETCHUM, JOSEPH B. COLLINS,
[Correspondence of the Boston Traveller.]
ROANOKE ISLAND, Feb. 21, 1862.
The Contraband question here, as with every other division of our army, is assuming both interest and importance. A considerable number of colored persons, some free and some slave, were found here on taking possession of the island. The former had been forced here from the main land to work upon the batteries. Most, if not all of the latter were body servants of the rebel officers. But so far from having any desire to return with their masters, they have gladly embraced the opportunity to quit their service, with the hope of acquiring their freedom. Some of these were at the battle of Bull Run; others have been attendants upon Wigfall, Beauregard, and other rebel magnates. Contrabands are also daily arriving from the main land. Yesterday, ten arrived in one squad from near Plymouth, all, I believe, belonging to one man; and early this morning, three more from Currituck, besides others of whom I hear, but have not seen. In most respects their stories concur. They are all delighted at their escape from the Realm of Secessia, and their arrival in our lines. They say that the capture of Roanoke has smitten the whole coast of North Carolina with terror. The people in many places are almost beside themselves. Masters are endeavoring to send their slaves inland; while the slaves, aware that their day of redemption is drawing nigh, are refusing to go, and are fleeing to the woods for refuge, or deserting to us as fast as they can find means of transportation. Already there must be between one and two hundreds within our lines; and before the summer closes, there will dobtless ten times that number.
What shall be done with them? Return them to their masters, who have forfeited both property and life by this wicked rebellion, or make freemen of them? It is hoped that at this late day, there can be but one answer to this question, and this not a doubtful or hesitating answer, but a confident and ready one. Let us make men of them, if not such men as we would out of this generation, yet such as we can, assured that the next generation will be a vast improvement on this. That they are susceptible of culture, who, not insane with negrophobia, doubts? Let the Christian sentiment of the country feel itself charged with their care and instruction. Surely, no more promising field of missionary labor was ever opened. Never, I believe, was a people, as a whole, more anxious to improve. Never has one more promptly responded to any effort for its good than will the colored people of the United States.
What they need most are school-books-primers, spelling-books, and easy readers. If a box of such books could be forwarded to the Chaplain of the Massachusetts 24th, I am confident they would be used as long as his regiment may remain on the island, and then would be passed to some other hands, which wilt make an equally good use of them. Let whoso wishes something to do, need the suggestion.
A COMMISSIONER FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. Previous to the departure of Edward L. Pierce, Esq., for Port Royal, he was by Governor Andrew appointed a Commissioner for the State of South Carolina, with the usual authority to take depositions, acknowledge deeds, &c. This will be a great convenience to such Massachusetts soldiers as may be stationed in that vicinity, and is, we believe, the first instance in which such an appointment has been made for a rebellious State since the war commenced.-Boston Journal.
<c05>
GENERAL HALLECK'S ORDER NO. 3. There is one fact in connection with General Halleck's Order No. 3 which is worthy of note. Just before daybreak on Sunday morning, when our men were lying on their arms, ready to make an assault on Fort Donelson, a slave came into the lines, and reported that the rebels were fleeing. Some of the officers suggested that he might have been sent out to lure General Grant into a trap. He was accordingly threatened with summary punishment if he was reporting falsely. He replied that if it was not found to be true, they night hang him on the nearest tree. An hour later came the flag of trace from Buckner, asking for the appointment of commissioners to agree upon terms. It was just then that the information derived from the slave was found to be valuable. It enabled General Grant to write that sentence which has been applauded throughout, the country, "Unconditional surrender," and the sequence, "I propose an immediate advance upon your lines." What if the negro had not made his appearance with that information? Would that reply have been given? I have it from one who knows-a military gentleman who was present, who knows what was said, what views were expressed-that the intelligence communicated by the slave had a material bearing upon General Grant's reply.
But to the sequel. Yesterday several officers came down the Cumberland. On the same boat was this negro. At a landing where the boat stopped for a few moments, some of the residents, seeing the negro, claimed him in behalf of his master, who, they said, was a good Union man. The Captain of the boat was inclined to give him up, fearing that he would be held responsible; but the officers on board, knowing what service he had rendered, were determined he should not be given up on such a sham claim, and informed the Captain of the steamer that as martial law had been proclaimed in Kentucky, he need be under no apprehensions. They kept the negro safe, and be is now in Cairo. As General Halleck has recently given intimation that General Order No. 3 is to be rigidly enforced, there is some curiosity to know what will be done in this particular instance. What if Gen. Grant had adhered strictly to the order, and had refused the negro admission to his lines where his worn and weary men were lying on their arms?-Cairo correspondent of the Boston Journal.
REBEL VANDALISM AT BOWLING GREEN. The correspondents of the Louisville papers furnish further accounts of the destruction of property by the rebel troops, on their evacuation of Bowling Green. Property of friend and foe was indiscriminately destroyed. Quigly & Co's pork house, with $15,000 worth of hides and tallow belonging to Campbell and Smith, who were killing cattle for the rebel army, was destroyed; also the drug store of J. T. Donalson, Geaty & Groves's shoe store, Hines's grocery store, dwelling of Mrs. C. T. Dunnivan, jewelry store of McClune & Fusetti, offices of J. H. Wilkins and Dr. W. D. Helm, livery stables, flour mills, &c. The beautiful railroad bridge was demolished. Mines were exploded in the towers of the piers, but as the iron-work did not fall, cannon were brought to bear, and thirteen rounds fired before the demolition was completed.
On Friday morning, about 4 o'clock, the planks were torn off the sides of the turnpike bridge, and tallow strewed over it to facilitate the combustion. This was burned only about three hours before the division of Gen. Mitchell came up. The railroad depot, filled with army stores, and a machine shop were burned. There was a train of cars loaded with meat, the engine to which had steam on ready to Start. All the cars and contents were burned. The hotels were ransacked and fired. The rebels, after doing this mischief, fled in a perfect rout before Mitchell's advancing column. The Nashville pike was completely blockaded by cavalry and infantry, all in admirable disorder, and a long line of carriages, carts, and all kinds of vehicles. Officers were hurrying away with their wives on foot, and carrying their children in their arms, while the whole non-belligerent portion of the flying crowd were screaming and shouting at the top of their voices in a perfect frenzy of apprehension. 
THE REBEL GENERALS BUCKNER AND TILGHMAN SENT TO FORT WARREN. The rebel Generals Buckner and Tilghman arrived in Boston in the train from Albany, which reached here a few minutes after 5 o'clock on Monday evening. They came in charge of Col. R. G. Cutts, (a brother of Mrs. Douglas,) of Gen. Halleck's staff, and a guard of seven volunteer soldiers. A crowd of some five hundred people had assembled, and they were greeted by outcries not of a complimentary character. They were immediately driven in a hack to Union wharf, in charge of U. S. Marshal Keyes, Deputy Marshal Jones, and Capt McKim, Assistant U. S. Quartermaster, and were conveyed by steamer May Queen to Fort Warren.
Gen. Buckner is a man of about medium height, rather inclined to corpulency, and about forty-five years of age. He wears his hair cut rather short, and it is partially gray. Gen. Tilghman is the taller of the two, and five or six years the junior of his companion. He is of spare habit. They were both in military undress.
ST. LOUIS, March 4. The following is a telegram from Gen. Halleck to Gen. McClellan:-
"MAJOR GEN. MCCLELLAN- Sir: The cavalry from Paducah marched into Columbus yesterday at 6 P. M., driving before them the enemy's rear guard. The flag of the Union is flying over the boasted Gibraltar of the West. Finding himself completely turned on both sides of the Mississippi, the enemy was obliged to evacuate and surrender. Large quantities of artillery and stores were captured.
(Signed)
H. W. HALLECK."
CHICACO, March 4. A special despatch, dated Columbus via Cairo, says-"The evacuation of Columbus was commenced on Thursday, the last of the rebels not leaving until yesterday afternoon. The burning commenced on Friday, and was continued until Sunday. Many portions of their barracks and other quarters are still on fire. The fortifications were not molested. Every thing that could not be carried off was fired, or thrown into the river. A large number of cannon were thrown into the river."
STORM IN WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS.
The hills of Berkshire, famous for the coldest weather and most severe storms of any portion of New England, were probably never visited by a more trying gale than that which has just subsided, after a fearful rage of more than thirty hours. It was a storm without precedent in the memory of the "oldest inhabitant," and the veteran railroaders all along the route between Boston and Albany speak of it as by far the most severe in all respects of anything they ever witnessed. And it is all the more wonderful, too, from the fact that the coldest weather for many seasons should have so rapidly succeeded a warm rain of several hours' duration. Monday morning, and until three o'clock in the afternoon, it rained torrents, and the storm was very much like a July thunder shower; but, two hours later, it was changed to a heavy snow storm, the thermometer fell to ten degrees below zero, and the wind blew a perfect gale, prostrating fences, chimneys, and uprooting quite a number of dwellings, barns, &c.
The railroads were also rendered impassable from the accumulated water upon the tracks, which was suddenly turned to ice, and afterwards covered, for miles in length, with huge snow drifts several feet in depth. The Western Railroad (Boston and Albany) was blocked during the entire day of Tuesday, and the evening train from Albany, Bostonward, remained for twenty-four hours imbedded in a drift at the Stone House, about a mile east of the Hinsdale station. The evening train from this city to Albany was also detained by snow and ice, a few miles east of Pittsfield, from 8 o'clock, Monday evening, till 7 o'clock, Tuesday evening. Monday morning's mail from Boston did not arrive in Albany until the next morning, and the mail from the West, due here at 4.45 Monday afternoon, did not arrive until Tuesday.
At Hinsdale, the summit of the mountain, the storm was most severe, and many of the passengers and men employed on the train came near perishing while walking three-fourths of a mile from the train to the depot. A Brighton cattle driver from the West had his hands and arms frozen nearly to the elbows, and will probably lose them; the conductor of the train also had his hands badly frozen while going back to stop an approaching train; and others, more fortunate, escaped with frost-bitten ears and faces. A student from Harvard came very near freezing to death, but was fortunately rescued just as he was taking a farewell sleep upon the drifting snow. When aroused, he was unable to walk, and desired that his mother, in Western New York, should be informed of his sad fate, and he be left alone to die. He was taken to the station, where he soon revived.
About fifty passengers spent the entire night upon the train, where they were with difficulty kept comfortable and from freezing. Among the number were one couple from Western New York on their way to Boston, where they were to be joined in matrimony the same evening. They are probably down on snow storms and railroads, and it is to be hoped that by this time their connubial intentions have been consummated.
The weekly exports of stocks from the West to the Brighten and Cambridge markets pass over the road Monday night and Tuesday, and this week the entire lot were exposed to the severe storm. Many of the sheep and hogs are reported to have been frozen to death, and also a number of the cattle. Their arrival at their destination will be delayed one or two days.
The trains over the Housatonic railroad, between Pittsfield and Bridgeport, were delayed by the storm.
The amount of snow upon the ground throughout the western portion of the State is immense, and in some places from five to eight feet deep. With a sudden thaw there will be a severe freshet, and there are apprehensions of considerable damage to property.-Bottom Journal.
<c06>
DEATH OF GEN. LANDER. We are pained to learn that Brigadier General Lander departed this life at his headquarters, Paw Paw, Va., yesterday (Sunday) afternoon. His disease was congestion of the brain.
The deceased was a native of Massachusetts, born we believe, in Salem, where his relative now reside. He was in the prime of life, a noble specimen of a man, physically, and possessed of intellectual attainments of a high order. His career has been a marked one, and he leaves behind a record that any son at Massachusetts may well be proud to emulate. As an explorer on the Pacific coast, his fame rivals that of the renowned Fremont, and his services to the Government in that capacity have received the warmest praises and the well-earned reward of a grateful people.
His military career since the breaking out of the rebellion has stamped his name with enduring fame, Under the gallant McClellan, he distinguished himself in the early campaign in Western Virginia. Subsequently, he was placed in command on the upper Potomac, and met with a painful wound in a skirmish with the rebels, which incapacitated him for duty for several weeks. On resuming his command, he at once signalized himself by one of the most dashing exploits of the campaign, which cleared his department of Northwestern Virginia entirely of the rebel forces, and led to the capture of a large number of commissioned officers in the enemy's service. For this daring and important act, he received the signal approbation of the War Department, expressed in an order which received publicity in every portion of the loyal States. It is said of the deceased that he never lost a battle or a skirmish.-Boston Herald.
HORACE GREELEY IN TREMONT TEMPLE. Horace Greeley spoke before the Emancipation League at Tremont Temple, to the largest audience of the course, thus far. He had a warm welcome, and he spoke with a good degree of the Tribune "vein." He seemed on the whole rather hopeful; congratulated I his auditors in view of the fact that there will never: be any more compromises with slavery, and that, directly or indirectly, slavery is doomed. He reiterated, with genuine earnestness, the saying of Senator Johnson of Tennessee, that traitors should not be permitted to own anything-and so, of course, not slaves. Greeley is "no orator as Phillips is." He has no graces of gesture, nor musical intonations of voice. But he is eloquent, for he never says a word for effect-says his real thoughts, and is always sincere.-Gospel Banner.
The Boston Courier is throws into convulsions by the action of the U. S. House of Representatives in directing the Declaration of Independence to be read in conjunction with Washington's Farewell Address before that body on the 22d of February. It evidently considers that immortal document as nothing more than a political harangue, for it says the Chicago platform might as well have keen proposed.-Bellows Falls Times.
Jeff. Davis has appropriated a day of "Fasting, Humiliation and Prayer." Of the first, the rebels have perhaps as much now as they want; of the second, there is no doubt but that they have already much more than they want; of the last no one can doubt that none need it more.
General Halleck has issued a general order relative to the poisoning of forty United States troops at Mudtown, saying that all persons guilty of such inhuman acts, when captured, will be hung as common felons.
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
Receipts into the Treasury, from Feb, 1, to March 1,1862.
J. M. W. Yerrinton-donation,-$5.00
Dea. Josiah Henshaw-do.-10.00
N. T. Allen-do-1.00
N. T. Allen to redeem pledge, Jan., 1861 2.00
W. P. Garrison, ditto, pledge Jan.,1862 1.00
Collections by E. H. Heywood:
At Milford. 7.00
East Cambridge, 5.00
Collection by A. M. Powell, 30.05
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
PLEDGE TO THE SOCIETY,
R. H. Ober,10.00
"THE GOLDEN HOUR," AND "THE BLACK MAIN'S FUTURE IN THE SOUTHERN STATES." M. D. CONWAY, of Cincinnati, will lecture on the former subject, and FREDERICK DOUGLASS on the last, in this State, wherever wanted, daring the next two weeks.
Arrangements for their Lectures may be made on application to JAMES M. STONE, 22 Bromfield street.
March 4
OLD COLONY.-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in
Plymouth, Sunday afternoon and eve'g, March 9.
N. Bridgewater, Wednesday eve'g, March 12.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION AT HYANNIS.-There will be an Anti-Slavery Convention at Hyannis, on Saturday and Sunday, the 15th and 16th of March. Cape Cod, hitherto, has never needed arguments, or even appeals, to crowd its largest halls, where the cause of Humanity and the Slave wag to be the theme. PARKER PILLSBURY and E. H. HEYWOOD will be present.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.-The closing lecture will be given at Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, March 12, by WENDELL PHILLIPS. A ticket, admitting a gentleman and lady, 25 cents.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a discourse at Music Hall, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, on Sunday forenoon next. Text-"IT WILL NEVER Do To TURN THEM ALL LOOSE."
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
THE PULPIT ASD ROSTRUM,
No.28.
THE WAR: A SLAVE UNION OR A FREE? The Speech of Hon. MARTIN F. CONWAY, delivered in the House of Representatives, and revised by the author, is published in the PULIT AND ROSTRUM No. 28.
This is one of the ablest, the most original, and the most comprehensive speeches yet made in Congress on the present crisis of our National affairs. The reader cannot fail of being deeply interested in its perusal. We append two or three brief notices, taken from hundreds:-
"It is die only speech made in Congress this session that fully, properly grapples with the great question of the day, or comprehends the issues at stake, or deals with the rebellion in a statesmanlike manner."-Chicago Tribune.
"It is one of the most plain-spoken utterances of the time, fall of original views and bold suggestions."-N. Y. Tribune.
"I have read it with profound interest, and almost with surprise. It is the speech of a living and thinking man, of a statesman and a philosopher. It is far above the range of ordinary politicians, and has seldom, for depth of thought, largeness and justness of view, been equalled by any speech I have seen from any member of either House of Congress."-Dr. O. A. Brownson.
Three different men-WM. LLOYD GARRISON, of Massachusetts, GARRETT DAVIS, of Kentucky, ALEXANER H. STEPHENS, of Georgia-are represented in the Pulpit and Rostrum Nos. 26 and 27, (double number, two in one, price 20 cents,) as follows:-
The Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War: A Lecture by William Lloyd Garrison, delivered at the Cooper Institute, New York, January 14, 1862.
The War not for Confiscation or Emancipation: A Speech by Hon. Garrett Davis, delivered in the U. S. Senate, January 23, 1862.
African Slavery, the Corner-Stone of the Southern Confederacy: A Speech by Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President of the Confederacy, in which, the speaker holds that "African slavery, as it exists, among us, is the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization;" and "our new Government [the Southern Confederacy] is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth."
The Pulpit and Rostrum, No. 25, contains the celebrated address of WENDELL PHILLIPS support of The War for the Union. It is delivered in the finished and unequalled style of Mr. Phillips, and has called forth many commendatory notices.
The Pulpit and Rostrum, No.24, has the very able and eloquent argument of the Hon. HENRY WINTER DAVIS, on The Southern Rebellion, and the Constitutional Powers of the Republic for its Suppression. This is one at the clearest and most exhaustive addresses yet elicited by the present state at oar country. It has received the most flattering, testimonials from the highest sources.
The Pulpit and Rostrum gives full Phonographic Reports (revised by the authors) of the Speeches and Discourses of our most eminent public speakers. It thus constitutes a series most valuable for perusal on reference.
Price 10 cents a number, or $1 a year (for 12 numbers.)
E. D. BARKER, PUBLISHER,
136 Grand St., New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Hastings, (Mich.) Republican Banner.
CAUSE OF THE WAR.
BY H WOODWORTH.
Hear ye the booming of the cannon,
As its thunder shakes the ground?
Hear ye the bursting of the bombshells,
Scattering wounds and death around?
Hear ye the whistling of the bullet,
By the deadly rifle thrown,
As in its flight of swift destruction
It mangles flesh and crushes bone?
Hear ye the trampling of the war-horse,
As he rushes to the fight?
See ye the gleaming of the sabre,
Flashing like a beam of light?
See ye the thousands upon thousands,
Marshalling in dread array?
See ye the thick and sulphurous war-cloud,
Dimming the blessed light of day?
Hear ye the cries and moans of anguish,
Echoing o'er our startled land?
Parents, children, widows, orphans,
Heave the sigh, and wring the hand!
What is the cause of this uprising?
What is the cause of all this strife
Of these tears, and groans, and wailings,
And this waste of human life?
Far away in the sunny South-land
Proud and haughty men are found,
Living on their vast plantations,
With a servile race around;
And they work their will upon them
Without hindrance, let, or fear:
"Might makes right," is the rule of action
They would establish, even here!
When law-making for the nation,
They did, as a thing of course,
Into the halls of legislation
Bring their creed of brutal force.
Bludgeons, bowie-knives and pistols
Were the arguments they used 
With those who, to bow subservient
Unto their behests, refused;
And to cap the horrid climax,
They in their heart of hearts had sworn
They would rule, or the country should be
Into bleeding fragments torn;
And when they felt the power departing
From their weak, relaxing grasp,
Closed their fingers on the sword-hilt,
With relentless, vengeful olasp!
As they have urged the war upon us,
They the issue must abide,
Even to the forfeit of their "chattels,"
And the humbling of their pride.
Martin, Jan. 26, 1862.
The Liberator
The Justice of God in our National Calamities.
REMARKS OF PARKER PILLSBURY,
In the Convention at Albany, N.Y., Feb. 7th and 8th.
Reported by HENRY M.PARKHURST.
This meeting, I think, is the most important this body ever held. I do not know that another like it will ever be held. Probably not. Before another winter comes round, events will doubtless have transpired essentially changing the character of this anniversary. I think the last Fourth of July was the last we shall ever celebrate in that form; and I hope this is the last meeting of this kind we shall hold. But, in order that it may be the last, one or two things must transpire: either the subjugation of the North to the Slave Power, which is not impossible; or else the recognition of the rights of all men, of so sublime a character that there shall be no need, certainly, of calling meetings for the purpose of abolishing slavery. I do not wish to see this government prolonged another day in its present form. On the contrary, I have been for twenty years attempting to overthrow the present dynasty. I do not quite agree with some of my friends, that a change has taken place which releases me from my former course of action. If I do not misjudge the Constitution, whatever may have been its real character, it was never so much an engine of cruelty and of crime as it is at the present hour. It seems to me the present Administration is, on the one hand, the weakest, and on the other the wickedest, we nave ever had. Mr. Buchanan's administration is under infinite obligations to it for casting its wickedness and imbecility so far into the shade.
I agree with all my friends in one particular, however we may differ in others: that the Government has the constitutional power to perform an act of humanity and justice which would release us from all further necessity for this kind of anniversary. But having the power, and it may not be too much to say the undisputed power, it seems to me that it becomes even more wicked than the South, in failing to do it. Slavery is the sin and crime of the country. The present war is a just and most fearful retribution for that crime. The North is not willing yet to repent of its sin, or to admit that this war is a retribution. And when you ask the North to let the people go, it answers, almost in the language, quite in the spirit of the ancient tyrant, Who is the Lord, that I should obey his voice, and let the people go?" I have no hope of any salvation to the North until it is first convicted of its own guilt in its terrible complicity with the great sin and crime of slavery.
I am far from being satisfied that the South is the more guilty party of the two. All the superiority that is claimed, on the part of the North, operates, in my judgment, just so far against the North in the scale of moral responsibility. Have we the power? Then why, in God's name, is not slavery swept away? Have we more light and knowledge, then why do we not act up to that light and knowledge, and repent; and arrest the most daring crime ever committed under the bright sun of heaven? Have we the majority, the wealth, the cultivation, everything that pertains to national greatness? Then is our guilt exactly proportioned to our superiority. I can attribute, therefore, only to Pharaohism or perverseness the longer continuance of slavery. It seems to me that one Edward Everett, one Southside Adams, one Dr. Lord, outweighs in guilt and moral responsibility a thousand ordinary slave-owners in the Carolinas or in Louisiana. Yet all that I san see in the North is the spirit of Pharisaism, saying to the South, "I am holier than thou."
Slavery is said to be the cause of the war. What is the cause of slavery? I remember my first lesson in theological investigation was to prove the existence of a God; and I found the argument summed up in this: that everything must have a cause. That cause is God. Here is the universe; it must have a cause. But I told the Professor I was not satisfied with the argument, for it seemed to me an infidel would ask me if God could any more exist without a cause than a universe, and I should not know how to answer him. He drew his face down, and replied, Ah, but God is an uncaused being." I said that another man might say, Ah, but the universe is an uncaused universe." So slavery must have had a cause as well as the war. I look for that cause not in the South alone, but in the more highly cultivated North; and the North I hold responsible accordingly.
I cannot join in the congratulations I so often hear as to the hopefulness of the signs of the times. I do not want to see hopefulness. I am not rejoiced at tidings of victory to the Northern army. I would far rather see defeat. Not that I want to see our troops massacred, or to see them imprisoned; nay, Heaven and humanity forbid! but upon the same ground that a physician, wisely administering medicine, accepts the agonies and contortions of his patient, which are always produced by administering heroic treatment.
<c02>
I rejoice in defeat and disaster rather than in victory, because I do not believe the North is in any condition to improve any great success which may attend its arms. I think the Abolitionists fail sufficiently to recognize one great fact; and that is, the persistent, determined, heaven-provoking impenitence of the North. The hatred of the colored race, the hatred of the Abolitionists, the willingness to continue the slave system, the intense desire to get back to our prosperous peddling with Great Britain and other nations, and with one another; all these are to my mind indications that we are in no condition to hear of success; that the God who judges righteously must hold us responsible for the cries and groans of the slave to-day, even beyond the immediate perpetrators of the crime of slavery upon the soil of the South. Whatever man may decree, the God of justice reigns and will reign, and we cannot compromise away any of the penalties due to violated law.
Holding these opinions, I do not desire success to the Northern army. I do not wish to see Abraham Lincoln triumph over the South in the way he has himself marked out. Mr. Seward assures us, and it is published by authority," that" the condition of no human being is to be changed, whether the revolution succeeds, or whether it fails." I say, then, let us have war; let us have all its disasters and all its defeats, if the condition of the slave is not to be changed. If that is treason, I must let the Government make the most of it, and send me to Fort Warren; and if they do not treat me worse than they treat the traitors, spies and rebels there, and are as prompt to release me upon the application of my friends, my condition will not be very greatly to be deplored. (Laughter.)
It is said by some philosophers to be more natural to laugh than to weep. Certainly, it is more pleasant. But it is of no use to overlook the true condition of the country; and let us not undertake, in the old Hebrew language, to heal the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly." God is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever. In the history of the Jews at the time of their captivity, I find a marvellous analogy to the history of our country to-day. I find a Seward and a Lincoln; boasting churches and false prophets; and Garrisons, too, and Cheevers, among the historic men of that day. The popular men of that period are pretty much mixed up with the mould and waste of the past, and there is little of them left. But there were prophets who were true to their time, whose writings have come down to us; and I take my stand by the side of those old Hebrews, Isaiah and Jeremiah, and I would call for justice, as Isaiah complained that none did then call for justice.
Jeff. Davis is not to-day the foe most to be feared. It is the Jehovah of Hosts against whom this Government is contending, and it is determined to carry on the battle against that terrible foe! If Gen. Fremont will not act with it, Gen. Fremont must be disgraced and removed; while the basest, most truculent spirits of slavery are exalted to posts of honor and power. Our work as Abolitionists is plain work. I do not see that it is changed. It is not numbers that we want in order to succeed. Christianity was never more triumphant than when it was incorporated in one person, and He nailed to the cross. The virtue of the victim set the cross on fire, and it became a beacon-light to illumine the generations. And if the Anti-Slavery cause to-day were incorporated in the person of but one individual, and he doomed to the fate of John Brown, its glorious triumph would be no less assured. I hope we shall not mistake our calling. Government is mistaken, but we should not be. Congress is evidently blind as moles and bats, but we should not be. The Church and the ministry of our land are as blind as the Government, but we should not be; else, if the blind undertake to lead the blind, of course we shall fall into the ditch together. Until this Government makes atonement for the injustice done the slave and his race, the injustice done to Fremont, the injustice done to the Anti-slavery cause, I shall hold it the enemy of liberty, and of course the enemy of God. For one, I am not disposed to be identified with it. Rather let me die the death of the righteous.
I said the Church is as blind as the rest. The pulpit to-day knows nothing of the demands of the law of God. George B. Cheever seems almost alone to remain. At any rate, I know of no other pulpit-occupant worthy to stand by his side. Somebody asked me the other day, Won't they soon be arraigning Dr. Cheever before the Consociations?" I said, perhaps they might; but it seemed to me quite time that the Consociations were arraigned before Dr. Cheever. We have all sinned, North and South. The Church might have known it, must have known it; but the Church does not call the Government to repentance. It has been giving the country a religion of so monstrous a character, that to-day it is in the field butchering the same brethren with whom it was last year in Christian fellowship and communion. It is all the same to the Northern pulpit and the Northern Church, whether they break the sacramental roll with their Southern brethren, or dash out their brains with the butt end of their muskets. The Church and the clergy pray for good luck on both occasions alike, and in both armies alike.
Last year, we were endeavoring to sever the connection between the North and South. Last January, upon the first Sunday of the year, the whole Church of the land met, as is its wont, at the sacramental table, in full fellowship, North and South, claiming kindred under one Lord, one faith, and one baptism. The Abolitionists protested against it, demanding of the North that it separate itself from the cup of devils; that it come out from such a synagogue of Satan, and wash its garments clean of the blood of the slave. The North would not hearken. The North despised us and our warning, trampled upon our testimony, and rushed to the sacramental feast; the South joining in the solemn sacramental supper. But God saw it; heard our testimony, too, I trust. And he said, or seemed to say, Yet a little while longer, and I will arise, and make bare my own arm." In six months, or a little more, from that day, on a summer Sunday, in the following July, the Almighty did arise in the majesty of his might, and seizing the Church of the North as in his right hand, and the Church of the South in his left hand, at Manassas Junction he dashed them together, and gave them their last sacrament in each other's blood.
And yet, to-day, the Church of the North does not seem to know that in that hour she was abandoned of God. But we know it. If we know the works and ways of God, we know that a Church, any Church, that can thus eat the communion bread upon one Sabbath, and go to butchering each other with bayonets and bombshells on the next, must be an abomination in His sight. Yet that is the Church of this land; and the Government of the country is what might be expected from such a religion. The law and the government of God are set at naught, nay, defied.
It seems to me that it is for us most emphatically, in this hour, to distinguish between him who knows and endeavors to keep the law of God, and him who sets it at defiance. I come here for the purpose of vindicating what seem to me to be the doctrines of the Most High. I have no faith, no hope, in any victory, in any success, until the North is first made conscious of its sin. When it is, repentance, reform, atonement, justice done, will be the first fruits of that knowledge. When that comes, when we shall learn to recognize the difference between human constitutions and unions and the demands of God's law, then there will be hope. Until that time, I look for nothing, I can hope for nothing, but defeat. It is certainly better that the penalty due to crime be executed, no matter what becomes of the criminal; better for him- better for all. Bitter, fearful, direful as the consequences of sin may be, it is better that those consequences be visited upon us, and that the North, the State and the Church, should come into the knowledge and acknowledgment of these high and holy doctrines and demands. Then, and not before, shall I feel that the time has come for us to take or to preach hope and encouragement.
<c03>
I wish to correct the misapprehension of the clerical gentleman who followed me. [Alluding to a review of a previous speech.] He said I had assailed the Church of Christ. His Church of Christ, it may be. I do not know that it is his prerogative to decide for me what constitutes the Church of Christ. I see certain men eating the communion bread and drinking the sacramental wine. Six months afterwards, I see those same men, with rifle, cannon and columbiad, endeavoring to destroy as many of each other as they possibly can. If that is the Church of Christ, then I plead guilty to the charge of my friend. I spoke of Dr. Cheever as a worthy preacher of the gospel of truth. I did not say how many more were worthy; but I only knew Dr. Cheever. Outside of the popular Church, I know several others; my friend, Beriah Green, before me, for one; and I could name a few in my native State, Massachusetts. But the general statement will defy all criticism, that what is regarded as the American Church and the American pulpit is to-day in deadly hostility, North against South. We, the Abolitionists, never asked the Church of the North to mob or harm the Church of the South. The Abolitionists never mobbed anybody, or countenanced the mobbing of anybody. I never heard of such a thing as a mobocratic Abolitionist. We simply asked her to come out from a fellowship and sacramental communion with the traffickers in slaves, in the bodies and souls of men; with brethren who bought and sold the image of God in the market, whose sacramental vessels were bought with the blood of the slave-mother's child, and filled with wine purchased with the proceeds of her unpaid toil. The Northern Church would not heed us. She reviled and persecuted us. She hated us. She did not even seek to reclaim and save us, as she did ordinary sinners, but branded us as outcasts from the grace of God. The Church of the South she held as bone of her bone, flesh of her flesh, spirit of her spirit. We asked the North to separate from her. She would not do it. By-and-bye, God himself seemed to take the matter into his own hands. He said, I have sent you my servants, the prophets, and ye would not hear them. Behold, I work a work among you, at the very name of which the ears that hear shall tingle. And, as I said, the Church of the North is lifted and dashed against the Church of the South, and they are bathing their deadly bayonets in each other's blood. To call that the Church of Christ is a scandal to that sacred name. It is a blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. The man, to me, is a monster who can do it, in the light of the present hour. Is that a Church of Christ that has defied the demands of God for thirty years, until He has made it its own executioner? He himself has scattered it; scattered it, so to speak, in ghastly corpses on the ground; and the verdict of the moral universe on them is, and shall be forever: Death by the visitation of God!"
It is time for us to speak the truth I think, with our excellent friend President Green, it is for us not to take counsel of flesh and blood. These are holy, sublime, righteous principles; let them be affirmed. Why is it that such multitudes are down in the mist, the murky darkness to which Mr. Pryne referred? Why, but for the reason that hypocritical priests and despicable politicians have had the training of them from generation to generation? The multitude sit in the region and shadow of death! Why is it thus? I turn again to my old oracles, the prophets, and the answer is the same: Like people, like priest;" I bade thee feed my people with the bread of knowledge, and behold ye have filled them with lies and deceit!" I tell you, Mr. Chairman, when the Church and the ministry understand the Bible as well as babes and sucklings understand it, until poisoned with their teachings, the world will be the better for it.
A year ago, I endeavored to warn the people against what we now see. The Republican party was then flushed with victory, and still more with prospective emoluments, and place, and prerogative, when its candidate should occupy the chair of the Chief Magistracy of the nation. I told them that their victory was not yet complete. They had, indeed, elected their Presidential candidates; but their ballots were only a paper currency, and before the Administration could proceed, or be recognized over the country, that paper currency must be redeemed by a specie payment of solid leaden and iron bullets. They laughed at such warnings, and mobbed me all winter for uttering them. From Boston to the Mississippi river, I passed through one succession of mob violence. The only two instances that came to my knowledge, through that long and dreary winter, of the protection of Anti-Slavery meetings from mobs, were by the aid of a Democratic Mayor of this city at our last annual meeting, and of a Democratic magistrate in the State of Iowa. From the beginning of the winter campaign until the inauguration of President Lincoln, (if that event can in any sort of propriety be said to have yet transpired,) was a succession of mobs of Republican manufacture or of Republican maintenance. Mob law reigned until Abraham Lincoln was compelled to flee upon the under-ground railroad from Harrisburg to Washington, to escape its violence; and the mob has ruled him and his administration from that hour to this. Jeff. Davis has more power, to-day, in New York and New England, than Abraham Lincoln, and all his Cabinet, and all his army. He has more power by far than he could have had, if he had been regularly elected and regularly installed in the Presidential chair. He has but to speak, and it is done. He has but to command, and the very army stands fast. They tell of the clay mud of the Virginia roads. I tell you that a deeper and more impenetrable mud than that prevents the advance of our armies upon the seceded banditti of the South.
You have convicted I know not how many men of being spies and traitors. You have even had Mason and Slidell in custody. You have convicted seventeen men, in this State, of the most high-handed piracy. Yet those men are just as safe from harm, in the bosom of Abraham Lincoln's administration, as if they were safe smuggled in the bosom of the patriarch Abraham in the kingdom of heaven. You dare not hurt a hair of their heads. At this very moment you have 700,000 men in arms; and yet the South laughs at your pretensions. Her ragged ruffians are, perhaps, scarcely one to your five; and yet, in the hands of Jeff. Davis, they are, to this hour, omnipotent to control the destinies of this nation. John Brown, and his twenty white men, and two or three black men, at Harper's Ferry, were more a terror to all the South, than Gen. McClellan and his myriads of men. (Applause.) And why? Because the South knew full well that be had a purposean almighty, a divine purposeand your government has not; that, though Abraham Lincoln is nominally President of the United States, she herself holds the sceptre of almost supreme dominion. What gave John Brown such omnipotence, and such omnipresence, too, all through the South? Simply this, that every tyrant had a John Brown in his own bosom, against whom he could not fight. It is conscience that makes cowards of us all. We are arrayed against the Almighty, and therefore it is that we cannot prevail.
One of the resolutions of Mr. Garrison affirms that the government has now the constitutional power to do a righteous action. Some of our friends believed that it had the power before. Gerrit Smith has always believed that the government had the power to abolish slavery under the Constitution. I have not so believed. But now the government has undeniably the power; and it lacks the other more important thingthe disposition. We are a nation of atheists, governed by a President and Cabinet of downright practical atheists. The National Assembly of France, in the days of Robespierre, it is said, voted God from his throne. But we have done worse than they; for they enshrined Reason as God instead, at any rate, and, in obedience to it, began their new government by striking every fetter from every slave throughout the French dominions. The Abolitionists of this country have been branded for the last thirty years as atheists; but I fear we are the only men who believe in the Divine existence or the Divine government.
<c04>
Are not the President and his Cabinet, to-day, at the head of this nation, defying the God of heaven? Moses [turning to Mr. Garrison] demands that he let the people go; and in the true spirit of his illustrious predecessor of four thousand years ago, the President answers, Who is the Lord, that I should obey Him?
We were told, yesterday, that the mass of the people could not comprehend our friend, President Green, when he was simply carrying principles and laws which everybody recognizes in material things up into the region of conscience and the higher law. Men are loyal to the laws of the material universe as soon and as far as they know them. The agriculturist, the mechanic, the engineer, the navigator, every one who employs the great forces of nature, respects the laws and keeps them. Whosoever shall keep the whole law of the steam-engine, and yet offend in one point, soon finds that he is guilty of all, in the explosion that scatters his engine and the fragments of his own mutilated body in every direction. Our friend Green was endeavoring to lead men up into the region of conscience and the moral laws of the universe; and was insisting upon the same loyalty and obedience there. The great difficulty with our Government officers is, that they are unwilling to believe in a God whose laws are the same, whether they pertain to a grain of shifting sand on a distant shore, or the whirling of the celestial orbs in infinite space, or throb in the breasts of cherubim and seraphim before the eternal throne. If we could but know and feel that the law of God is one and the same, whether it pertains to matter or to mind, to the material world or the region of universal conscience and moral being, that wisdom, that grace controlling our actions would be our present and everlasting salvation.
But the people perish for lack of knowledge. Forty thousand pulpits have not yet taught them the first lessons in the government of God. We prefer to be wrestling with the dragon of secession in the South. John Brown, like a mighty angel, came down as from heaven, and if the powers would have permitted, would have bound that dragon for a thousand millennial years and forever! You seized that first, grandest hero of the nineteenth century, and hung him upon a cross; the sublimest as well as saddest spectacle since the scene upon Calvary, that veiled the very heavens in sackcloth and darkness. John Brown taught us the way; but the people would not learn. He came, the very God made flesh, and pointed the road, but the people and the Government would not walk therein. He was, almost literally, the way and the truth, and he would have been the life, but the nation was not worthy. I sometimes think that, on that fearful morning, the 2d of December, 1859, as he bowed his head and gave up the ghost, that the recording angel wrote in the ledgers of heaven, of this nation:-" It is finished." From that hour to this, disaster and distress have followed us, and we are wildly, madly pursuing the same career which has destroyed so many nations in the past. I amost hear, to-day, coming up from the abyss of the dark eternities below, the voices of Nineveh and Babylon, of all those long-since buried empires, fallen beneath their own crimes, cruelties and oppressions, screaming in our ears the lamentation of the Hebrew minstrel, Oh Lucifer, son of the morning, how art thou, too, fallen, and become like unto us!"
Mr. Garrison says, The war is upon us; and it is because there is a God" When he made that remark, I thought that should be my text, if I should speak to-night. The Abolitionists have always believed it. Other people in the country have not been so ready to believe. They have professed belief, but they have not really believed. There is always, in every country-and in all past time I think it is true a class of men, greater or smaller in number, as the case may happen to be, who believe interiorly, with | the whole heart and soul, in the Divine existence and government. They preach in accordance with that belief. They act in accordance with that belief. They endeavor to illustrate that important article of their faith, in all they say and do. Thirty years ago, the Anti-Slavery enterprise demanded the liberation of the slaves, in the name of humanity, and in accordance with the law of the ever-living God. That was the whole gospel of Anti-Slavery, and until this hour it has been the whole gospel of Anti-Slavery. Men have not believed that there was a God who hearkened to the cry of the oppressed. Now He is vindicating His own character and government; visiting our nation with the severest judgments, and endeavoring by this, His last manifestation, the very last with which He ever addresses or approaches any people, to rescue and save this guilty nation from deserved destruction. The remaining work of the Abolitionists is to assert that great truth. We have no other truth to proclaim. Argument has ceased with us. God is here now in righteous judgments; and it is for us to declare this, and to vindicate them. If the people will hearken, well; if not, then the consequences must inevitably be visited upon themselves.
Yesterday, President Green, in some remarks, vindicated the demands of the higher law in the highest and divinest sense of those demands. I was glad of his, to me, most instructive, nay, more, most sublime utterance of the sublimest truths in the whole gospel of God. The trouble with the North is, that it does not recognize the hand of God in this visitation. You want to hear of glorious victories; crushing out the rebellion; the stars and stripes; rebel Southerners seized, imprisoned, and hung, or whatever you think they deserve. The South deserves all this. But does the South deserve it at our hands? Who are we of the North, that we should attempt to execute the judgments of the Most High on our Southern fellow-sinners? Might we not say to day, in the language of one of England's proudest poets?
"Let not this weak, unknowing band
Presume thy bolts to throw,
And deal damnation round the land
On each I judge thy foe."
Once there was a man travelling up and down, preaching righteousness to the people. He was in the midst of men who fancied they were righteous while they despised others; and they brought into his presence a sinner, taken in a crime, and informed him what their law demanded,namely, that such should be stoned. His ruling was, Let him that is without sin among you cast the first stone." What did he mean by that? Simply this, I suppose: if you judge others, and visit judgments upon others, be sure you do it with clean hands.
Now, this war is upon us. It is upon us because there is a God, as Mr. Garrison well said. But if we properly and duly consider this one fact, that slavery is the cause of the war, we shall see that there is also a cause of slavery. And what is that cause? Who instituted it and planted it in the Constitution of the country? Who has protected it by solemn guaranties, from that hour to the present? Who has enacted and executed Fugitive Slave laws, from 1793 down to 1850? Who has repealed the Missouri Compromise in behalf of slavery? Who has purchased Louisiana and Florida, and conquered Texas at its bidding? Who has elected the Presidents? Who has appointed the Judges of the Supreme Court? Who has executed the Fugitive Slave law for the last ten months? Who has interpreted the Bible? Who has found justification for slave-breeders and slave-traders in both the Old Testament and the New; in patriarchal example, in prophetic approval, in diviner sanction still, by the silence of Christ; and, as a climax of the argument, the sending back by the apostle Paul of a fugitive slave to his master? Who has done all this?because, it seems to me, the answer to these questions is the answer to the other question, Who are the cause of slavery? So that, when I examine the subject in the light of the highest truth I can discover or comprehend, I have to go back to the North, and lay the guilt of this monstrous system at the door of the Northern people, Northern Churches, and Northern pulpits. Verily, ye are the men.
Suppose there were fifty persons somewhere in your vicinity, instituting and carrying on, from year to year, a system of high-handed robbery and burglary; carrying on their plundering operations in every part
<c05>
of New York and New England, extending their depredations to Canada and the West, or whatever plunder might be found. And suppose, some morning, twenty-five of them should awake, and find that the other twenty-five, in the course of the night, had stolen the horses, saddles, bridles, powder, pistols, and all the furniture of the whole establishment, and had made off to parts unknown. Suppose that they should say, We must get hold of the fleetest horses we can steal from the nearest stables, and ride at the top of their speed, until we overtake those brethren of ours, and we must, if possible, win them back, and if not, drive them back into the confederation. They go out and overtake them, and say, Come back, come back; we always thought that there was honor among thieves, if nowhere else. You have stolen the property and made off with it, and set up on your own account. Were we not doing a prosperous and glorious business? Were we not making ourselves rich and powerful? And with our money have we not always been benevolent and philanthropic? Nay, more, were we not spreading the gospel, converting the heathen, and rapidly millennializing the world? Were we not endowing orphan and insane asylums, founding theological seminaries, building churches and hospitals for the poor, and filling the whole world with the grandeur and glory of our achievements? And here you have upset it all, by stealing our horses, and bridles, and saddles, and powder, and pistols, and gone off and set up on your own account. Did not our fathers set us up in business? Did not they steal 500,000 horses to begin with? Have not we multiplied seven or eight fold in capital? Were we not paying enormous dividends upon our stock in trade? And now, like fools, and knaves, and villains, almost, you have broken everything all up! Here are, all flat, and nothing can be done. The hopes of the world, the millennial prospects and desires and anticipations of the whole Church of Christendom are blasted and disappointed. Repent of your folly, and canter back in the quickest possible time; and let us join hands again, and proceed as before with our business."
Some of you look up to me as though you understood my illustration. I think myself it goes pretty nearly on all fours, and I will not carry it any farther. This is, to be sure, a somewhat lively view of what, after all, I regard as the most sublime spectacle of iniquity the history of mankind ever exhibited. We framed our Government in injustice. We built up our temple on crime and cruelty. Perhaps our fathers y thought they were doing well. There is this defence, at least, to be made for them. They had just escaped from the power of the British Government, and almost all Europe was combined against them to crush the upspringing spirit of freedom in the western hemisphere. To make a Union, even though slavery were an element, seemed to them necessary, at least for a time; though expecting that all the States would ultimately, as your State of New York and some others have done, at the earliest possible period, sweep that system of abominations away forever. That is their best defence; and perhaps it is defence enough; for I do not believe that New York or New England had any members in the Convention that framed the Constitution of the United States, who loved slavery for its own sake, or who intended that slavery should be perpetual in the country. No, my friends, let us take a brighter and better view of the subject, and believe that in their distress, in their extremity, they built up the best government they could. But let us remember that they laid their foundations upon the hearts, and the hopes, the bodies and the spirits of immortal beings.
Missionaries come homes and tell us of a heathen pagoda in the East, of seventy proud columns, every column resting upon a human skull, the skull of a victim offered at its base when the fabric was reared. Our fathers laid their foundations, not upon seventy but upon half a million crushed immortal spirits, and half a million bodies framed by the hand of God. There was the terrible injustice and oppression. And all the time, we are assured that our Government was based upon compromises, and must consequently be carried on by compromises. Compromise is a beautiful word in the right place. I have seen it when it looked well, even in the newspaper. But when applied to American politics, I see no beauty or comeliness in it. Compromise is good in its place. I saw a gardener pulling up beautiful flowers, and throwing them away. I asked him why he did so. Why," said he, they are weeds. ""But, said I, those are beautiful flowers" Yes," said he, but everything is a weed, out of its place. Compromise out of its place is always a weed, may be poisonous, deadly, to whatever government it may chance to belong.
Two men may try to adjust a dispute by compromise, in settling the boundaries of their land. One may say to the other, Set this stake here, and that one there, and we shall have a better line of division; it will make your wood-lot better there, and it will bring water into my pasture here, and we shall both be benefitted; and that will adjust our trouble. "Very well," says the other; I am glad you thought of it; for it will benefit us and our children after us." Thus, they compromise the matter, and settle it. But suppose the second man says, No; I have another compromise to propose. There is a poor fellow with land next to ours, and if we take off a strip of that and annex it, it will give you water in your pasture, and give me a good wood-lot. So let us stretch our boundary line two rods over into his land. He is a poor fellow and has no friends, no money, no nothing, and cannot help himself; everybody hates him, and we shall both be benefitted by that, and get just what we both need." What kind of a compromise is that? Is there any beauty or comeliness in the word there? Is it not rather a blasphemy against the holy spirit of truth and justice, thus to trample upon the rights of the helpless poor?
Now, what did your fathers do? They seized half a million immortal beings, poor, friendless, hated, despised, down-trodden, and they compromised them and their children after them forever, not for their benefit, but for the benefit of the nation that thus despised and oppressed them. There is where our difficulty is. O there is a God in heaven, who remembers, who can never forget, the cries of the suffering, friendless poor! There is our grand difficulty at this hour, and I know no hope for us while we are thus fighting, not against Jeff. Davis, but against the God of heaven and earth. How can we prosper? I do not care if you multiply your soldiers tenfold more, and take half your ministers and make chaplains of them to pray in concert for victory; it will avail nothing. There is but one triumph; and that is the triumph of justicethe triumph of truth.
What was one of the divinest and yet saddest lamentations of the ancient Hebrew poet? If I were a minister, I think I would take those words for my text for a whole summerfull of Sundays" None calleth for justice." Sometimes I have a good mind to go back into the pulpit, just to let the people know that one truth, that there is a God who loves justice; for the pulpits seem to know nothing of Him. Why is it that the people, to-day, grope in darkness, seeing no light? Why is it that we are, to-day, held in the iron grasp, so to speak, of the Slave Power at the South? Our friend, Mr. Garrison, asked us, Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a hook?" No; you have tried it. But if you hold on to your line of connection the Leviathan will draw you in, instead, and drown you forever. (Applause.)
My only ground of discouragement is, not that the people are not all right at heart; because I do not believe in the doctrine of total depravity. I know the pulpits have preached it a good while, judging mankind, I suppose, by themselves. But I do not believe in that doctrine, All I want is to get at the young, unsophisticated mind and soul of the people, and pour into that soul the divine truths of the eternal God; and I will be accountable for any slavery that will survive after that. It is because none calleth for justice that we are to-day struggling with a power too mean and despicable for our steel; too dastardly a foe for as to fight, only that we also are in the same condemnation and degradation.
<c06>
MARCH 7.
What is the South? I do not believe in the mighty armies of Beauregard, with which the newspapers terrify the old ladies in pantaloons, up and down New England and New York. How was it that <illegible> Heights were taken? We were told what a mighty army invested that field; but by some strange circumstance, when we managed to pluck up courage enough to march there, behold there was no army, and had not been for twenty-four hours, nor a single gun except those made of logs of wood painted to resemble cannon. Half the armies of the South are myths Give me one John Brown, with ten thousand such men as he led to Harper's Ferry, and I will plant the stars and stripes in every city in all the South. (Applause.) It is all a lie-this talk about the power and pluck of the South. I do not believe in it. Our difficulty is that we dare not take the South at her word. While she strikes for slavery, we dare not parry her thrust, and strike for freedom. When do that there is no doubt upon which side victory will smile. How is it now? We have been told how many men the South had, what immense armies, arsenals, what military resources, what prowess, what courage, and all that. We have something. We are told that we have 700,000 men in arms, or in preparation for <illegible>. We voted $500,000,000 last July in Congress, and have expended most of it. Our national debt at the end of January was $400,000,00. Our army is in the field. Thirty or forty thousand of them have been slain in battle, or died by disease or accident. Ten months have passed away; and what is the record<illegible>That, with all our men and money, the states of Maryland, Missouri and Kentucky, though more than half loyal, as we are told, to the national flagthat those three States are not yet conquered. Has it ever concurred to you to ask the reason why? I have no difficulty in finding the answer; and it seems to me <illegible>be this: that we are not striking at the foe. we are rather defending the foe. John C. Fremont sought to strike the foe; but John C.Fremont is no longer a command. John Brown taught us the way; but we crucified John Brown, as the old Hebrew nation, eighteen hundred years ago, crucified their leader and Lord. We are here, to-day, shivering, shaking before that mean, miserable foe, when, had we but the courage to strike its vital, vulnerable point, victory would inevitably be ours.
You remember the old fable of the ancient Greek. When he was born, it was told to his mother that if she would baotize him immediately in the Styx, he would become invulnerable. So they hurried him away and bathed him in the Styx; but the nurse held him by the heel, and that was not wet with the water. He grew up the mightiest warrior in Greece; but in an evil hour an arrow was aimed at the vulnerable <illegible> that unbaptized heel, and Achilles fell to rise no <illegible>. The South has a vulnerable spot; but we have to archer who dares to aim his arrow there. And so we are conquered; we are baffled, and balked of victory. Richmond sleeps quietly to-day with no army of importance to protect it. But Abraham Lincoln, I am afraid, has bad dreams; and I am told that William H. Seward has sometimes very bad dreams, with 200,000 armed men waiting at his call.
Mr. Chairman, we forget that there is a God; that there is such a thing as justice towards the slave. Instead of washing our hands of the iniquity. instead of proclaiming liberty to the captive, we are trembling before the tyrant. You have plenty of brave men. There is no lack there. There is no want of patriotism upon the part of the people. Our only want is-the man for the hour. We need but a Garibaldi, a Mazzini, a Kossuth, and victory would soon <illegible> upon our banners. But, alas? we have none. Inasmuch as there is a God, inasmuch as righteousness and judgment are the habitation of His throne, why is it that our forty thousand pulpits have not furnished the men to warn the people, in the name of the God of justice, of the calamity that has now come upon <illegible>There seems now to be no special difference between the Church and the pulpit. The Church for twenty years has disregarded the claims of God.
And the religion of the country, like the Government, is founded in compromise. Eternal, immutable principle has no place in it. Slavery not only interprets the Constitution, but it explains and <illegible> the Bible. What the law makes property is property in Church as well as State. The law of God, the demands of nature, the claims of justice are all set aside, at its behest. So it is ruled in the State, taught in the School, and held in the Church. The Church gives us a Dr. Southside Adams," to teach us that" <illegible> the Constitution is in force, all appeal to any higher law is fanaticism." The School and the Church gave us a Daniel Webster, who, in his memorable <illegible> of March speech, which spoke the Fugitive slave Law into life and being, said with sneer and scorn and <illegible>,It is of no use for us to reenact the laws of God." As if woe and destruction were not the inevitable doom of any people who dare enact any other than the laws of God! At the door of our forty thousands pulpits the responsibility of all this blindness and infatuation must be laid. The priests hare not taught the people Knowledge.
And the religion inculcated at home we send also abroad. The Foreign Missionary Board has so far millennialized the Cherokee and Choctaw Indian tribes, that it has now transferred them to the Home Mission Society, to be aided as they need it, like the feeble Churches of Ohio and other parts of the great West. They were pronounced Christian, as nations, and so not included longer in the field of foreign or heathen operation. And the American Board triumphantly handed them up into Christendom as among the first trophies of its faithfulness and success. But the Indian had learned what he knew not before, that he could hold property in his fellow-man. And this very day I read in the newspaper how many thousands of warriors those very tribes are furnishing the southern army, to carry on a fratricidal, parricidal was in support of slavery's bloody throne! returning with spear and scalping knife to butcher the very saints, society and Church, from whence came their civilization, their baptisms, and their sacraments!
Such is our religion at home. So is it also made easy for the heathen"
Under such delusions the North lives, moves and fights to-day. It hates the slave; it hates all his <illegible>for their color and condition; it hates no less their friends who have, for more than thirty years, been contending earnestly for their equal rights under <illegible> laws, human and divine. Can we prosper? Never, while God holds his throne and power. To-day His arm is made bare for justice. To-day the judgment is set for this nation, and the books are opened. The South deserves a whelming destruction, bat not from us. For wrongs done to humanity, to the slave is <illegible> generations, the North is no less guilty than the Southand the North is not yet repenting; is not convicted of its sin To shoot down its Southern fellow-sinners is no atonement to the slave or to his race. Let him that is without sin fire the first columbiad, is a judgment that should strip our officers of their uniform, and clothe them in the sackcloth <illegible>repentance. It should send our Government, army and people. Church, pulpit and all, down into the dust of humiliation, penitence and prayer.
Once a divine man went in to dine at a lordly table. And in recognition of the high quality of his guest, the proprietor stood up and said, Behold the half of my goods I give to feed the poor, and if I have taken any thing from any man unjustly, I restore him four fold." Immediately, from sanctified lips, came the heavenly applaud, This day is salvation come to this house."
And all the gospel was there. Let as learn to do justice, and to restore, at least, so far as we may, one fold, if no more, as justice, not as a military necessity," to those we have robbed and peeled so long. Never, never before, while God and Nature live and reign, can we expect or hope for success and salvation.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
