THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS,
if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON. Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer’s.
VOL XXX. NO. 53 BOSTON, MONDAY DECEMBER 31. 1860 WHOLE No. 1567.
<c01>
SELECTION,
A SLAVE-WOMAN BURNED ALIVE!!!
The Victim a Member of "the Choctaw Mission Church!
CHICAGO, Nov. 23, 1860.
To the Editors of the N.Y. Independent:
GENTLEMEN:-It is the right of the Christian
public to know the extraordinary transaction which is the subject of the following correspondence, and to investigate it more fully. It will be seen that the American Board never received any intelligible hint of it, till the Choctaw mission had passed from their hands; and that the General Assembly's Board has hitherto had no adequate report.
To the Secretaries of the A. B C. F. M.
DEAR BRETHREN: —Will you permit me to make a few inquiries respecting an occurrence at the Choctaw mission?
I have been recently informed on good and direct authority, that while that mission remained nominally under the care of the American Board, viz.,
on the first Sabbath in January, 1859, a slave-woman was burned alive at a public meeting in the Choctaw Nation, after having been previously tortured, in the vain attempt to extract from her a confession of guilt. I am informed that she was a reputable member of a mission church. If I am not mistaken, her master and mistress were members of the same church. I am told that at the same time the dead body of a slave-man was also burned; he having been put to the torture, and having committed suicide, to escape the doom that awaited him. This transaction took place within ten miles of a missionary station, and it has been intimated to me that church members were not clear of participation in the crime.
It seems to me due to the cause of our Master that such a transaction should receive from a Christian community that attention which its remarkable character demands. And in order to elicit all the facts of the case, permit me respectfully to ask you the following questions:-
1. While the Choctaw mission was in connection with the A. B. C. F M., did you receive any information respecting the burning of slaves in the Choctaw nation? If so, can you state the circumstances? What were the charges? Did the parties plead guilty? What parties took part in the burning? Were there any church-members who gave their assent to the burning, or were in any way implicated in the procedure? What action was taken in the church or the mission upon the subject?
2. Had the Prudential Committee any reference to facts of this description, when they said, in the Annual Report for 1859, that they were 'embarrassed by facts and considerations' which they could not' properly submit to the public eye'?
3. Have you, since the Choctaw mission ceased to be under the care of the American Board, received from any responsible party personally acquainted with the affairs of the mission, any intimation of the transaction above referred to? If so, when? and what was the nature of that information?
You will oblige me by giving an early reply to these questions, with permission to make known the answer to the public. I have made similar inquiries of the Assembly's Board and of Rev. Cyrus Byington, Missionary to the Choctaws.
Yours respectfully,
SAMUEL C. BARTLETT. 
Chicago, October 22, 1860.
MISS. HOUSE, BOSTON, Oct. 27, 1860.
REV. S. C BARTLETT, CHICAGO, ILL.:-
DEAR BROTHER:-It devolves upon me to reply to your favor of Oct. 22d, addressed to the Secretaries of the 
A. B. C. F. M., as I have all the information bearing upon your question, which has been received at the Missionary House.
My answer to your first inquiry is, that we received no information respecting the burning of slaves in the Choctaw nation, while the Choctaw mission was connected with the Board. I will add, moreover, that none of us had any suspicion that such a tragedy as you describe could possibly occur.
My answer to your second inquiry, you will have anticipated. The statement in the Annual Report for 1859, to which you have alluded, had no reference, whatever, to any facts of this description.
My answer to the third inquiry is that in August, 1860, I received a letter from Mr. Chamberlain, late of the Choctaw mission, in which he intimated that he might at some future time make a statement ' in connection with the burning of slaves, on the first Sabbath in January, 1859.' This was the first intimation which I received from anyone 'personally acquainted with the affairs of that mission,' that such an event had occurred.
I ought to say, however, that I had received letters from Mr. Chamberlain, (the earliest dated Dec.7, 1859,) which were unintelligible to me at the time, but which, as I now suppose, referred to this transaction. From a still earlier letter, (written May 2, 1859, after the Committee had decided to discontinue the mission, but before the formal resolution was passed,) I inferred that Mr. C. felt somewhat embarrassed in his position; but I had no suspicion that his embarrassment grew out of any such matter.
Very respectfully yours,
S B. TREAT,
Sec. of the A. B. C. F. M.
The letter of inquiry sent to the Secretary of the General Assembly's Board of Mission is, for brevity's sake, omitted. It covered substantially the points of question No.1 in the letter to the American Board, and contained the additional inquiry, 'Was the missionary, having under his care the church to which this woman belonged, the Commissioner from the Indian Presbytery to the last General Assembly? And has he made any report of the transaction?' The letter was dated Oct. 18th, and elicited the following reply:-
MISSION HOUSE, New York, Oct. 30, 1860. REV. SAMUEL C. BARTLETT:
DEAR SIR:-Your letter of the 22d inst. has been received. The painful transaction to which you refer took place a year before the missionaries of the American Board were received by us, and of course no report in relation to it was made to us. The only information we have on the subject, is contained in a letter from one of our original missionaries, dated the 12th of January last, and is the following:-'About a year ago, a black man killed his master without any provocation. The master was a worthy man, and a member of Mr. Byington's church. Afterwards the man made confession, and accused one of the black women of having instigated him to do the deed. Having made this confession, and discovered the body of his master, he got away from those in charge of him jumped into the Little river, and drowned himself. Lucy, the one charged as the instigator of the murder, was taken by the enraged relatives, and burned. The poor woman was also a member of Mr. Byington's church, and protested to the last her innocence. The murdered
<c02>
man was a Mr. Haskins, a brother of Mr. George Haskins, one of the first men in the Nation. His wife is a daughter of Col. P. P. Pitchlynn. It was a terrible affair, but the mission and the church here are not responsible for it.' 
I am, yours respectfully, 
WALTER LOWRIE.
It will be seen that the communication of Secretary Lowrie fully confirms this tale of woe in all its essential particulars, and also makes known the fact that the poor victim, her deceased master, and surviving mistress, were all members of a church under the care of Rev. C. Byington, Commissioner in the last General Assembly. The concluding comment of the missionary that 'neither the mission nor the church here are responsible for it,' will not satisfy Christian men. They have a responsibility in regard to it, which they do not appear to have met.
Five weeks have now elapsed since I wrote to Mr. Byington, respectfully asking for such information as he might be willing to give the public concerning this public transaction, the relation of the various parties to the church, and the course which the church have taken. As yet, no reply has been received. I would now earnestly call upon him to break the portentous silence which he has kept for two years, concerning this fearful slaughter of one of the' little ones' of his flock, and to show us that his church and all its members, not only are clear of all complicity in the affair, but have discharged their whole duty in the case.
I would also request that Mr. J. D. Chamberlain would complete the information at which he has hinted in his letters to Secretary Treat, and tell the Christian public what he knows concerning this extraordinary tragedy—a Christian woman, the mother of eight children. 'owned' by another Christian woman, persisting in her innocence, though three times hung up to extort confession of guilt, and burned alive with the words of prayer and praise upon her lips! 
Yours truly,
S. C. BARTLETT.

From the New York Tribune.
A FUGITIVE SLAVE CLAIMED AT TORONTO.
HISTORY OF THE CASE.
TORONTO, C. W. Nov. 26, 1860. 
The people of Canada, when reading the accounts with which your columns are so frequently filled, of the difficulties which arise consequent upon demands for the rendition of fugitive slaves, have congratulated themselves upon their freedom from such annoyances.
It is therefore with peculiar jealousy that the people of Canada look upon a case now pending in our Courts; and, though there is no reason to suspect foul play in the matter, still the circumstances surrounding it are of a character which invest it with the greatest interest, and command the fullest sympathy. On the 28th of September, 1859, Seneca T. P. Diggs of Howard county, Missouri, when returning home to dinner, saw walking across his plantation a strange negro, whom he hailed. In reply to a series of questions addressed to him by Diggs, the negro told a story to the following effect: He said his name was Wm. Anderson, and that he was the slave of one Macdonald, who resided about thirty miles from Diggs's plantation. To this Macdonald he had been sold in 1833 by a Mr. Perkins, whose estate was but a short distance from Diggs's abode; and he was soon on his way thither for the purpose either of getting Perkins to buy him from Macdonald, or to exchange him for some other man. He had two reasons for desiring this; he had been much illtreated by Macdonald, and he had a wife, slave to a man named Brown, whose estate adjoined that of Perkins's. It is said that, according to the State law of Missouri, any negro found more than twenty miles from his master's plantation without a pass may be arrested and taken back; the person so taking him back becoming entitled thereby to a reward of $5, and a mileage of ten cents.
After hearing Anderson's account, Diggs asked him for his pass. The poor fellow replied that he had none 'Then,' said the humane slaveholder, 'I can allow you to go no further until I hear from your master. Come with me, and I will give you some dinner.' The pair walked toward the house for some distance, when the negro broke and ran. Diggs immediately called out to three 'black boys' who were near, ‘Catch that runaway, and I'll give you the reward.' Away the three started in pursuit. Anderson ran in a circle, and was chased for near an hour by them. Diggs, after a while, was joined by his son, a lad of fifteen, and upon a signal from one of the black boys, they crossed the circle, and met the runaway just as he was nearing a fence. Over this fence the planter leaped, brandishing in his hand a light stick. Anderson waved a large dirk-knife; before him stood the enraged planter; twenty yards behind him were hastening on his three pursuers armed with stout clubs. There was not a moment to be lost. The planter commanded the breathless, panting negro to surrender; the negro said he would kill any one who touched him. Insolent language to fall from the lips of a slave! So thought the planter as he broke his stick over the fugitive's head. But the fugitive was as good as his word; he dealt a true blow, he plunged his knife into Digg's heart. It was now the planter's turn to fly; he endeavored again to get over the fence, and was assisted in his attempt by Anderson, who stabbed him again, and tumbled him into the ditch. In less than forty-eight hours there was an end to Mr. Diggs. He lived long enough to make a full confession, and then departed for a land where he will inevitably be convinced of certain facts concerning 'niggers,' which he was fond of denying in his lifetime. Anderson succeeded in making good his escape to Canada, and took up his abode in the county of Brant. He lived a quiet and industrious life, and being joined by his wife, felt himself truly a freeman. But some few months ago, the bloodhounds 'of the Missouri law found him out, and made a demand for his rendition under the Ashburton treaty for the crime of murder. He was arrested, and brought before the magistrates.
The evidence adduced was in substance as I have given it above. The magistrates felt themselves incompetent to decide, so the matter was referred to John A. Macdonald, the Attorney General of the Province. This was so long ago as the 28th of September, since which time the unfortunate fugitive has lain in prison. 
He was even put in irons by order of one of the above-mentioned magistrates, named Matthews, a notorious fellow, whose conduct has been most disgraceful throughout, and who has only been saved from a thick coat of tar and feathers by the strong love of law which pervades the community. The Attorney General, after an inexplicable delay of two months, has decided that he is unable to decide, and has referred the case to the judges. 
On Saturday last, then, Anderson was brought up in the Court of Queen's Bench, by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus, and the Crown was called upon to show why he should not be discharged. On the part of the prisoner, a competent counsel,
<c03>
Mr. S. B. Freeman, Q. C, of Hamilton, has been engaged. You may think this a very strange proceeding in Canada; but have a little patience. It is not contended that, had Anderson been a slave of Diggs, he would have been guilty of murder in 'killing him. Our law recognizes the right of every man to liberty. We can take no cognizance of slavery at all. But, unfortunately, the Ashburton Treaty is rather vague on one point. It is contended that by it we are compelled to render up any fugitive from the United States who is guilty of crime according to your law, provided that the evidence of criminality be such as is admissible in our courts, and sufficient to sustain the charge made. Now, according to Missouri law, Diggs could legally arrest Anderson; there is no question about that. Then Anderson committed murder in killing Diggs—not only according to the State law, but according to our Canadian law too. Can our courts then go behind your law of arrest, and inquire how it came to be enacted? Let the case be reversed. Canadian law allows imprisonment for debt. There are many States in the Union where no such thing exists. Suppose a man confined in a Canadian jail for debt killed his jailor and effected his escape to the United States, would your authorities say to us, ‘We cannot surrender him, because we have no law of imprisonment for debt?' Would it not suffice that the man killed his legal custodian? Could your courts inquire how the man came to be in jail? Can our courts then inquire how the law came to be in Missouri which gave Diggs the legal right to arrest Anderson? 
According to the practice of our Courts, the counsel for the appellant had to speak first, and thus had to anticipate the arguments of his opponents. It does not appear to me that he fully met this point, given above in his speech. He argued upon the assumption that the Missouri law of slavery would be set up by the Crown counsel, and contended that we could not recognize it, because it was a municipal law, not the law of the Republic. It may be, however, that there is a good answer to the cause set forth by the Crown. The treaty is not a provincial law, nor a British law; it is an agreement between two great nations, and must be interpreted by the law of nations. This the counsel for the Crown stated as the basis of their argument, and Vattel was quoted to the effect that in the construing of treaties, all things which tend to place the contracting nations upon an equal footing must be taken into consideration. But they lost sight of this point, that the law of arrest in Missouri is not the law of the United States; or if you like, that the rendition of the fugitive is not demanded under the law of the Union, but under a law of a municipality within the Union. Diggs could legally arrest Anderson in Missouri, but not in New York. It certainly would not be placing Great Britain upon a footing of equality with the United States, to demand that she should recognize merely a municipal law.
Then, again, all the evidence we have to prove that the law of Missouri is as I have stated above, rests upon the testimony of a lawyer who was imported into Canada from that State by the slave-catchers. That may not be considered by our court sufficient to sustain the charge against Anderson. 
There is, however, I am sorry to say, much doubt about this, as about all legal matters. Our Judges may be compelled to render a judgment adverse to the prisoner. Depend upon it, they will not do it unless compelled. And then—the poor fellow will be taken back, and probably burned to death by the brutes of the South. It will go very much against the grain of the people to surrender him. No attempt at rescue will be made, or, if it should be, it will most certainly fail. Judgment will be given on Thursday next in Toronto. All that the people of Canada can do in a legal way they will do. Money has been subscribed for his defence, and he has been supplied with clothes. He is, I should suppose, about thirty years of age; a well built, powerful man, and has a very intelligent look. He is now in Toronto jail.

'CRUSHING OUT.'
Mr. Caleb Cushing's favorite policy of crashing out Northern prejudices is to be incorporated into the platform of the Union-saving Democracy. At the Tremont Temple riot, Richard S. Fay—the Rynders of the gang of rioters—read the following resolution:-
'That the people of this city have submitted too long in allowing irresponsible persons and political demagogues, of every description, to hold public meetings to disturb the public peace and misrepresent us abroad; they have become a nuisance, which, in self-defence, we are determined shall henceforward be summarily abated.'
This Fay and his lieutenant, James Murray Howe, then illustrated the method of summary abatement, by causing the gentlemen who had hired the Temple for the day, to be thrust from the speaker's platform, and forcibly ejected from the building. Not content with 'disturbing the public peace' by breaking up a lawful meeting, Fay and his gang have announced their determination to put down free speech by brute force.
A similar policy was more than hinted at by Mayor Henry, of Philadelphia, in his speech before the Union-Saving Democracy of that city. Said he:
'We meet to declare unshaken confidence in the Union, and a determination to defend its integrity. He spoke plainly. If any sentiments have been proclaimed by any portion of the country against the other, they must be relinquished. We must restore public sentiment to the old stand-point, and the misplaced appeals from our pulpits, lecture-rooms, presses, and against a section of our common country, must be frowned upon. It has been these violent appeals that have mainly brought about this sad state of affairs. We must preserve the Union at all hazards. We will do well to repel this officious intermeddling of our neighbors. So long as our social institutions do not contravene the principles of the Federal compact, none may justly interfere with or righteously denounce them.' 
What Mayor Henry intends by' frowning upon' the pulpit and the lecture-room, may be inferred from the following audacious note addressed by him to the Chairman of the lecture committee of a popular lyceum:-
'Office of the Mayor of the City of Philadelphia,
December 11th, 1860 
'James W. White, Esq., Chairman Lecture Committee People's Literary Institute. Dear Sir: The appearance of George W. Curtis, Esq., as a lecturer before the People's Literary Institute, on Thursday evening next, will be extremely unwise. If I possessed the lawful power, I would not permit his presence on the occasion. Very respectfully, etc.,
'ALEXANDER HENRY, Mayor.' 
Mayor Wood himself could not surpass this impudence. Mr. Henry had but one thing to do with respect to Mr. Curtis as a lecturer, and that was to see that he was protected in the exercise of his rights as a public speaker, even at the cost of all the police and military force of the city. But Mayor Henry
<c04>
took the very course to excite a mob, and thus intimidated the owners of the hall, so that they declined to open it to the lecturer. It was in this way that the Mayor 'frowned upon' free speech in the lecture-room; and had he bayonets at command for such a purpose, he would forcibly put down all appeals to conscience and common sense against the iniquity of slavery! Thus the 'crushing out' policy of the new Democratic organization has been 'inaugurated in Philadelphia. The same policy is hinted at by leaders of this new party in this city. At a meeting held on Saturday at the office of Mr. Richard Lathers, Mr. Daniel S. Dickinson is reported to have said, ’The North must get rid of its pernicious sectional sentiment—a sentiment promulgated by demagogues, political and ministerial.' Mr. Charles O'Conor said, 'The only men who are dangerous to the Union, are the honest and conscientious men of the North who have imbibed the dreadful error that it is their duty to crush out slavery in the Southern States.' 
Though these gentlemen did not advocate an appeal to mob law, their language would give a pretext to rioters for an assault upon Mr. Beecher, Mr. Phillips, Mr. Curtis, or any one who might presume to discuss the question of slavery. This instinctive dread of free discussion, this instinctive appeal to brute force, is characteristic of slavery, and fully identifies these schemers for a new political organization with the slave-masters of the South.
We put it, then, to the freemen of the North, whatever their political antecedents, to decide whether they will come under the yoke of such a party; whether they will suffer the pretence of 'Union' to bind them under a sectional dictation which forbids the expression of an opinion on a question of right and wrong. Every right for which our fathers contended, every right dear to the Anglo-Saxon race, is in jeopardy, if such a party shall prevail. 
But it cannot prevail. Commercial panics may frighten a few of the Republican voters in submission to this new force law against opinion. 'Union meetings,' set as traps by the defeated leaders of the late Democracy, may catch the unwary and the in firm. But 'the honest and conscientious men of the North' will not be intimidated, and cannot be put down. The pulpit, the platform, the press, will continue to discuss the enormities of American slavery, and to labor for its abolition, till it shall be finally extinguished. It is impossible to suppress the force of the public conscience as now developed against slavery.—New York Independent.

FREEDOM OF SPEECH IN PHILADELPHIA.
The Union-savers of Philadelphia meet with insurmountable obstacles in their patriotic efforts to suppress the freedom of speech in that city. Having contrived, through the treachery or the timidity of the Mayor, to prevent George W. Curtis from fulfilling his engagement to lecture on 'Honesty,' they next set themselves to work, by the same means, to prevent Henry Ward Beecher from delivering his promised address on the anniversary of the Landing of the Pilgrims. Efforts were made to frighten the Committee under whose auspices he was to appear, and induce them to withdraw their invitation. They declined doing this, but were weak enough, it is said, to write to Mr. Beecher, 'advising him to be prudent, and requesting an immediate reply, giving the title of his address, which they hoped would be conciliatory and pacific' (!!) Mr. Beecher had the good sense simply to inform them that he should be on hand to fulfil his engagement, and that the theme would be one which he deemed appropriate to the occasion. After repeated failures, Mr. Palmer, the Chairman, succeeded in getting a hall, only by giving bonds to be responsible in case of attack. Several of the Committee were so fearful of a disturbance, that they dared not sit on the platform. Every effort was made to induce the Committee to back down, but Mr. Beecher and Mr. Palmer stood firm. The lecture passed off uninterruptedly, and was a decided success. There was an immense audience, who were very enthusiastic; every allusion to freedom of speech, and every strong affirmation of the doctrines of universal liberty, being applauded to the echo. Perhaps the Mayor, after this illustration of the public feeling, may take shame to himself for yielding to the threats of the mob, and muster courage to perform his duty.—Anti-Slavery Standard.

INSANITY IN NEW ORLEANS. 
A gentleman of Chicago, direct from New Orleans, where he has been spending a short time for commercial purposes, tells us that we of the North can form no adequate idea of the blind, unreasoning passion and insensate fury by which the people of that city and the extreme South are animated. They are for instant and unconditional dissolution of the Union, at any price, and at all hazards. They want no compromises, no concessions, no bargains, no amendments of the Constitution. They are for a Southern Confederacy—nothing less. There is, he tells us, a conservative class, but they are borne along with the crowd, and dare not yet lift a voice in remonstrance against the extreme measures upon which the populace are bent; nor do they hope that anything like reason will again rule the hour until some fatal act is committed which will separate the Cotton States from the Union, and perhaps plunge the country into civil war. Of course, in the midst of excitement like that which reigns in New Orleans, no Northern man, unless untrue to his principles, or under the protection of powerful friends, is safe. To be suspected of Republicanism is the signal for a warning; to be convicted of it, is to be driven off. The moveable police force is the mob under the name of vigilance committees, and these the better class of citizens are powerless to restrain. There is in fact throughout all the Cotton States an undisguised Reign of Terror. 
The St. Charles Hotel is the centre of the excitement. That house is the common resort of the most violent of the fanatics, who between their cups and their cursing amuse themselves with hunting up, insulting and driving off Northern men because they are Northern men. When our friend left the city, the ruffians had made a clean sweep; and that caravansery was without a resident of any of the free States within its walls. They had all been compelled to leave—some to quit the city and their business, others to look up more decent quarters where ruffianism is not the rule. One evening in the reading room of that establishment, the crowd was assembled as usual, and the Abolitionists were the theme. Becoming excited, one man said to be wealthy and influential, pulled out his pocket book and said, ‘Here are $5,000 which I will subscribe to a fund to secure the assassination of LINCOLN and HAMLIN. Who'll swell the pile? In ten minutes or less, more than $40,000 had been offered for this infamous purpose, and the names of the subscribers were taken down. The witness of this? transaction is far from believing that this was mere gasconade. 
We are told further that masters of vessels and steamboats, if suspected of free soil proclivities, are not safe. Only a few days ago, a captain and a clerk of a river steamer were taken off their boat, and forced by threats of hanging to make their way North by the most expeditious route. It was said they had voted for Lincoln. Every day ship Cap-
<c05>
tains are subjected to wanton abuse and threats of violence, not because they are known to be Republicans, but because they are suspected of believing that buying and selling men in not pure Democracy and the highest evidence of Christianity. New Orleans is certainly a miniature Pandemonium.
Our informant says that on his way through Southern Mississippi, by coach, (the railroad track being washed away for many miles,) he saw the dead bodies of two men suspended by the neck from trees by the road side. In answer to the inquiry, 'For what were these men hung?' he was told' because they were d—ned Abolitionists!' and the excuse for the barbarity displayed in permitting them to remain, rotting in the sun, was, that' Mississippians would not pollute the State by having the d—ned Abolitionists buried in the soil!' This fact, says our informant, displays as forcibly as anything else, the temper by which the extremists of that section of the country are impelled. In further proof of the insanity, he relates the escape of Professor Mitchell, the well known astronomer of Cincinnati. He was on the cars going South, and when near Jackson, Miss., a man somewhat inflamed with liquor, but more with pro-slavery hate, entered into conversation with him upon political subjects. The Professor was cautious and reserved; but venturing to say he thought Mr. Lincoln was a conservative man, and would not do injustice to the South, his pro-slavery friend was greatly incensed; and when the train halted at Jackson, jumped to the platform and shouted to the crowd about the station:' There's a d—ned Abolitionist on the train! Lynch him! Lynch him!' Instantly, at least fifty men jumped on, and commenced a search for the offensive specimen of Northern opinion; but before the Professor could be pointed out, the conductor, seeing the danger, pulled his bell-cord and the cars moved off, and with them the Professor, with a whole skin.
We have not told a fourth that has been related to us of the state of opinion in the South; but we have given enough to satisfy all parties that when men of the North talk about conciliating such ruffians by compromise, they are fooling their time away. They mean revolution.—Chicago Tribune.

A SOUTH CAROLINA SPY IN THE CAMP.
From the Charleston Mercury. 
ST. NICHOLAS HOTEL, NEW YORK, Dec. 6, 1860. 
Have been stopping here for a number of days; entered my name on the register, 'from Maine,' which was true, as a matter of fact, although my birthplace is in Alabama, and my present residence is Dale county, of the latter State. My object in so entering my name was to enable me better to get at the true sentiment of New York in relation to the great secession movement going on among us. I hear many expressions of sympathy for us in this city; and in case of an attempt to coerce us, I believe we can safely rely upon much material aid from here, and especially from the Irish. They hate the nigger as they do the devil, and will fight to sustain our rights, if it finally comes to that. I am inclined, however, to the opinion that we shall be allowed to go quietly out of the Union, if the business is properly managed with the federal government. I have canvassed this subject as thoroughly as I can, with my facilities for doing so, and find a large majority of those with whom I have conversed, in favor of peaceable dissolution, if we are determined to go. The reasons which bring them to these conclusions are as various as the factions to which they belong. The merchant and trader believe that if we are left to take our own course, we will return to them to purchase our goods and sell our cotton—which to them is above all other considerations—but that if an attempt is made to coerce us, 'even if they (we) are compelled to submit,' it will engender such a feeling of hate that New York will get no more trade from us. The Tribune portion of the Abolition party are full believers in the' irrepressible doctrine,' and think there will be no peace so long as we remain in the Union, and following the cue of their Abolition high priest and philosopher, Greeley, who furnishes more Abolition gospel than any other man in the country, takes that ground squarely, and advocates it in his paper, the Tribune Bennett of the Herald is with us, and says we have no course left to us, out of respect to ourselves, but to go out of this detestable Union. He hates it as bad as any of us, and would rejoice to see it broken up. He has much influence with a certain class, and will, if it comes to a rupture, encourage enlistments in New York to fight the North, We can depend upon that.
The Garrisonian Abolitionists, of course, desire us to go, hoping thereby to stir up insurrection among the slaves of the south, but their number is so infinitessimal, it is not worth taking into account. In fact, I know of only one man of great influence at the North, that is disposed to attempt to coerce the South, and that is Wm. C. Bryant, of the Evening Post, and his circulation and influence is not a tithe of that of Greeley's, who is, as I said before, entirely opposed to it. I beg to repeat, that it is my honest conviction that there is no need of any preparation for war; that if the South say they will secede, by their convention, and appoint wise, resolute and temperate men to negotiate with the general government, that an arrangement can be effected without any war, or shedding of human blood. I believe if we demand secession, that the North will force the government to accede to our request. However much disposed we may be to defend our rights when defence is necessary, it seems an act of folly to precipitate a collision with the general government when we can, by negotiation, get them peaceably to allow us to secede.
I beg your influence to help us peacefully out of the Union, if it can be done, for if it comes to a fight with the general government, God knows where it will end. We shall find it much easier to get in than to get out of it. If it comes to war, they expect to free all our niggers and turn them upon us. It is a stereotyped expression with them that, 'if it comes to a fight, it is the end of slavery.' Violent attempts will be made to stir up insurrection among the slaves. And here I beg to caution the South about bringing back—until this question is disposed of-any more runaway niggers, for the danger they will bring upon us is ten times more than their value —nay, we bad better pay for them a hundred times over.
I have already made this communication twice as long as I intended. Trusting that you will excuse the liberty which I take in giving you my views, after a thorough observation of the state of the case from this stand-point, and hoping it may lead us to the attainment of our purpose in peace, I remain, your obedient servant,
CHARLES C. SPENCER.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS OF GOV. PICKENS
OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
The following is an extract from the recent Inaugural
Inaugural Address of Gov. Pickens to the Legislature of South Carolina:-
Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:
You have called me to preside as Chief Magistrate of South Carolina at a critical juncture of our public affairs. I deeply feel the responsibili-
<c06>
ties of the position I am about to assume. For seventy-three years this State has been connected by a Federal Compact with co-States, under a bond of union for great national objects common to all. In recent years, there has been a powerful party organized upon principles of ambition and fanaticism, whose undisguised purpose is to divert the Federal Government from external, and turn its power upon internal interests and domestic institutions of these States. They have thus combined a party exclusively in the Northern States, whose avowed objects not only endanger the peace, but the very existence of nearly one-half the States of this Confederacy; and in the recent election for President and Vice-President of these States, they have carried the election upon principles that make it no longer safe for us to rely upon the powers of the Federal Government, or the guarantee of the Federal Compact. This is the great overt act of the people in the Northern States at the ballot-box, in the exercise of their sovereign power at the polls, from which there is no higher appeal recognized under our system of government in its ordinary and habitual operations. They thus propose to inaugurate a Chief Magistrate at the head of the army and navy, with vast powers, not to preside over the common interests and destinies of all the States alike, but upon issues of malignant hostility and uncompromising war to be waged upon the rights of half the States of this Union. In the Southern States there are two entirely distinct and separate races, and one has been held in subjugation to the other by peaceful inheritance from worthy and patriotic ancestors; and all who know the races well, know that it is the only form of government that can preserve both, and administer the blessings of civilization with order and in harmony. Anything tending to change or weaken this government, and the subordination between the races, not only endangers the peace, but the very existence of our security. We have for years warned the Northern people of the dangers they were incurring by their wanton and lawless course. We have often appealed to our sister States to act with us in concert upon some firm and moderate system, by which we might be able, if possible, to save the Federal Constitution, and yet feel safe under the general compact of the Union. But we could obtain no fair hearing from the North, nor could we see any concerted plan proposed by our co-States of the South, calculated to make us feel safe and secure. Under these circumstances, we have no alternative left but to interpose our sovereign power as an independent State, to protect the rights and ancient privileges of the people of South Carolina.
There is one thing certain and I think it due to the country to say in advance, that South Carolina is resolved to assert her separate maintenance; and, as she acceded separately to the compact of the Union, so will she most assuredly secede, separately and alone, be the consequences what they may; and I think it right to say, with no unkind feeling whatever, that on this point there can be no compromise, let it be offered from where it may. The issues are too grave and too numerous to admit of any counsel that looks to anything but direct and straightforward independence. In the present emergency, the most decided measures are the safest and wisest. To our sister States who are identified with us in interest and feeling, we will cordially and kindly look for cooperation, and for a future Union; but it must be after we have asserted and resumed our original and inalienable rights and powers of sovereignty and independence. We can then form a government with them, having a common interest with a people of homogeneous feeling, united together by all the ties that can bind States in one common destiny. From the position we may occupy towards the Northern States, as well as from our own internal structure of society, the government may, from necessity, become strongly military in its organization. When we look back upon the inheritance, the common glories and triumphant power of this wonderful confederacy, no language can express the feelings of the human heart, as we turn from the contemplation, and sternly look to the great future that opens before us. It is our sincere desire to separate from the North in peace, and leave them to develop their own civilization-according to their own sense of duty and of interest. But if, under the guidance of ambition and fanaticism, they decide otherwise, then be it so. We are prepared for any event; and, in humble reliance upon that Providence who presides over the destiny of men and nations, we will endeavor to do our duty faithfully, bravely and honestly. I am now ready to take the oath of office, and swear undivided allegiance to South Carolina.

SOUTH CAROLINA'S DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE 
The State of South Carolina, having determined to resume a separate and equal rank among nations, deems it due to herself and the remaining United States of America and the nations of the world, that she should declare the causes which led to the act. In 1765, that portion of the British Empire embracing Great Britain, undertook to make laws for the government of the American colonies. A struggle for the right of self-government ensued, which resulted on the 4th of July, 1776, in a declaration by the colonies, that they are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States, and that as free and independent States, they have full power to levy war, conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and to do such things as independent States have the right to do. They further solemnly declared that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the established right of the people to alter and abolish it, and institute a new government. Deeming that the government of Great Britain had become destructive of these ends, they declared the colonies free and absolved from allegiance to the British crown, and the political connection between them and Great Britain, was totally dissolved.
The right of a State to govern itself, and the right of the people to abolish a government when it becomes destructive of the ends for which it was instituted, were expressed when the colonies separated from the mother country, and became free and independent States. The parties amending the Constitution on the 17th of September, 1787, were the several sovereign States.
On the 23rd of May, 1788, South Carolina, by a convention of her people, assented to the amended Constitution of the United States. The failure of one of the contracting parties to maintain Constitutional obligations releases the other. Fifteen of the Northern States have deliberately refused for years to fulfil their Constitutional obligations. We would refer to those States for the proof of this. When the fourth article of the Constitution was adopted, the greater number of the contracting parties held slaves. The hostility of the Northern States to the institution of slavery has led them to disregard their Constitutional obligations. The laws of the general government have ceased to effect the objects of the Constitution. Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Mich-
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
igan, Wisconsin and Iowa, have enacted laws, either nullifying the Constitution, or rendering useless, all attempts to execute the acts of Congress. In many of these States, fugitives 'held to service and to labor,' have been claimed, but in none of them has the State government complied with the stipulation on this subject, made hi the Constitution.
In the formation of the Federal Government, each State was recognized as an equal; the right of property in slaves was recognized by giving all free persons distinct political rights; by giving them the right to represent, and burdening them with direct taxes for three-fifths of their slaves; by authorizing, the importation of slaves for twenty years, and by stipulating for the rendition of fugitives from labor. The ends for which this Government was instituted have been defeated, and the Government itself made destructive by the action of the non-slaveholding States. These States assumed the right of deciding upon the propriety of our domestic institutions. They denied the rights of property established in fifteen States, and recognized by the Constitution. They hive denounced as sinful the institution of slavery; have permitted an open establishment of societies whose avowal and object are to disturb the peace and prosperity of the citizens of other States; they have encouraged and assisted thousands of our slaves to leave their homes, and those who remain nave been incited by emissaries, by books and pictures, to senile insurrection. Twenty-five years tins agitation has been steadily increasing, until they have secured the power of common government. Observing the forms of the Constitution, a sectional party has found within that article establishing an executive department, means of subverting the Constitution itself. A geographical line has been drawn across the Union, and all States north of that line have united in the elevation of a man to the high office of President of the U. S. whose opinions and purposes are hostile to slavery. He is to be entrusted with the administration of the common Government, because it is declared that a government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free, and that the public mind must rest in the belief that slavery is in the course of ultimate extinction. The sectional combination for the subversion of the Constitution has been aided in the States by elevating to citizenship persons who, by the supreme law of the land, are incapable of becoming citizens, and their votes have been used to inaugurate the new policy hostile to the South, and destructive to its peace and safety. On the 4th of March next, this party will take possession of the Government. It has been announced that the South shall be excluded from the common territory; that the judicial tribunals will t-e made sectional; that war must be waged against slavery until it shall cease throughout the United States. The guarantees of the Constitution will then no longer exist-equal rights of the States will be lost-the slaveholding States will no longer have the power of self-government or self-protection, and the Federal Government have become their enemy. Sectional interests and animosity will deepen the irritation, and all hone of remedy is rendered vain by the fact that the public opinion of the North has invested the political error with the sanction of a more erroneous religious belief.
We, therefore, the people of South Carolina, by our delegates in convention assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, have solemnly declared the Union heretofore existing between this and the other States of North America, dissolved, and that the State of South Carolina has resumed her position among the nations of the world as a free, sovereign, independent State, with full power to levy war, conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and do all other acts and things which independent States have a right to do; and for the support of this declaration, with a firm reliance for protection on Divine Providence, we mutually pledge each other our lives, our fortune and our sacred honor.

SECESSION CONVENTION.
At the opening session of the South Carolina Convention-
Judge McGrath spoke of the property of South Carolina.
Mr. Miles-I have not the least idea that the President of the United States will send reinforcements. In a conversation, and subsequently in at written communication, I know this to have been said to him: 'If you send a solitary soldier to those forts, the instant intelligence reaches our people-and we will take care that it does reach them in good season-the forte will be taken, because they are necessary to our safety.' Mr. Miles spoke about the repairs to Fort Sumter, and mentioned the cause of the resignation of Secretary Cass. At Fort Moultrie there were only 65 men, with five or six musicians. Capt. Anderson is needful of troops. He (Miles) felt the necessity of being watchful, lest a few persons from Charleston should surprise the Fort in the night. Let us wait awhile, as all the repairs will be to our advantage.
Mr. Hayes introduced the following resolution:-
Whereas, The causes which have produced the separation of South Carolina from the Federal Union have emanated from the States North of Mason and Dixon's line, which use hireling labor only; and
Whereas, It has not been against the Constitution of the United states that South Carolina has opposed her sovereignty, but usurpation by the Government, in violation of this instrument;
Resolved, That a Commissioner be sent to each of the slaveholding States, bearing a copy of the ordinances of secession, and proffer each State, or any one or more of them, the existing Constitution of the United States as the basis of a Provisional Government to be adopted on the part of South Carolina and other slaveholding States, which, after seceding from the present Federal Union, shall be willing to unite with South Carolina in the formation of a new Confederacy; and we do hereby ratify and confirm from the date thereof any action taken by such Commissioner or Commissioners, and with the consent of the Governor of South Carolina, in the formation of such provisional union; and we do further earnestly recommend that in-days after two or more States in addition to South Carolina shall have acceded to the said Provisional Union, an election shall be held for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives of the new Congress, and a President of the new Confederacy.
Resolved, That three Commissioners be appointed to carry an authenticated copy of the ordinance of secession to Washington, to be laid before the President of the United States, with the request that the same shall be communicated to Congress, now in session; and said Commissioners are hereby authorized and empowered to treat for the delivery of the forte, magazines and light-houses, and also for all other real estate and appurtenances thereto within the geographical limits of South Carolina; and that the authority to treat upon these subjects be extended to the-day of February, 1861. In the mean time, the said forts, magazines and other planes are allowed to remain in the condition in which they may be at the adoption of this ordinance. And they shall be further empowered to treat upon the subject of the public debt, and for the proper division of all other property within the above now held by the United States as the agent of the States now embraced in the said Confederacy, until such time as a new Confederacy of States shall be formed, of which South Carolina shall be one, upon a Constitution or plan of union to be reported to said States, and said deputies shall invite a meeting of the several States, and report to the Convention the article as agreed upon by said deputies.

MANIFESTO FROM SENATOR TOOMBS.
Senator Toombs of Georgia, who is said to be hard pressed at home, in his canvass for a seat in the Georgia Convention, on Sunday night telegraphed an address to the people of Georgia, of which the following is the material portion:-
'I came here to secure your Constitutional rights, and to demonstrate to you that you can get no guaranty for those rights, from your Northern confederates. The whole subject was referred to a Committee of Thirteen in the Senate. I was appointed on the Committee, and accepted the trust. I submitted propositions, which, so far from receiving decided support from a single member of the Republican party of the Committee, were all treated with derision or contempt.
The Committee of Thirty-three on Friday adjourned for a week, without coming to any vote, after solemnly pledging themselves to vote on all the propositions then before them on that day. It is controlled by the Black Republicans, your enemies, who only seek to amuse you with delusive hope until your election, that you may defeat the friends of se-
<c02>
cession. If you are deceived by them, it shall not he my fault. I have put the test fairly and frankly. It is decisive against you now. I tell you upon the faith of a true man, that all further looking to the North for security for your Constitutional rights in the Union, ought to be instantly abandoned. It is fraught with nothing but ruin to yourselves and your posterity. Secession by the 4th day of March next, should be thundered from the ballot-box by the unanimous rote of Georgia, on the 2d day of January next. Such a voice will be your best guarantee for liberty, security, tranquility, and glory.'
R. TOOMBS.

THIS SECEDING CONGRESSMEN.
The letter addressed to the House of Representatives by the retiring members from South Carolina, reads as follows:-
'Sir,-We avail ourselves of the earliest opportunity since the official communication of the intelligence, of making known to your honorable body that the people of the State of South Carolina, in their sovereign capacity, have resumed the powers heretofore delegated by them to the Federal Government of the United States, and have thereby dissolved our connection with the House of Representatives. In taking leave of those with whom we have been associated in a common agency, we, as well as the people of our Commonwealth, desire to do so with a feeling of mutual regard and respect for the rights of each other-cherishing the hope that in our future relations we may better enjoy that peace and harmony essential to the happiness of a free and enlightened people.
JOHN MCQUEEN,
M. L. BONHAM,
W. A. BOYCE,
J. D. ASHMORE.
To the Speaker of the House of Representatives.'
The entire delegation remembered to draw full pay, and took their proportion of documents; they also took seeds from the Patent Office-evidently determined to get all they could out of the Federal Government.

LETTER FROM GENERAL JACKSON.
We give from the Globe the official report of Mr. Sumner's remarks in the Senate on the 10th inst., and the autograph letter-never before published-written by Gen. Jackson:-
Mr. Sumner. Mr. President, I have no desire now to make a speech, nor to take any part in the discussion that has been commenced. I can bear a little longer the misrepresentations in the President's Message; and I believe the North can bear them yet a little longer. The time will come, perhaps, when I shall deem it my duty to set forth those things in the light of reason and of history. Meanwhile, I content myself with simply offering to the Senate a piece of testimony of direct and most authoritative bearing upon the present state of the Union. If I may adopt the language of the Senator from Mississippi, (Mr. Davis,) it will help us to make the diagnosis of the present disease in the body politic.
I hold in my hand an unpublished autograph letter, written by Gen. Jackson, while President of the United States, and addressed to a clergyman in a slaveholding State. Omitting certain sentences which are of a purely private nature, the letter is as follows:-
['Private.']
WASHINGTON, May 1, 1833.
MY DEAR SIR:
I have had a laborious task here, but nullification is dead; and its actors and courtiers will only be remembered by the people to be execrated for their wicked designs to sever and destroy the only good Government on the globe, and that prosperity and happiness we enjoy over every other portion of the world. Human's gallows ought to be the fate of all such ambitious men, who would involve their country in civil war, and all the evils in its train, that they might reign and rider on in its whirlwinds, and direct the storm. The free people of these. United States have spoken, find consigned these wicked demagogues to their proper doom. Take care of your nullifiers; you have them among you; let them meet with the indignant frowns of every man who loves his country. The tariff, it is note known, was a mere pretext-its burden was on your coarse woolens. By the law of July, 1832, coarse woolen was reduced to five per cent, for the benefit of the South. Mr. Clay's bill takes it up, and classes it with woolens at fifty per cent., reduces it gradually down to twenty per cent., and there it is to remain, and Mr. Calhoun and all the nullifiers agree to the principle. The cash duties and home valuation will be equal to fifteen per cent, more, and after the year 1842 you pay on coarse woolens thirty-five per cent. If this is not protection, I cannot understand; therefore, the tariff was only the pretext, and disunion and a Southern Confederacy the real object. The next pretext will be the negro or slavery question.
My health is not good, but it is improving a little. Present me kindly to your lady and family, and believe me to be your friend. I will always be happy to hear from you. ANDREW JACKSON.
The Rev. ANDREW J. CRAWFORD.'
There is the original autograph letter, in the unmistakable, well-known, bold, broad, hand-writing. [Here Mr. Sumner held the letter up.] These are the words of a patriotic slaveholder of Tennessee, addressed to a patriotic clergyman of a slaveholding State; and they are directly applicable to the present hour. Of practicable sense, of inflexible purpose, and of various experience, Andrew Jackson saw intuitively the springs and motives of human conduct, while he loved his country with a firm and all-embracing attachment. Thus inspired, he was able to judge the present, and to discern the future. The tariff, in his opinion, was a pretext only; disunion and a Southern Confederacy the real object. 'The next pretext,' says he-and you, sir, will mark the words-'will be the negro or slavery question.' These, sir, are his words, not mine. This is his emphatic judgment. These words and this judgment now belong to history; nor can they be assailed without assailing one of the greatest examples that a slaveholding community has given to a common country.
The New York Post's Washington correspondent, in giving the scene in the Senate, says:-
'"Take care of your nullifies. The tariff was only a pretext, and disunion and a Southern Confederacy the real object. The next pretext will be the negro or slavery question." When this extract was read, as it was in Mr. Sumner's most impressive manner, a most intense interest prevailed. Jefferson Davis, and the rest of the nullifiers, listened with painful attention, and when the reading ended, it seemed as if they had got through a surgical operation. It was like dashing a bucket of cold water into their faces, and they did not recover their breath enough to reply for the rest of the day.'

WHAT CONSTITUTES INCENDIARISM IN NEW ORLEANS.
The N. O. Delta has the following:-
'Yesterday morning, as we learn from oar local intelligence, Mayor Monroe was brought on a writ of habeas corpus before Judge Hunt, of the First District Court, to answer for the arrest of one Harris, supposed to be an Abolitionist. Harris was taken into custody as a dangerous character. He had uttered language that placed him prima facie in the same category with Helper. He said he would have been glad to have voted for Lincoln.
Mayor Monroe thought that if there was, by expression or implication of law, any authority for arresting a man guilty of incendiary language, here was a case for the judicious exercise of it.'
So the worshipful Mayor of New Orleans proceeded to arrest Mr. Harris, and placed him 'in durance vile.' Mr. Harris, not especially relishing being jailed for having merely signified his Presidential preference, employed a lawyer to get out a writ of habeas corpus, a Republican safeguard, whose virtues, it appears, are not yet entirely suspended, and soon had the pleasure of seeing his body brought before Judge Hunt, of the First District of the parish of New Orleans.
It appearing that Mr. Harris was arrested and imprisoned without any process of law whatever, Judge Hunt very properly discharged him.
Whereat the Delta grumbles through half a column, whereof the following is the gist:-
'The abased Harris, be (Judge Hunt) averred, had a legal right to express an opinion in favor of Lincoln as a candidate for the Presidency. Very true. But suppose that, in the exercise of that right, a man proves himself to be a public enemy, whom it is unsafe for a community to have in its midst? There lies the whole philosophy of the question in this instance.'
And mighty poor philosophy it is, too.
<c03>
A BLACKGUARD AND BULLY.
On Saturday of last week, we had our first opportunity of being in company with a brawling politician of the fire-eating sump, and we desire most sincerely that it may be the last It was in the first afternoon train from Boston, Soon after starting, a man of ordinary appearance came to the end of the car where we were seated, and addressing a couple of gentlemen who were standing with their backs against the door, said something to them about 'Democratic money,' or 'Breckinridge money,' shaking several gold pieces in his hand. Some remarks followed, to which we did not attend, until Mr. Fire-eater exclaimed in a loud voice, 'I should like to see a man that voted for Abe Lincoln.' To this, the elder of the two gentlemen, who showed throughout uncommon good temper and forbearance, replied, 'I can gratify you with the sight: I voted for Lincoln.' Fire-eater immediately retorted, 'I wish I had you down South; I'd paint your face black, and sell you for a hundred dollars. I wish I had a hundred damned white niggers; I'd sell them down South.' This style of conversation be kept up as long as we remained in the car, interlarding it with the most disgusting profanity, and bragging of his charity in giving a five cent piece to a poor child in Boston, left by the Abolitionists to suffer 'barefoot' in a way' our niggers are never left.' In apology for the poor creature, it should be stated that he appeared to be half intoxicated; and we should not refer to his maudlin ravings, but for the purpose of putting on record the following prediction, divested of the garnishing of oaths with which he invested it:-'You may get Old Abe to Washington,' said he, 'and you may place in the White House; but he can't live there a week, and we are the boys to fix him.'
Such a threat as this, falling from a half-drunken man, would be totally undeserving of notice, if there were not some reason to apprehend that it indicates a prevailing tone of thought among a certain class of the Southern population, to whom the pistol and the bowie-knife are the readiest arguments. Of similar import is the fact, as is stated by the Chicago Tribune, that anonymous and threatening letters, addressed to Mr. Lincoln, are thought to be necessary to support it Of these he is daily in receipt of perhaps a dozes, each atrocious. Death, preceded by torture, is the least of the ills with which he is threatened.-Salem Gazette.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 31, 1860.
AN EXTRA NUMBER.
Our readers will understand that this is an Extra Number of the Liberator-making FIFTY THREE to be included in the present volume for 1860. Of course, they will not object to receiving it.
We shall commence our next volume with a new and handsome typographical dress. It would have given us great pleasure if we could have felt justified in enlarging our sheet; hut our subscription list is still too limited to warrant the additional expense. We have labored long and abundantly; but the astonishing growth of the Anti-Slavery sentiment in the country has done comparatively little to extend the circulation of the Liberator. Other men have entered into our labors, and reaped advantageously where they did not sow. So that our glorious cause steadily advances to its final triumph, we are content.

NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Commonwealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and humane portion of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to be up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, he tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose; and let the world know how many there are among us who 'remember those in bonds as bound with them,' and are therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave-hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as heir accomplices in kidnapping.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of
Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.

TO YIELD, OR NOT TO YIELD.
One would think that the Northern States in general, and the Republican party in particular, have had experience enough of the fact, that where they give an inch, the South takes an ell-or two. Custom has made this so much a matter of course, that the representatives of the Slave Power do not shrink from openly expressing it. Thus Hon. A. H. Handy, the Commissioner sent from Mississippi to Maryland, in a speech recently made in Baltimore, used the following Very expressive language:-
Secession is not intended to break up the present government, but to perpetuate it. We do not propose to go out by way of breaking up or destroying the Union as our fathers gave it to us, but we go out for the purpose of getting further guaranties in security for our rights. Not by a Convention of all the Southern States, nor by Congressional tricks, which have failed in times past, and will fail again; but OUR PLAN IS FOR THE SOUTHERN STATES TO WITHDRAW FROM THE UNION FOR THE PRESENT, to allow amendments to the Constitution to be made, guaranteeing our just rights; and if the Northern States will not make these amendments, by which these rights shall be secured to us, then we must secure them the best way we can.'
When slaveholders talk to Republicans thus, how can the latter so lose sight of discretion at well as self-respect as to agree to further concessions, or to compromises (so called) which are nothing but concessions?
We have now, in this country, the strange spectacle of the conquered dictating terms, and terms insolent and ignominious to the conqueror. We see an army, which has proved itself powerful enough to take a fortified place, checked in its career, and induced to pause before entering, by a threat of the garrison that, if the town is entered-they will kill themselves! And we see leaders in the victorious host not only debating whether, under these circumstances, they and their soldiers shall march off 'with the honors of war,' but intimating their readiness, if the defeated garrison absolutely insist upon it, to march off without the honors of war.
If the mass of the Republicans do not distinguish which of their leaden in this crisis are men, and which are only scheming politicians, they will richly deserve both to fall into the hands of the latter, and to be again trodden under foot by the Slave Power.-C. K. W.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. The January number, is on hand. The contents are spicy and interesting as follows:-
Washington City; Midsummer and May; Paul Revere's Ride; A Night under Ground; A. Lonely House; Barbarism and Civilization; Who was Casper Hauser?; Pampenea; 'The Professor's Story; The Test; Recollections' of Keats; The European Crisis; A Visit to the Asylum fur Aged and Decayed Punsters; The Question of the Hour; Reviews and Literary Notices. Published by Ticknort & Fields, Boston.
<c04>
JUSTICE VS. ADMIRATION.
WORCESTER, Dec. 13th, 1860.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:-It seems to me of importance to keep it constantly in view, that the anti-slavery cause has its root and its strength in the simple principle of justice, and that it is weakened by every remove from this ground. Our inexpugnable claim is, that the Africans are human beings, and, therefore, that all the rights of human beings are theirs, and must not be withholding from them. The moment our cause begins to be urged upon the ground of admiration for the African race, of private taste and liking, or of any special estimate of its abilities, that moment we begin to admit it as a necessary implication that, were they not admirable to us, or not congenial to our tastes, or not of a certain order of ability, the obligation to accord them their freedom would be annulled, or, at least, would be diminished. To me, therefore, it appears extremely desirable that we should discern what are our real premises, and should establish our practical conclusions steadily upon these, and not on others.
To set forth the admirable qualities which appertain to this race-to celebrate and commemorate its heroes-is certainly a legitimate labor. Done heartily, ingenuously, reasonably, as Wendell Phillips does it, for example, it always refreshes me; and I reckon such testimonies valuable auxiliaries to the main argument. But if substituted for the main argument, even these noble services would prove disserviceable. Any removal of our cause from its grounds in justice, to grounds in special admiration, makes its logic no longer unanswerable. Now, this removal will never be made directly, at least not by those whom I should care to address upon the subject; but, by possibility, it may be effected, inadvertently, in a negative and indirect way. If we deny to any one anti-slavery fellowship, simply because he confesses a distaste to this race, or because he forms too low an estimate ( as we deem ) of its capacities, ore we not drawing the roots of our, cause from their proper soil? Is not he a co-laborer, and to be welcomed to all the sympathy which accompanies co-operation, who stands steadfastly with us on our main ground, namely, that negroes are men, and who joins with us in the consequent oath, that, being such, they shall, so help us God, enjoy their lawful heritage of human rights?
For my part, I would have Africans treated precisely as other men. If I go to Turkey, and don't like the Turks, or Greeks, or Armenians, or the missionaries to Turks, Greeks and Armenians-I say so without hesitation; and no one infers my inhumanity in consequence. I am permitted, without censure, to like or dislike Spaniards and Moors; to take a hopeful or an unhopeful view of the capacities of Tartars, Japanese, Sandwich Islanders, &c. Why should we not be equally free to consider the capabilities, and pronounce upon the aspects, of Africans, expressing toward them satisfaction or censure, as we honestly can?
It were well, indeed, to bear in mind that the position of the negro in America is peculiar, and demands, in some degree, a peculiar treatment. It must not be forgotten what a prejudice is popularly indulged against him-a prejudice which, in its unreasoning and unmitigated extreme, becomes base, barbarous, and almost diabolical. It must not be forgotten that thousands are eager for any pretext to deny him his rights as one of the human family. We should, therefore, not permit in ourselves any uncandor, not concede less or affirm more than scientific truth respecting him; we should speak considerately; and even by our censures of him, should such be necessary, indicate our recognition of him as belonging to the brotherhood of humanity.
And yet we must not so far yield to these pretexts as to admit their pertinence, even were they true. We shall lose infinitely more by allowing the logic of these adversaries, than by any, however able and convincing, controversy of their alleged facts. As an opponent of slavery, as a servant of freedom, I have nothing whatever to do with the question of the relative rank of races, African or other. I might admit everything that can be alleged against the negro, and yet safely let my case go to the court upon a demurrer. I obey the law of a sympathy which runs not alone upon a level, but reaches up to the sunlit height, and down into the sunless chasm, joining in one vast marriage bond the loftiest and the lowliest-him who knows beyond computation the secrets of Nature, and him who knows not how to number his ten fingers; and omitting from the fellowship it makes, only the irredeemably selfish and bad. Natural or involuntary defect, it matters not how great, can exclude no one from that bond of brotherhood, which makes of many men of many nations and diverse races, one humanity. No gift is for private use-all are for communication. The eyes of the seeing are due to the blind, the strength of the strong to him that is weak; and, therefore, no want of gifts can shut out any one rightly from the flowing uses of life, and the great communities of right and benefit. Let us preserve this broad basis of our movement, nor even, in the noble desire to repel detraction from the African, be led to forsake it. Still less, let us drive from us, upon account of side issues, those who are with us in our binding argument.
Again, it should be remembered that there is a kind of aspersion in excess of tenderness. If I offer a man crutches, I imply that he is a cripple. Attentions are suitable to the sick and unable, which, to the strong and healthy, it were a shame to receive. To shield the African too carefully from criticism, is indirectly to affirm the inferiority of that race, which it is necessary thus to patronize. His heart must indeed he stone, who does not pity the negro in America, the free only less than the enslaved; yet may we not so pity him that our babying commiseration shall detract more from his claim to manhood, than the disparagement of limited minds, who see no farther than to his epidermis, or the sneers of selfish and malignant minds, who see no farther than to their own passions and interests?
I say this the more freely, because I neither possess, nor can for a moment conjure up, any repugnance to the negro, as such. Beyond my will, I am destitute of any such feeling. To me he is simply a man, and to be judged as other men are. If a man of sense and refinement, he is personally agreeable to me; if gross and stupid, he is personally disagreeable. For his complexion, I care no more than for the color of his clothes; and a gentleman in black is no less acceptable than one in white. And I would that all Africans might insist upon being treated simply as men-might insist upon their freedom to be liked or disliked, valued or under-valued, reckoned equal or reckoned inferior, without prejudice to their claim to a man's share in the common rights of man. And let us all bear in mind that ours is no question of taste or distaste, of beauty or ugliness, of wit or dullness, but simply a question of justice and humanity.
DAVID A. WASSON.
REMARKS. We are quite unaware of any thing ever said or done by abolitionists, indicative of a disposition or even the remotest tendency, to exalt unduly the African race, or to screen them from impartial criticism; and, therefore, we wonder that our friend, Mr. Wesson, should deem it necessary to write so long and grave a homily as the foregoing. He covers the precise ground we occupy when he says-'It were well to bear in mind that the position of the negro in America is peculiar, and demands, in some degree, a peculiar treatment. It must not be forgotten that a prejudice is popularly indulged against him-a prejudice which, in its unreasoning and unmitigated extreme, becomes base, barbarous, and almost diabolical.' We desire to add nothing to this 'plea in abatement' of severe criticism or coarse and grotesque delineation. If 'all things are lawful,' as Paul says, there are at least some things 'not expedient,' and highly inopportune.
<c05>
MESSAGE OF GOV. GIST.
WILLIMANTIC, Dec, 2, 1860. 
DEAR GARRISON-Before me is the message of Gov. Gist to the Legislature of South Carolina, delivered a few days ago. It is the key-note to the confederacy of kidnappers and pirates, about to be formed by South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi, if they can agree among themselves. If you have space, will you publish the following extract from that message? It says-
'It not infrequently happens that slave mechanics hire white men to work under their direction, and for their benefit, and thus, intend of exercising a control ever this class of population, some are placed under obligations to them. This state of things should not be permitted. There must be a distinction between the races, as marked as their different colors, and it must be distinctly and universally understood, that the white is the governing race, and, without an exception, and without regard to disparity of intellect, merit or acquirements.'(!!)
What an answer to that argument of Rev. South-Side Adams, Dr. Lord, and all Northern advocates and apologists of kidnapping-that Negroes cannot lake care of themselves, are inferior to the whites, and are made to be their chattels-therefore enslave them! The power of the State is invoked to keep the Negro from employing the white, and to maintain the superiority of the white, 'without regard to disparity of intellect, merit or acquirements'! Inferior in 'intellect, merit and acquirements'-yet the governing and superior power! Even fire-eating South Carolina will fail to make that out.
See what is proposed in regard to the liberty of the citizens,-white as well as black,-of that kidnapping State:-
'All who are so forgetful of their duty to the State, and so reckless of her displeasure, as to disregard her ordinances, (whatever they be,) or obey any other commands than those of the constituted authorities of the State, (no matter by what power given,) will be dealt with as traitors, and punished accordingly. South Carolina must insist upon the implicit obedience of all her citizens, both natives and naturalized, and no one can be permitted to put his individual construction upon the relation he bears to the State of his birth or adoption'!!
God is dethroned; and South Carolina is henceforth to be the only object of worship to all within her borders. Such are the men with whom Northern ministers, churches and politicians are and have been affiliated at the Lord's Supper, and at the ballot-box!
Again:-
'To dispense with the necessity, as much as may he possible, of resorting to lynch law and illegal executions, in punishing offenders against the peace of society and the safety of our citizens, I would suggest the enactment of a law punishing summarily and severely, if not with death, any person that circulates incendiary documents, avows himself an abolitionist, or in any way attempts to create insubordination or insurrection among the slaves."
Death to him who says, 'God made all men free'! Death to him who tells the slave that he is a man, and not a brute nor a thing! Death to him who calls the slave a brother! Death to him who says slavery is wrong! Death to him who says, 'God hath made of one blood all nations'! Death to him who says a man has a right to his own earnings! Death to him who tells the slave husband ha has a right to his wife-or the slave mother, she has a right to her own child Death to him who avows himself an Abolitionist, a Good Samaritan, a friend to liberty, and an enemy to slavery! This has the corsair ring! the South Carolina ring! Death to him who was born in a free State! This is the basis of the Southern Confederacy. Would that all Northern ministers, deacons, elders and politicians, who say that God, the Bible and Constitution sanction this, would hasten to join this band of American corsairs!
Again:
'The idea that a majority must always govern, which has taken possession of the Northern mind, is as mischievous as it is fallacious, and is contradicted by all the analogies of a republican government.'
Here, then, we have it in a nutshell. No individual is allowed to govern himself, nor is the majority to be allowed to govern him, but a few kidnappers are to rule over all! Solely on this account, the slave-breeders and slave-traders retire from the Union! On this rock the Republic must be wrecked. We have been in a confederacy with corsairs, on the principle that the majority shall rule. The corsairs have had the majority, and ruled. Now that they are likely to lose it, they dissolve the Union: Speed to them!
Again:
'At the request of a distinguished Virginian, Edmund Ruffin, Esq., I herewith present to the Legislature one of the pikes intended by John Brown to be used by the Negroes of Virginia upon the unoffending and peaceable inhabitants of the State. He requests that "this weapon may be placed in some conspicuous position in the State House of South Carolina, there to remain, and be preserved as an abiding and impressive evidence of the fanatical hatred borne by the dominant Northern party (the Republican) to the institutions and people of the Southern States, and the unscrupulous and atrocious means resorted to for the expected attainment of the objects in view"; and respectfully recommend, that the thanks of the State be returned to Mr. Ruffin for this memento of Southern wrongs, too long and too patiently borne, and that it be placed in the Hall of the House of Representatives.'
Ho! all ye Carolina slaves! Hasten to that Hall, and there behold an instrument which John Brown proposed to put into your hands, to enable you, at once and forever, to free yourselves from slavery! Go, lock on that weapon-a legacy to you from one who would have freed you all! It is a terrible weapon! It strikes dismay and terror to the hearts of your enslavers, and of their wives and children. Such a weapon, known to be in the hands of one hundred slaves in South Carolina, would make your oppressors quake, and shake the whole State like an earthquake! That weapon, in the hands of John Brown and his twenty associates, startled Virginia and the nation. In the hands of twenty resolute, desperate, outraged slaves, it would conquer the entire South, and settle Negro slavery in Carolina forever. Ho! all slaves of South Carolina! Go on a pilgrimage to that Hall, and look upon what your enslaves regard as the certain means of your deliverance! Look on it, and never forget JOHN BROWN and HARPER'S FERRY. This is the anniversary of John Brown's martyrdom! You may well remember it!
'Unoffending inhabitants,' indeed! Gov. Gist, go ask your lacerated and imbruted slaves, who, as you assert, are to be subjected to whites, 'without regard to disparity of intellect, merit, or acquirements,' about your being so 'unoffending.' But, rest assured, they will ere long answer you.
Again:
'We cannot penetrate the dark future; it may be 'filled with ashes, tears and blood,' but let us go forward in the discharge of our duty, with an unwavering trust in God, and the consciousness that any thing is preferable to dishonor or degradation'
Precisely the same language, or nearly so, was used by the buccaneers, the corsairs, the pirates of the sixteenth century, when starting from port to kill, slay and destroy on the high seas. They, before seizing their prey, assembled on deck, and had their chaplain to exhort them, and ask God's blessing. This was usually his exhortation: 'Go forward in the discharge of your duty, with an unwavering trust in God'! So Gov. Gist, captain of the Carolina corsairs, says to his fellow-pirates-'Let us go forward in the discharge of our duty-(i. e., kidnapping, hunting, shooting, lashing men, women, children!)-with an unfaltering trust in God'! Did ever piety reach a height more sublime! Not the Rev. South-Side Adams could beat that!
Yes, Gov. Gist, your 600,000 slaves must be dull scholars indeed, if your future is not filled with ashes, tears and blood.' Your enslaved pupils will surely practice upon yon the lessons you have taught them. When they practice on their enslavers, their wives, mothers, daughters and sisters the atrocities you have practiced upon them and their families, as hey will, then will you understand how Jefferson
<c06>
felt when he said, I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep forever, and a turn in the wheel of fortune may place you and your wives and children at the mercy of your slaves, as they and theirs are now at yours.' Ashes, tears, and blood' may be nearer your homes than you dream of. A few more John Brown pikes among you, in some public places, conspicuous to all,' will be an ahiding and impressive evidence' to your slaves of your malicious, unscrupulous and atrocious' outrages upon their wives and children.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

LETTER FROM MISS C. F. PUTNAM.
FALL RIVER, Dec. 25, 1860.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-The Christmas song-'On earth peace, good will toward men'-is one familiar to the faith and the consciousness of the Abolitionist, even though it may not seem so to President Buchanan. 'The chant erewhile on Bethlehem poured,' did not reach the ear of King Herod. But as the child Jesus survived the slaughter of the Innocents, so we apprehend that neither the impious fast of the President's appointment, nor the half million dollars' fund realized of the Journal of Commerce, will be equal to the resistance of Anti-Slavery Truth.
'Have they an arm like God's,
That they his will oppose?'
Notwithstanding the ill-opinion of the Chief Magistrate of the Nation, it is our honor and joy to contribute to the agitation he deplores, 'by abolition sermons and lectures, and appeals in pamphlet and other forms spread broadcast' over the communities we are able to visit.
Among our late meeting are one or two of particular interest. The venerable Dr. Ide of West Medway, in consideration of the emergency of the slave's case, departed from his usual views of the propriety of woman's speaking in public, and with cheerful kindness invited Miss Holley to speak in his large, well-lighted country church, to a full audience. Both himself and family extended to us every hospitality. The Doctor rehearsed for us that sad account of his unavailing efforts to obtain the release of their son-in-law, Charles T. Torrey, from the Baltimore prison, that he might go home to die. The obdurate-hearted Governor said he would sooner release two murderers!
On the mantelpiece is a fine engraving of Ary Seheffer's painting, 'Christ the Consoler.' As we were admiring it, Miss Torrey told us it was sent, framed as it is, from Europe, by some Anti-Slavery friends, to cheer and console her father's lonely hours in the jail. But the tools of slave masters would not allow their victim this solace, and he never saw the picture. It was sent away to the North, where, like the monument at Mount Auburn, it is a perpetual reminder to those who see it, of the meanness and cruelty of American slaveholders.
Mrs. Ide, who seemed a gentle, benevolent woman active in missionary causes, spoke in a teaching manner of how little she thought, when she used to say many years ago, this-was a cause that demanded its martyrs, one would be of her own family!
A fortnight before, we also had a kind welcome to the home of Rev. Samuel Hunt, in Franklin. This is the town, and Mr. Hunt's the church, so long ministered in by Dr. Emmons of theological note. Miss Holley's lecture there excited the more interest from the fact that Miss Grimke's was the last given by a lady, and that twenty years ago.
The town is named for Benjamin Franklin, who sent a present of a library, instead of a proposed bell, with the characteristic comment, that he thought the people would prefer sense to sound.
Dr. Ide and Mr. Hunt are among the very few New England Orthodox ministers who give their sympathy and countenance to the Church Anti-Slavery Society.
It was with no common interest we entered, a month ago, the Follen Church at Lexington. Miss Holley's discourse was in fitting harmony with the simple, yet beautiful emblematic designs carved on the pulpit. Rev. Caleb Stetson-now preaching then-was present with warm-hearted sympathy and approval. Our surprise was great, on being told this was the first time the church was ever opened to an Anti-Slavery Agent. Twenty years of history, and this the record of that church, planted in the faith and labor of a soul glowing with the love of Liberty! It did not seem worthy to be associated with the sainted name it bears.
Last Sunday evening a very large assembly listened, with evident satisfaction, to Miss Holley's appeal for justice and mercy to the slave. The kind friends hers are full of congratulations, for the good impression they feel is made by the lecturer. C. F.P.

ADDRESS OF COLORED CITIZENS OF BOSTON TO THE PRINCE OF WALES.
The following address was submitted by the Colored Citizens of Boston to the Prince of Wales, during his visit to this city:-
To His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales:
The Colored Citizens of Boston respectfully beg leave to place in Your Royal Highness's hand this expression of their profound and grateful attachment and respect for that Throne which you represent here, under whose shelter so many thousands of their race, fugitives from American Slavery, find safety and rest; and of their love for that realm which, nobles among modern nations, first struck off the fetters of her slaves, under whose law there is no race whose rights every other race is not bound to respect, and where the road to wealth, education, social position, and civil office and honors, is as free to the black man as to the white.
God bless England while her law is Justice, and her sceptre secures Liberty!
Most Respectfully,
Your Royal Highness's
Obedient Servants,
WILLIAM C. NELL, J. SELLA MARTIN,
ROBERT MORRIS, JOHN V. DEGRASSE,
LEONARD A. GRIMES, WM. WELLS BROWN,
EDWAKD B. LAWTON, JOHN J. SMITH,
SIMPSON H. LEWIS, GEORGE L. RUPPIN,
LEWIS HAYDEN, EDW'D H. BANNISTER,
JOHN OLIVER, JOHN S. ROCK,
JOSHUA B. SMITH. In behalf of many others.
Boston, Oct. 18, 1860.

AN INQUIRY.
To WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.:
Dear Sir,-In the Liberate of the 23d ult, appears an editorial under the head of 'Progress of Southern Treason,' in which you remark.-
'The proceedings of the brutal, demented, God-defying oppressors of the South continue to be of the most inflammatory and treasonable character. Hence all their blustering and vaporing amounts to treason in spirit, language, and possible design,' &c.
This seems remarkable language to be uttered by you, the professed 'Apostle of Disunion.' Your watchword has always been, 'No Union with Slave-holders.' 'The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.' You have but recently proclaimed that' this covenant with death must be annulled; this agreement with hell must not stand;' and now you are characterizing the Southern secession movement as treason. Can you explain this seeming inconsistency? K.
REMARKS. We can. The treason of South Carolina has no justification whatever, and is resorted to for a purely diabolical purpose-to wit, to give (as she insanely imagines) new and invincible safeguards to her piratical slave system. Whether judged by the Higher Law, or by the U. S. Constitution, she is guilty of the blackest perfidy. Our' treason' consists in maintaining that the people of Massachusetts, in obedience to God, are solemnly bound to' have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness.'
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
[Translated for the Liberator from the Boston Pionier (German) of Nov. 15th, by LOUIS WAGELEY.]
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
One should think, even if there were no other reasons to abolish the Presidency of the United States, the Americans would become disgusted at it in view of the means which they have to employ in order to elect their President.
Ten Presidential campaigns will demoralize, thoroughly, the best people. What a demoralizing influence must they exercise upon a nation whose politicians have long ago laid aside all scruples as to the choice of their means!
There is no better school for political corruption, and for blunting the moral sensibility of man, than the Presidential election as it is carried on here in America. This evil, probably, would be diminished, if the system of conventions were abrogated, and no candidate put up before election, so that every citizen might vote for that man who suits him the best. Then, at least, the scandalous libels with which orators and editors now persecute their opposing candidates would fall away, to a great extent. Yet the evil would not disappear entirely. The aspirants themselves, perhaps, would then abuse each other the more, by soliciting personally for the offices in the gift of the people. As nobler characters could not resort to such means, the most unworthy would, in the end, be elected.
The feeling of relief after a long sea voyage, which one had to pass in a very disagreeable company, cannot be more satisfactory than the approach of the 7th of November, which proclaims the end of the Presidential 'campaign.'
All the impudence, all the lies, all the rascality, which were resorted to, especially by the press, during the last months of the campaign, are apt to turn the stomach of the most impartial spectator. The disgust is so great that, to escape it, as he would escape the noise on the 4th of July, he feels as if he would have to leave this country, or retire to the quiet of a country-seat.
This disgust is somewhat lessened by the impression which is caused in view of the remarkable fact, that the combatants use, in this hot contest, always such a style as though they were addressing their opponents; while, in fact, they have almost exclusively their party associates, who do not need any more of their arguments, as their audience.
There is no moral water-mark, as there is a mark to measure the height of the water. If there were, it would be easy to prove that the water-mark in the pool of demoralization indicates a higher state of the flood after every Presidential election. Accordingly, the Republic would perish, in course of time, almost solely from the influence of this periodical disease of a Presidential election.
The Americans have again successfully fought for a new king-and what have they won? After the most superhuman efforts to elevate him to the throne, the first consequence of the victory is, that they do not know what he will do; and the question is raised, whether the king conquered, or the platform; whether the cold shoulder will be given to this or that one.
It requires but little sagacity to see that those Republicans who cried loudest for victory, are frightened at their success. This is because they are either not inclined to enforce their platform, as moderate as it is, or because they think their king has not sufficient ability and will to do honor to that platform. If this conduct is to furnish the standard of the future policy of the Republican party, then it can be predicted that it is ruined before it will enter its function; for a party which has neither the courage nor determination to adhere to its programme, will give the opposition so much material for criticism that they cannot stand it for a great while. As things look now, the conservative element of the Republican party, strengthening itself by the accession of the ultra conservative element of other parties, will soon predominate; so that the progressive element, if it does not wish to follow blindly, will have to make opposition against its own party.
The policy of a new President, as well as of a new monarch, is indicated the best in the choice of his ministers. We confidently predict that Mr. Lincoln, the chosen representative of the free North, will not be courageous enough to exclude from his Cabinet the representative of the free North, will not be courageous enough to exclude from his Cabinet the representatives of the slaveholding South. Nothing could be objected to his taking Southern opponents of slavery-as, for instance, Cassius M. Clay, or Blair, into his Cabinet; but he will appoint slave-holders, dealers in human flesh, as his ministers; and a party that wants to exclude slavery from the Territories, will not be able to keep even its representatives away from the Cabinet of the regent!
It is manifest that they are already preparing them selves for it. Since Lincoln's election, only see what efforts Republican papers make to assure the South, and her friends, that the new President will satisfy her. Will he do it, really? If you have known that, why did you select him as the representative of liberty? Does your platform satisfy the South also? No, it does not. Well, if you say that Lincoln will not harm the slaveholders, then you declare that he will not execute your platform.' You admit, further, that your whole agitation and your fine phrases were only calculated to gain the victory, the booty, the drink-money.
Before the election, you cried,’ 'The Republican party, under its President, will not only keep the Territories free, but will also enforce the Constitution in the South, by protecting and securing the right of free speech, a free press, and free communication.' These are all measures that will make the South exceedingly discontented.
After the election, you are not only silent about those promises, but you proclaim even towards the South, with obtruding conciliation, 'an era of good feelings.’ If the Republican party does not make the South dissatisfied, then it must deceive the friends of liberty who supported it. That is a necessity. Why did you not elect a Democrat, if you did not wish to dissatisfy the South?
But what will our German Republicans do, if, according to the present signs, the policy of their party assumes a conservative, or, finally, a reactionary aspect? We can give them no better advice than this: Take up again the organization which you have founded, and declare yourselves independent of the Republican party, as well through the press as in meetings. Doing this, you have not yet declared that you will be hostile towards it in all cases; you only say that you will support or oppose it in so far as the policy they pursue may require.
If there are yet any means to induce the Republican; leaders to follow a progressive policy, it consists in a demonstration of the masses of the German Republicans, and in an independent and waiting position. If they do not assume such a position, and their press continues to endorse beforehand all that emanates from their leaders, the old belief that the Germans can be made to acquiesce, whatever course may be pursued, and that they will do party services, at the next opportunity, as willingly as ever before, will again become prevalent.
Those who cannot appreciate the value and significance of an independent position of those who are in advance of the existing parties, and drive them onwards, will soon be of another opinion. Lately, Wendell Phillips said justly: 'Lincoln has the position, Garrison the power.' Without Garrison, there would be no Lincoln, and without Abolitionists, no Republicans. It may also be said: ‘The American Republicans have the position, (offices.) the German Republicans the power.' They can have it, if they want it.
The 'Pionier' is the ablest, most independent, most uncompromising, in the cause of universal freedom, of all the numerous German newspapers in the country. It is edited by Carl Heinsen.-ED. LIB.
<c02>
All honor to the Georgetown church and its pastor, Rev. Charles Beecher, for the testimony below.
PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS
Of the South Congregational Church, Georgetown.
Adopted Dec. 24, 1860.
Whereas, the recent message of the President, recognizing the existence of open rebellion at the South, advises to emend the Constitution, so that rebels may submit; and whereas, having laid the blame upon the 'violent agitation of the slavery question at the North,' the President now proclaims a National Fast, that we may’ confess our faults to God, and implore him to remove from our hearts that false pride of opinion which would impel us to persevere in wrong for the sake of consistency,' thus virtually summoning the people to repentance for the issues of the late Presidential canvass: therefore,
1. Resolved, That the President of the United States is in treacherous conspiracy with rebels to overthrow the Government.
2. Resolved, That an amendment of the Constitution, for the avowed purpose of propitiating armed rebellion, is a thing unheard of in the annals of time, absurd, and impossible.
3. Resolved, That the only amendment which the age demands is an express repudiation of the slave construction of the rendition, and representation clauses of the Constitution.
4. Resolved, That the present distress is a judgment of God, not only upon our other sins, but also and especially upon the sin of slavery; and that this people should immediately break off their sins by repentance, and daily seek forgiveness of the same.
5. Resolved, That, viewed in connection with the charges and implications contained in his late message, the President's proclamation of a Fast, although verbally pious, is an act of hypocrisy and spiritual usurpation in the highest degree insulting and detestable; being nothing short of a Bull of Excommunication against political adversaries, and that, under the circumstances, we must wholly decline to comply with the President's request.
A true copy,
CHARLES BEECHER, Pastor.
Newspapers favorable to liberty will please copy. Churches at the North are earnestly invited to take similar action. Let us unite to brand the 4th of January forever with the title, 'THE TRAITOR'S FAST.'
A SOLEMN MOCKERY. President Buchanan has issued a proclamation for a day of national fasting, humiliation and prayer, which he has fixed for Friday, January 4. The impudence of such a recommendation from him is unequalled. Had Nero, touched by the desertion of courtiers, or even by some qualm of a tremulous conscience, laid aside the fiddle, and besought the Christians whom he had persecuted to stay the conflagration of Rome by fasting and prayer, it would have been as becoming, and probably as sincere, as this proclamation of Mr. Buchanan. Formal fasting is well, but better than that is ceasing from evil doing. Not often quoting Scripture, we are reminded of a passage in Isaiah:-
‘Is not THIS the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?’-Ohio Beacon. 
THE PRESIDENT'S FAST.-Gov. Buckingham, of Connecticut, and Gov. Banks, of Massachusetts, have responded to the recommendation for a day of fasting, on the 4th of January, calling upon the people of their respective States to observe the day in the manner advised by the President. The following extracts from their messages are quite significant:-
Gov. Buckingham: 'Also, that they implore him to give courage to magistrates to enforce all laws for the protection of the obedient, and the punishment of the disobedient.' Gov. Banks: 'That the priceless privileges that have been transmitted to us may be preserved forever; that our Rulers may be invested with wisdom and courage rightly to discharge their duties; that the people may learn from Him, that the recognition of the rights of others is indispensable to the protection of their own.'
FAST DAY.-N. P. Banks has followed the praying President with a proclamation, designating Friday, Jan. 4th, as a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer. The humiliation is all that will probably be observed out of Boston.-North Adams News.

PROCLAMATION:
BY HIS EXCELLENCY WILLIAM SPRAGUE, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
In accordance with the proclamation of James Buchanan, President of the United States, which is hereto annexed, I, Wm. Sprague, Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, do hereby recommend that Friday, the 4th day of January, 1861, be observed by my fellow-citizens as a day of public fasting and prayer, and that they assemble in their respective places of worship with offerings of supplication to Almighty God for the safe deliverance of our beloved country from her impending danger and corrupt rulers; that our laws may be faithfully and fearlessly executed; our Constitution and Union may be preserved in their original strength and purity; and those who have charge of our national affairs be imbued with sufficient patriotism and courage to maintain the government inviolate, and to uphold the constitutional rights of the people in every section of the country.
Given under my hand and the seal of the State, at the city of Providence, this 26th day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty, and of Independence the eighty-fifth. WM. SPRAGUE.
By His Excellency the Governor:
JOHN R. BARTLETT, Secretary of State. 
PAINTING A WHITE GIRL TO MAKE HER A SLAVE.-
The Natchez (Miss.) Free Trader of the 12th inst., says a passenger on one of our boats observed a pensive looking little girl, aged about nine or ten years, whose black hair and yellowish brown skin would indicate that she was a mulattress. There was something about her that interested him, and he inquired of the captain concerning her. He was informed that she was a slave belonging to a man on board, whom the captain pointed out, who said he was taking her to New Orleans to sell her, he having brought her for $160 in Northwestern Missouri, on the borders. The passenger then had a conversation with the pretended owner of the child, and his answers did not agree with the captain's statement. Thereupon the little girl was taken aside and examined, with the following result:-
‘She said she was an orphan, and had been taken from an asylum in New York by this man; that her hair was light and her complexion brunette; that this man told her he was going to the South with her, where, as his adopted child, she would have a good home; that black hair was preferred in the South, and prettier than hers, and that he had taken her to a barber, and had her hair dyed black. He also told her that if she would allow him to put some yellow dye on her skin that her complexion would become much whiter in a few days, and that he had put the stain on. On hearing these statements, the girl was taken charge of by the captain, and potash, soap and water being applied, the dyes were taken off, and the light hair and light complexion brought to light. The pretended master was seized by the excited passengers, who were about to deal with him summarily, but it was finally arranged to lock him up in a state-room until the boat should land. In the meantime the boat had passed St. Joseph, and when a few miles below that town, rounded to take on wood. At this point, how or in what manner is not known, the border ruffian escaped from the boat, leaving his baggage behind. The girl was taken by the captain of the boat to New Orleans, and placed in one of the orphan asylums in that city.'
WASHINGTON, Dec.23d.-The city was thrown into a tremendous excitement to-day, in consequence of the Secretary of the Interior having summoned to his office yesterday the Secretary of State, Attorney General, and District Attorney. It appears that Goddard Bailey, who has had charge of the Indian Trust Fund, stated that he had taken a large amount of State Bonds and coupons, belonging to the fund, and that they were no longer in the possession of the government. Upon an investigation in the presence of Bailey, his statements were found to be too true; The amount abstracted is $830,000. It is generally supposed that the bonds were used to raise money for temporary purposes, and that the panic had rendered the parties unable to redeem them. It is anticipated that other parties will be implicated upon examination. 
DEATH OF RALPH FARNHAM.-This aged veteran, the last survivor of the battle of Bunker Hill, died on Wednesday morning, at the residence of his son at Acton, Me., aged one hundred and four years, five months and nineteen days.
<c03>
THE TREASON CONSUMMATED-THE U.S. GOVERNMENT DEFIED BY SOUTH CAROLINA-FORT MOULTRIE ABANDONED BY MAJOR ANDERSON FOR FORT SUMTER-DISSOLUTION OF THE CABINET-&c. 
CHARLESTON, Dec. 27.-Fort Moultrie was evacuated last night, and the guns spiked.
The Fort is now being demolished by fire. Only four soldiers were left in charge.
The troops have all been conveyed to Fort Sumter. There is intense excitement.
Dec. 27.-Later intelligence from Fort Moultrie represents that only the gun carriages have been burnt. It is reported that a train has been laid below the Fort to blow it up. The excitement and indignation are increasing.
12-30.-Major Anderson states that he evacuated Fort Moultrie to allay the discussion about that post, and at the same time strengthen his own position.
Dec. 27-1 P.M.-Capt. Foster, with a small force, remains in Fort Moultrie. Several military companies are ordered out. A collision is expected.
Dec. 27-2 P.M.-The military are ordered out to protect the magazines and arsenals in this locality. It is reported that military companies in the interior are on their way here.
CHARLESTON, Dec. 27.-Volunteers have been tendered to the Governor of South Carolina, from Georgia and Alabama. It is probable that many companies will arrive to-morrow.
CHARLESTON, Dec. 28.-The Convention withdrew the secret obligations made yesterday, and passed an ordinance empowering the Governor to receive Ambassadors, Ministers, ’Consuls and Agents for foreign powers, and to appoint such agents to conduct negociations with foreign powers and make treaties with the advice of the Senate, two-thirds of the Senate agreeing with the nomination.
Also to appoint Ambassadors, Ministers and Consuls, as the General Assembly may direct.
Also, all other officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided by law to fill vacancies; also to convene the Senate when necessary, except while the Convention is in session.
The Governor shall immediately appoint four persons with the consent of the Convention, who, with the Lieutenant-Governor, shall form the Executive Council.
CHARLESTON, Dec. 28.-The Palmetto flag was raised yesterday afternoon over the Custom House and Post Office. At 5 o'clock in the afternoon, the Palmetto flag was raised at Castle Pinckney. A large military force went over last night, to take Fort Moultrie.
Forts Moultrie and Pinckney were taken by the South Carolina forces last night.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 28.-The news of the capture of Forts Moultrie and Pinckney reached the Government while a Cabinet meeting was being held.
The South Carolina Commissioners are in conference with the officers of the Government, and demand that the troops shall be immediately withdrawn. Unless this is done, they will return immediately to South Carolina, and prepare for the worst.
NEW YORK, Dec. 28.-It is reported that the Secessionists in Charleston have taken possession of the, telegraph offices, and will not allow any dispatches to be sent North, until satisfactorily passing their surveillance.
The Tribune's Washington correspondent says that the Charleston populace have seized the public property, to retaliate upon the movement of Major Anderson, and the Cabinet consultation was upon that and other points connected with the policy to be pursued. 
WASHINGTON, Dec. 29.-The Cabinet has been in session, and has just broke up, divided in opinion about removing Major Anderson. It is understood that Floyd, Thompson and Thomas were in favor of ordering him back to fort Moultrie. Black, Toucey, Holt and Staunton were in favor of commending his course.
Secretary Floyd resigned on account of the refusal of the President to meet the demands of the Commissioners.
The U. S. Revenue Cutter at Charleston has been seized by the authorities of South Carolina.
Accounts from the interior of Pennsylvania are to the effect that enrolments of volunteers are quietly going on among all classes, under the name of ’Union Men.' In the enrolment, the question of Republican or Democrat is sunk. If a Republican makes his appearance in places where lists are opened, and avows his politics, he is told to hold his peace, for they are all Union men now, and ready to tight for the Union.
James Buchanan is afraid of South Carolina! More dastardly than cowardice, more treacherous than treason, more despicable than contemptibility, he furnishes to the world the example of a President who denies his own authority, a conspirator who avows acts which convict him, and a logician who demonstrates propositions only to deny them.
Open rebellion in South Carolina, and the chief of the nation receiving an embassy from the traitors! Well may we ask, Have we a government?-Atlas. 
MR. CUSHING IN SOUTH CAROLINA.-Mr. Cushing's stay in South Carolina, while on his recent mission there, was surprisingly short. A Washington correspondent says he found the Palmetto State 'too hot to hold him.' It would be singular if his mission was I abbreviated by the same process made famous in the case of Mr. Hoar. About the same time that his proposed visit was announced in the press, the Charleston Mercury had an article on the position of South Carolina, containing the following significant passage:
'She wants no advice at this time, and particularly from those who come here to save the Union. With all due courtesy, it is disagreeable and impertinent. We have given up the Union, and are disposed to take care of ourselves. We believe we can do it, and intend to try. Let us alone, Union-savers and friends of a hostile government. We do not mean to be balked by clap-trap expedients for postponement, either on account of Mr. Buchanan's convenience or to suit the plans of SOUTHERN SUBMISSIONISTS in other States. A word to the wise is sufficient.' 
SOUTHERN ITEMS.-After the Minute Men of Norfolk, Va., had had their pow-wow in honor of the secession of South Carolina, the Ready Men of the same city got up a counter demonstration. Thirty two guns were tired in honor of the States remaining in the Confederacy, a large crowd applauding, and giving hearty cheers for the Union.
There is trouble in the secession camp at New Orleans. The leaders supposed that they should have their own way without any opposition, but some of the wealthiest and most respectable gentlemen in the city got together the other evening, and nominated candidates to the State Convention pledged to oppose separate secession. The Della is mortified and surprised at the discovery that there is anybody in the city who is opposed to immediate and separate secession.
SECESSION.-The Presbyterian Synod of South Carolina has voted to separate from the Old School General Assembly, because of the sympathy of the latter with the present fanatical position of the North.
The South Carolina Conference of the M. E. Church, South, has passed resolutions approving secession.
The Charleston (S. C.) Baptist Association, at its recent session, passed resolutions declaring its belief that slavery is sanctioned by the Bible; that ‘the teachings of those professed disciples of Christ who have occasioned the existing division between the two great sections of our confederacy' are at variance with the gospel, and that all faithful Christians should withdraw from such; and that resistance to the encroachments of the enemies of slavery is a Christian duty.
THE SOUTH CAROLINA FEDERAL OFFICERS.-These officers do not appear to be in any great hurry to relinquish the emoluments of Uncle Sam. The New York Tribune says that seven postmasters, in small towns, have resigned, to take effect on the 1st of January. Two others, for immediate resignation, were received on Monday. Nothing has yet been heard from Postmaster Huger, at Charleston, which is the principal office. Mr. Colcock. the Collector, who was so rampant to get out of the Union, still officiates for Uncle Sam, and pockets his pay, preferring him as an employer to the new sovereignty.
In the South Carolina Legislature on the 28th ult., a petition was presented from Lucy Andrews, free negroes, praying to be allowed the privilege of becoming a slave. Referred. This woman is said to be rich, and the owner of slaves.
There are, according to the census of 1860, in South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas — the States which are threatening secession—only 148,400 slaveholders all told.
UNION FEELING IN NORTH CAROLINA.-The Wilmington (N.C.) Herald states that in less than twenty minutes after the friends of secession had fired one hundred guns in honor of their South Carolina friends, every vessel in the harbor, with a solitary exception, ran up the stars and stripes.
It is a ludicrous fact that all the South Carolina cadets seceding from West Point, occupied positions in their classes which insured their dismissal at the January examination.
<c04>
A LITTLE EXCITEMENT.—The Milledgeville, Ga., correspondent of the Southern Guardian says:-
We had a little excitement here last night, owing to a New Jersey gentleman having expressed his opinions rather too freely in relation to the Legislature, the “institution,” and the South generally. He was allowed to progress until “forbearance ceased to be a virtue," when a rope was procured and fastened around his neck, and but for the interference of some of the older citizens, he would have undoubtedly been hung. His plea was that he was drunk. He was confined in the calaboose, and it is thought he may thank his stars if he gets off with as mild a reproof as a coat of tar and feathers, and a good flogging.'
PRECIOUS FREIGHT.-An individual by the name of Boulware, who has resided in this State for some time, it is said, passed through Raleigh, N.C., on Wednesday last, in charge of the Express Company, well shaved, and bearing on his back the marks of 150 stripes, well laid on, and consigned to Horace Greeley, New York. The consigners are the citizens of Winsborough, S. C., and he has been thus dealt with for being entirely too familiar with the ebony race, and uttering incendiary language. It would be best for Greeley to call his missionaries home, at present, as the South is getting rather warm for their health.-Norfolk Day Book, Nov. 30th.
THE 'CHIVALRY' AND A LADY TEACHER.-In our advertising columns will be found an application for a situation, by a cultivated and estimable lady, who has two young children to support, and who has been compelled to leave Charleston, S. C., where she discharged the duties of Governess in a gentleman's family, for the sole reason that she was born and educated in New England. She brings the highest testimonials as to character and ability, and is in all respects deserving of encouragement and support.-Boston Transcript.
LYNCH LAW AGAIN.-Two white men named Waters, and a mulatto named Wilson, at Mosely Hall, a village in North Carolina, were arrested a few days ago for hurraing for Lincoln and the Abolitionists, and severely beating a citizen who remonstrated with them. They were immediately tried by a jury, who ordered them to be whipped, and have their heads shaved. The verdict was carried out on the spot.
EXPELLED FROM NEW ORLEANS.-The Pittsburgh Gazette says that J.W. Kountz, a citizen of that city, and commander of the steamer Memphis, was recently ordered to leave New Orleans within six hours. The Captain is a Republican, and his endorsement of the views of that party being brought to the attention of a Vigilance Committee, led to his expulsion.
NEW YORK, December 4th.-Steamer R. R. Cuyler brought sixty passengers from Savannah, sent back, by the authorities of that city.
GOING SOUTH.-Within ten days not less than one hundred slaves have been sold in this vicinity, and shipped South. Their owners are panic-struck, and are glad to sell at low prices. While travelling in the country the other day, an inn-keeper tried to sell us' Nancy,' a likely girl, and an excellent house-keeper; would sell her for $900; was offered $1200 a year ago. We told our host that we were saving what little tin we could command for the purpose of starting a Republican daily in St. Joseph.
‘The h-ll you are! Well, this ain't no country for niggers, and I'll sell Nance anyhow!' We have no doubt that Nancy will help make up the train which is now rapidly depriving Missouri of this species of property. They must be sold before the Slave Trade is re-opened.-St. Joseph (Mo.) Democrat. 
RUSSIAN EMANCIPATION.-It is stated that the emancipation of the serfs will be formally decreed on the 1st of January next. The Ministers are now engaged in examining the reports of the fifty-two emancipation committees, to draw up the final act and submit it to the Senate for approval, and the Emperor has ordered that the business must be completed before the above named period. The number of serfs in Russia is forty millions, and next New Year's Day will be the greatest day of rejoicing Russia ever knew. The serfs are of the same race as their owners. How the nobility are to be compensated for the loss of their human chattels is not known. 
JUDGE SMALLEY ON THE SLAVE TRADE.-Judge Smalley, in opening the U. S. District Court at New York on Wednesday, referred to the slave trade, and impressed upon the jurors the duty of investigating all alleged infractions of the laws for its suppression. He said it was a notorious fact that within the last three months more than three thousand miserable human beings have been taken by American cruisers from slave vessels sailing from the port of New York. This infamous and growing traffic had become a reproach upon the city. No honest man will lend it encouragement, and every honest man will assist in putting it down.
DR. JOHN S. ROCK IN STERLING. Dr. John S. Rock, of Boston, delivered a lecture in Sterling, I on Madame De Stael, or 'Woman the intellectual equal of Man.' He had an unusually large audience, and the attention was flattering. This is the village in which Pillsbury was mobbed, some years ago, for saying that the black man was a man. Now the intelligent people of this town recognize the fact by inviting one to deliver a literary lecture for their entertainment and advantage. Dr. Rock is an able speaker, and well worthy of the literary reputation which he enjoys.-Worcester Spy, Dec.l4th.
THE IBERIA FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE.-We learn from the Cleveland papers that the Grand Jury of the United States? Court for the Northern District of Ohio has found bills against the following persons: Rev. George Gordon, James Hammond, Ashbury Parker, Calvin Bowland, Joseph T. Baldwin, E. D. Ashbury, Jonathan McLaren. The charge is for obstructing service of process by the U. S. Marshal, S. W. Gift ford, of the Southern District of Ohio, and his deputies at Iberia, Morrow county, on the 27th of September last. The object of the Marshal was to secure a fugitive slave.
The same parties are also indicted for prosecuting the owners of the negro and their assistants, with a view to obstruct them in the reclamation of the negro by the Fugitive Slave Law. In both cases the defendants are charged with committing the alleged offences in company with, a large number of persons unknown to the Grand Jury.
KENTUCKY VERSUS OHIO.-The Governor of Kentucky has entered a suit in the United States Supreme Court to compel the Governor of Ohio to surrender a man named Lago. The case arose in this way: Lago was indicted in a Kentucky court for enticing a slave to run away, but escaped trial by taking refuge in Ohio. Gov. Magoffin made a requisition upon Gov. Dennison of Ohio for the return of the fugitive from justice. Gov. Dennison refused to issue his warrant for the arrest and surrender of Lago, upon the ground that by the laws of Ohio negroes are not property, and that he did not recognize the act committed by Lago as an offence. Gov. Magoffin has therefore carried the matter before the Supreme Court. 
MARYLAND FAST BECOMING A FREE STATE.-The number of slaves in Maryland is found by the late census to have been diminished more than fifteen thousand since 1850. The whole number now is about seventy-five thousand. 
The Charleston Mercury heads its reports of the proceedings of Congress, 'Foreign Intelligence.' 
BAYARD TAYLOR HISSED.-Bayard Taylor delivered a lecture, Tuesday evening, 18th inst., before the Mercantile Library Association, in the Brooklyn Athenaeum. His subject was 'Man and Climate.' In the course of his remarks, he said:-
‘There was no race, ever known, who did not possess some instinct of individual rights. There were said to be a class of savages in Bulgaria who hang all their intellectual men when they become too prominent, in order to preserve the balance of equality, and keep the people at peace. In civilized countries the practice was modified a little, for they only muzzle, instead of hanging them. An instance of the latter method occurred a few days since at Philadelphia, when his (the lecturer's) friend, Mr. G. W. Curtis, was muzzled in this manner.'
This created considerable excitement. Applause and hisses greeted the lecturer's ears. At first the applause predominated, but the hisses rallying returned to the charge, and for several minutes there was a fearful conflict for the ascendancy. At the end of five minutes, it was quite apparent that the hisses were in the majority, and both parties subsided. Mr. Taylor then very quietly remarked:-
'I thought I was too old a traveller to have a new sensation, but I have now. I never before have been hissed publicly; but I must say that to be hissed for advocating freedom of speech is not so bad, after all.'
This reply was received with mingled hisses and applause, which were continued but for a moment, and the matter was dropped by all.
ANOTHER FUGITIVE SLAVE SURRENDERED.-A negro man who had run away from a plantation near Louisville, Tenn., eight months ago, was taken into custody at Cincinnati, a few days since, and delivered to the claimant on showing proof that he was a slave. The Gazette of that city remarks:-
'In this case the anxious politicians of the country may see with what alacrity the Fugitive Slave Law is executed by the citizens of Ohio. This case is a fair illustration of the majority that have occurred during the past three years, as, during this time, not a colored person arrested on a warrant of a United States Commissioner has been set free again or rescued.'
<c05>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY 
SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The Ladies who have for so many years received the Subscriptions of their friends to the Cause, ask the favor of their company, as usual, at this time of the year, on
WEDNESDAY, the 23d of January, Day and Evening, in Music Hall, Boston.
As accidental omissions are almost unavoidable, even of those whose company is most desired, the Ladies hasten to say, that ALL who hate slavery, and wish to become subscribers to the funds for its peaceful, immediate abolition, without expatriation, may obtain special invitations (without which no party is ever admitted) at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and of the Ladies at their respective homes.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
SARAH P. REMOND,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.
The friends of the Cause in distant cities, or in country towns with whom we have been so long in correspondence, are earnestly entreated, for the sake of the Cause, at this moment of hope and cheer, when the very evidences of progress make it difficult to raise money in large sums,-to take up collections in their respective neighborhoods; using all diligence to make the amount of smaller subscriptions supply any deficiency the hard times may possibly occasion
in the larger ones. Now, as the very time for the most efficient expenditure, should be the time of most devoted effort. It is to be hoped that not a town in any State where we have ever had correspondence, nor an individual whose heart is in unison with ours on this subject, will be found wanting to our list We have ample opportunity to know that there are many such at the South as well as at the North, for we are not exclusively of Northern birth, nor all free from the painful remembrance of having once been slave-holders. We hope to welcome as many as possible at the evening reception;-at all events, to receive their subscriptions by letter. Some of the ladies will be ready, while directing the arrangements for the evening reception, to welcome and receive the subscriptions of all their friends who prefer to make their calls during the day.
The Germania Band will fill the pauses of conversation in the evening. The guests may leave cloaks and shawls in the care of the attendants at the entrance and in the ante-rooms.
Each invitation must be countersigned by the guest, as last year, before presenting at the door.
THE CHILDISH, PETULANT SOUTH.—The London Times tells a deal of truth in a very few words. It says:—
A few hundred thousand slave-owners, trembling nightly with visions of murder and pillage, backed by a dissolute population of” poor whites," are no match for the hardy and resolute populations of the free States. The Northerners have hitherto treated the South like a petulant child, and given in to all its ways; but, if ever the day of conflict were to come, it would be shown that the South is but a child in its weakness as well as in its frowardness. 
The New York Times has some plain-spoken comments upon the mortifying developments at Washington of the past few years, showing the rapid progress of national corruption, from which we make the following extract:-
'Looking back over the whole history of this Administration—the sale of Fort Snelling and the purchase of Willett's Point, the contracts for supplying the Army of Utah, and the infamous developments in regard to Navy yards, land sales, contracts of every description, and even the legal opinions in reference to the disputed mining claims in California—it is not to be doubted but that a majority of the Cabinet both had and have solid and forcible reasons for desiring either the destruction of our National Government, or a general conflagration of all the public buildings in Washington, so that no evidences of their guilty complicity in frauds which have cost many millions to the country, might be submitted to the scrutiny of their successors. The time for plain speaking has come, and we do not hesitate to avow our deep-rooted conviction that to corruption in the very highest quarters, much more than to any political causes of difference, may be attributed the present distracted aspect of our national affairs.

'WOMAN'S RIGHTS UNDER THE LAW.'
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES, 16 SUMMER STREET.
MRS. DALL will deliver a course of Lectures on three successive Wednesday afternoons, at the Room of the. Young Men's Christian Union, No. 16 Summer street, to commence
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 9th, at 3 o'clock, P.M.
Jan. 9. French and English Law.
Oriental basis for the Law's estimate of woman. Common proverbs. Roman Law not pertinent. The estimate of the French Law shown in the rights of property, marriage and franchise. Women in the public employ never promoted. The estimate of the Law regulates the price of Labor. ’The Lawe's Resolution.' English Common Law. Divorce for hopeless insanity not allowed. Results. Anecdote of a London Court Room. Sir Charles Morgan's Aunt, I and her opinion of the Law. 
Jan. 16. The English Common Law-continued.
Equity. The Law's estimate of a woman's truthfulness. Divorce by Act of Parliament. The Hon. Mrs. Norton. Hungarian Law contrasted with the English. Practical immorality of the Law, which makes virtue in the wife depend on vigilance in the husband. Suffrage. Objections met. The Art Critic and Rosa Bonheur. Suffrage a death-blow to three kinds of Law. Harris v. Butler. Delicate discussions in Parliament. Divorce Bill. Duke of York's Trial. John Stuart Mill on Suffrage. Women of Upsal. ’Dames de la Halle.' Black wood in 1854. Abbesses in Parliament. Buckle's Lecture. Changes in Canada. Pitcairn's Island.
Jan. 23. The U. S. Laws and the Secret of Success.
The despotism of a Republic. Kent. The man's notion. Poynter on Consistency. The Laws of nineteen States changed in ten years. Graham's decision. Mrs. Dorr's claim. New York Bill. Complication of legislation. Mrs. John Adams and Mrs. Hannah Cobbold. ‘Human rights.' Patient thoroughness the title to respect. Through Labor to Suffrage. Mean men. Woman's right to man as counsellor and friend. The historical development of the question. The practical question. Mahomet and the Venetian Catechism.
These lectures are given in the afternoon in order to permit; persons from the neighboring towns to attend. The subject is very little understood by women, and this course of lectures concludes the twelve Mrs. Dall originally projected.
Doors open at 2, P. M. Admittance to each lecture, 26 ets.
<c06>
WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
The Second Annual New York State Woman's Rights Convention will be held at ALBANY, in Association Hall, Thursday and Friday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 7 and 8.
Lucretia Mott, Wendell Phillips, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Hon. Gerrit Smith, Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cents.
SITUATION WANTED.-A lady who has had large experience in matters of house-keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either as house-keeper, or matron of some establishment, in this city or vicinity. The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street.

BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD., M. D., 
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON.
Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11. A. M., till 2, P. M.
Nov. 23. 3m. 

FREE DISPENSARY,
For Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock. 
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
Dr. BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, Physician for December. 
MRS. M. B. JACKSON. M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoceopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball. M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets, Boston. 

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MIDDLESEX, ss. To the Heirs at Law, Creditors, and all other persons interested in the last Will of JOHN CABOT, late of Newton, in said county, deceased, testate:
WHEREAS, application has been made to me to appoint GEORGE JACKSON, of Boston, Trustee under the Will of said deceased, in the place of FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, resigned-you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at Cambridge, in said county of Middlesex, on the second Tuesday of January next, at nine o'clock before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same.
And the said George Jackson is hereby directed to give public notice thereof, by publishing this citation once a week, for three successive weeks, in the newspaper called the Liberator, printed at Boston—the last publication to be three days, at least, before said Court.
Witness my hand, this 27th day of November, in the year eighteen hundred and sixty.
WILLIAM A. RICHARDSON.
Judge of the Probate Court.
A true copy: attest, J. H. TYLER, Register. 

IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT 
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP. 
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS. 
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description. Tendency to Consumption, 
Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER, 
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
Oct. 26. 6W.

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
FOURTH EDITION.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 1.5 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publisher.
A. J.DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

NEW SERIES OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman Street, New York;
107 Fifth Street, Philadelphia; 15 Steuben Street, Albany; and 221
221 Washington Street, Boston. 
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia, pp. 28. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. pp. 24. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. pp. 144. 10 cents.
No. 5. Daniel O' Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies, pp. 48. 5 cents.
No. 6. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and else where. By L. MARIA CHILD, pp. 95. 10 cts.
No. 7. Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper’s Ferry, with his Address to the Court, pp. 16. 3 cents.
No. 8. The Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. By WENDELL PHILLIPS., pp. 47. 5 cents.
No. 9. The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: An Appeal to the Legislature of Massachusetts. By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 10. The Infidelity of Abolitionism. By WM. LLOYD GARRISON., pp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 11. Speech of John Hossack, convicted of a Violation of the Fugitive Slave Act at Chicago,III pp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 12. The Patriarchal Institution, as described by Members of its Own Family. Compiled by LYDIA MARIA CHILD. pp. 55.5. 5 cents.
No. 13. No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay State: An Appeal to the People and Legislature of Massachusetts. pp. 24. 5 cents.
A deduction of fifty per cent. from the above price will be made where a dozen or more copies are taken. Gratuitous copies will be sent by mail, for examination, on receiving the postage charge.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
NACHDENKEN.
One who of late, at sudden heat,
Rhymed the shrill chiding of a scold,
Has felt the ruffled tide retreat
With froth of words it seemed to hold.
It was not that a bitter song
Aids him whose work brings constant blame,
But that we thought a shade of wrong
Touched on our poet's sacred name.
Yet pardoned soon that transient stain,
In these stern times with evil rife,
Struck from some clash of heart and brain,
Whose struggle makes the poet's life.
We spare not thee, whose morning song
Mixed with our <illegible> wildest throb,
To mask and trim before the throng-
A lesser Everett or Cobb!
What mark to-day in squib and quirk,
In twisted rhyme, or polished phrase?
All triflers write. Thy scholar's work
Is not for present pay or praise.
Perchance the way is dark and hard;
Yet, if thou canst not see aright,
Be brother to that eller bard
Who stood and waited for the light.
The voice that speaks through lonely thought
Is more than buzz of club or clan;
Through silent fast the sign is wrought,-
The poet st. engthens to a man.
Then, bravest singer of our West,
We claim thee as of old to teach;
Stland boldly forward from the rest,
And what we feel, strike thou to speech!

HO! TO FANEUIL HALL!
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Men!-if manhood still ye claim,
If the Northern pulse can thrill,
Roused by wrong or stung by shame,
Freely, strongly still:-
Let the sounds of traffic die:
Shut the mill-gate-leave the stall-
Fling the axe and hammer by-
Throng to Faneuil Hall!
Wrongs which freemen never brooked-
Dangers grim and fierce as they,
Which, like crouching lions, looked
On your fathers way-
These your instant zeal demand,
Shaking with their earthquake-call
Every rood of Pilgrim land,-
Ho, to Faneuil Hall!
From your capes and sandy bars-
From your mountain-ridges cold,
Through whose pines the westering stars
Stoop their crowns of gold-
Come, and with your footsteps wake
Echoes from that holy wall:
Once again, for Freedom's sake,
Rock your fathers hall!
Up, and tread beneath your feet
Every cord by party span;
Let your hearts together beat
As the heart of one.
Banks and tariffs, stocks and trade,
Let them rise, or let them fall:
Freedom asks your common aid-
Up, to Faneuil Hall!
Up, and let each voice that speaks,
Ring from thence to Southern plains,
Sharply as the blow which breaks
Prison-bolts and chains!
Speak as well becomes the free-
Dreaded more than steel or ball,
Shall your calmest utterance be,
Heard from Faneuil Hall.
Have they wronged us? Let us then
Render back nor threats nor prayers;
Have they chained our free-born men?
LET US UNCHAIN THEIRS!
Up! your banner leads the van,
Blazoned'Liberty for all!'
Finish what your sires began,-
Up, to Faneuil Hull!

TO MASSACHUSETTS.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
What though around thee blazes
No fiery rallying sign?
From all thy own high places,
Give heaven the light of thine?
What though unthrilled unmoving,
The statesman stands apart,
And comes no warm approving
From Mammon's crowded mast?
Still let the land be shaken
By a summons of thine own!
By all save truth forsaken,
Why, stand with that alone!
Shrink not from strife unequal!
With the best is always hope;
And ever in the sequel 
God holds the right side up!
But when, with thine uniting,
Come voices long and loud,
And far-off hills are writing
Thy fire-words on the cloud:
When from Penobscot's fountains
A deep response is heard,
And across the Western mountains
Rolls back thy rallying word;
Shall thy line of battle falter,
With its allies just in view?
Oh, by hearth and holy altar,
My father-land, be true!
Fling abroad thy scrolls of freedom!
Speed them onward far and fast!
Over hill and valley speed them,
Like the Sybil's on the blast!
Lo! the Empire State is shaking
The shackles from her hand!
With the ragged North is waking
The level sunset land!
On they come-the free battalions!
East and West and North they come,
And the heart-beat of the millions
Is the beat of Freedom's drum.
'To the tyrant's plot no favor!
No heed to place-fed knaves!
Bar and bolt the door forever
Against the land of Slaves!'
Hear it, mother Earth, and hear it,
The Heavens above us spread!
The land is roused-its spirit
Was sleeping, but not dead!

TO REFORMERS.
Oh, ye who, with undoubting eyes,
Through present cloud and gathering storm,
Behold the span of Freedom's skies,
And sunshine soft and warm,-
Press bravely onward!-not in vain
Your generous trust in human kind;
The good which bloodshed cannot gain,
Your peaceful zeal shall find.
The weapons which your hands have found
Are those which Heaven itself has wrought,
Light, Truth and Love;-your battle ground
The free, broad field of Thought. [WRITTIER.
<c02>
PRESIDENT BUCHANAN'S FAST.
It came to pass in the fourth year of the reign of Buchanan over the Americanites, in the tenth month, that is, in the month Tebeth, but in their reckoning Adar, there arose rumors of wars in divers places, and amine was sore in the land of the Kansasites; and he Americanites were all of one language and of one speech. And in those days, the tribe Carolinianites, welling on the coast to the South, rebelled against the laws of their fathers as they were written, touching their bondmen and their bondwomen. Now it <illegible> happened that the tribes inhabiting the land to the North had no bondmen or bondwomen, neither were they served by them; and the anger of the Carolinianites was enkindled against them, because they would not hold their peace to rebuke them concerning them in bondage; how they laid upon them <illegible> grievous to be borne, and evil entreated them; moreover, that the tribes northward would have Abraham, surnamed also the Rail-Splitter, to rule over them in Buchanan's stead. But more than any were their hearts wroth against one whose surname also was Phillips, which, in the tongue of the Americanites, meaneth' the bold orator,' and against one whose surname also was Garrison, signifying in that tongue 'fortified,' inasmuch as they cried aloud, 'This thing is an abomination, and the Lord of America will destroy him that bindeth his fellow-man to serve him!' So the Carolinianites gathered their men together, and took an oath that they would have no more dealings with the tribes to the North. 
And when it came to the ears of Buchanan, he called his chief officers in privy council, and spake saying, 'Seeing these divisions have arisen concerning the bondmen and bondwomen of them that dwell in the South country, and our land will be spoiled, prithee counsel me.'
Now they who had reigned before time had put a garrison hard by the coast of the Carolinianites; and when they would smite the garrison, Buchanan sent for the captain of the host, and asked, saying,' What shall the ruler of America do for the Carolinianites will smite the fort.' And the captain of the host answered and said, 'Let it be smitten.' And Buchanan hearkened unto his words, and would not hinder that they should smite the garrison; neither sent he any of his captains of fifty, or captains of an hundred, or captains of a thousand, to succor the fort, that the Carolinianites should not smite it. And from that time, many of his officers restrained from giving their counsel, because they were wroth; and the tribes that inhabited all the land northward perceived that Buchanan's heart was turned towards the Carolinianites.
Then Buchanan, being sore distressed, because the mind of his people was displeased with him, took counsel with himself in this wise: 'Let me fall now, in this strait, into the hands of the Lord, for his mercies are great; and let me not fall into the hands of man.' And the same day, it being the fourteenth day in the tenth month Tebeth, but in their reckoning Adar, he sent forth and proclaimed, that whereas evil things had fallen upon the people of America by reason of their sins, they should set apart the fourth day in the eleventh month, Shebat, but in their reckoning Nisan or Abib, as a day to humble themselves before the Lord with fastings and prayer.
And it came to pass in the eleventh month, in the fourth day of the month, the children of America were assembled with fasting and prayer, as their ruler had proclaimed; only some would not go up, saying, It is a mockery, and wherefore should we mock the Lord? this sin shall not be laid to our charge. But Buchanan went up, and came unto the synagogue, and wept, and sat there before the Lord. And it came to pass that when the priest would open his mouth to the children of America, his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth, and they counselled together, saying, What thing is this? peradventure a palsy hath seized the servant of the Lord. But he opened his mouth and spake, and his voice was as the voice of a trumpet, and their prophet Isaiah (one of their prophets of the old time) constrained the priest's tongue that he should utter the prophecy concerning them:-
'Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness; ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be heard on high. Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul? is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the Lord?
'Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh? Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily, and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; and if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the affiliated soul, then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon day.'
Then it came to pass that Buchanan straightway fell, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Isaiah, their prophet, that the priest had uttered; and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all the day. Then those that refused to go up to fast, neither had entered the synagogues, rejoiced exceedingly, and they said, 'Now, therefore, we know of a surety that the Lord is on our side.'

FREE SPEECH.
WM. L. GARRISON:
Away down East, in the quiet and serenity of central Maine, the news that Free Speech had been attacked and almost beaten down in the Cradle of Liberty, the noble city of Boston, comes like an electric, I had almost said, an earthquake, shock. We had supposed that the attempted suppression of free speech by mob violence would never again be known in New England; and the moment the telegraph flashed the news to us, the inquiry arose, What is the cause of this fury against free speech? and among all the possible solutions to the question, I can find but one satisfactory answer. The American Union has caused it. Were it not for the unhallowed union between the North and the South,-an abnormal connection which demands of men the surrender of their privileges, and manhood even, for its sake, no such cowardly and brutal mobs could be raised to beat down the dearest right, save personal liberty, that an American demands. If the Union were dissolved, what interest would Boston's conservative men have in suppressing free speech? None. Here, then, is an additional reason for dissolving the union of the North with the South. It would not only liberate the negroes, but also would liberate Boston, and make respectable citizens of its well-dressed rioters. Is it not time that all who believe in freedom of speech should ask how they can save it? When South Carolina sends her tools into public meetings to break them up, when she makes it necessary to station a hundred and fifty armed men in and around a church to preserve order, it is time to inquire what the Union is worth; aye, to 'let the Union slide.'
As I read for the first time the account of the famous riot of 1835, in the Liberator, I wondered that such things should be, even twenty-five years ago, little suspecting that after so long a time spent in contending for free speech, the same drama could be re-enacted. But men who have more faith in money than in principle, in the Constitution than in truth, cannot be expected to remain quiet when the one or the other of their gods is attacked. The Iconoclast
<c03>
is an obnoxious to idolaters now as he was a thousand years ago, for every man is as much angered in having his idol smitten down to-day as ever.
'But truth shall conquer at the last-
For round and round we run,
And ever the right comes uppermost,
And ever is justice done.'
With anger at the mob for breaking up the meeting at the Temple comes rejoicing that Boston vindicated herself at Joy Street Church in the evening; that although the minions of slavery sought again to trample upon the right, organised Boston repelled them. It may take another twenty-five years of devotion to truth, of self-sacrifice, and of stern, unflinching labor, to make such scenes impossible; but so sure as God rules, the time must come when the truth can be spoken without stint, and that, too, without causing violence.
Every lover of his race must hail the approach of the day when, in the Union, or out of the Union, every man, black or white, Christian or atheist, here and every where in America, can unmolested, and without fear, utter his sentiments at all appropriate places and on all proper occasions.
M. L. WHITTEN.
Bucksport, Dec. 20th, 1860.

OUR CAUSE IN RHODE ISLAND.
EAST GREENWICH, (R. I.) 11th mo.25, 1860.
FRIEND GARRISON-I trust to thy charity to excuse this intrusion. Thou art doubtless aware of the hitherto existing prejudices of our citizens, or rather the sectarian portion of them, against the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society and its agents. For the last fifteen years, funds have been persistently with held from the former, while the latter have been maligned and calumniated as infidels and pestilent persons, to be avoided or silenced, if possible; therefore they have not been allowed to speak for the victims of American oppression, in any of our churches, while in some instances the pastors have declined reading notices of our meetings. The Principal of the Providence Conference Seminary has very recently refused to read such a notice for us, without offering any excuse for his churlishness, so far as we are apprised. The usual pretext for their untoward bias and malignity of feeling is, the abuse, as they term it, which they received from some two or three of our lecturers of by-gone years. Although I have nothing to say in commendation of the alleged severity and indiscretion of the said agents, yet I waive all criticisms, in view of their fidelity to the slave, remembering that they, with others, have their 'treasures in earthen vessels.' May every precaution be taken to prevent discord among those who are conscientiously opposed to slavery, and each live in the active exercise of that 'charity which hopeth all things, believeth all things, endureth all things'!
Sallie Holley spoke here, in the Court-House, on First-day evening, the 14th ult., and also on First day afternoon the 11th inst., to large and appreciating audiences. The strong desires since expressed to hear her again is evidence that her appeals were effectual, and that she has, in a measure, disarmed many of their long-standing prejudices. She is an eloquent, earnest and faithful laborer, combining great prudence with uncompromising integrity and frankness, and cannot fail to advance the cause she advocates. May God bless her efforts, and those of her coadjutrix, C. F. Putnam, to really Christianize this ostensibly Christian nation! The latter has free access to many, whom the former cannot reach, and her genial and quiet manners admirably fit her to meet and remove the objections urged by our opponents. She is, I think, doing an incalculable amount of good.
Thine, respectfully, for the speedy triumph of right,
C. C. KNOWLES.

MISS GILBERT'S CAREER-WOMAN'S RIGHTS-SLAVERY, etc.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I do not read one in a hundred of the novels, good, bad and indifferent, that are continually dropping from the press in these days-neither my time nor my taste admits of it; I find more pleasant and profitable reading in other directions. I have not so much as looked into Miss Gilbert's Career, and confess myself indebted to the article in the Liberator, taken from the Harvard Magazine, containing extracts therefrom, interspersed with very just and pertinent comments.
From what I know of the author of this book through his previous volumes, and in the general tone of the Springfield Republican, of which he is a joint proprietor and co-editor, I was prepared to expect that he would point this story with the moral that he has,-instructing woman in a better knowledge of her sphere, which is, it seems, purely or mainly domestic, teaching her that she should leave 'careers' to the masculine gender, and by all means avoid book-keeping, and also out-door occupations generally, as seriously prejudicial to her womanhood.
It has always been a grief to me, that poverty prevented me, not only from receiving the liberal culture afforded by the colleges, but it also denied me the full educational advantages of a common country school, even, such as it was some forty years ago. As one of the many sad results of this want of a better literary culture, I am unable to understand the philosophy of the alleged fact, that a woman destroys or injures her womanhood by simply making such entries in an account book as 'sundries debtor to cash,' and, 'merchandize debtor to profit and loss,' &c., or by giving judicious directions to laborers about work on the farm.
The following paragraph, which the reviewer in the Harvard Magazine quotes from Dr. Holland's book, is a choice specimen of pulpy sentimentalism, which a person of less dignity than your correspondent might perhaps call flapdoddle:-
'Towards her new life, Fanny proceeded tremblingly. Her self-confidence relinquished, she turned to him to whom she had pledged herself for guidance and encouragement. She had lost her habitual self-seeking,-lost her imperious will,-gladly laid down her proud self-reliance, and found her womanhood. In after months and years, she learned, through feeding the springs of man's power, enriching the food of his life, purifying his motives, encouraging his efforts, and filling his heart with love, what were her true relations to manhood. She learned that man holds in his constitution the element of power, the basis of all demonstrative public function, and that, by the degree in which woman possesses this element is she exceptional, even if she be not abnormal. When her life had become fully blended into unity with his, she learned that a woman's truest career is lived in love's serene retirement,-lived in feeding the native forces of her other self,-lived in the career of her husband.' pp. 465, 466, 467.
So Fanny learned at last, that husband and wife were but one, and that one was the husband!
How a man of the author's sensibility and sensitiveness could utter such stuff in the face of his wife, or any other decent woman of fair intelligence, or even alone before a mirror, without blushing up to the eyes as deep as crimson, with heat sufficient to crisp his moustache, I cannot conceive.
The author of Miss Gilbert's Career, in his various works, seems to treat of men and things as, from his position, he sees them to be, not as a moralist would say they ought to be. The Springfield Republican is conducted in the same way. Never losing sight of the main chance, its conductors, both from sympathy and policy, mean to be considered conservative, as it is supposed that the wealth and leading influence in society are so; at the same time, recognizing the fact that progress is the law of the universe, and that radical principles are the motive powers that give efficiency to that law in human affairs, the Republican not unfrequently contains articles of quite radical import, but managing, however, very adroitly, like the hunter who could aim so as to hit if it was a deer, and miss if it was a calf.
<c04>
Dr. Holland doubtless supposed that his book would be acceptable to most of his readers,-he probably did not greatly misjudge. Most men will be pleased with it, for the same reason that slaveholders approve of Dr. Adams's South-Side View of Slavery. Many women will favor it, because it pleases the men. Having worn the chains of subjection to man so long that use has become almost a second nature, and as its links are often of a silken texture and ornamented with beautiful devices, they are really pleased with it, and not a few are proud of it-just as some hundreds, perhaps thousands, of the millions of slaves at the South are in favor of slavery, and hug their chains-and for the same reason.
When the women generally feel that same desire for equal liberty with their brothers, before the law and in social life, which a few of the more advanced and thinking portion of them now feel, the work of woman's elevation and redemption will be accomplished. There is no power on earth that could keep the women from their rights, if they only willed it. The same is also true of the Southern slaves. In either case, the sentiment holds good-
'Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow.'
The triumph in both cases is ultimately sure; and the means to be used is agitation. And here the unhappy opponents of impartial liberty are, in my opinion, nearly or quite as efficient helpers of the cause they hate, as the most stalwart friends of freedom; for the weakness of their twaddle, and the fierceness of their rage preach as effectual sermons to the heart of humanity as the strong, silver-toned utterances of the advocates of right. Everything helps us. There is more truth in Paul's declaration than most people dream of, when he says, 'We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.' Welcome, then, joyfully, every effort-Timothy Titcomb's with the rest.
Springfield, Dec. 9, 1860.
E. W. T.

WHAT ARE WE TO BELIEVE?
To rational minds, our Federal Government, viewed through the political lens of 1861, presents an appalling scene. Vast and innumerable are the pictures! Strange and terrible are their conflicting elements; for many of them bear the ghastly visage of the arch-fiend Lucifer! Each one is a complete history in itself, and all bring vividly before us the ideal conception of the Court of Death.
Strange doctrines are being taught us on either hand. What are we to believe?
High functionaries tell us that each and every State can now, or at any time, leave this Confederacy, if the people of said State declare it. They say, too, that they can go peaceably from the Union, if the people of said State are pleased to do so.
The Tribune says, 'If any one of the States wishes to leave, let her go.' The Times whimperingly suggests to 'have the North make concessions.' What concessions have we to make? I would ask. None! 
Because the great mass of the people have said, 'Down with despotism!' shall we make concessions for that? I hear from every hill-top and valley the spontaneous answer, 'Never-no, never!' Concessions to that which every honest man knows is wrong and inhuman! Concessions, because the honest, toiling sons of the North-will not submit to the lash of oppression, but dare to think and act for themselves! Away with the insulting and degrading proposition!
The Herald talks to us daily, in its hallucination, of strange signs and terrible wonders which are hourly brought to light down in the rebellious State of South Carolina. The people are all aghast with wonderment for the terrible disclosures! They do not stop to consider that these may come from the brain of some pro-slavery monomaniac, or political lunatic.
One reads the Tribune, with its own peculiar coloring. Another reads the Times, with its earnest desire to be on neither side of the fence, but on top of it. Another reads the Herald, and finds that that mountain of fire has a constant relish for more brimstone. It says a great many things to astonish the gaping multitude, and make fools of the credulous. But because one man happens to possess a brain a little more sagacious than another, has he the right to play continually upon the credulity of the simple? Nevertheless, it is done to an alarming extent. My neighbor takes the Herald, and believes all as it comes, without a thought as to its reliability. My friend across the way reads the Tribune, and indorses it verbatim. The result is, my friends are at war all the time, simply because they do not think for themselves, but allow others to think for them.
The man who can produce the most startling bulletin and the wildest fabrication seems to be the man for the majority of the people. The ready mind sees this, and manufactures accordingly. Let us think for ourselves, permitting no one to think for us; then we shall truly be a republican people. If we do not God, help us! for the future looks wild and stormy.
If a State in these United States has the right to secede just when she pleases, our Republic is an idle speculation. Without a mutual blending of the entire States, our Government is a failure. There must be a general concentration, and all looking toward the Constitution, even as a child looks to its father. Each State is just as dependant, and more liable to ruin, if it secedes, than the prodigal of old. Secession is in direct opposition to the very spirit and design of the Constitution, notwithstanding there is no particular clause to the contrary. Now, each individual is governed by the laws of the State in which he lives, and subject to the provisions of the Constitution of said State. If any inhabitant of said State disobeys her laws, he is punished by them in accordance with her Constitution. The same precisely with a State as with an individual. She is, and must be, subject to the Constitution and laws of the United States; and if she does a wrong against the several States, she must be condemned by the highest tribunal of the nation.
If the United States has no jurisdiction over each individual State, no individual State has jurisdiction over the people of said State; hence, it will follow that our Government is not, and never has been, anything but a rope of sand.
It is sufficiently plain, and our fathers saw it, and all can see it to-day, that the moment one State is permitted to leave this Confederacy, our Constitution is a wreck, and our Republic annihilated. It is all moonshine to suppose that a State can secede without destroying the equilibrium of our Government-without force of arms-without a civil war.
McGREGOR STEELE.

A NEGRO SOLD INTO SLAVERY IN NEBRASKA.
Correspondence of the Northampton Free Press.
OMAHA, Nebraska, Dec. 14th, 1860. 
FRIEND BURT,-The House has passed a bill to prohibit slavery in Nebraska. It will undoubtedly pass the Council, and then receive the veto of our Democratic Governor, but probably it will be carried over his head by a two-thirds vote, and become a law, in spite of him. The Democrats have said that slavery cannot exist in this Territory; but, only a few days since, an old negro man was sold on: the auction-block at Nebraska City, under an attachment issued by the District Court, to satisfy a debt incurred by his owner, Judge Holly, who is now at the mines in western Kansas. The old man was torn from his aged wife, and taken into Missouri, to be again sold, and taken off to some Southern plantation. The bill now before the Legislature ought certainly to become an immediate law, and forever put a quietus on the slavery agitation in the Territory, so that we can appreciate the blessings of liberty on a free soil.
B. D. S.
PUT UNDER BONDS FOR SENDING A LOVE LETTER TO A COLORED CHARMER.-In Richmond, Va., Marion F. Barbier, a white man, has been put under bonds in $300 for sending to a female slave a letter, in which he states that he loves her devotedly, and thinks of her all day long, and dreams about her all night. Therefore he begs her to come to Richmond, and fly with him to the North.
<c05>
INDEX
TO
THE LIBERATOR,
VOLUME XXX.
A
Another Shocking Case, 2
An Inquiry, 9
American Colorphobia, 10
Alabams, 13
Anti-Slavery Resolutions, 15
Annual Meeting, 18
Annual Subscription, 22
Andrew before the Harper's Ferry Committee, 26
Appeal to Christians, 33
A.S. Conv. in Adrian, 40
Another Outrage, 42
Anniversary of the Boston Massacre, 42
Agency to assist Fugitive Slaves to return to their Masters, 43
A generous and timely Deed, 65
A Doughface's Mirror, 66
Annual Meeting of the Am. A.S. Soc., 77
American Tract Society, 81
A Representative Man Fallen, 86
Annual Howl, 93
Adam's Speech in Cong., 96
Allen, D. M., Letter fm. 119
Atrocious Law in Texas, 123
Americans Catechised in England, 129
Andrew and the Boston Courier, 142
A Straw on the Tide, 138
Abolition Plot in Ala., 146
Andrew's Speech at the J. Brown Meet'g, 149
J. Brown Meet's 149
A Man seatenced to be Hung for circulating the N. Y. Tribune, 150
Apologists for Slavery, 154
Am. Board of Com. for Foreign Missions, 162
Anti-Slavery on the Cape 173
Anti-Slavery Convention 173
A Gospel Sermon, 176
Anti-Sabbatical Literature, 176
Amusing Correspondence 178
Andrew, J. A., Speech of 184
Alabama Baptist Conv., 189
Appeal in behalf of the Fugitive, 189
A False Pretence, 189
Are they Guiltless? 190
Abolition Books, 193
Andrew on the Freedom of Speech, 199
Anti-Christ of New England, 204
Address of Judge Shaw and others to Mass., 205
A Slave-Woman Burnt Alive by Choctaws, 209
A South Carolina Spy, 209
B
Bethune and the Ministers, 1
Brown, John, 3-8-12-20-Letter of, 5-Not at Potawatomie, 30-in Hayti, 31-43-47-his Execution, 21-33
Bank's Veto of the Military Law, 5
Banks on National Affrs, 6
Brown's Friends Gibeted, 9
Bailey, W. S., 13-47-94-198
Bracket's Bust of Brown, 36
Bugging an Overseer, 44
Blind Negro Pianist, 44
Black Republican Intolerance, 45
Burial of Stevens and Hazlett, 51
Beecher's Tribute to Phillips, 59
Berea Difficulties, 61
Boston Conservatism, 65
Breach of Promise Case, 68
Beecher, H. W., 68
Browne, J.W., Death of 71
Brooke, Dr., on Non-Resistance,
Booth, S. M., Letter of 74-121-142-Arrest and escape, 133
Baltimore M. E. Conf., 101
Bishop Morris's Wish, 101
Bowen, Dr. Letter of 101
Barbarity of Sla'ry, 105-167
Battles, Rev. A., tribute to Theodore Parker, 107
Buchanan's Portraiture, 113
Balme, J. R.,Review of J.B. Taylor's Letter, 108
Bleby, Rev. Heary, Letter of 125
Bird, F. W., Speech 127
Brown, Wm. Wells, Sp'ch of, 130-151-Review of Yancey, 172
Brougham and Dallas, 131
Brown, John, Jr., Letter to Hayti, 133
Barbarism of Slavery, 138
Brown, John, Honored in France, 140
Bailey, W. S., and C. M. Clay, 154-158
Baptism of Slaves, 158
Blanchard, H.W., to Rev. Mr. Angier, 164
Boston Mob of 1835, 170
Bird, M. B., Letter fm. 171
Bacon's DR., Defence, 178
Baptists in England to Baptists in America, 181
Beecher, H. W., upon the signs of the times, 186
Buchanan with the Secessionists, 190
Baptists in the South, 193
Beecher on Disunion, 193
Baptists of England to Rev. Baron Stow, 194
Bell-Everett Mob in Boston, 203
Beecher, Charles, Sermon Reviewed, 204
C
Clergyman in Jail, 2
Chesson, F. W., Letter of 2
clerical Conspiracy, 9
Clay, C.M., 13-59-102
Candlish, Rev.DR., Speech 21
Cheever, Dr., departure for Europe, 115-in Edinburgh, 25-in Glassgow, 69-Speech of 84
Col'd Refugees in Canada, 33
Carter, H.W., to Dr. J. Whittemore, 35
Criticism on the Creator, 44
Constitution and Union, 45
Cushing, Caleb, 47-57
Child, Mrs., Humanity, 49
Cushing, J., Review of his Discourse, 64
Colored Citizens Meeting in New York, 72
Coolie Traffic, 73
Clay and the Kentucky Radicals, 73
Cushing on Traitors, 84
Clarke, Rev. J.F., Speech 91
Church A.S.Society, 93-127
Claflin, Rev.Jehiel, Letter from 95
Child, Mrs., Letter of 101
Candidate for Abolitionists, 105
Curtis, G.W.,at Music Hall, 115
Constitution of U.S.117-150
Celebration at No. Elba, 117
Cele'tion of W. I. Emancipation, Aug. 1, 125-130
Cambridge Reform Conv. 119
Conway, Rev. M.D., Speech of 126
Calumny and Refutation, 128
Conventions in Illinois and Iowa, 132
Chicago Zouaves, 132
Choate, Rufus, 132
Cheever Welcomed in England, 134
Carter, H.W., Letter of 136
Cheever, Dr., and the Church of the Puritans 145
Colonial Missionary Society's Defence, 145
Cunard, Sir Sam's, Bart., Letter to 145
Colored People of Phil., 152
Child, Mrs., 153
Colored People's Address to the Prince, 153-207
Cape Cod Convention, 155
Chicago Jail, Letter fm. 165
Cheever on Am. Slavery, 169
Curse and Crime of Sla'y, 171
Campbell, DR., and Mr. Garrison, 173
Collamer,Judge, Let.fm. 175
Capacity of the Negro, 177
Constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law, 180
Clerical Unfaithfulness, 182
Cheever, H. T., Letter of, 167-to Dr. Bacon, 188
Crusade against Freedom, 192
Conv. at Mendota, m., 195
Compromises Useless, 207
D
Democracy Illustrated, 9
Division of the States, 11
Dall, Mrs., Notices of her Lectures, 28
Diabolism in the Dist. of Columbia, 41
Doy and his Son in Mo., 41
Duties and Responsibilities of the North, 57
Decline of Anti-Slavery, 81
Democracy of the Post, 101
Dem. Conv. at Baltimore,102
Douglass, H. F., Speech 109-129
Davis, Hon. C. G., Speech 126
Dallas and Brougham, 129
Desor on Theo. Parker, 150
Duty of Northern Ch's, 161
Declaration of Independence and its Defamers, 166
Davis, Elnathan, Letter 167
Dall's Mrs., Lecture, 170
Douglass, Fred., Letter of, 172-178-at Music Hall, 199
Democracy as it was, 174
Dodge, Mr., Speech of, in defence of Mass. Personal Liberty Bill, 190
Disturbance at Music Hall, 209
Declaration of Independence by S. Carolina, 209
E
Expulsions from Kentucky, Arkansas, and the South 5-6-10-14-154
English Press upon John Brown, 9
Eventful Day at South Natick, 43
Everett and the N.Y. Ledger, 58
Espionage of the South, 69
Echoes of Harper's Ferry, 79
Emancipation in Jamaica, 84
Ellis, C. M., Speech of 98
Emerson, R. W., Speech 98
Extracts of a Private Letter, 106
Effect of Success, 120
Emancipation in W. I., 124
Editor mobbed in Mo., 137
Eddy, T. M., to the President of the U.S., 157
Episcopalians and the Slave Trade, 158
Escape of the Arabia, 164
Everett on Slave Extension, 173
Excitement in S. Car'na, 177
Everett on the African Race, 177
Expulsion of Negroes fm. South Carolina, 185
Ebullition of Patriotic Sentiment, 201
Excitement in Brooklyn, N.Y., 203
F
Fiendish Outrage, 2
Fisk, U. M., on J. Brown, 4
Fanaticism still lives, 29
Follen, Eliza Lee, 30-67
Foster, S. S., to E. Dinsmore, 39
Foss, A. T., Letters of 47-102-207
Fowler, J.H., Communication from 55-70-103
Furness, W.H., Sermon 60
Fugitive in steamer R.S. Spaulding, 75
Farewell Words of Theodore Parker, 98
Foster, A. K., Speech of 114
Fruits of Slavery, 123
Fruits of Emancipation, 125
Fugitives in Canada, 137
First of Aug. Celebration 137
Free and Slave Labor contrasted, 149
For. Missionary Board Meeting, 166
Freedom of Speech, 169
Foreign Slave Trade a Blessing, 173
Farnham, Ralph, Letter from 176
Future of Politics, 193
Freedom of Speech in Boston, 194-205-206-208
Famine in Kansas, 196
Freedom of Speech in Philadelphia, 209
Fugutive Slave Case in Canada, very important, 209
G
Giddings before the Com. 23
Garrison, Wm. Lioyd, Speech of, 26-82-85-91-113-Letters of, 125-130-175-178-194
Garrett, Thos., and the Maryland Legislature, 33-34
Greeley's Dislikes, 45
Grover, A. J., Letter fm. 52
Guthrie, Dr., on American Slavery, 57
Garrison Ultras, 61
Gaines, John I., Life and Character of 68
Guthrie, Rev. Dr., Letter 69
Gouldin of Ga., Speech of 77
Grew, Mary, Speech of 85
Green's Review of Seward's Speech, 88
Garrison's Last,-93
Ghost of John Brown, 105
Gage, Frances D., Letter from 115-138-212
Griffing, Mrs. J. S., 123-139
Giddings to Phillips, 133
Giddings to Phillsbury, 166
Growing Power of the West, 171
Georgia Retalistion, 187
Glazier, Rich'd, Death of 200
Grandin, D.S., Letter of 206
H
Haughton, James, to his Countrymen, 30-Letter of 114
Hazlett and Stevens, 31
Hyatt Correspondence, 34
How Slavery is Defended, 41
Hyatt's Imprisonment, 47-49-70-92
Higher Law Illustrated, 53
Hogeboom, Comunication from 55-103-151-176
Heinzen, Carl, Lecture of in New York, 76-80
Helper's Book, 99
Heywood, E.H., 106-125
Hamlin a Mulatto, 117
Hot, Cold, or Lukewarm, 123
Harbaugh, S., Printing Office sacked, 123
Hyatt and the Clergy, 129
Higginson, T.W., Letter from 147
Hillard's Speech, 149
Hallet, B.F., on Slavery in 1849, 173
Hossack and Stout Liberated, 177
Harrington, 186
J
Jefferson and the Higher Law, 55
Johnson, B. R., Speech of 61
John Brown Meeting in Albany, 67
Jones, J. Eliz., Speech of 86
John Brown's Men, 104
Jay's Resolution in the Episcopal Conv., 158
Jerry Rescue Celebration 168
J.A.H. to F. Douglass, 174
Justice vs. Colorphobia, 182
Jefferson an Ignoramus, 193
Jail Banner, 193
John Brown Meeting at the Temple, 193-194-199
Julian, Mrs., Death of 200
<c06>
I
Irrepressible Conflict in Auburn, 14
Indians Massacred in California, 43
Inqulsition in South'n Ill. 73
Is the Govern'nt Divine? 104
Is Wisconsin a sovereign State? 121
Interesting from the W. Indies, 122
Influence of the Republican party, 123
Independence Day, 103
Is Minnesota a free State 125
Insurrection'y principles advocated by the N.Y. World, 140
Indifference to Polities Favorable, 168
Interesting Anniversay, 170
In the West, 190
Insanity in New Orleans, <illegible>
Inaugural Address of Gov. Pickens of S. Carolina, <illegible>
K
Kirk, Dr., on Liberty, 70
Knight, B.G., Letter of 119
Kidnapping in Minnesota 127
Kidnapping in Kansas, 138
Knox, T.P., Letter fm. 162
L
Lawrence, Calamity at 7
Letter from Missouri, 10
Letter from J. Redpath, 11-160
Letter from Rev. M. S. Bird, 12
Letter fm. Rev. H. Wilson, 15
Letter of Pres. Lord, 21
Letter of C.J. Ingersoll, 21
Letter of John Brown's Widow, 25"
Letter to Dr. Bethune, 32
Letter of Coppie's Mother to Gov. Letcher, 37
Letter of C. Robinson to Hon. H. Wilson, 40
Lord, Pres., predicts the establishment of slavery in New England, 45
Lovejoy's Speech in Congress, 58-62
Lovejoy and Pryor, 61
Letter of A. Hogeboom to S.S.Foster, 63
Letter of C. Robinson to W.H. Seward, 64
Lovejoy's Tirade, 65
Loguen's J.W., Correspondence, 65
Lovejoy's Mistake, 70
Lincoln, the Slave-Hound of Illinois, 99
Latest slave capture, 101
Lee's Fourth of July Oration at the Grave of John Brown, 121
Late from the Slaving Flect, 122
Letter of C. F. Adams, 125
Letter J. A. Andrew, 125
Lincoln and the Colored Folks, 134
Letter to Wash. Hunt, 147
Loss of the Steamer Lady Elgin, 147
Labor in the West Indies, 154-157-161
Letter from Georgia, 169
Letter to Sen. Chestnut, 189
Letter from H. Wilson, 199
Letter from a S.C. lady, 208
Letter from Gen. Jackson, 210
M
Monument to Copeland and others, 6
Monroe's Report, 13
Minister Lynehed, 22
Mawson, John, Letter of 38
Moral of the Sanborn Rumpus, 61
Manners at Washington, 65
More Deceit in the Independent, 66
Meetings at Worcester, 66-131
Madison County, Ky., 69
Marriage and Divorce, 88
May, Rev. S. J., Speech of 90
Mann, Daniel, on Non-Resistance, 100-116
More Sumnerism, 101
Man Hung by a Mob in Kansas, 124
Middlesex Co. A. S. Soc. 131
Moral and Political Action, 138
Mock Statesmen, 151
Manning, Rev. J.M., at the Music Hall, 158
Ministers of the Gospel, 160
Moral and Political Depravity, 173
Message of the Governor of South Carolina, 181
Maine Seamen Flayed, 185
Meetings in Vermont, 187
Meeting in behalf of Indians, 187-192-208
Mobocratic Proceedings in Boston, 196-198-200-201
Marriage and Divorce, 196
Miss Gilbert's Career, 196
N
Non-Resistance and Anti-Slavery, 7-44-55-116
Northern School Books, 41
Nursery of Treason, 49
National Democracy Sundered at Charleston, 70
Negroes in Canada, 101
Newman upon Hayti, 101
Noel, Ernest, Letters of on Jamaica, 154-157-161
O
Outrage in illinois, 116
Ottawa Sedition Case, 166
Ovation to Redpath in Hayti, 175
P
Pious Fraud, 16
Plymouth Church and the American Board, 19
Phillips, Wendell, 24-29-43-53-78-89-91-94
Parker, Theodore, 29-156
Letters from, 20-54-118 on Wine Drinking, 73 death of, 86-96-98-102 tribute to, 107-136-Will of, 107-124-his critics,124-donation to the Public Library of Boston, 147
Personal Liberty Law in New York Assembly, 29
Pillsbury, Parker, Letters and speeches of, 8-113-134-163-166-171-178-182-186-191-194
Phillippie for Phillips, 57
Phillips's Letter to New York Independent, 74
Purvis, Robert, Speech of, 78
Plot against Sumner, 94
Princeton Celebration, 106
Phillips and the Tribune, 111
Piracy in Cincinnati, 116
Phillips vs. Lincoln, 117
Punch on Chas. Sumner, 125
Philips's to Redpath in Hayti, 175
Phillips's Answer to Giddings, 135
Personal Liberty Bill and Republicanism, 145-146
Political A.S. Convention at Worcester, 155-160
Punishment for rescuing a Fugitive, 165
Phillips on the Constitution and Madison Papers, 171
Pro-Slavery Congregationalism, 174
Political Forgery, 176
Petition against White Slavery, 177
Phillips on the Pres. Election, 184
Phillips's Frater'y Lec'e, 193
Phillip Vandal, 194
President's Message, 197
Phillips at Musie Hall, 202
Personal Liberty Laws, 141,180,205
Phillips's Last Apearance, 205
Pro-Slavery Row in Boston, 205
Pres. Buchanan's Fast, 212
Q
Quincy, Josiah, Letter of, 99
Quakers are Out, 174
R
Remond Sarah P., Letter of, 9-her passports, 25
Realf upon John Brown, 25
Religious Press and Anti-Slavery, 28
Raid on Freedom, 31
Rights of Married Women, 36
Right of Suffrage, 44
Republican Platform, 83
Rescue of Capt. Farnum, 84
Republican Nominations, 87
Reform Convention, Iowa, 108
Remond, C. L., Speech of 114-126
Russian Emancipation, 121
Republican Bigotry, 138
Radical Abolition Convention, 142
Remarkable Indenture, 143
Republican Demonstration, 166
Ruffianly Treatment of Massachusetts Men, 167
Refuges from Arkansas, 178
Remond, Miss, in Edinburgh, 181
Reign of Terror, 181
S
Southern Sentiments 1-9
Slavery at its Dirty Work, 9
Spurgeon on Slavery, 25
Senatorial Legerdemain, 29
Sennott Geo. Speech of 29,54
Southern Mercantile Agency, 31
Sanborn's Petition to the Senate, 33
Seward's Speeches, 37-42-48-161
Smith's Libel Suits, 39
Speech of Dr. Rock, 19-34-42
Slave Trade between the States, 43
Stephen's and Hazlett's Exeeution, 46
Seward's Two Speeches, 50
Stevens, Aaron D., 50
Slave Case in Philadel. 54
Seward Playing Possum, 55
Sauborn, F.B.,Arrest of, 59-61
Sumner, Charles 65-Speeches of, 90-99-101-105-113-117-153-defence of Hyatt, 53-plot against, 94-Position defended, 97-at New York, 115-Letters of, 116-125-167-on Douglas, 141-Tribute to Theodore Parker, 159
Sedgwick, Hon. C. B., Speech of, 65
Senators Sumner and Mason, 66
Slave Trade Decision, 69
Slave Case in Troy, 71
Stephens and Hazlett, 75
Stanton, Mrs., Speech of, 78
Slave onboard the S. R. Spalding, 84
Sloane, J. R. W., Speech of, 85
Slaver Captured, 87
Smith Gerrit, Letter of, 92-153
Seward Sacrificed, 100
Sumner and Parker, Tribute to, 103
Sumner, Adams and Freedom, 106
Sumner's Revenge, 109
Sanborn, F.B., Speech of, 110
Silver Wedding, 112
Slaves Imported into Florida, 115
Slave Catching in Phil., 135
Shurz, Carl, on Free and Slave Labor, 149-on Free Speech, 198
Southern Aggression, 153
Southern Literature, 154
Slavery and the Contitu., 155
Stevenson, Mr. J. Thos., 157
Somes D. E. to Gerrit Smith, 159
Self-Contradictions of the Bible, 160-162
Slavery and the Gov't, 162
Sunter, Geo. Jr., Letter of, 164
Speech of John Hossack, 165
Sprague. H.B., Letter of, 167
Slaveholding Barbarity, 167
Sumner-Constitution and Madison Papers, 171
Saltonstall, L. Letter of, 173
Slavery in the U.S., 174
Southern Vulgarity, 174
Smith, Gerrit, to D.E. Somes, 174
Somes, D.E., A Word to, 176
Secession and Disunion, 177
Sentiment at the South, 181
Southern Med. Students, 182
Secession, 183-185-187-189-191-207-207
Southern Outrages, 183-185-190
Starvation in Kansas, 183
Slavery and the Abolitionists, 185
South Carolina Poetry, 197
Spike, Ethan, Letter of, 204
Slavery and Moboeracy at the North, 207
Senator Toombs's Letter, 210
Seceding Congressmen, 210
T
The Exodus, 2
The Church towards the Slave, 30
Thoughts about Color, 35
Tobacco in College, 48
Thompson, Geo., on A. Slavery, 38-48-in America, 53-letters from, 142-145-170-198
Testimonies from Scotland, 51
The Choctaw Convention, 53
The Entering Wedge, 61
Tractarian Gladiatorship 63
The Mask thrown off, 65
The Herod of America, 69
The New York Independent, 74
Too much about the Negro, 81-93
The Irrepressible Conflict, 104
The Independent against Cheever, 122
Texan Outrages, 13-137-141-146-179
Theology and Practical Life, 136
The Ebony Race, 137
The John Brown Party, 141
Toussaint L'Ouverture, 144
The True Allies of the South, 149
Texas Slave Excitement, 149
The Republican party, 154
The Independent in Defence of Slaveholding, 162
The Suffrage Question in New York, 174
The Prince in Boston, 176
Texas Plot no Plot at all, 185
Terrorism in Georgia, 190
Touchstone for Revivals, 192
The Church a Refuge, 199
The Two Bostons, 201
The Address of Judge Shaw and others, 204
The Last Boston Mob, 205
Taxation without Representation, 208
V
Virginia and Massachusetts, 40
Vote on N.Y. Free Suffrage, 191
W
Wise, Gov., Speech of, 1
Whittier on John Brown, 6-16
Wilson, Hon, Henry, Letter of, 7-199-speech of, 17-110-185
Wayland on Slavery, 30
Woman's Rights Convention, 36-106
Whiting, N. H., Speech of, 50
West India Emancipation, 49-77-124-149
Worth, Daniel, Letter of, 2-in prison, 38-trial of, 65-84-93
Wilson Threatened, 95
Winthrop, R.C., and John Brown, 162
Webster on Slavery Extension, 173
Woman's Right to Labor.176
Wise, H.A., the Madcap, 177
Winthrop in 1857, 192
Ward, Artemas, Letter of, 204
