THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania. Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 30. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 29, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1602.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Southern Citizen.
SCHOOLING FOR NEGROES.
All reasonable and humane persons are in favor of instructing little negroes in all the accomplishments and useful arts that negroes ought to know-namely, to hoe corn, to pick and gin cotton, to understand practically the treatment of sugar cane and tobacco, to obey their masters and overseers-together with such other branches of liberal education as will readily suggest themselves to persons who have had to deal with niggers.
As for English composition and the use of the globes, the calculus, hygiene and 'deportment,' we might perhaps hesitate:-and we say fearlessly that we are against botany, perspective drawing, physiology, and comparative anatomy, altogether.
What theory the President, or Hon. Howell Cobb, Secretary of the Treasury, may have formed with respect to the scholastic requirements of our colored brethren, we do not accurately know. We only know that about the meeting of the last session of Congress, our philanthropic administration was full of glowing and cheering hope, touching the good which might be done by sending the young Echo pieaninnies to college, and then letting them go forth over Africa, carrying the light of -so-and-so.
Two especial ends were to be gained-one(the principal one, of course) was to do good, and make the piratical enterprise of the Echo and occasion-under the blessing of Mr. Buchanan's God-to diffuse the aforesaid light of so-and-so:-the other was to get as much money as possible out of Congress. Happily, there was a precedent for both these noble projects, in the administration of Mr. Monroe. Mr. Monroe was an abolitionist;-that is, be contemplated the eventual extinction of slavery on this continent, and looked to Liberia as an outlet through which due time all the African labor which we have with so much care and pains and expense gathered around us here, might be judiciously carried away again, and poured out like water on the African sands. So, the first opportunity Mr. Monroe had, he made an astonishing effort indeed in this direction. There were about thirty recaptured Africans to be returned to their 'home' under the law of 1819.
‘In the simple grant of power to an agent (by the act of 1819) to receive re-captured negroes, it requires broad construction to find a grant of authority to colonize them, to build houses for them, to furnish them with farming utensils, to pay instructions to teach them, to furnish ships for their convenience, to build forts for their protection, to supply them with arms and ammunitions of war, to enlist troops to guard them, and to employ the army or navy in their defence.'
Such are the reflections of Amos Kendall, 4th Auditor, in his report on that transaction in 1830. In truth, long before the first of the thirty Africans could be trusted on the shores of their native land, President Monroe had shipped off to Africa, thirty three American born emigrants to found a colony for the reception of the precious thirty. These were all rated, and wages and support charged for, as in the United States service, either as mechanics, laborers, cooks, nurses, washerwomen, &C.,-all to make a comfortable home for the thirty barbarians. For their future convenience, also, the 'agent' took out in the first ship 'a wagon, wheelbarrows, ploughs, iron-work for a saw and grist-mill, a fishing-seine and a variety of farming implements'-together with two six-pounders, with shot, one hundred muskets, with accoutrements, ten kegs of common, and two of priming powder.' A four-oared barge was sent out from America, and a schooner was purchased at Sierra Leone.
Later in 1820, another agent was employed, and another assistant. The new agent took out another shipment of emigrants as colonists, and the first four (only) of the re-captured Africans. A new schooner was purchased, the first being 'much out of repair,' and among the articles sent out from time to time (while Ashmun was 'agent') appear charged 'ten dozen of porter and ten gallons of Madeira.'
In short, according to the said Fourth Auditor's Report in 1830, there had then been sent out of liberated Africans, under 260; and the appropriations for their support, education and comfort, out of our taxes, had amounted to $374,710.
Such is the precedent furnished by Mr. Monroe. It is true, most of these poor devils have relapsed in to barbarism; it is true that after forty years of Liberian life, they have not now a single plough in the 'Republic;' it is true they have never been able in any one year to feed themselves, in that luxuriant tropical country; and of nearly 42,000 negroes sent from America to that happy land, together with the children they propagated, less than 7000 are now to be found in the colony-the remainder, together with the increase (say 40,000) have found a more congenial home among the Deys and Veys and Soosoos, where they live on caterpillars, and have slave women to grease them, and keep the flies off.
Nevertheless, we find that Mr. Howell Cobb, our learned Secretary of the Treasury, plants himself fearlessly on this precedent furnished by Mr. Monroe. A considerable outcry was raised by factious persons (ourselves for example) at the audacious demand of the President for an appropriation of $75,000 to receive, take care of, and educate, the Echo Africans. The appropriation was resisted, and had a narrow escape; but still people murmur and grumble at the application of our taxes to the instruction of young natural-born field hands, in astronomy and the use of the globes on the coast of Africa.
Mr. James Jackson, Georgia, writes to Mr. Cobb, and asks if the case be really so.
Mr. Cobb replies in a very long and elaborate letter, declaring that although the agreement with the ‘Colonization Society' did in fact require that the children should 'receive schooling,' and be 'instructed in the arts of civilized life,' yet that no part of the appropriation was to be considered as paid for schooling. In a two column letter of the Secretary to this Mr. Jackson, we find these two sentences, one at the beginning, and one at the end of the letter:-
'I repeat what I before stated to you, that not one dollar was paid for the education or schooling of the Africans sent back to Africa.'
'I again repeat in the most emphatic terms-that not one dollar was paid to the Colonization Society in consideration of the education or schooling of the Africans which were committed to their charge by the President.'
Mr. Cobb finding that rational persons are disgusted at the idea of the public revenue being devoted to the schooling of young niggers, protests that the money was all paid for receiving the creatures, and that physiology, the shorter catechism and the use of the globes, were all to be gratuitous on the part of the blessed missionaries. He says the President only required a contract to receive these poor souls, and provide for their support one year and the Col-
For all these details, and much more of the same act, see Mr. Edward Ruffin's African Colonization Unveiled, a little pamphlet to be had at Randolph's Richmond, Va.
<c02>
onisation Society' for a stipulated sum agreed to do all  this, and more. 
Mr. Cobb then boldly appeals to Mr. Monroe's precedent; and bids us be thankful that whereas recaptured Africans in those days cost above $ 1.000 per head, we now get rid of them at $150 per head; schooling included.
This is really becoming too audacious a humbug. Those Echo negroes, if they had not unfortunately fallen into the hands of their enemies (that is, the U.S. government) would now be worth $1,000 a head, Many of them would have watches and gold chains; they would have got religion at the nearest camp-meetings; would have married likely wenches, and fulfilled the destinies of their race; would have made many bales of cotton, spread Anglo-Saxon civilization, &c., &c.
We beg leave to inform the Secretary of the Treasury, that we do not care a button whether our poor dear $75,000 went for French and extras, and the use of the globes, or not. What we say and swear is, that the whole concern, Liberia, piracy-laws, cruizing squadrons, Ashburton Treaties, schools, catechisms and double-ex-porter,—are all a humbug, an imposture and a swindle.
We hope this may be considered in plain English.

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW. SPEECH OF MR. CORWIN.
Extract from a speech delivered by Hon. THOMAS CORWIN, at a large Republican meeting held in Xenia, Ohio, on the evening of the 15th instant:—
In relation to Slavery, he had, during forty years, maintained the position occupied by the Republicans. The record of his whole life would prove it, and the record of his future life would show that he was with them earnestly upon Anti-Slavery principles.
Upon the subject of the power of Congress in relation to legislation for Territories, it was his fixed opinion that Congress had the right, and it is its duty, to prohibit Slavery in them. But with those who contend that Congress has not power to pass laws for the recapture of fugitive slaves, he could not and did not agree. He agreed with the Republicans, that Slavery is very mischievous—more injurious to the white than the black man—and he could establish by historical proof that wherever Slavery has found a place, the slave has suffered less than the master.
He had said, and would repeat the remark, that the Republican party was organized upon the single question of Slavery; and when be had said that he belonged to no party, it was with the gratification expressed or implied, that there were other great questions interesting to the people of the United States, upon which the Republican party had not been explicit, and it was to these question he had addressed himself. It was his deliberate opinion that Congress has the power to make a proper and suitable law to recapture fugitive slaves, as well as fugitives from justice, and he could not agree with those persons of extreme views who maintained it to be the duty of citizens conscientiously opposed to a law to resist its enforcement, and he believed that nineteen-twentieths of the Republican party of Ohio agreed with him. Just before coming upon the stand, a note had been slipped into his hand by some person unknown to him, which he would read, viz.:
THE HON. THOMAS CORWIN: In your speech here last Fall, you denounced as bad citizens those who would not and could not conscientiously aid in executing the Fugitive Slave Law. Now, Sir, I wish to know how any man who believes slaveholding to be immoral, can aid in the execution of said law, unless he undertakes to fight both against God and his own conscience. Swearing to support the Constitution lays no one under any obligation to support or aid in executing said law; for you know, and every unprejudiced man knows, that it is unconstitutional in several of its features. (Signed) A CITIZEN.
Mr. Corwin remarked upon the note at length—the substance of his sentiments being that he did not mean to denounce any man as a bad man who refused to obey the law, but that he regarded it the sacred duty of every citizen to obey the law when it should have been decided as such by the legislative and judicial departments of the country. He who would not, could not be a good citizen. It was rather absurd, and the principle carried out that on man should presume to say a law is unconstitutional and condemn all of his fellow-citizens as ignorant especially when every Court in the United States had declared the law constitutional. This Fugitive Slave Law, Judge McLean, an earnest Anti-Slaver man, had declared constitutional in so many words. Can any man say he is right, and all the world wrong? He would not countenance any man to do an act which his conscience would not justify. He would admire a man who would sacrifice himself for principle, because he would guarantee his honesty Yet he would say the law must be obeyed; and if you do not like it, repeal it. Suppose Brigham Young should come here with his forty-two women, and be arraigned, how would you regard it if be should set up the plea, 'My conscience and the word of God, as I read in the book of Mormons, tells me I am right'? He (Mr. Corwin) would have men obey the law, and if they disobeyed, he would bring the heads to the block, if the law required it. He disliked the Fugitive Slave Law. It is a bad law, and an unjust law. He would not have voted for it if he had been in the Senate. But it is the law, and must be obeyed till the principle of obedience to laws is forgotten, and we are driven to anarchy and despotism. The Constitution recognizes this law. The right of recapture could be asserted under the Constitution, if you had no law. The Courts of the United State have jurisdiction of the whole country, and a writ of error would take a case before it from your highest State tribunals, and the Supreme Court would inevitably decide in favor of the recapture upon evidence. If you would put the law aside in one case, you would in another, and what would be the result?

SEWARDISM.
An opinion prevails, even in Democratic circles the North, that the South will stand the consolidation of the war programme of Seward also! Let such as entertain it be undeceived.
The slaveholding States will act upon the principle that an honorable death is preferable to an ignominious life. We call upon the non-slaveholding States to relieve them from the awful dilemma in which they will be placed: if Sewardism is triumphant. We call upon Pennsylvania and Illinois, in particular, to patriotically ward off the blow aimed at the honor and the interests of the South. Pennsylvania can do it alone. Will she, can she refuse? Illinois, we are persuaded, will not; but, alas! she has not within herself the power to prevent the catastrophe.
Is this a time for Democrats, who stood shoulder to shoulder in other days in their devotion to practical principles, to be alienated upon abstract questions? What is there in Democracy better than in any other political party, if it is not prepared to make any sacrifice for the sustenance of constitutional right against <illegible>, inflated might, as <illegible> in the  Seward manifesto?— Washington States.
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
THE RIGHT OF PROPERTY IN MAN.
Extract from an impressive 'Discourse delivered in the First Congregational Unitarian Church, in Philadelphia, Sunday, July 3, 1859, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS, Minister':—
Putting the gross iniquity of this claim out of sight, to say nothing of its rank barbarism, what can be more palpable than its absurdity? Can there be any such thing as a right of property to anything whatsoever, save upon the ground of every man's inalienable right to himself? Here is the beginning and the basis of all rights of property. If a man do not belong to himself, if his hands and his feet, and the various organs and faculties of his being are not his, if his property in these things may be sequestered, when he has done nothing to forfeit them, except being horn of a certain complexion, and that was no act of his, then there is nothing else, neither houses, nor lands, nor implements of toil, nor beasts of burden, to which he can assert the shadow of a right. For if there is no such thing as a natural and inalienable right to one's own limbs, there can be no claim to anything which the exertion of those limbs produces. How, then, can one man hold property in another when he does not own himself? Thus the assertion of such a claim involves a flat denial of it; and it only shows into what depths of absurdity men plunge when they give up Right, and make Power law.
Deny the right of every man to himself, and there are no such things as natural rights, which governments and legislatures are under the slightest obligation to respect. The hard won earnings of the day-laborer may be taken from him at the close of every day to the very last cent, or the accumulated wealth of the rich may be appropriated summarily by any one who is strong enough to take it, and no wrong is done, no right infringed, in either case.
To assert, therefore, the right of man to hold property in another man, in other words, that one man's right to himself may be appropriated by another, so that the latter may lay claim to him just as he lays claim to a horse or an ox,—the assertion of such a right of property is destructive of all rights of property. It annihilates the very idea of property. It is the very central principle and soul of disorganization and anarchy. It exterminates human society. For it enthrones Brute Strength as absolute lord of the world. Recognizing no basis of things but arbitrary power, it degrades men to beasts of prey.
That I do not exaggerate, that I am uttering no ultra doctrine, no fanatical delusion, but only what is so plainly true that it is a shame that it should need to be stated, when I say that the claim to hold property in man destroys the very idea of right, and leaves no foundation for the holding of any property whatsoever, human or other, is evident from the fact that it is expressly asserted that slaves possess nothing, and slaveholders act upon the assertion; and this monstrous doctrine of savage power is actually carried out in  what are styled, in bitter mockery, courts of justice. There have been cases, as you know, in which slaveholders, having made an agreement with their slaves that they should purchase themselves for a certain sum, and having received nearly the whole amount of the hardly earned purchase-money, have sold the slaves, and kept the money as their own, claiming it as the proceeds of their property. And there was no redress for this monstrous wrong, as a slave cannot hold anything, nor make a contract. We are shocked at the indescribable baseness of such proceedings. But they are the necessary consequences of the essential principle of American Slavery, the right of property in man. They illustrate that; and they show that in fact, as in principle, the claim to hold man as property, involving as it does the denial of the indefeasible right of every man to himself, is subversive of all rights of property, of all rights whatsoever, of the very idea of justice. And let it be admitted, and the word justice, with whatever words there are that partake in the remotest degree of its meaning, may as well be erased from human language at once.
How it conflicts with other rights as well as the rights of property, with the right of Free Speech, for example, you all know; for the conflict between 5 the two has been going on for years directly before our eyes; we are in the midst of it, and it is yet far from being ended. In the Southern States, this sacred right of Free Speech, once gloried in as an essential distinction of our form of society, is prostrate in the dust, and can be used only at the instant peril of life. And throughout the North, the exercise of it incurs the loss of popular favor and personal success. It is denounced as treason, or sneered at as fanaticism. Mobs have been gathered again and again to silence discussion with fire and blood. Men high in office, of the best culture the country affords, well versed in history, familiar with the principles and philosophy of things, have proposed in order to protect the right of property in man  against free thought, the enactment of laws abridging the right of Free Speech. In one instance, the attempt to establish a free press in a Free State cost the individual who made the attempt his life. The Rev. Mr. Lovejoy, the brother of the present noble member of Congress from Illinois, for the sake of protecting human property, was shot down as an outlaw.
But not only does the claim of property in man wage a war of extermination against the freedom of the Press and the Pulpit, it cannot be forgotten how the right of Petition, the right of the most abject slave that breathes to kneel to the proudest despot on earth, and supplicate for mercy and justice, was sought to be struck down in the halls of Congress, because it threatened the security of property in slaves. Do you not remember, and remember with pride and joy, how nobly the attempt was met, an resisted by one who had been clothed with the highest official dignity which this people can bestow, and yet all whose official honors faded away in the effulgence of the glory that irradiated him in that great battle?
But there are nearer and dearer rights even than the rights of Petition and Free Speech, if any rights can be dearer than these,—there are rights most holy, if there is anything holy on earth or in heaven which the claim of property in human flesh tends utterly to destroy, and which this monstrous claim has already put in such jeopardy, that they can be exercised only under penalty of fine and imprisonment. The right to give food and shelter to a fellow-being fleeing for what is dearer than life, personal  liberty, this right, the exercise of which Religion and Humanity enjoin as a most sacred and imperative duty, which no man can neglect without violating the law of God, and doing deadly harm to his own soul,—this right the claim to hold man as property not any denies, it has actually and deliberately, with all the forms of human law, in defiance of Almighty God, and the universal conscience of mankind, converted into a penal offence; so that, at this very time, in one of the so-called Free States of this Union, numbers have been prosecuted and imprisoned for obeying the plain dictates of common humanity, for discharging the first duty of true Christian men the duty which, being left undone, not only renders  all pretensions to the Christian name worthless and
<c04>
contemptible, it divests a man of his personal honor, and ruins him soul and body. 
Thus this unhallowed claim, of which I speak, makes good evil, and light darkness. <illegible> to render the performance of indispensable human duties impossible. And it has actually made itself effective to such an extent, that it has seared the conscience of the great Christian Church, and so blinded the understandings of most eminent professors of religion, that they cannot distinguish the piercing shrieks of human agony from the dull creaking of dead political machinery, but stand unmoved and dumb when a hunted mother murders her child to save it from being treated as a chattel and a brute! To the most vital intents and purposes, the alleged right to hold human property expunges from the Bible the plainest precepts of God, and its self-evident truths from the Declaration of Independence, thrusting itself in the place of both, usurping the authority of the Highest, and virtually declaring the fundamental principles of our Institutions to be, the right of one man to enslave another, and the Fugitive Slave Law, by which that right is acknowledged and secured.
Thus, my friends, it is apparent, not only in reason but in fact, that the claim of property in man is destructive of all claims, of all rights. It annihilates the ground upon which you hold anything that you call your own, your wife, your child, your right hand, your own soul.

From the Salem (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Bugle.
COMPOUNDING OF FELONY.
We are sorry that the above caption seems to us the most appropriate one under which to announce the release of the Oberlin Rescuers from Cuyahoga County Jail. While many are exulting in the opening of their prison doors, and proclaiming it a triumph of the Higher Law, the manner in which their release was effected seems to us an exceedingly discreditable proceeding, and only to be described as what in similar cases is called 'Compounding of Felony,' and subjects the parties concerned to public reprobation, if not to punishment. Could their release have been effected in an honorable manner—had their friends surrounded the jail, and brought them forth by an exhibition of a determination to raze the prison to its foundation if they were not set free, we should have rejoiced with exceeding joy; but we have no heart to exult in their dishonorable release, for as such we are constrained to regard it. We do not wish to be thought uncharitable, and still less unjust; and in order to show that we have not used the above language without due consideration, we will briefly refer to some of the facts in connection with the case.
The Rescuers were imprisoned to await their trial on a criminal charge under a United States law, on which, we presume, they anticipated  conviction, It matters not that the alleged crime was a Christian act, nor that the law under which they were to be tried was regarded by many as unconstitutional—the fact we have stated remains the same. Jennings, Mitchell & Co. were also bound over for trial as criminals, but before another court; and whether or no they were guilty of kidnapping, legally considered, they were morally guilty beyond doubt. They were accused of violating a State law—a law which was made not for the special benefit of the people of Oberlin, or any portion of them, but for the especial protection of the colored citizens of Ohio: and the efficiency of the law depends upon the promptness and certainty with which punishment is meted out to its violators. Here was a case in which the people of Ohio were the accusers—not Lorain County, but the State at large; and if the accused were guilty, Ohio had pledged her State Sovereignty that the offenders should be punished. The Prosecuting Attorney of Lorain County certainly had no moral right, and we don't believe he had any legal authority, to set loose upon the community four kidnappers, on condition that certain other persons should not be punished by the U. S. officials. Have law and justice become merchantable commodities in Ohio? Can kidnappers buy immunity from punishment? Can violaters of State law escape the penalty by promising to drop individual prosecutions? It would seem so, if this swapping of offenders is to be taken as a specimen of the administration of justice in our State Courts. If the precedent thus set is to be followed, where is the practice of legal dickering to end? What assurance have the people in any case that criminals will be punished? The evidence against the accused may be of the strongest and most positive character, his conviction and punishment be deemed essential to the protection of the community, but when he is brought to the bar, a nolle is entered, not upon pretence of any extenuating circumstances existing in his case, not because of the slightest doubt of the weight of evidence against him, but because, forsooth! he has agreed not to prosecute somebody else, provided his case is not brought to trial. What a miserable mockery of justice! What a perversion of law!
Plumb, Peck, and their companions in prison deserved the sympathy of the people of the State; but what would have been said to a proposition to have  the U. S. Attorney enter a nolle in their case, provided some notorious counterfeiter or murderer were freed from his penitentiary cell? The whole State would have been indignant at the insult, and the Rescuers would have utterly refused to accept an enlargement so purchased. But the same thing in principle has been done, and the Rescuers have gone free on condition that four kidnappers should be turned loose upon society; and their friends hold a jubilee over their enlargement, and call it a triumph of Higher Law.
Triumph of Higher Law! It isn't even a triumph of Ohio law. The transaction inflicts indelible disgrace upon the State, by proclaiming in unmistakable terms that, in Ohio, Kidnappers can purchase immunity from punishment. Swan's habeas corpus decision is spoken of as involving a surrender of State Sovereignty, but Ohio was never brought so low as when she bought the Oberlin Rescuers out of prison, by consenting to suspend the operation of her State Laws against kidnapping. 'We agree to your proposition, dear Messrs. Slave-catchers,' said Lorain County. 'If you won't punish our Oberlin, citizens any more for man-freeing, we won't punish you at all for man-stealing.' 'Wall,' said the kidnappers, 'seeing that some of your fellows have been tried, and found guilty, and sentenced, and some of 'em plead guilty, and been sentenced, and the rest of 'em been imprisoned longer than they would have been if they had been tried, and thus has the Fugitive Slave Law been abundantly vindicated; and seeing it is very inconvenient and expensive for us to be here, we agree to cry quits.’
There is nothing honorable to Ohio in the transaction, nor to the Rescuers and their friends, nor to the United States either, although the latter occupies decidedly the best position. We affirm, 1st, that neither the District Attorney of the United State, nor the Prosecuting Attorney for Lorain County had any right to enter a nolle against men whom they believed guilty of crime, in consideration of the release of others who were charged with crime. We affirm, 2d, that to turn alleged kidnappers loose upon community in order to secure the enlargement of the Rescuers, was a mal-administration of justice, a sus-
<c05>
pension of the criminal laws of Ohio, and a precedent which promises to be fraught with the most dangerous results. We affirm 3d, that in accepting <illegible> upon such condition, the Rescuers made a lamentable mistake, and closed, by a disgraceful compromise, a controversy they had up to it time boldly, and honorably, and with a spirit of heroic self-devotion, maintained with the myrmidons of the slave power operating through the United States Officials.

THE GREAT INCONSISTENCY.
A few weeks since, we published a synopsis of Henry Ward Beecher's great speech in New York, exposing and denouncing the American Tract Society for its treachery to humanity, and its complicity with the basest dishonesty and corruption. It was truly a remarkable speech. No man has more unreservedly denounced church fellowship with slavery, than did Mr. Beecher in this speech. It was scathing to pious, evangelical man-stealers who rule and manage the Tract business—the men who stood out as the best types and representatives of American religion. And, yet, Mr. Beecher was guilty of acknowledging that these very men whom he reprobated and denounced to the utmost capacity of human language, are Christians, and he stands today in loving church-fellowship with them. He rushes upon them—he hurls huge avalanches of reproach and denunciation upon them—he probes and lays bare their contemptible hypocrisies; yes, he calls them hypocrites, tricksters, moral delinquents, dodgers, robbers, and Christians! Strange, killing inconsistency, is it not? And this, too, is precisely the same inconsistent and unexplainable position in which we find Dr. Cheever placing himself—nullifying his noble and glorious words for freedom by criminal ecclesiastical connections with slavery. He is daily living out the paradox of exposing, with a fervor and a force akin to Divine inspiration, the terrible guilt and wickedness of slaveholders, and at he same time breaking with them, as fellow saints, the bread of the Lord's communion! This, reader, is what staggers people:—we scarcely understand from it what especial use Christianity is to the world, no man, in view of it, is able to see what is to be gained by 'getting religion.'
We make these remarks only as introductory to in extract from an able review of Mr. Beecher on Tract Reform, by Charles K. Whipple, in a late issue of the Boston Liberator—Erie True American

INFAMY OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW AGAIN ILLUSTRATED.
One of the most infamous of the many damnable phases of the Fugitive Slave Law has recently exhibited itself in Washington City, the national capital of this 'great, glorious, free and magnanimous country.' A colored woman who had been a resident of that city for twelve years, and had been regularly manumitted as was proved on the trial, and is admitted by the National Intelligencer, was claimed a few days since under the Fugitive Slave Law, and taken before a fellow called Merrick, and a Judge. By this slave-catching, slave-breeding Judge, she was remanded to slavery on the production of a record from an inferior court, consisting of a petition, not sworn to, setting forth that the claimant had a bill of sale of the woman, dated anterior to the deed of manumission. The original bill of sale was not produced, and it did not appear from the record that it had at any time been acknowledged or recorded. The woman had enjoyed her liberty, with the full knowledge of the claimant for twelve years. There was nothing in the whole record under which a sheep could have been held in any Northern Court, yet this United States Judge actually refused to receive any testimony showing that the woman had been regularly manumitted, and not only enslaved her, but decreed that her child, who was not even claimed in the record upon which these outrageous proceedings were based, was also a slave. All this is done under United States laws, and by a United States Court. The only remedy for this enormous abuse of power is impeachment, and we hope to see proceedings instituted to test the question whether a judicial officer can disregard all the forms of law, and deprive a fellow-being of freedom. Such are the beauties of our boasted institutions, and such the very essence of modern Democracy. Ought we not to have an extra screech from the American eagle at the coming Fourth? Let him flap his wings without restraint!—Detroit Adv.

MR. GEORGE SUMNER'S FOURTH OF JULY ORATION.
COMMON COUNCIL OF BOSTON, July 14. At twenty minutes before 11 o'clock, Mr. Burgess called up the vote of thanks to Mr. Sumner for his 4th of July Oration. 
Mr. Williamson moved that the further consideration of the subject be postponed for a week. On this the yeas and nays were taken, as follows:—
In favor of postponement—Bartlett, Batchelder, Bayley, Beal, W. C. Burgess, Doherty, Drake, Ford, Frederick, Jones, Kelley, McCarthy, Mooney, Page, Paul, Pierce, Poland, Riley, Slade, Tucker, s Williamson—21.
Against postponement—Bates, C. S. Burgess, Burr, Carpenter, Clapp, Cowdin, Faxon, Fitch, Janes, Jenkins, Lothrop, Parkman, Richards, Richardson, Robbins, Robinson, Sears, Standish, Stedman, Webster, Wilcutt—21.
This made a tie vote, when the Chair gave the casting vote in the negative, or against postponing.
Mr. John L. Batchelder, of Ward 8, said he was fully prepared to record his name against a vote of thanks to George Sumner. He liked well enough to vote thanks, but never to a man who had outraged the feelings of a large part of our people, and who had cast contempt upon our President, and that up on a national day, and taking advantage of a temporary and unaccustomed elevation. There would be little consistency in this city entertaining strangers from the South this week, and at the same time pass a vote in favor of a sectional demonstration like that which was made by the city orator on the 4th of July. Mr. Batchelder moved to strike out of the resolve all expression of opinion, and substitute instead the words, 'We heartily endorse the sentiment expressed in the last part of his oration,' and allow the clause for printing to remain.
Mr. Williamson of Ward 4 liked the amendment. He held to being flat-footed on this matter. The 4th of July was a national holiday. It was for all the United States; and he would never vote to flatter an orator who accused the President, or the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, of unworthy. motives—who descended to serve a sect, or to steal to the livery of Heaven to serve the devil of a party in (Applause from the lobby, and the President threatens to clear the Chamber of outsiders.) Mr. W continued by remarking that he was not in Boston on the 4th. On his return to the city, be encountered a Boston paper, and naturally turned to it to see who of his friends bad escaped the fireworks; to see if the balloonists did not come down faster than they went up, and to see whom the city had honors as guests. In a report of the speech of a gentleman from a Southern State, he discovered that that gen
<c06>
tleman had been treated to an oration which disgusted him. The speaker thought it highly inconsistent for the city of Boston to hold out their hands full of invitations to Southern merchants to come here and buy goods, and then ask them to swallow whole, such an oration as Mr. Sumner's.
But for one glaring defect, he found no fault with Mr. Sumner's oration, although he thought it contained a little too much of Italy, and too little of New England. It would, in the opinion as the weaker, have been better if it bad contained less of Hapsburg, and more of Bunker Hill; if it had contained less of Louis Napoleon, and more about Jefferson, Knox and Washington. He could not but contract this frigid oration with those of the hundred orators of Boston, whose words were still gleaming along the printed page. It must have been, hard to sit down and listen to an oration two-thirds made up of foreign politics, about which we were reading every day in the newspapers, and the other third of verification of the President and Chief Justice. It was a funeral-baked meat that coldly furnished forth the banquet of the Union of the States. They asked for bread, and were given a stone; they asked for a fish, and received a scorpion.
The speaker did not wish to be misunderstood in his matter. He favored the largest liberty of speech and discussion. For that principle they had struggled. For asserting that right, a woman had been hanged upon Boston Common, and Roger Williams banished. But there was a time and place for everything. The speaker did not believe in the infallibility of the Supreme Court, or of any human institution, and did not object to fair-minded criticism— such criticism as was used by Hamilton, Jay, and Jefferson in molding the Constitution or the United States; and such as was used by Hancock and Parsons in bringing into shape the Bill of Rights and the Constitution of Massachusetts. 
The speaker read from the oration, and criticised it, saying that the chief executive should abide by the decision of the majority of the Supreme Court, as so learned an advisor as Mr. George Sumner was not always available in this country. They paid too well for them abroad. He declared that the opinions of Chief Justice Taney, cited by Mr. Sumner in his oration, were garbled and unjustly treated. He believed that if the orator had given a lecture on phrenology, and accused every man not agreeing with him with being a Tammany Hall politician, his oration would not have been well received; and if even the Chief Magistrate of this Commmonwealth had been attacked, then would have been a majority here, be believed, to refuse a vote of thanks for the oration, and to have spurned it, and the orator also, if he was here.
He asked if the judiciary, so fiercely attacked, would be likely to be improved by such an attack, and declared that if such an oration had any tendency, it was to lower the judiciary, as the rebellion of Shay in Western Massachusetts did in the same thing. It was this spirit which once dragged down a chief justice of Massachusetts, because he made a decision unbiassed by party prejudice.
Should an orator have stood up, and said of our Governor what this orator said of the President, any proposition to print his oration would have been scorned. As little right or justice was there in animadverting upon the Supreme Court. When an orator left the high and holy memories of that day, and degraded it to serve his partisan purposes, and heap calumnies and vile language upon good and great men, we should contemn every proposition to make his animadversions permanent in print. This Mr. Sumner had not lived in this country for fifteen years, and had earned his money under foreign governments, and yet he came home and told as that our Supreme Judges were a set of pot-house politicians. Such a spirit as he manifested was that which in France brought the noblest to death under the humbling of the judges to the cries of the mass. It was that spirit which hade every man obey the dictates of party, independent of equity, honor and truth. Never would be vote to thank a man who used such an occasion as that to asperse the President and the judiciary. If it was desirable to have our national Sabbath celebrated as it ought to be, we ought to condemn any man who would cast discord into our midst on such a time.
Mr. Burgess asked of the speaker if he didn't vote for thanking the orator of the previous Fourth of July?
Mr. Williamson replied that he did, and asked if that did not contain good sentiments: and further urged that the sentiments of the oration of the last Fourth of July should not be encouraged, thereby putting a stain upon the names of Washington, Jay, and Taney.
Mr. Stedman of Ward 11 said that he had a few words to say. He should vote to thank Mr. Sumner, because it was a matter of custom and courtesy. He didn't can what the sentiments of the orator were. If his party—the American party—had been roundly abused, be should have laughed at it, and voted the thanks just the same. Two years ago, he said, the same force was played, and the result was that the oration was read all over the United States, when it would not have been read by two hundred persons if the customary vote of thanks had been passed. He believed that the oration was distinguished by learning, and that it contained many things which the Councilmen, with all their learning, had not known before. (Laughter.) He believed that the Fourth of July orator should not be cramped—he should not be confined to subjects that have passed away, but should be allowed to express his mind with the utmost freedom upon the great topics of the day.
Last year the Chief Magistrate of the State has been villified in the oration, and no one thought of refusing the vote of thanks; not even the friends of Mr. Banks had stepped into speak against it. If was only by free speech and the expression of untrammelled sentiments that the names of the great men of our country could be honored.
Mr. Kelley of Ward 2 said that be knew that many of the members wished to speak upon the, question, and as the hour was late, he moved that the further consideration of the subject be assigned to Thursday evening next, at quarter past 8 0'clock. The motion was accordingly carried.
COMMON COUNCIL, OF BOSTON, JULY 21.
The special assignment—vote of thanks to George Sumner, Esq., for his recent Fourth of July oration—was called up.
Mr. Burgess then moved an indefinite postponement of the subject. Rejected.
Mr. Poland of Ward 3 moved an adjournment, which was lost.
Mr. Williamson of Ward 4 called the attention of the Council to the fact that the other branch of the city government had taken action in relation to the death of Mr. Choate, and thought the time proper to act in the matter.
Mr. Burgess moved a re-assignment of the vote of thanks to Thursday evening next.
Mr. Parker of Ward 1 opposed the motion. He was heartily sick of this whole matter. For himself, he was as ready to record his vote now as at any time. He should vote for the thanks, but at the same time should not endorse sentiments of the oration.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United states Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with help’
'The free States are the guardian and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse ,they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, by and force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. on this subject, OUR FATHERS,IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION,SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'—WILLIAM ELLRRY CHANNING
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Mr. Batchelder of Ward 8, moved for the yeas and nays on the question of re-assignment. 
Mr. Parker hoped the business of the Council would not be pushed aside. He would be glad to take action in relation to Mr. Choate, but thought it might be taken at a later period in the evening, or upon some other occasion. 
Mr. Jones of Ward 9, desired to have the vote taken to-night. They had been playing 'Much Ado About Nothing' long enough. 
Mr. Robbins of Ward 2, wished the question disposed of to-night. 
Mr. Kelly of Ward 2, was of opinion that the memory of Mr. Choate should be honored now. Mr. Sumner would live a week or two longer. 
The yeas and nays were then called on the motion for re-assignment, when it was rejected, 17 to 23. 
The question then recurred on the motion of Mr. Batchelder, viz: to thank Mr. Sumner for the latter portion of his oration, and it was rejected, 8 to 31. 
The vote of thanks was then passed to a second reading, 24 to 15. 
The question then recurred on the Board passing the resolution of thanks.
Mr. Sears of Ward 6, took the floor, and addressed the Council. He said that something ought to be said in reply to those who had spoken in opposition to the resolution. He had been at a loss to account for this oppositionï¿½whether to some mysterious impulse of eloquence, and that must be poured forth at all costs, or attributable in a degree to partisan feeling. He presumed it was to be asscribed to the former cause. The spirit of eloquence that might have been hovering about the 4th of July, had probably found utterance. After a passing allusion to the position taken by the member from Ward 3, (Mr. Moody,) the speaker proceeded to say that he was surprised at the sentiments uttered by the member from Ward 4 (Mr. Williamson.) 
He was satisfied that his speech had its importance in the patriotic associations of the day. The gentleman from Ward 8 (Mr. Batchelder) had spoken in a party spirit. He trusted, however, that when the vote should be taken, this spirit would disappear. He was glad to see that party spirit controlled but a small portion of the Council. In the vote on the final question, he hoped they should all unite without regard to parties. Why should they not give the orator a unanimous vote? In giving such a vote, they but followed a long-established usage, with but a single exception. It had become a kind of common law of the city government to pass such a vote; a usage that should not be departed from, except for the strongest reasons. 
We invite a gentleman to deliver an oration: he devotes himself to its preparation; he gives to it his skill, culture and learning; he comes before the citizens of Boston, and delivers it. We give him no instructions as to what he shall say, or the manner of saying it. Under these circumstances, shall we refuse to give a vote of thanks? What reasons for a refusal had been given? He had heard none that ought to weigh for a moment. It had been said that the orator put forth sentiments not in unison with a great portion of the citizens of Boston; that he reflected on the General Government, and upon official persons. Mr. Sears said that those objections proceeded from a total misconception of the conditions under which the orator had been invited to address the authorities, and of what a vote of thanks meant. 
He by no means agreed with all the sentiments of the orator, and especially with what was said in relation to England, and he regarded some of the epithets as in bad taste; but what of that? This was no reason why they should not pass a vote of thanks. We invite a gentleman to address us, and give him the right to express the convictions of his judgment. In doing this, he violated no duty or right. He denied that the vote of thanks would be an endorsement of the oration. Such a proposition was utterly absurd. The Public Library recently received as gifts, volumes of Voltaire, Hume and others, and the Trustees, as was proper, returned thanks for the same. But in doing this, they did not endorse what was contained in the works. 
An Anti-Slavery Committee in this city, a year or two since, invited Senator Toombs to make an address, and afterwards passed him a vote of thanks. No one supposed the Society thereby agreed to what he uttered. The orator of last year offended tenfold more than did Mr. Sumner. He offered a direct insult to the Chief Magistrate of the Commonwealth, who was present as a guest of the city, and yet the Council passed a vote of thanks without opposition. Even the gentleman from Ward 4, (Williamson) did not vote against it. Circumstances alter cases. It made a difference whose ox the bull gored. That gentleman had made a distinction between an attack on a Federal and a State officer, but the speaker could see no other ground than party zeal. 
The orator had made no attack either on the City Government, its guests, or upon the principles of any party, or platform. The only thing that could be said was that he had criticised one branch of the Federal Government. That was a matter of individual judgment, and which he had a right to do. Mr. Sumner gave his reasons for this, believing the government had exceeded its authority, and that the only way to check it was to bring the popular opinion to bear upon it. Mr. Sears contended that the orator, by his knowledge of men and matter, both abroad and at home, was qualified so to speak, and in doing so only performed a duty. The speaker referred to the calumny uttered by the member from Ward 8, that Mr. Sumner had been employed as a spy in foreign countries, and denounced it in fit terms. 
He paid a tribute to the worth of Mr. Sumner, and said that our country, through his efforts, enjoyed an esteem that would not have been the case otherwise. Mr. Sears next referred at some length to the opinion of Judge Taney in the Dred Scott case, in reply to portions of the speech made last week by the member from Ward 4, Mr. Wilkinson. Passing from this, he said it was wholly immaterial whether they agreed with the orator or not in the action they should take. After referring to the characteristics of our American oratory, and to some of its vices, he closed with expressing the hope that the resolution of thanks would be passed by a large vote. 
Mr. J. G. Webster of Ward 6 had not the least solicitude as to the effect of the adoption of the vote of thanks. He thought by its delay and discussion the Council was doing much to get a wide reading for Mr. Sumner's excellent oration. The orator was peculiarly appropriate in his remarks, particularly now in this time of war in Europe. He thoroughly understood Europe, and was well fitted to compare Europe with America, to remind us of the blessings we enjoyed, and warn us what care and vigilance were required to preserve these blessings. Seeing a worse than Austrian despotism cropping out in our midst, how could he help as a patriot speaking of it, whether he touched Court or President? The subject of his oration needed no excuse. If we had never had any jarring of sentiments, where would have been our 4th of July? An address so tame as some gentlemen would have had, would have been unworthy of attention. Mr. Webster argued that Mr. Sumner was no partisan, and his address was not a partisan address. 
Mr. Kelley of Ward 2 said he intended briefly to give his reasons why he should vote against thanks to Mr. Sumner. No one doubted Mr. Sumner's right to speak as he pleased, but if we did not like his opinions, we had a right to refuse to give him thanks. It would have been much better had Mr. Sumner gone South, and become better acquainted with the institutions of his own land which he ignorantly strikes at, than to tell us about Europe. Had he by his own labor sweated for his country, he would be the better able to appreciate her, and not so ready to say an unkind word of her, on such a day as that. 
Not long since, at the Essex Street church, Hon. Rufus Choate made remarks at which the orator's first attack was aimed. Mr. Choate said that in that church, only the word of God had been preached. For she orator's attack on Rufus Choate, he should not have a vote of thanks. The orator's second attack was upon the Supreme Court, upon Judge Taney, whose shoes he was not worthy to unloose, and whose opinion our citizens every day practically endorsed. The Dred Scott decision was struck at through Taney; now we all know that that decision was properly based upon the inferiority of the negro. 
The sweat of the negro has made Massachusetts what she is; cotton made everything go here; cotton prices were the first news told of in European telegraphing; yet the very men who grew rich by the results of slave labor were the men to turn around and curse slavery. This man Sumner lived by the sweat of other men's hands; he had never soiled his delicate hands; yet he came to us, and struck at those institutions of his native land which he had not given an hour's labor to support. Was it not a shame that generous Southerners should be guests of the city, and hear abuse from any fellow whom we picked up in the streets? America was our country,
<c02>
<illegible> he who said one unkind word against her on <illigible> national holiday was no patriot. 
As for printing this oration, there had been too many such partisan harangues circulated at the public expense. There was no doubt that this <illegible> was delivered to suit the taste of the Governor <illigible> his partisan friends. Something had been said <illegible> of custom, but when we invite a man to paint 
a <illegible>, and he daubs her with tar, are we bound to <illegible> him? When we invite a man to say a good word for his country, and he villifies her, are we 
to thank him?
If the city could not have a man to deliver an <illegible> who would for one day set aside <illegible>, and speak from his love of country, the Democrats would find the means of securing for themselves the enjoyment of the day in a manner suited to its noble memories and great objects. There were men here in this Council who talked one way and voted another; but there were others who would let them see that they could not be cajoled by any arrangement hereafter into returning to this Council men who sustained such as those advanced in this oration. He hoped if they wanted such orations delivered hereafter, they would select Wendell Phillips, and they would have the man suited to their purpose. 
Mr. McCarthy of Ward 7 argued that the delivery of such an oration as that of Mr. Sumner was inappropriate to the day, and spoke at some length. 
Mr. Tucker of Ward 3 thought gentlemen were very inconsistent to refuse to endorse the sentiments of Mr. Sumner's oration, and then be anxious to give him a vote of thanks. As for the oration of Mr. Holmes last year, no one ever heard that the Republicans were offended with any allusions to Mr. Banks, and so, of course, all members were bound to accept the oration as being all right. The Democrats claimed that when an unjust attack was made upon the Supreme Judge, it was an attack upon the Democrats with whom he sympathized. When the orator made his oration, he knew he was insulting the Democratic members of the Council. Judge Taney was attacked for the same reason as was Judge Loring deprived of office-because he was true to the oath of duty he had taken. 
Mr. Tucker made a defence of Judge Taney, and spoke of the remark made by General Jackson, who appointed Judge Taney-'If there is one honest man in this country, that man is Judge Taney.' The Democrats of this Council believed this oration had insulted them. Would the majority thank this man for insulting them? Vote the thanks, and the Democrats would think that the other members meant to insult them. Vote the thanks, and the Democrats would be compelled, to be clear of insult, to have their own celebration next independence day. Mr. Tucker also spoke of the orator speaking of Judge Taney as Mr. Taney. 
Mr. Sears of Ward 6 denied the supposition that the Democrats were anyways insulted by the oration or the vote of thanks, and replied to the remark regarding Judge Taney. 
Mr. Stedman made a brief speech in conclusion. 
The question on the final passage of the vote of thanks was then taken, and the resolution to thank Mr. Sumner was adopted-25 to 17. 
Yeas-Baker, Bates, Beal, C. S. Burgess, Burr, Carpenter, Clapp, Cowdin, Faxon, Fitch, Jones, Jenkins, Jones, Krogman, Lothrop, Parkman, Paul, Pierce, Richardson, Robbins, Robinson, Sears,
Standish, Stedman, Webster. 
Yeas-Bartlett, Batchelder, Bayley, W. C. Burgess, Dohorty, Ford, Frederick, Kelly, McCarthy, Mooney, Page, Poland, Richards, Riley, Slade, Tucker, Williamson. 

AN APPEAL 
To all members of the great Methodist Family, affiliating with the Methodist Episcopal Church, throughout the World.
BELOVED BRETHREN IN CHRIST: 
The Undersigned Ministers of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the United States of America would respectfully represent, 
That at an early day in our history as a Church, slaveholders were tolerated among us as members-that the practice had become so common, that in 
1844 one of our Bishops was found to be a slaveholder-that a resolution requesting him not to officiate as a Bishop till that impediment was removed,
caused a division of the original M. E. Church in 1845; and that, notwithstanding that division, the Methodist Episcopal Church (that is, the Northern Division of the original Church,) is still deeply involved in the sin and shame of slaveholding. We have thousands of slaveholders yet in the Church-
Trustees, Stewards, Leaders, and Local Preachers;
and even travelling Preachers have become slaveholders, in several instances, and are such still, with but little disapprobation, as a general thing, on the part of the Conference to which they belong. Such is our present connection with this terrible crime against humanity. 
The undersigned, and tens of thousands in the private membership of our Church, feel that these things are wrong in the sight of God-a disgrace to Methodism and our common Christianity, and a stumbling-block to unbelievers. We therefore feel 
that this is our bounden duty to secure, if possible, at the next session of our General Conference, which takes place at Buffalo, N. Y. (U. S.) May 1st, 1860, a disciplinary rule, by which all slaveholders shall be declared ineligible to membership in the Methodist Episcopal Church. Slavery is deeply <illegible> our nation, and its malign influence is not less deadly upon the Church of God; and we feel it to be our duty, as much as in us lieth, to remove this curse, and to wipe away this reproach from the otherwise pure escutcheons of our common Methodism. 
But we have learned by experience that the slave power is a formidable power. Slaves bring high prices, and some of our members raise, and own, and sell them, as do others, to their great pecuniary profit. And a portion of the Ministry, especially in the slave States, are strongly opposed to any ecclesiastical action that will exclude slaveholders from the Church, or even condemn the practice of slaveholding. 
In this state of things, while we are determined to do all in our power to secure the exclusion of slaveholding from the Methodist Episcopal Church, we feel the need of all the moral influence we can command, in order to a successful termination of our labors. We stand on the original anti-slavery platform of WESLEY, and WATSON, and CLARKE, and of COKE, and ASBURY, the founders of our Church in this country; and we have no other object in view but to purify our American Zion from this terrible abomination.
To you, therefore, we appeal, sons and daughters of the Wesleys, under God, in all lands! Will you not cast the weight of your influence into the scale of humanity and justice in the approaching contest? You can exert a powerful influence for good upon the next General Convention of the M. E. Church in these United States. And is there not a moral propriety in your so doing? Every Methodist on the globe is disgraced by the slaveholding now tolerated in the M. E. Church; and you have all a right to speak, and, if need be, to remonstrate, in earnest and unequivocal language, in behalf of our common Methodism and Christianity. 
We appeal to you, therefore, in this fearful, and, we hope, final struggle against slavery in the M. E. Church, to help us by sending memorials or deputations to the General Conference of 1860. And we entreat those honored bodies in England and in Canada, who have heretofore favored us with deputations at our quadrennial sessions, if need be, to instruct their future delegates to give, while among us, an unequivocal voice for FREEDOM, and against oppression in the Church of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
To all regular bodies of Methodists in England, and Australia, and Canada, and the West Indies, who may not send delegates to our approaching General Conference, we say: Men of Israel, help! May we not hear your voice with ours, in the form of memorials to our next General Conference? They would greatly strengthen the hands of the enemies of slavery in this land, and could not fail to hasten the day of the Church's purification from this great sin. In such a struggle against slavery, ought not every Methodist on the globe to speak? So we think, and so we hope it will be. This is the only land in which Methodists raise, and own, and buy, and sell slaves, and we are struggling to wipe away this reproach. O., brethren! Sons of the Wesleys of every clime! Will you not come to our aid, by your delegates, or memorials, in this, the grandest moral conflict of the age, that victory may be the more certain, and the blessing of many a liberated bondman, and of a regenerated Church, may come upon you? 
Memorials should be addressed: 'General Conference of the M. E. Church, to be held at Buffalo, N. Y. May, 1860. Care of Rev. H. Mattison, New York, U. S. A.'
Your brethren in Christ. 
This Appeal has been signed by TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY ONE Methodist ministers.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, JULY 29, 1859. 
ANNIVERSARY OF WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION! 
The usual 'First of August' Celebration will be observed, this year, on SATURDAY, July 30th, in the beautiful ISLAND GROVE, at NORTH ABINGTON.
The liberation of EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND slaves by the government under which they were held, is an act of disinterested philanthropy, as uncommon in human legislation as it is full of righteous rebuke and touching appeal to this slaveholding Republic.
Let the friends of Immediate and Unconditional Emancipation gather from every quarter, to bear anew their testimony against a Government, deaf to the cry of the victims of its relentless tyranny-and a Church, by whose remorseless consent and complicity these millions of the Israel of God are held in chains; to rededicate their 'lives and fortunes' to the redemption
of 'the suffering and the dumb' of our land, and hasten the day when they, too, shall be brought forth from the ineffable misery of bondage, to be compassed about with the songs of deliverance. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, Rev. U. M. FISK. of Taunton, J. FRANK BAILEY, late of Brown University, WM. WELLS BROWN, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., ANDREW T. Foss, CHAS. LENOX REMOND, HENRY C. WRIGHT, and other speakers are confidently expected to be present.
The following gentlemen have been appointed a Committee of Arrangements:-FRANCIS JACKSON, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, THOMAS J. HUNT, ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, PHILANDER SHAW, SAMUEL DYER, E. H. HEYWOOD.
The Old Colony Rail Road Company will convey passengers, on that day, to and from the Grove, as follows:ï¿½
Leave Boston at 9, A. M., Plymouth at 9.20, A.,M., stopping at usual way stations. 
Fares, as follows:ï¿½
Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Port Norfolk and Quincy, to the Grove and back, 50 cents for adults, twenty-five cents for children.
Plymouth, and all way stations not already named, to the Grove and back, at half the usual fare.
Excursion Tickets will be good on other trains that day; but such trains will not stop at the Grove, but at Centre Abington station, near by. 
RETURNING-Leave the Grove at 5ï¿½, P. M. 
Ample preparations at the Grove for Refreshments and Recreation.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in the Town Hall, contiguous to the Grove.
In behalf of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Secretary.
FIRST OF AUGUST! 
The anniversary of the Emancipation of eight hundred thousand slaves in the British West Indies will be celebrated by a public mass meeting of the friends of universal freedom, to be held in the spacious Town Hall in Milford, Mass., on Monday, August 1, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. 
To this annual gathering, all those who have hearts to 'rejoice with those who do rejoice' in the possession of the priceless boon of liberty, and to 'weep with those who weep' under the crushing weight of slavery-who would do something to ï¿½ undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free,' are most earnestly invited. Come one, come all! 
Among the speakers who are expected to address the meeting are A. T. Foss, HENRY C. WRIGHT, ADIN BALLOU, PARKER PILLSBURY, CHAS. L. REMOND, and GEO. W. STACY. 
Per order of the Committee of Arrangements, WM. S. HAYWOOD, Chairman. 
Hopedale, (Milford, Mass.) July 19,1859. 

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 
Those who profess to deplore and execrate the existence of slavery in our country should avail themselves of every opportunity to rally together,ï¿½forgetful of sectarian and party creeds,ï¿½and combine whatever influence they possess, and bear the strongest testimony it is in their power to give, for its speedy and utter extinction. No occasion is more fitting than the anniversary of that wonderful event, the immediate abolition of British colonial slavery, without the shedding of one drop of human blood, or the loss of one farthing of property. 
Every thing has been going on encouragingly in the Islands since it was consummated, and it not only leaves this guilty nation without excuse, but deepens its condemnation for its dreadful persistency in the work of oppression. The consequences that have attended it have been good, only good, and that continually, whether reference be had to the moral condition, intellectual development, general prosperity, or safety and happiness of all classes; and any statement to the contrary is an audacious falsehood, coined and circulated for the worst purposes. 
It will be seen by the official notice, that the celebration of this glorious anniversary will take place on Saturday next, (to-morrow,) 30th inst., instead of Monday, August 1st, at ABINGTON, under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society; and that a special train of cars will leave Boston at 9 o'clock, A. M. Friends of freedom! be not weary in well-doing! Allow nothing but insuperable obstacles to keep you away from the gathering on that occasion, and once more give 'the long pull, the strong pull, and the pull ALL TOGETHER,' for the downfall of our American Bastile! 
This jubilee will be celebrated in this city, at the Tremont Temple, on Monday next, August 1st, by the Colored Citizens of Massachusetts, in general convention assembled. We are glad to learn that there is a cheering prospect of a large and spirited gathering on the occasion.
COMPENDIUM OF THE IMPENDING CRISIS OF THE SOUTH. By Hinton Rowan Helper, of North Carolina. New York: A. B. Burdick, Publisher, 8, Spruce Street.
1859. 
In this admirable Compendium of a truly invaluable work, we perceive on examination that a considerable portion of old matter has been discarded, and several new features introduced, which are apropos to the time and subject, and which add materially to the interest of the work-rendering it incontestable in facts, irrefutable in argument, unimpeachable in testimony. In small but fair and legible type, we have here, on 214 pages, equally as much matter as is contained in the original work; and, as thus designed and prepared for general distribution, it will help to harmonize and consolidate all the noble elements of opposition to slavery. The eighth chapter, entitled 'Testimony of Living Witnesses'-an entirely new chapter-shows the views and feelings of leading, representative Republicans. This Compend, from the title-page to the end, like the original work, breathes but one spirit, to wit: DEATH TO SLAVERY. 
It is to be regretted that, as yet, of the $16,000 which it is proposed to raise by donation, in order that one hundred thousand copies of the work may be published at the low rate of 16 cents each, only about one-fourth of that amount has been obtained. Subscriptions will be received by William Henry Anthon, 16 Exchange Place, New York, or Samuel E. Sewall, of Boston. No better service can be done the Anti-Slavery cause than by enabling this Compend to be read by THE PEOPLE, in consequence of its cheapness.
<c04>
FUGITIVE SLAVES. NO. 2.
MR. GARRISON: 
It is a proposition too manifest in itself, and too generally admitted to require an argument in its support, that obedience to the laws of any government, as such, is due only from those who owe obediencs to the same. I say as such, for there may be laws which, from their intrinsic justice and wisdom, should be obeyed by all living under their jurisdiction, whether they owe allegiance to the government or not. When the inquiry is made, therefore, whether slaves owe allegiance to government, and are bound by its laws, this class of laws must, I think, be excepted from the inquiry, for of their duty to obey them I think there can be no doubt. The inquiry, therefore, resolves itself into this: Do slaves owe allegiance to the government under which they are living, and, in consequence, are they bound by all its laws-those which treat them as slaves, and deprive them of all their rights, personal, social, domestic and political, as well as those laws which are just and equitable, and which act equally upon the whole community, the free as well as the slave? And to this inquiry, the result of my reflections leaves me in no doubt, that they are not bound. 
It is a doctrine admitted and maintained by all civilians and jurists, I believe, that allegiance and protection are in themselves reciprocal duties, due from the governed and the government, and that where the latter is not afforded, the former is not due. By protection is meant, as I understand it, that the citizen or the subject shall be secured in the exercise of all his rights, which have not been parted with in consequence of his becoming a member of a civil community, and which are resigned for the benefit of the whole community, himself included; and that he shall be placed upon the same footing with the other members of the community. And if any class of men are singled out from the rest of the community, and deprived of their essential and inherent rights, which are allowed and guaranteed to the rest, this class of men do not owe allegiance to the government which treats them in this manner, and are not bound by the laws as proceeding from such a government. Protection to them, on the part of the government, is here wanting, and allegiance from them to the government is therefore not due. 
Taking this view of the subject as sound, then, it is evident that slaves do not owe allegiance to government, as such. They are deprived of nearly all the rights that are enjoyed by the rest of the community, and reduced almost to the condition of brutes. They are considered and treated as the property of others, with nearly all the incidents and conditions of other kinds of property. They are completely outlawed, and are held not to have even the rights of human beings. They do not become members of the Commonwealth, by any voluntary act of their own, whether directly or by implication, but are held as such by brute force against their consent. Their disposition to remain subject to such a government cannot be inferred from their living under it, for it is not a matter of choice with them, but of necessity, from which they cannot escape, which they would gladly do, if in their power. 
It is true, that there are other classes of persons who are disfranchised of all political rights, who are neither voters nor eligible to office, and who cannot participate in any way in the administration of government-such as foreigners who are not naturalized, persons under age, and persons not having the requisite property in some of the States. But, in these cases, it is in the power of such persons to live under the government, or remove beyond its jurisdiction, at their pleasure. If, therefore, they choose to remain, it may be fairly inferred that they intend to be subject to its control, and are therefore justly subject to its laws. But slaves are not in this predicament. Whether they will or not, they must remain, and come under the operation of laws, which not only deprive them of all political participation in the government, but of almost of all their rights of every kind whatever, personal, social and domestic, which reduce them to the condition of brutes, and make them the property of other people. Surely, such a condition takes away all pretence that they are the willing subjects of such a government. So far, therefore, as the laws of a State consider them as slaves, and treat them as such, I hold that they are not bound by them, but that they have the right to disobey them, and make their escape from them, whenever they have the opportunity, and that if any one, whether an authorized officer of the government, or any one else, with or without law, attempt to retake them, and subject them again to slavery, such a person they have a perfect right to consider a wrong-doer, and defend themselves from him in the same way they would resist an attempt by a highwayman, an assassin, or other trespasser; and if the death of the assailant is caused by such a defence, it is and ought to be considered a justifiable homicide, committed in self-defence. The slave is thrown upon his natural rights, and upon the right which is given to him by God himself, to protect his liberty from the wrong-doer, at all hazards, and at any sacrifice. And such, I am persuaded, would be the verdict of every jury in the free States, not packed. An officer of the national government has no more right to return a man to slavery than a sheriff has a right to hang a man, whom in his soul he believes to be innocent of the crime of murder. His official station will afford him no justification at the bar of his conscience and of his God, in either case. 
Again: no people have a right to make a Constitution which shall recognize a certain portion of its population as slaves, and subject them to all the disabilities and privations to which the latter are made subject. And such provisions in the Constitution and laws made under them are morally void, and of no effect; for if the white population have a right to do this in regard to the colored population, one portion of the white population has the same right to do it in regard to another portion of the white population, and reduce them also to a state of slavery. An admission that they have the right to do this would be an assertion that government was not founded upon any thing like right and justice, but upon mere power and physical force, upon the right of the strongest. It would be an assertion, not that 'government derived all its just powers from the consent of the governed,' but from the weakness of the governed, and that might does indeed constitute right. For certainly it cannot be inferred, either directly or by implication, that one class would consent to reduce themselves to the condition of slaves, and become subject to the most absolute and degrading bondage. I say, then, that the assumption by the white population, of the right to frame a Constitution and pass laws under it, which shall subject the colored or any other population to a state of slavery, is in itself an unjust assumption, without the least color of right and justice, a bold defiance of the laws of God, and of eternal justice, and should be indignantly spurned and trampled upon. W. S. A.
The Boston Board of Aldermen, Monday afternoon, concurred with the Common Council in the order of thanks to George Sumner for his recent Fourth of July oration. The vote was 9 to 3. The discussion was confined to one speaker-Alderman Holbrook-who opposed the measure in a speech neither long nor strong. The vote was then taken. The opponents were Messrs. Emerson, Holbrook and Pierce. See the action of the Common Council on our first page.
CORRECTION. In the communication on our last page, entitled 'A Word of Liberal Christianity in the Green Mountain State,' a few lines from the commencement, in the sentence, 'But a fair proportion of the ministers of this sect are quite sectarian in their views,' &c., read 'Parkerian' for-'sectarianï¿½meaning, inclined to Theodore Parker's theological views.
<c05>
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY. 
The annual meeting of this Society was held in North Danvers, July 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., the President, C. L. REMOND, in the chair, who opened the meeting with some spirited and stirring remarks. 
A committee on finance, and a committee to nominate officers of the Society, to serve the ensuing year, were then appointed. 
Mr. Endicott, of Danvers, made some remarks, objecting to sentiments being advanced, and not backing them up with the proof. He objected to the doctrine of 'No Union with Slaveholders.'
The discussion was continued by Thomas Haskell, James N. Buffum, and Joseph Merrill, in a very interesting manner. 
Mr. Foss and Mr. Remond made some further remarks, and the meeting adjourned to meet at 2 o'clock, P.M.
AFTERNOON, Met at the hour of adjournment, J. N. Buffum, Vice President, in the chair. 
Mr. Foss took the stand, and made an instructive and highly interesting speech. 
Mr. Foss, Mr. Burnham, and Martha O. Bennett, were chosen a committee to act on business. 
Joseph Merrill, chairman of the nominating committee to nominate officers to serve the ensuing year, made the following report, which was accepted and approved:ï¿½ 
Presidentï¿½CHARLES LENOX REMOND, of Salem. 
Vice Presidents-William Ashby, Newburyport; Thomas Haskell, Gloucester; J. N. Buffum, Lynn; Martha O. Barrett, South Danvers; D. P. Harmon, Haverhill; Mrs. Lucy Ives, Salem; Henry Elwell, Jr. Manchester; John Cutler, Danvers; Thomas J. Chipman, West Newbury. 
Recording Secretary-Moses Wright, Georgetown. 
Corresponding Secretary-Sarah P. Remond, Salem. 
Treasurer-Ira W. Roberts, Danvers. 
Executive Committee-E. F. Burnham, Danvers: Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester; Caroline P. Putnam, Salem. 
Mr. Remond made a short speech. 
Mr. Endicott again addressed the meeting, and the discussion was continued by Mr. Haskell and Mr. Foss. 
Adjourned to meet again at half past 5 o'clock, P. M.
EVENING SESSION. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair, who addressed the meeting in a cool, calm and dispassionate manner, and to good acceptance. 
Mr. Foss, chairman of the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:ï¿½ 
Resolved, That the formation and continuance of the American Union, by which it was agreed that the slave trade should remain unmolested for twenty years-by which a slavery basis of representation was made for the election of members of Congress-by which it was agreed that fugitive slaves should be given up to their claimants-and by which the whole nation agreed to use its power for the suppression of domestic insurrections, was, and its continuance is, as unwise and impolitic as it is indisputably a crime and an outrage upon the rights of man. 
Resolved, That the entire history of the American Government proves the utter impossibility of harmonizing the discordant elements of Slavery and Liberty within itself, and any further attempt at this folly is the insanity of Bedlam. 
Resolved, That we still continue our testimony against a pro-slavery church, denouncing it as the synagogue of Satan, and will do so till it repents of its wickedness, or rots to death in its own moral putrescence. 
Resolved, That in the death of our much beloved friend and co-laborer, Joseph H. Putnam, one of the Vice Presidents of this Society, we are sensible of a deep and irreparable loss. The ability and fidelity with which he served the cause of humanity are left us as an inspiration to a devoted and manly life. Although he died in early manhood, his life was not short, for 'that life is long that answers life's great end.' We also tender our heartfelt sympathies to his afflicted and bereaved family. 
The above resolutions were accepted and approved by the Society. 
Mr. Foss made a speech of considerable length, and so full of interest as to keep most of the audience till nearly dark. 
Seventeen dollars were collected for the cause. 
The meeting then adjourned, sine die. 
MOSES WRIGHT, Sec. 

PERSONAL FIDELITY.
TOLEDO, July 16, 1859
FRIEND GARRISON: 
When it is an impossibility to attend your Independent celebration at Framingham, we find it quite profitable to read your speeches. In looking over T. W. Higginson' s, I see the following: 'And, for another thing, do not let us be afraid of personalities ... Let us, therefore, be just, but do let us be personal to-day.' The advice is very good indeed, and that which every reformer must practise, or his talk will prove abortive; But, does friend Higginson salt these words down with action? We recollect reading a speech of his, some time since, in which he stated that the editor of some spiritual paper wished him to write for its columns, provided he would slide over the giant crime of our land, or at least keep silent about that abstract (?) question, slavery. Several correspondents (who had a right to know) addressed him through the Liberator, asking and entreating him to be personal, and call the name of that recreant editor, or speak the name of his time-serving, pro-slavery sheet 'right out in meetin' Did he do it? If so, I have never seen it, but would, with others, be glad to. Or is Mr. Higginson a Spiritualist himself, and consequently feels a little timid about exposing his spiritual brother? He seems extremely anxious that a rotten church and huckstering politicians should be stripped of their masks, and presented to the world in all their corruption, but extremely tender of a Spiritualism which is no better than the most hunker Orthodox church, unless it arrays itself on the side of humanity, and seeks for communications from the four millions of spirits groping their way to light and immortality through a worse hell than Milton ever imagined, or Pollock conceived. As abolitionists, we have nothing to do with religious creeds or spiritual theories, but we have something to do with a Spiritualist or Spiritualism that seeks to build up its sect by ignoring the claims of the millions of imbruted, chattelized human beings in our midst. Will friend Higginson be personals? Let us have that 'devil'(inconsistency) you speak of in abolitionists cast out. R. S.
THOMAS CORWIN AND SLAVE-CATCHING. By referring to the extract we have made from his recent speech at Xenia, on our first page, it will be seen that Hon. (?) Thomas Corwin, the Whig-Republican, goes for sustaining the Fugitive Slave Law! An 'honorable' kidnapper indeed! 
Mr. Corwin has addressed the following letter to the Cincinnati Commercial, correcting an error in the report of his Xenia speech: 
XENIA, July 16,1859.
Your report of my remarks at Xenia, in your issue of this morning, makes me to have declared that I would not vote for the admission of a Slave State into the Union, even if instructed to do so. This is a mistake. I said I should carry out my opinions as to the exclusion of Slavery in the Territories, and if my constituents should instruct me otherwise, I would not obey them, but consider whether I ought to resign. I said nothing on the subject of admitting Slave States into the Union. Please insert this in your paper. 
Very respectfully, THOS. CORWIN. 
That means that Mr. Corwin is ready for the admission of more slave States into the Union!
<c06>
DEATH OF RUFUS CHOATE.
'But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead.'-Matt. viii. 22. 
FRIEND GARRISON: Nothing has occurred, for a long period, which has so impressed me with the importance of this simple direction of the Savior, as what has transpired in connection with the deatha of Mr. Choate. A frail, erring mortal, he has passed from us at the zenith of his intellectual greatness. That such a star should be missed from the mental firmament is not singular; but that the attempt should be made to magnify him into one of the attempt should be made to magnify him into one of the greater lights in the moral heavens, whose place cannot be filled, perhaps, in an age, is simply foolish and wicked. At the imposing pageant on Saturday, at the church of Dr. South-side Adams, in an invocation by Dr. Blagden, at the opening of the ceremonials, the blessing of God was implored by that eminent divine upon those who had assembled 'to honor the dead.' There was no intimation of an intention, or wish, to honor the living-either the living God, the living Savior, or living men, but simply to honor a dead man. The Doctor should have pondered the passage, (see Leviticus xix. 14,) 'Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgement; thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty: but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor;'-and, (see I. Peter, ii. 17,) 'Honor all men. Love the brotherhood.' The Scriptures declare, 'The dead know not any thing.' If this be true,(and Dr. B. endorses it,) it seems as unwise to honor them as it would be to honor an idol, or any other senseless object that might have either an ideal or real existence. But this is all in keeping with the Christianity of the times. We honor dead men, a dead Christ, dead customs of the past-dead religious rites and ceremonies, (for they have no power to give or sustain life,) while we dishonor a living God, a living Savior, (who 'ever liveth to make intercession for us,') and living men. who alone can be affected, beneficially or otherwise, by any thing we may do. We would commend to those who are willing to be led by such teachers, the following instructive passage in Isaiahï¿½(see Is. iii., 12 to 15:) 'O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of they paths. The Lord standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancient of his people, and the princes thereof-(i. e., the leaders, or teachers)ï¿½for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses. What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord God of hosts.'
What a picture is here of the popular religious teachers and teachings of the present time! Who should wonder that there are so many who 'call evil good, and good evil; that put light for darkness, and darkness for light'? (See Isaiah, v. 20.)
I have something to say of the funeral address of Dr. Adams, to which I was permitted to listen, which , for want of time, I will defer till another issue of your paper.
Yours, for impartial justice, 
Boston, July 25, 1859. JUSTITIA.

RUFUS CHOATE.
 [ The following communication was written for the Worcester Transcript, but denied an insertion in that paper.] 
MR. EDITOR:
I have just finished perusing your eulogistics comments upon the death of Rufus Choate; and I must say that I read the article with much sorrow and surprise.
You observe that 'the occasion of his death is too recent to permit of any language but that of eulogy.' When we review the life of Rufus Choate, glance at his brilliant genius, immense learning, and wonderful abilities, and behold a man fitted in all respects (had he but had a heart) to be a benefactor, not of our race and our clime only, but of all races and of all climes; and yet perceive such a man prostituting his talents, through a long life, in the service of sin and oppression-traducing the motives of men working earnestly and prayerfully for down-trodden humanity-standing aloof from, and ridiculing all the great reforms of the day-refusing to identify himself with any noble idea or thought calculated to improve, elevate, and equalize mankind-I ask you, sir, if death should shield his person from the condemnation of all honest and good men? The idea that death covers all recreancy to justice and right, seems to your correspondent totally false. If the grave that encloses Mr. Choate's body could swallow the evil he has done, and the example he leaves, we might enjoy at least the luxury of forgetting him. But, unfortunately, 'the evil that men do lives after them, 'and example acquires tenfold authority when it speaks from the grave. Shall Rufus Choate, on account of his genius, be suffered to do wrong, and to trample truth underfoot through life, and then be allowed to descend into the grave unrebuked-nay, covered with eulogy as a true patriot and a public benefactor? No! 
Yours, very respectfully,
W. C. M.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for August, presents a remarkably rich table of contents. It opens with The Dramatic Element in the Bible, by the late Rev. Sylvester Judd. Then follow: The Ring Fetter, by Rose Terry; The End of All, by R. H. Stoddard; Birds of the Night, by Wilson Flagg; A Trip to Cuba, by Mrs. Howe; Daniel Gray, by Dr. Holland; My Psalm, by Whittier; Enceladus, by Longfellow; The Italian War, by C. C. Hazewell; &c., &c. There is also a very interesting article on the Zouaves, prepared in France; while Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe continues her 'Minister's Wooing,' and the 'Autocrat of the Breakfast Table' discourses in his usual happy vein.
ERRATA. In the Treasurer's Report, published in the Liberator at July 1, the following corrections should be made:ï¿½
Mrs. A. Boutelle, Plymouth, instead of Boutwell.
Atkinson Stanwood, Newburyport, instead of New Bedford.
In the next paragraph, the $4 87 should be carried out as the total, instead of being credited to Atlas and Bee, whose overcharge was 37 cts. only.
In the last paragraph, the last name should be, Mrs. Anna E. Sibley, of Chelsea, (not Libbey,) to redeem pledge, $3.
Also, in the Treasurer's Report in Liberator of June 17th, the sum of two dollars, 'for sales,' should be credited to Mrs. Caroline Remond Putnam.
BUXTON SETTLEMENT OF FUGITIVE SLAVES IN ELGIN, CANADA. Rev. Wm. King has started on a mission to England, Ireland and Scotland, accompanied by Wm. H. Day, Esq., of Chatham. Mr. King's talents and sacrifices are well known both here and 
in Europe.
Mr. Day is a young colored gentleman of acknowledged high talents as an orator, and of mental ability in other respects.
These gentlemen sailed in the North Briton, from Quebec, on the 25th June.
HAYDN'S SACRED ORATORIO, THE CREATIONï¿½ Composed in the years 1797 and l798-in Vocal Score, separate Accompaniment for the Organ or Piano-Forte. Edited by V. Novello. Boston: published by Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington st.
This imperishable Oratorio is published in the same convenient form and elegant style as Handel's Messiah. Both of them are now within the reach of the public, and at a reasonable price.
For the latest, dirtiest and most impudent effusion of John Mitchel, the Irish renegade, in his Southern Citizen, see 'Refuge of Oppression.'
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM THE FRESIDENT.
The following letter, in regard to the death of Mr. Choate, from the President of the United States, was received on Tuesday night:
WASHINGTON, 18th of July, 1859.
MY DEAT SIR, —I deeply regret the death of Mr. Choate. I consider his loss at the present time to be a great public misfortune. He was an unselfish patriot; devoted to the Constitution and the Union; and the moral influence of his precepts and his example would have contributed much to restore the ancient peace and harmony among the different members of the confederacy.
In him the ’elements were so combined,’ that all his acquaintances became his devoted friends. So far as I know, even party malevolence spared him. He was pure and uncorruptible; and in all our intercourse, I have never known him to utter or insinuate a sentiment respecting public affairs which was not of a high tone and elevated character.
Yours, very respectfully,
JAMES BUCHANAN.
Mr. JOHN CLARK.
MR. CHOATE'S LAST DAY AT HALIFAX was apparently his best day. Indeed, from the moment of his arrival at that place until the hour of the fatal attack, there were encouraging indications of improvement in his condition; and on the fatal Tuesday, he instructed his son to notify the family here that he should set out for Boston the next morning. In the afternoon, however, while reposing on a couch, his son became alarmed at the sudden change in his appearance, and questioned him as to how he felt. Mr. Choate answered that he was growing weak and faint, and he immediately became insensible. The doctor who was called stated that the sudden insensibility was occasioned by the effusion of water on the chest, and that everything depended upon the constitution of the patient. But Mr. Choate never spoke again, and he passed away calmly at two o' clock on Wednesday morning.
THE REMAINS OF MR. CHOATE. EASTPORT, July 21st, 2 P. M. The remains of the Hon. Rufus Choate have just passed here in the steamer Eastern City8, from St. John, N. B., accompanied by his son. The flags on the shipping and in the town have been at half mast during the day. The flags from the Democratic and Republican headquarters are stretched across the street, draped in black. Minute guns were fired by Artillery, Company B., from the time the steamer came in sight till she reached her wharf, and from the time she left the wharf till she passed out of the harbor. The bells were also tolled during the same time.
DEATH OF MR. CHOATE. The citizens of Boston and vicinity held a meeting on Friday, at Faneuil Hall, to do honor to the memory of Rufus Choate. The hall was draped in deep mourning, and speeches were made by Edward Everett, J. T. Stevenson, P. W. Chandler and Mayor Lincoln.
Edward Everett's closing remarks were:—
'Never more in the temples of justice—never more in the Senate chamber—never more in the crowded assembly—never more in this consecrated hall where he so often held listening crowds in rapt admiration, shall we catch the unearthly glance of his eye, or listen to the strange sweet music of his voice. Tomorrow we shall follow him—the pure patriot—the consummate jurist—the eloquent orator—the honored citizen—the beloved friend, to the last resting-place; and who will not feel, as we lay him there, that a brighter genius and a warmer heart are not left among living men?
The following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That we render to his (Mr. Choate's) family our earnest and respectful sympathy in their great bereavement, and request permission to attend the remains of our departed friend to their last resting-place in the grave.
THE FUNERAL. On Saturday last, the private funeral services were held at the late residence of Mr. Choate in Winthrop Place, at half past 10 o'clock. At their conclusion, the remains were delivered to the committees from the City government and the Bar, and taken to the church in Essex street, which was crowded in every part. Rev. Dr. Blagden read the Scriptures and prayed, and a discourse was delivered by Rev. Nehemiah Adams.
DEATH OF RUFUS CHOATE.
This distinguished law advocate died at Halifax (Nova Scotia) on Wednesday, the 13thy inst., in his 60th year. He was born at Essex, (Mass.) on the 1st of October, 1779. He graduated at Dartmouth College in 1819; studied law with William Wirt at Washington, and with Judge Cummings of Salem, and on his admission to the bar, speedily attained high reputation as a lawyer. He had served in both branches of the Massachusetts Legislature, and was U. S. Senator from 1841 to 1845, —taking the place of Webster, who entered President Harrison's cabinet; —since which period he has held no public office, but confined himself to the business of his profession, rendering occasional service to his party. He professed a considerable veneration for the Christian Religion, but there is much reason fro believing that he knew nothing of its power, because he spurned God's elder law of love, liberty, and brotherhood, by placing above it, in his regard, a code which commands Christians to ’bewray him that wandereth;' forbids them, under pain of imprisonment, to give food or shelter to the hunted victims of a horde or race of petty tyrants; nullifies the Declaration of Independence, making liberty sectional and treasonable, and slavery the supreme law of the land. He occupied a mighty eminence and our nation's history, but it was a bad one. As Milton's Satan thought it’ better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven,' so he seems to have preferred the splendid but guilty and empty honors and applause of an hour among the Catalans and Negros of America to those calmer, and deeper, and surer, and purer, but less pompous, showy, and pretentious honors which are the crown of a life-time of well-doing for righteousness sake. Yes, Rufus Choate was a great man, not as God reputes greatness, but as the world defines it. We pause over his sepulchre now that he is gone, and while remembering the transcendent genius which prostrated itself before the broken and unholy shrine of a false ambition, now fallen to rise no more, this sad threnody seems to tremble in music from the invisible silences, like the wail of a fallen angel:
Weep not, sad moralist, o'er desert plains
Strewed with the wrecks of grandeur,—mouldering fanes,
Arches of triumph now with weeds o'ergrown, 
And regal cities, now the serpent's own:
EARTH HATH MORE DREAP FUL RUINS! —one lost mind,
Whose star is quenched, hath lessons for mankind
Of deeper import than each prostrate dome,
Mingling its marble with the dust of Rome!
Atlantic Messenger.
RUFUS CHOATE.
The papers of the day seem to indulge in that species of eulogy of this distinguished lawyer which would lead the young into the error of supposing that his career was on worthy of their imitation in all respects. Against this fatal error we must protest. An imitator of Rufus Choate would only be vile; as the most brilliant points in his character are inimitable, and those which incipient pleaders might attempt to copy, un-attended with the lustre which belonged to Choate would leave them in the lowest condition of despised knavery, of unworthy aims, and of corrupt and tricky practice. The following, from the Springfield Republican, is far more to the purpose than all the fulsome eulogies in the Boston papers:
'It is the highest evidence of his genius and his industry, that they attained for him this position, in spite of the greatest failing a lawyer can have. We refer to what was notorious to the profession, to what, in one form, had passed into a by-word with the public—his disregard of truth and justice in the undertaking and trial of cases. In assuming a suit or defence, he never seemed to ask, is this right? does my client seek the ends of justice and truth? Not, in the prosecution of a case, did he seem to hesitate in the use of doubtful and dishonest means to secure the end. Espousing the interest and object of his client with great ardor, he used all the powers of his mind, all the graces of his oratory, all the suggestions which a reckless ingenuity or a desperate strait prompted, to reach the desired result. Too often doubtless, he was successful by these means; and if many a time justice has been vindicated, and the truth unravelled, and endangered right has triumphed through his splendid efforts, when they would otherwise have failed, too often by the same intervention has the wrong gloried in success, justice been perverted, and the criminal screened from the punishment due to his offences.
No cause seemed so desperate, or so bad, that he would not undertake its defence; no suggestion of law, no trick of forms, so shallow or puerile, that he would not press into service for his purpose. So, in the trial of his cases, he would astonish judge, jury and lawyers, by his perversions of evidence, and his manipulations of the plainest matters, of fact into strange and unnatural and untrue forms and theories. Every bar at which he has practised will tell you the illustrations of these habits of his. They had ceased to excite surprise, or provoke displeasure, or even to prejudice his argument. They were heard with a similar wonder and curiosity to that with which men look upon any surprising and unnatural performance, and laughed at as good jokes are.’
<c02>
SUPPOSED SLAVER. 
Some weeks since, the ship Atlantic arrived at this port, and entered at the Custom House in the usual manner. The ship was fitted for a whaling voyage under command of Capt. Silvia, who is the sole owner of the ship.
The ship cleared from the Custom House on Tuesday, in a legal manner, having the requisite number, of American seamen on board. For two weeks past, a U. S. Deputy Marshal has occasionally made his appearance in the city, and an officer of the U. S. government has remained here during the whole time, though unknown to our citizens. 
From a process issued by the U. S. District Court, at Boston, on account of information there filed, the Revenue Cutter Campbell, Capt. Clark, stationed at New London, was ordered to this port, and arrived alongside the Atlantic this morning. What the information was, and by whom filed, are facts which we are not yet in possession of. It was feared that the cutter would not arrive here before the ship sailed, consequently deputy Marshal Riley had business to the city yesterday. The ship was seized this morning by Deputy Marshal Warren, who now holds her in custody. Steam-tug Spray brought the ship up the river about noon.
The Atlantic is said to have on board a large number of casks filled with water, considerable grain and other articles not usually sent upon a legitimate whaling voyage; and that notwithstanding two-thirds of her crew have American protections, there is not that number of bona fide citizens of the United States belonging to the ship, the captain himself being a Portuguese. But, on the other hand, it is stated that all the articles on board, above the ordinary supplies of a whaler, are such as could readily be exchanged at the Westward Islands, for such other commodities as the voyage would demand. The Atlantic is about 700 tons burthen.—New Bedford Mercury, 21st. 
From the New Bedford Standard. 
FURTHER PARTICULARS. Our reporter has just returned from a visit to the ship and the cutter, which now lie in the stream. He gleaned the following additional intelligence: Information concerning both the Atlantic and Comoro has been in the possession of Marshal Rynders, of the Southern district of New York. He was informed that the sum of $20,000 had been sent from a house in Havana to the house of Amedes, Ambreges & Co., of Pearl street, New York, for the purchase of two ships for the slave-trade.
Marshal Rynders despatched Deputy Marshal Lorenzo De Angelis, who discovered the purchase of the ships Atlantic and Comoro, and has been watching their outfit. Amedes has been in New Bedford, it is presumed, as he was on board the Fall River boat on Saturday night. Mr. De Angelis joined the cutter Campbell on Tuesday night, and set sail to intercept the vessels. 
Had the cutter been fully manned, she was to have taken the Atlantic, and then lay off for the Comoro, but as it was, they were obliged to take the Atlantic this morning, and Lieutenant B. H. Travers was put in charge of her. 
The Atlantic will have to be discharged, in order to search her, and this will be done at once. 
NEW BEDFORD, July 25. Ship Atlantic, seized last week by the U. S. authorities on suspicion of being fitted out as a slaver, and grounded in this harbor, was got off to-day, and was towed to the wharf, where she a waits further orders from U. S. Marshal Freeman. She will probably be discharged. 

GREAT EXCITEMENT IN PENDLETON COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 
During the progress of the storm, Saturday night and Sunday morning, a German named Green, who teemed to be religiously fanatic on the subject of running off slaves, was taken in the act of aiding in the escape of a couple of women and children, the property of Messrs. Kirby & Ellis, who resided in Pendleton county, near Flour Creek. 
Green has for some time been in the employ of Col. Wheeler, and when taken said he had been doing his duty, and would at the next opportunity do the same thing. There were four persons—two women and two children—in the party, who had almost reached the Ohio river when they were arrested. They were on horseback, and in a short time would have made good their escape but for the fact that the horses being missed, caused search to be instituted, and not until they had been taken was it known that the slaves had made an attempt to escape. 
W hen the citizens of the county learned the extent of the offence of Green, they were very indignant, and threatened to lynch him, which undoubtedly they would have done but for the interference of some of the more prominent of the number, who induced them to abandon their design, and allow the law to take its course. Green is about thirty years of age, has been in the State four or five years, and is a naturalized citizen. The women are said to be quite valuable, and the children, one of which is ten and the other six years of age, are healthy and promising.—Cincinnati Enquirer, July 5th. 
KANSAS CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION. A dispatch in the St. Louis Democrat, from Wyandotte, July 18, says:—
'The Convention has spent most of to-day in Committee of the Whole, having under consideration reports of the Committees on Legislative Department, on Judicial, on Education and Public Institutions. The article establishing Common Schools, as reported; from the Committee, does not prohibit negroes from receiving the full benefit of the Schools. A proposition to insert the word’ white,' so as to effect that object, was laid on the table. Another amendment of the same virtue was pending when the Convention adjourned. A lengthy discussion was had on that point. A provision giving children of African descent an equitable proportion of the common school fund of the State was stricken out. The Committee, to whom was referred the memorial of the ladies of Kansas, praying that the Constitution be framed so as to give females the right of suffrage, reported that in the opinion of the Committee, woman-kind would be more profitably employed in attending properly to their domestic duties, and at the same time have sufficient cares to engross their whole attention.
The Wyandotte correspondent of the New York Times says:— 
'The Secretary of the Convention has prepared a table of statistics., illustrating some interesting facts relative to the members, from which I gather the following: The number of Republican members is 34; of Democratic members, 17; Independent, 1. As to occupation, 18 are farmers; 20 attorneys-at-law; 9 merchants; 3 manufacturers; 2 physicians; 11 land agents; mechanics, editors, surveyors, clergymen and journalists, 1 each.' 
Sam Houston—now running for Governor in Texas —in a letter of the 2d instant to the Galveston Union, says that he regards Know-Nothingism as dead. He proceeds to say: 
'There are isms of a most dangerous character which threaten our safety, as well as our existence, to which I am unalterably opposed. These are the isms of Nullification, Secession and Disunion, which are in vogue with many men, who claim to be friends of the South, but are in reality demagogues, who live on agitation, hoping to be elevated by the confusion of the times. Many of these are prominent advocates of re-opening the African slave trade, than which are greater evil is to be apprehended to the South. If this was once done, the South would be overrun by African barbarians, and our lives, and what is worse, our homes and our families, would be subject to their barbarities e and it would in no possible way advance our general or national prosperity. In my opinion, all these devices are intended to bring about Disunion. Hence I am opposed to all isms, and henceforth will rely for safety and for government upon the Constitution and the Union.' 
The Universalist Herald, published at Montgomery, Ala., with the Rev. John C. Burrows as its editor, and S. J. McMorris, B. F. Strain, and J. <illegible> as corresponding editors, thus laments the loss of a beloved and only chattel: 
'Our heart has been recently grief-smitten by the death of our only servant woman Nancy. For a long time she had been affected with chronic disease of the throat, which baffled the skill of physicians. We did all we could for her, but to no lasting effect. After our removal to Montgomery she grew worse, and continued to fail, until the evening of the 21st of May, when she gently breathed her last without a struggle or a groan. Never before had we seen such a quiet death. Her age was about 38. In her death we feel that we have lost a long-tried friend. The attachment between master and servant, in this instance, was strong. Poor Nancy! never more shall we behold her in the flesh. She has finished her mission on earth, and entered the climes of glory above. A post-mortem examination showed that ossitication of the trachea had taken place.' 
A GOLDEN WEDDING. A large number of the friends of Deacon Samuel May and wife assembled at their residence in Hollis St. on the 19th inst., to congratulate them upon the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage. The happy pair were made the recipients of many valuable gifts, including an elegant silver pitcher and salver, which were presented by the proprietors of the Salisbury Mills, of which corporate Deacon May has long been the worthy President. 
<c03>
IMPORTANT FROM EUROPE —PEACE DECLARED! 
The Italian war is over. On the 8th instant an armistice was, to the surprise of every one, concluded between France and Austria. Three days afterward the two Emperors had an interview which resulted in a peace, of which the conditions would seem to be a death-blow to all present hopes of Italian independence. An’ Italian Confederation' is to be formed under the’ Honorary Presidency' of the Pope: the King of Sardinia, who succeeds to Austria's rights in Lombardy,' is to be one member, and Austria herself, in so far as concerns Venice, which she will retain, another. What rights the members of this Italian Confederation are to enjoy, what position the Pope will, as’ Honorary President," occupy, whether the condition of the Papal States is to be improved in any respect,’ whether Venice is any better off than she was before the war, whether the Grand Dukes are to be reinstated, how the King of Naples is to stand—what, in a word, is the full import of this’ Italian Confederation,' and what part Austria or French bayonets are henceforth to play in the Peninsula, are questions yet to be answered. 
The following is the telegram from Napoleon, announcing the fact:
VALLEGIO, July 11. Peace is signed between the Emperor of Austria and myself. The basis of peace s: The Italian Confederation, under the honorary Presidency of the Pope; the Emperor of Austria concedes his rights in Lombardy to the Emperor of the French, who transfers them to the King of Sardinia; the Emperor of Austria preserves Venice, but she will form an integral part of the Italian Confederation. 
This despatch was bulletined on the Paris Bourse on the 12th, and the funds rose 2 1-2 per cent. The closing quotations are not mentioned, but were about 70 fr. 
The Daily News affirms that the past hopes and expectations of Italy are deceived. It adds: History will call the Emperor to a strict account for having made war on false pretensions, and signed a mock and selfish peace—a peace that leaves Austria impregnably fortified in Northern Italy—that connects Central Italy to the patronage of the Pope, and to the constant menace of military intervention on the part of the Pope's patrons and protectors—that takes no account of the welfare of the people, and substitutes for national independence a confederation under the lock and key of Austrian garrisons. The Emperor of France has sown the seeds of future wars, and the closer we examine the pretended pacification, the more futile and iniquitous it appears. 
The Times correspondent says that typhus fever raged in both the camps in Italy, and that 10,000 to 12,000 were attacked with it in the allied army. 
COLORED SEAMEN IN BRITISH SHIPS IN THE AMERICAN TRADE. The British Board of Trade has lately issued the following instructions to shipping masters:
'The attention of my Lords has been directed to the stringent laws in force in the Southern States of America, with regard to the admission of free negroes. 
It has happened that colored seamen serving in British merchant ships have suffered in American ports from the operation of these laws, and when the British consul has endeavored to protect them, he has been embarrassed by the difficulty of producing proof of their nationality. 
Under there circumstances, and in the absence of any means available in this country of furnishing colored seamen with official certificates of birth, my Lords think that all shipping-masters before whom colored seamen are engaged for voyages to the Southern ports of the United States, should warn such seamen, and the masters who engaged them, of the inconvenience and risk to which they may be exposed through the operation of the laws above mentioned, and should point out to them, in case the masters determine to carry free colored seamen to such ports, that they should be prepared with full evidence of their place of birth and of their nationality.' 
WHO ARE WHITE PERSONS. The Cleveland Review says: A decision was rendered yesterday in the case of Freeman H. Morris vs. Sanborn, Christian and Gardner. Morris has about one-fourth negro blood in his reins, and was not allowed to vote at the late election in the First Ward, Sanborn, Christian and Gardner being the judges of the election. Judge Foot, at the Common Pleas of this County, held that under the Old Constitution of Ohio, all persons having more than half white blood were declared to be legally white. The new Constitution merely mentioned’ white persons,' without defining what constituted a white person, consequently the definition of a white person contained in the old Constitution remains in force, and any law declaring a person having more than half white blood to be a negro must of necessity be unconstitutional. 
LEARNED AND WEALTHY AFRICANS. Mr. Bowen, in a lecture at New York, said there were several libraries and a number of learned men in the heart of Africa. Know a great deal more about us than we do about them. They asked, for instance, if the days of our week were not named so and so; and when answered affirmatively, replied that they had found it so in their books. The names of Abraham, David, Marianna, and Susannah are common in Central Africa. Mr. Bowen saw men with Roman noses, finely formed hands and feet, black skins, and woolly heads. They were called the black-white men, and were esteemed the most learned among the Africans. In Abeokuta there is a market two miles long. Dresses are sold there as high as sixty dollars apiece. The lecturer knew an African intimately, whose wealth was estimated at more than two millions of dollars. The women do nut work in the fields in the interior. The language has more abstract nouns than the English, which shows that Africans know how to think. 
EMANCIPATED NEGROES IN VIRGINIA. At this time, there are hundreds of emancipated negroes in the State who have no right to remain here, but who seem to prefer the chances of being detected and sold into Slavery to taking up their residences in any of the free States. If they knew the true condition of free negroes in the North, their sufferings from cold and hunger, and their inability to get employment, we should not wonder at their unwillingness to accept the freedom of starving and freezing; but as many of them can know nothing of negro Northern life, it is somewhat surprising that they do not see for themselves. Yesterday morning, a yellow fellow named Wm. Taylor, emancipated by the late Thomas O. Taylor, of Chesterfield, was arraigned before the Recorder for remaining in the Commonwealth contrary to law. He had many excuses for not leaving at once, but, on promising to bid farewell to Old Virginny's shore in a short time, was set at liberty.—Richmond Dispatch, May 4. 
NEGRO CONSPIRACY IN VIRGINIA. The Clarksburg (Va.) Register, July 15, says:’ A negro woman belonging to Mr. M. J. Nixon, of this county, gave information on Wednesday last that there was a combination among the negroes of the neighborhood of Shinnston, for the purpose of running off, and defending themselves in so doing. She states that some of the negroes about Clarksburg are engaged with them; that they are well supplied with fire-arms, &c. Ten of the negroes suspected were arrested on Wednesday, and are now in jail; the negro woman giving the information is also in jail. She further states that these; negroes were supplied with poison, which was distributed among them at a convention of them held at Shinnston not long since, and that their intention was to poison their masters' families.' 
There is much excitement in Davies county, Kentucky, relative to a plot among the slaves, the object of which was robbery, poisoning, anon and burglary. A few nights ago, a house was burned near Masonville, and seven negroes were implicated in the crime. The offenders would have been executed a once, but their owners promised to remove them from the State, and immediately sold them for the Southern market.
WASHINGTONIAN. The slaves of Geo. Washington Parke Custis, though freed by his will, (15 of them are his own children—he was no kin of Washington,) have never obtained their freedom. They and the Custis property now belong to Col Lee, near Washington, D. C. Some of them recently attempted to escape from bondage, but being caught, the men were whipped by a driver who refused to whip a woman of the company. The gallant Col., representative of patriot blood, stripped her and gave her 39 lashes with his own hand. All were then sent to Richmond to find new masters. 
THE DETROIT ABDUCTION CASE. The white slave girl who was rescued from the North Star a few days since, and taken over to Windsor, and whose rather sudden change from a condition of Slavery to that of Liberty has excited a deal of grief hereabouts, has been adopted into a respectable and well-to-do family and is doing much better than serving any owner of her soul and body. She is learning to read, and will doubtless acquire some other dangerous practices of civilization, which will tend to make her contented with her lot. What a crying shame it is that she should be allowed to indulge in such luxuries!—Detroit Tribune.
At the Inauguration of the Webster Statue on the 17th of September next, which is the 219th anniversary of the settlement of Boston, an oration will be delivered by Hon. Edward Everett. 
<c04>
THE AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE. John C. Underwood, of Virginia, says in a communication in the N. Y. Tribune:
'I have had ample evidences of the fact that those are greatly behind the times who speculate on the probabilities of re-opening the African Slave Trade; it is already a thing accomplished, and the traffic is brisk, and rapidly increasing. In fact, the most vital question of the day is not the opening of this trade, but its suppression. Shall it be longer tolerated in defiance of alt laws of God, and of all laws of Christian, and even Mohammedan nations? The arrival of cargoes of negroes, fresh from Africa, in our Southern ports, is an event of frequent occurrence. Many of the public journals of that region are supposed to be in the interest of the traders, and the publishers of others are prevented from announcing such arrivals by well-grounded fears that such action would expose themselves to the vengeance of the brutal and bar barbarous men engaged in this business. In all the cotton States the cry is for cheap negroes. They denounce our laws against the slave trade as a protective tariff of twelve or fifteen hundred per cent, on the price of labor for the benefit of the slave-breeding States; increasing the price of negroes for consumption in the cotton fields from one hundred dollars each (the full cost of importation were it not for prohibitory lawa) to twelve or fifteen hundred dollars. With the hope of enlisting the whole South, they point to the advance of Free Labor, and declare that the defeat of Slavery in the struggle for Kansas was owing solely to the scarcity of slaves.'
WASHINGTON, July 10. 
Carefully as the secret has been guarded by those interested, it is well known throughout the entire south that a very large number of slaves have been and chiefly on the Florida coast, within the past twelve months. A very distinguished Democratic Senator informed me within the last week, that his estimate of the number of cargoes of’ savages' that had been successfully transported into the interior of the country since May, 1858, was between sixty and seventy. He added that the boast had been semi-confidentially made to him, six weeks ago, by an individual interested, that twelve slave vessels, whose names were known to him, would discharge their living freight upon our shores within ninety days. Supposing each vessel to contain, deducting loss by death, 250 blacks, the late increase of slave population of the South, by importation from the coast of Africa, must have been over 15,000. Startling as this fact appears, I have not ventured to communicate it to you until fully persuaded that it cannot be contradicted; or, if gainsaid, that its truth may, within a short period, be demonstrated.— Cor. N. Y. Herald.
MR. YANCEY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. Mr. Yancey believes the laws against the slave-trade, and making it piracy when it is not, should be repealed. But as to re-opening the trade, that is a question he is not prepared to advocate, and regards as premature. He concludes a recent letter on politics, addressed to J. D. Meadows, as follows:
As to re-opening the African slave-trade, that is a grave question, of the highest political and economical import, and should be decided alone by the several States—each for itself, and with reference alone to the industrial interests of each. The time for its decision has not yet arrived, and as I have formed no opinion upon its expediency, with that thoughtfulness which its great importance demands, I will not discuss it here. 
Very respectfully, your fellow-citizen, 
WILLIAM L. YANCEY.
Twenty leading Democratic papers of Mississippi advocate the re-opening of the slave trade, and Mr. Buchanan's Collector at Vicksburg openly and offensively urges it as a party measure.
LYNCH LAW IN MISSOURI. A telegraphic despatch from St. Louis to the New York Express, dated July 20, says that accounts from Marshal state that three negroes who were on trial on the 16th, at that place for rape and murder, were at night taken forcibly from the jail by a mob, and two of them hung, while the other was BURNT AT THE STAKE.
THE PLYMOUTH CELEBRATION. The people of Plymouth, Massachusetts, are preparing a grand celebration on the. 2d of August, at the laying of the cornerstone of the National Monument to the Forefathers. The dinner will be given in a tent capable of holding twenty-seven hundred persons. The list of speakers invited is numerous. Among other gentlemen who have promised to attend the celebration is Governor Chase of Ohio.
HONORABLE AND REVEREND. The Hon. Greene C. Chandler and the Rev. J. J. Daniel indulged in a street fight at Enterprise, Miss., the other day. No heads were broken, or hearts either. What a pretty fashion hey have in the slave States of employing their Reverends and Honorables in the light and genteel business of shooting and stabbing each other.
LEAVENWORTH, July 25.—Rescue of Dr. Doy. Dr. Doy, under sentence, in St. Joseph jail, for an alleged kidnapping, was rescued on Sunday morning, during a violent storm, and is still at large. Great excitement prevailed at St Joseph or ,the announcement of his escape, and a pursuit was attempted, but without success.
A sale of free negroes, who have failed to pay their taxes, took place on the 10th inst., at Portsmouth Va. Thirty men and boys, and seventy women and girls were sold under a provision of the city charter directing the sale of all free negroes who fail to pay their taxes. What scoundrelism!
We find among the’ married'—On Thursday the 17th inst., at the Colonization Receptacle in Monrovia, by the Rev. John Seys, Kabendah, alias James Buchanan, to Kandah, alias Ann Liberia Jeffs, both liberated Africans of the company by the U. S. steamship Niagara.
Rev. Dr. WAYLAND has been elected President of the American Peace Society, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of the Hon. Win. Jay.
Jenny Lind has been presented by the Lord Mayor of London with a marble bust of the Queen, for singing in aid of the Nightingale Fund at Exeter Hall.
Liberia held her election on the first of May last, resulting in the re-election of President Stephen A. Benson, without opposition. D. B. Warner, Esq., of Monrovia, was elected Vice President.
The barques Sunshine and Standard were capsized near Cleveland, the former losing ten of her crew and passengers, and the latter her two mates.
Reuben Johnson, the colored man charged with attempting to rescue a slave from the custody of the U. S. Marshal at Zanesville, Ohio, a few weeks since, and run off by that officer to the Hamilton County jail, where he has since been confined, has been tried by the United States Court, found guilty, and sentenced by Judge Leavitt to thirty days more imprisonment, and a fine of $5.
An unofficial census of San Francisco makes the population 49,363 white males, 23,985 white female, 3150 Chinese, and 1605 colored people. Total, 78,083.
Francis A. Maffit, said to be a son of Rev. John Newland Maffit, the eloquent preacher who flourishes so extensively some yean ago, died of an apoplectic fit, in the St. Louis jail, on Sunday night last. The deceased, together with several others, had been arrested and imprisoned on suspicion of forgery.
The receipts at the great Handel Festival, recently held in London, fell not far short of $ 140,000. Deducting expenses, there would be a balance of $90,000 The receipts on the last day, when’ Israel in Egypt was given, amounted to very nearly eighty thousand dollars.
Blondin walked his rope for the last time on the 14th, in the presence of ten or twelve thousand people, wheeling a barrow over his private way, which nobody seems inclined to dispute the right of. The wheel had a grooved rim to fit the rope, and the handles of the vehicle were suspended by a core around his neck. He carried his balancing pole wit] him while pushing the barrow.
A correspondent of the New York Express writing from Florence, gives a horrible account of the massacre of the inhabitants of Perugia, by the Papa troops. He says many a woman was saved a life of shame by death, for they left them not alive to tell what they suffered. Women were ripped open with the bayonet—young infants were struck against the walls, and their bodies thrown out the windows. The hospitals were all cleared of the sick—every one killed. In a boarding school the children were all butchered.
The Detroit Advertiser says that the slaves run off by Capt. John Brown, of Kansas, and who arrive at Windsor, C. W., early in the spring, are doing well.
A true bill was found at the late session of the Federal Court at Oxford, Miss., against M. Brodnox, slave-dealer of Memphis, for offering four or five Con go Africans for sale in the Columbus market last March. The negroes were not sold, nor has Brodnox been arrested.
Miss Florence Nightingale is so extremely that the worn results are apprehended. Her strength is diminishing sadly.
<c05>
COLLECTIONS, 
By Finance Committee, at Framingham Grove, July 4, 1S59, for Expenses, &c.
Francis Jackson, Boston, $5 00 
Cyrus Houghton, Holliston, 5 00
Kate M. Whitney, Honolulu, 5 00
D. F. Goddard, 3 00
Geo. W. Stacy, Milford, 2 00
James S. Draper, Wayland, 1 00
R. Boyden, Marlboro', 1 00
A. L. Babcock, 1 00
W. R. Lewis, 1 00
J. B. Yerriton, 1 00
Ira Mitchell, 1 00
J. Merrill, 1 00
Charles T. Tucker, 1 00 
J. N. Morse, Sherborn. 1 00 
Charles A. Hovey, Framingham, 1 00
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester, 1 00
<illegible> Pitts, Millbury,  1 00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 1 00 
Friend, 1 00
Thomas B. Rice, Boston, 1 00
T. Davis, 1 00
William Sparrell, Boston, 1 00
A. Wood, 2d, 1 00
J. H. Brigham, 1 00
Aaron Rider, 1 00
E. D. Draper, Hopedale, 1 00
Wm. Doane, Jr.,” 0 25
Cyrus Cook, Cumberland, 0 50 
Abijah Allen, Millbury, 1 00
L. Bigelow, 2d, Marlboro', 1 00 
Dr. Russell, Milford, 0 50
J. R. Davis,” 0 50
J. G. Parmenter, Marlboro', 0 25
Asa Hall, Hopedale, 0 50
Anna Munyan, 0 06
Patrick McGeary. Milford, 0 25 
Isaac Oagood, Feltonville, 0 50
Silas Sawyer, Berlin, 0 50 
W. B. Harrington, Upton, 0 50
S. A. Newton, Auburn, 0 25 
Henry G. Newton, Auburn 0 25
Eugene H.Newton, Auburn 0 25
Jefferson French, Aurburn 0 25 
D. S. Whitney, Southboro', 0 25
Mrs. Whitney, Southboro’ 0 25
Mary Whitney,” Southboro’ 0 10
Edwin Fleming, Southboro’, 0 10
Charles Ford, Southboror’, 0 25 
Otis G. Cheever, Sheldonville, 0 50
Mrs. Draper, Hopedale, 1 00
P. Aldrich, 0 25 
Henry O. Stone, Framingham, 1 00 
O. Pillsbury, 0 25
N. C. Dennett, 0 25 
E. Wright, 0 50
W. L. Garrison, 1 00
A. T. Foss, 1 00
Wilbur F. Brigham, 0 25 
Mrs. Allen, 0 25
Mrs. Sawin, 0 50
R. Clapp, Jr., 0 50
F. T. Valentine, 0 25
Mrs. W. Cox, 0 25 
S. Aaron, 0 25
A. J. Ballou, Lonsdale, 0 50
A. F. Mann, 0 50 
J. Wilmarth, 0 50 
E. H. Greene, 0 25
W. S. Hay wood, Hopedale, 1 00 
H. G. O. Blake, 0 29
A. H. Thompson, 0 25
S. P. Carpenter, 1 00 
I. H. Marshall, 0 25
C. W. Cook, 0 25
J. Grant, 0 25
E. N. Thwing, 0 25
J. Cook. 0 25
F. O. M., 0 50 
Henry Adams, 0 25 
George Woods, 0 50
A. Studley, 0 25 
Mary Garnet, 0 25 
Mrs. Denny, 1 00 
M. B. Goodrich, 0 50 
A. Kent, 0 25 
J. Cushing, 0 50
Cash, in various sums, 20 31
N. B. The entire collection by the Finance Committee was $97 55.
PLEDGES 
In aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, July 4, 1859. 
Lyman Coolidge, Feltonville, $5 00
Mrs. Holmes, Boston, 1 00
George. Forbes, Boylston, 1 00
Henry J. Prentiss, Boston, 1 00 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
Legacy. 
From Adin Ballou, E.D. Draper and Francis 
Jackson, Trustees under the Will of 
John Calkins, late of South Wiibraham, 
deceased, $271 55 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer. 
CALL FOR A NATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE COLORED RACE. 
At a Convention held at Montrose, Pa., Sept. 4, 1858, the following resolutions were adopted: 
Resolved, That the improvement and elevation of the colored race is an object that should interest every philanthropist, and particularly the colored people of these United States.
Resolved, That in promoting this great object, reliance must be placed mainly on the colored people themselves.
Resolved, That we fully believe that education, intellectual and moral, is the lever by which their elevation is to be accomplished; that while industry, economy and temperance are immensely important, still education is the great instrument that will render effectual all other means. 
Resolved, That as union is power, we would recommend a General Convention, to be held as soon as the way can be prepared. 
Resolved, That this Committee would invite the cooperation of all denominations of Christians, to unite with them in calling a National Convention, to meet on the 1st day of August, 1859, at Harrisburg, Pa., and join in a general celebration of West India Emancipation. 
Resolved, That an Executive Committee of seven be appointed, with power of enlarging their number as they may deem expedient, to make such arrangements in relation to the Convention as their discretion may direct. 
Resolved, That a circular be sent by this Committee to all churches and communities where colored people are located, requesting them to call meetings, as soon as convenient, to appoint delegates to this Convention, who shall present us with statistics of the population. Sabbath and day schools, and of the general prosperity and progress of the colored people in their vicinity. 
Resolved, That all free colored persons in the United States, and all others friendly to the object, be invited to attend this Convention, to confer on all the best methods to promote the best interests of the colored race, and to adopt such means as will accomplish these ends. 
On motion, 
Resolved, That the following named gentlemen compose the Executive Committee:
The Revs. Thomas James, John Anderson, William Sanford, Burr Baldwin, B. B. Emery; the Hon. Wm. Jessup, B. S. Bentley, Esq. 
In accordance with the above resolutions, a National Convention will be held at the time and place stated. A celebration worthy of the day is expected, and we trust that a Convention will be held which will do much for the redemption and elevation of our crushed people.
All journals friendly to the cause are earnestly requested to copy this call. 
NORTH ABINGTON.—There will be an Anti-Slavery meeting in Union Hall, North Abington, on Sunday, July 31st, to enable the friends to redeem their annual pledges to the cause—sessions commencing at 10. A. M., and 2, P. M. Miss SALLIE HOLLEY, N. H. WHITING and others will speak.’ The meeting of the Plymouth Co. Society, announced last week, will be deferred for the present. 
MR. and MRS. CHARLES SPEAR will1 speak at Plymouth, next Sunday.
On Monday evening, Mr. SPEAR will give his lecture on Church-Yard Literature. 
A circular has been published in the Cleveland n Herald. July 13, addressed To Anti-Slavery Christians throughout the State,' and signed by a number of the clergy and laity of Cleveland and vicinity, calling for a meeting at Columbus, Ohio, August 10 and 11, to, pray, deliberate and give a public expression against’ slavery. This proposed Convention has been suggested chiefly by the revival of the slave trade. 
Jonathan Walker's post-office address, for a few months, will be at Hopedale, Milford, (Mass.) 
All communications for the undersigned h should be sent to Leicester, Mass.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.
<c06>
A CALL FOR A CONVENTION OF THE COLORED CITIZENS OF THE NEW ENGLAND STATES.
FELOW CITIZENS:
We issue this call to invite you to attend a Convention to be held in the city of Boston, commencing at 10 o'clock. on Monday, the 1st day of August, 1859. The primary object we have in view is, to take into consideration the Moral, Social, and Political elevation of those with whom we are identified, by complexion and condition, in the New England and other States. In all, except five, of the Eastern States, the colored Citizens are deprived of the privilege of voting on equal terms with the whites.
Free suffrage is the basis of a free government, the safeguard of a free people, the strength of the strong, he defence of the weak, a powerful auxiliary to respectability, wealth and usefulness; and just in proportion as men are deprived of this, they are shorn of their strength, and are subject to poverty, disgrace and abuse.
We are convinced, fellow citizens, that not only our political, but our depressed condition in all other respects in the free states, is owing in a great degree to the fact, that we are politically weak, not possessing the unrestricted use of the elective franchise. The national body politic see in us nothing to fear, and no favors to court.
We therefore urge upon colored men in all sections of New England, to evince their self-respect and love of freedom in efforts to promote their moral, social and political elevation, by assembling at the above time, a day consecrated by the signal and successful example of Great Britain emancipating 800,000 men, women, and children, in her West India colonies, and hence eminently suggestive to us to strive in securing equality to the half free colored citizens of the Northern States, and thus hasten the day of full emancipation to the millions yet groaning in the Southern prison-house of our country.
The Convention will be held in Tremont Temple. Arrangements are making for reduced fare on some of the railroads. Many distinguished speakers from abroad are expected, including CHARLES H.LANGSTON, prominent in the Oberlin-Wellington Rescue cases.
This call is issued by authority of a public meeting held at Bethel Church, Boston, Tuesday, May 3, 1859.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN,
LEWIS HAYDEN,
WILLIAM C.NELL,
JEREMIAH HARVEY,
JOHN J.SMITH,
NELSON L.PERKINS,
HENRY WEEDEN,
Committee.
MARK R. DEMORTIE,
GEORGE L.RUFFIN, Secretaries.
THE CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS of the New England States will commence at Tremont Temple on Monday, August 1st, 1859, at 10’o clock, A.M., and continue throughout the day and Tuesday, holding three sessions each day. Among those expected to be present, and participate in the proceedings, are as follows:
Rhode Island-George T. Downing, James Jefferson, John T. Waugh.
Connecticut-Rev. J. T. Holly, Robert Gordon. Maine-Rev. Amos G. Beman, Rev. John W. Lewis. Massachusetts-Wm. Wells Brown, Charles Lenox Remond, Dr. John S.Rock, Lewis Hayden, Robert Morris, Esq., William C. Nell, John T. Hilton, Chas H. Gardner, Edward Garrison Walker, Rev. J. B. Smith, Henry O. Remington, Bela C. Perry.
New York-Rev. J. Sella Martin, J.H. Townsend, Esq , Rev. J. N. Gloucester, Wm. Leonard. Pennsylvania-William Still.
Charles H. Langston, Esq., prominent in the Oberlin Wellington Rescue Case, and Lewis Clark of Canada. The public are respectfully invited.
Boston, July,1 859.
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.-The friends of freedom will celebrate this glorious event in the village of Geneva, on Monday, the 1st day of August, 1859, at which time a grand enthusiastic demonstration may be expected in favor of Liberty and Equality.
Reading of the Act of Emancipation, by J.AUGUSTUS JEFFREY, of Geneva.
Opening Address, by FREDERRICK DOUGLASS, PRESIDENT of the Day
Oration, by Rev. Dr. GEO.B.CHEEVER, of New York City.
GRAND CELEBRATION IN POUGHKEEPSIE.-The friends of freedom will celebrate in Poughkeepsie, on Monday, August 1st, 1859, The Twenty-First Anniversary of West India Emancipation.
WM.J.WATKINS, ESQ., of Rochester, Will deliver the oration, and other eminent speakers are expected to be present.
HOVERY PHOTOGRAPHS.
The few remaining copies will be sold at one dollar each. Please apply to
WM.C.NELL,
Boston, July, 1859. 21 Cornhill.

FEDERAL TYRANNY!
THIRTY-SEVEN MEN, Lawyers, Doctors, Ministers, Legislators and Men of Business, arrested and dragged to a FELON'S PRISON; their only offence being a compliance with those divine injunctions, ’Feed the hungry and clothe the naked, and’ As ye would that others should do to you, do ye even so to them.'
WE HAVE IN PRESS,
And shall publish about the 20th of July,
A COMPLETE HISTORY
OF THE
Oberlin-Wellington Rescue,
And the cruel persecution of the noble men who chose to obey God rather than man. A most infamous Chapter in American History, Which succeeding generations will wish to have expunged. This volume comprises a full account of the rescue, incarceration and trials.
READ IT, AMERICANS,
And MOURN over your country's degradation; scatter it broadcast over the land, that a SLAVOCRATIC NATION may see the depth of depravity and wickedness into which it has fallen, and arouse, repent and reform.
We want 1000 active, Whole-souled Agents to sell this book. Price, 50 cents, $4 50 per dozen, and $38 per 100 in paper covers, and 75 cts per 100 bound in cloth. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
20 Washington street, Boston.
July 15 4wis
NEW AND USEFUL BOOKS.
MESSRS. FOWLER & WELLS,
308 BROADWAY NEW YORK,
Have recently Published,
HINTS TOWARDS PHYSICAL PERFECTION,
Illustrated. $1.
NEW RURAL HAND-BOOKS, embracing The House, The Garden, the Farm, and Domestic Animals-in one illustrated volume. $1 50.
HAND-BOOKS FOR HOME IMPROVEMENTS;
How to Write-How to Talk -How to Behave, and How to Do Business. One vol. $1 50.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC ENCYCLOPAEDIA- the most complete work on the subject. $3 00.
THE ILLUSTRATED FAMILY GYMNASIUM-Applied to the development of Body and Mind. $1 25.
Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS have all works on Physiology, Phrenology, Hydropathy, and the Natural Sciences generally. For sale in Boston by D. P.BUTLER, 142 Washington street.
June 24. 4w
WORCESTER WATER-CURE.
Dr. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, Where he has spent several months in medical observations, will resume, after July 1, 1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution. May 27. 3m
WOMAN'S RIGHTS MEETING.
A FULL Report of the Woman's Rights Meeting at Mercantile Hall, May 27. Speeches By Mrs. SHVERANCE, MRS. DALL, WENDELL PHILLIPS, and others. Just published by S. URBINO, 10 Winter street,(up stairs.)
July 8. 6w 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
A LESSON OF THE PAST.
The old man lying on his dying bed,
While his children knelt beside;
Three noble sons, who had crowned his years
With honor, and love, and pride,
In one fair boy he was proud to trace
The type of his own lost youth,
In the open brow, and the flashing eye,
And the love of stainless truth.
And one, whose careless boyhood seemed
Just slipping from his hold,
Upraised his mother's eyes of blue,
And wore her locks of gold.
A third, with form of riper grace,
And brow like a summer morn,
Knelt first among the group of three,
For he was the eldest born
Right tenderly the father spoke,
And blessed them, one by one;
But the fondest of his parting words
Were for his first-born son.
Yon are heir,' he said, 'to your father's lands,
And the bearer of his name:
Ah! the goodly heritage keep, my son.
From a single spot of shame.'
And the young man bent his youthful head
With a vow upon his tongue:—
Alas! that words so solemn and sweet
Should cover a grievous wrong!
Days passed— he stood in his father's place,
And sat in his father's chair;
By older usage, and English law,
He was held the rightful heir.
But there came a troublous dream one night.
Wandering through his brain;
He knelt by his father's death-bed now
With a new and unknown pain.
However he strove to settle it right,
Strangely the dream went wrong,
For another knelt in the honored place,
And he was the youngest born.
A few good words, and a blessing kind
The sire right fatherly gave.
But never a dollar from out his store,
Nor land for a five-foot grave.
With a pang at his heart he felt the wrong,
And the deep injustice saw,
And he turned him away from the homestead gate,
Cursing the English law.
The heir awoke, but the waking brought
No sudden and sweet release,
For the haunting vision oppressed him still,
Granting nor rest nor peace.
He strove to banish the troublous dream,
To smother the nameless pain,
But he found no rest till he wandered out,
Seeking his brothers twain.
He led them in at the homestead gate,
Under the threshold tree,
Then acre for acre he measured straight,
And counted his gold for three,
'My brothers, he said, 'will ye deign to take
Your right as a gift from me?
I vowed to wear our father's name,
And keep its honor white;
And dare I fling the hap of birth
Across my brothers' right?'
Then brightened o'er his manly cheek
The quick young color, showing
How warm along his youthful veins
The generous blood was flowing.
And warm and true was the clasp of hands,
While the soul of his angel mother
Seemed smiling tenderly on her son,
Through the blue eyes of his brother.
Full many a June, since then, the fields
Have worn the reddening clover,
Uncounted harvests, with their gifts,
The green hill whitened over.
The wisdom of that earlier day
Were but folly in our own,
And what was then self-sacrifice,
Hath simple justice grown.
And while we reap the harvest
Of that unselfish deed,
Will we, for future gleaners,
Cast in our better seed.
From the past gleams out the story,
And I read its meaning thus:—
That to-day, the poor, the sinful,
Younger brothers are to us.
And whatsoe'er our heritage
Of wisdom or of gold, 
'Tis given for a generous sake 
To share, and not to hold. 
June 18, 1869. 

For the Liberator. 
THE CHAIN OF THE TYRANTR.
Say, hear you that wail. 
Borne aloft on the gale,
From the land of the South in the warm sunlight lying?
'Tis cry of despair 
Rising wild en the air, 
'Tis the shrieks of the wounded, the groans of the dying. 
There the children are torn
From the mother forlorn; 
There the wife far away from her husband is driven;
There the maiden is sold
For the Southern's base gold, 
And the lone loving heart wide with anguish is riven,
There the dark sons of toil, 
Bending low o'er the soil. 
Hear the crack of the driver's lash fiendishly ringing, 
Till the woe-stricken slave 
Turns his eye to the grave, 
And a sigh for its rest from his bosom is springing. 
There fierce tyranny reigns 
Over millions in chains, 
And Might is his law, and his sceptre Terror;
And the God-given mind 
Is in fetter confined,
Locked up in the dungeon of darkness and error. 
Is this, then, is this
The bright vision of bliss 
Which our fathers foresaw in the land's future story, 
When 'Columbia' they sang, 
Till the wide forest rang, 
As in language prophetic they told of her glory? 
And shall freedom no more 
Moor her bark en our shore. 
Where her sans on the bosom of glory lie sleeping? 
Shall 'the home of the brave' 
Be the sand of the slave,
And 'Columbia' the watchword of wailing and weeping?
Dark, dark in the night! 
But the morn shall he bright, 
And the day shall arise of which seen have spoken! 
For Jehovah's just reign 
Still the right shall maintain, 
And the chain of the tyrant snail surely be broken. 
SPIRIT OF FREEDOM.
JULY, 1859.
<c02>
The Liberator.
A Word of Liberal Christianity in the Green Mountain State.
The Universalist denomination, just at present, evidently making friends, and advancing in temporal prosperity. An appeal might be made to the number of meeting-houses now in process of erection in the State by the Universalists, and the localities of those houses, to substantiate this proposition. But a fair proportion of the ministers of this sect are quite sectarian in their views and preaching; and, of course, their societies more or less sympathize with their ministers. The popular notions of plenary and verbal inspiration, miracles and literal interpretation, have been freely handled by these ministers, the last two years, in the organ of the denomination, the Christian Repository. Of course, the old school combat these liberalists stoutly, and occasionally with some pious horror. But the people get light from the concussion; and it is the opinion of the writer, that the progressives have, generally, had the best of the argument. The conservatives have introduced a sort of liturgy which will do no harm, and, in some respects, with a certain class, accomplish good. It is a convenience, at any rate, both in family and public worship. The so-called Orthodox, as you know, have had some revivals, within the last two yean, in the State. They fancy they are increasing in numbers, wealth and influence, faster than those who think freely and teach liberally. But they are quite mistaken. The spirit of the age will not brook narrow limits, ghostly terrors, creed-bonds and fetters for thought. There are many among us who discard many portions at the Old Testament, as having been foisted in by cunning men, and as being rather the barbarism of the age in which it was written, than the inspired word of God. Some, who have worn the strait-jacket of Evangelism very tight-laced, have gone clear over to blank atheism. They have become so disgusted with dead forms, empty professions, senseless ceremonies and little church oppressions, persecutions and Jesuitisms, that they assume the degrading nature of all religious worship whatever. Their oracle k the Investigator. But this class quite small, and diminishing. 
But you would be glad to know the fruit of the revivals of the last two years. I will not say, ' evil and only evil'; for I think some good has resulted to certain individuals, who hare washed up, and made personal reformation external, at least. And this indeed may be internal and permanent in certain instances; but more evil than good is the aggregate result. Many are confirmed in their bigotry and superstitions, and, worst of all, a new baptism has been had of their selfish and wicked conservatism—or, rather, do-nothingism and hypocrisy, in relation to letting the slave struggle and die in his chains, and neglecting other great works of love and mercy, while they give themselves up to cummin-seed carving and small decoctions of mint and rue, spicing all with anise and other sweet mixtures. Of all the pitiful trifling ever enacted in this silly world—scarcely excepting the mumbo-jumbo of Rome itself—the eating of the wafer gods, the tossing of ' holy water,' the counting of beads, genuflexions, tinkling of bells behind the priests—&c, &c.—the penny-royal sermons, hand-organ prayers, and other tweedle-dees of the modern Evangelism for the reformation of society and the salvation of the race, seem most ridiculous. It is impossible for men of sense, of thought, to full in with such stuff. ETHAN ALLEN.

FACT AND FICTION IN RELIGION.
QUINCY, (IIL.) 1859.
DEAR GARRISON: 
In the Vedas, or Holy Bible of Hindooism, is this sentiment:— 
Those who see and worship God in every man, woman and child, can never wrong, nor treat with scorn and contempt any one. 
Yet the Hindoo dreams that God, the Supreme Spirit, the Great Life Principle of all things is made manifest in the flesh only in Crishna, in one man. Him they adore as God made manifest in human form. No disrespect, no irreverence, no wrong, must be conceived or manifested towards him, though numbered with the Dead Past 5000 years. But what regard have the worshippers of God in Crishna to the living men and women around them? Mere devout worshippers of a dead Crishna can and do crush, mutilate and destroy millions of living human beings. Though 300.000,000 worship Crishna as the only manifestation of God in human form, we know this cardinal doctrine of their religion is a pure fiction. We know that God is as really manifest in every human being as in Crishna. We know that what is said and done to and about Crishna, is said and done to and about God. The same is true of .all that is said and done to and about every other human being. If the Hindoo saw and worshipped God in every other human being as he does in Crishna, how soon would his contempt and wrong-doing towards all others cease!
Is God made manifest in each and every slave in the same way that he was in Christ? Is it a Fact, that every slave is the express image and personification of God, in the same sense that Christ was? Is it a Fact, that what we do to the slave we do to God, in the same sense that we do to God what we do to Christ? I believe it is. Each slave is ' God, manifest in the flesh,' in the same sense that Christ was. Not that each slave embodies God to the same extent that Christ did, but in the same may, and as really. The scorn, contempt and outrages done to the slave by American Christians, are done to God, in the same sense in which the wrongs done to Christ by Judas and Pilate were done to God. GOD MANIFEST IN THE FLESH IN EVERY HUMAN BEING is the one great central idea of all true religion. RELIGION AS A FACT sees and worships God alike, in kind, in every man woman and child. RELIGION AS A FICTION sees and worships God only in one man; and that man dead as to corporeal presence, two thousand years—having no wants that we can supply—who cannot be benefitted by our love and worship, and whose whole life teaches us not to expend our time and energies in efforts to honor God in him, but to devote all our efforts to loving and worshipping God as he is embodied in living men and women. 
Religion, as represented by the churches and clergy of this nation, at a whole, what has it to do with the Facts of life?—with the Living Present? It is a terrible Romance—a frightful Fiction; as destitute of living fact as is the ' Arabian Nights' Entertainment. It sends us back to hunt for salvation among the dead bones and sepulchres of the Past. The very people who so devoutly reverence and worship God in Christ, enslave him, sell him, and hunt him with rifles and bloodhounds in the person of the slave. They weep over the sufferings of a dead Christ, (for, as a corporeal presence, Christ is dead, as is Paul or Isaiah,) but they have no pity, no tears, for the woes of unutterable anguish, for living Margaret Garners. They, themselves, crucify living slave mothers and fathers, living slave husbands and wives, and living sons and daughters in slavery, while they seek to arouse a whole nation to weep over the sufferings of a dead Jesus. They seek to arouse the indignation of the nation against Judas, because he betrayed and sold God in Christ. 2000 years ago, for thirty pieces of silver; and, at the same time, they seek to arouse the nation to betray and sell God in four millions of livming en, women and children. 
GOD, CRUCIFIED ONLY IN A DEAD CHRIST, is the watchword of Christendom. GOD, CRUCIFIED IN EVERY LIVINF SLAVE, is the great watchword of Freedom. God is love—God is justice. By incarnating in himself that God of love and justice, at Christ did, let every Abolitionist be himself a Messiah, a Savior, to
<c03>
the slave, to redeem him from his wrongs, and to the slaveholder, to redeem him from his deep and horrid sins.
What a delusion! Reverence for the dead; contempt for the living! Worship God in the dead; enslave, sell, whip, hunt and scourge him in the living! a Tenderly and reverently mindful of the honor and glory of God, as manifested in Jesus of Nazareth, but treating him with utter contempt as he is manifest in 400,000,000 slaves? They are liars who say they can worship God in one whom they see not, while they despise him in those whom they do see.
Yours, HENRY C.WRIGHT.

THE LOVE OF MONEY.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—On former occasions, I have written on the love of money. If you would abolish slavery and rum-making and rum-selling, you had better begin with the love of money, which Paul says is the root of all evil. The same might be said concerning the cause of much of the oppression of the poor in the non-slaveholding States. Is it not known that the love of money prompts the speculator to obtain it that he may thereby buy up articles which the poor need, and oblige them to pay great prices for the same? And is it not the love of money which prompts the manufacturers of paper money to make such an article And is it not a fact that the more money there is in the world, so much more the poor are oppressed? Is it not the love of money that induces the manufacturers of strong drinks to create articles that they know are sending their, victims to the poor-house, or prison, or gallows? And is it not the same love of money which influences those who sell these articles to be engaged in such employment, when they know, or might know, that they are cursing the world? Is it not the love of money that keeps alive the slave-trade on sea and land? Would not slavery be immediately abolished if the love of money were destroyed? Would you destroy a tree? Pluck it up by the roots, rather than by cutting off the branches. So would you destroy all evil; or the tree which produces such fruit. Cut off not only the branches, but pluck it up by the roots. Perhaps some will say we believe that the love of money is the root of all evil, but how shall we destroy it? I would say in reply, get people to love God supremely, for he only is worthy of the supreme affections of all. Perhaps some will ask, what God? I would say in reply, the good God—who makes the sun to shine on the evil and the good; and sends the rain on the just and the unjust; the Creator of this beautiful universe, suns, moons, stars, oceans, mountains, valleys, rivers, and all the inhabitants of all these suns and planets, earth, air and seas. 
Plymouth, June 8, 1859. J. H.

DRESS REFORM CONVENTION. 
The National Dress Reform Convention met in Auburn, N. Y., last week. Mrs. L. A. Strowbridge of Cortland, was elected President, and Miss Abbie B. Barker and Mrs. S. D. Porter, Secretaries. The meeting was largely attended, not only by the friends of this Reform from abroad, but also by the citizens of Auburn. Many speeches and addresses were made during the session by speakers of both sexes. Prof. Brackett, formerly of New York Central College, delivered several brief and pointed speeches, characterized by great good sense. Professor Toohey uttered some very sensible remarks on the physiological principles of health, and the importance of the proper adjustment of the dress to the chest and limbs. Among many female speakers, Miss Barker made a very sensible speech; and Mrs. Joy, the wife of Hon. David Joy, of Massachusetts, delivered a brief address, which, for purity and polish of diction, good sound sense and practical wisdom, we have rarely heard excelled—and it was delivered with an easy fluency and modesty which won the admiration of the large assemblage. Speaking of Mrs. Joy's address, the Auburn Daily Advertiser says:— 
'Mrs. Joy made the speech of the occasion. It was written with great care; full of pungent and well taken hits at the follies and extravagances of the day. It was delivered in a modest and firm manner, and was received with relish by the audience. As a literary production, the address would do credit to the first class speakers.'
We cannot say we are a convert to the Reform or Bloomer style of the female dress. There are decided improvements that we think could be made in it. At the same time we are free to say, that it contains features which we must highly sanction. Its adaptation to the chest, giving the lungs an opportunity for free and unimpeded expansion, should be universally approved and imitated. the violence to the laws of nature and health committed by the common style of dress, on the vital organs of the chest, annually hurries thousands of the females of our country to a premature grave. The attention of women cannot be called too frequently nor too earnestly to this important subject. Of the two extremes—of the heavy, manifold, expanded, long and dragging dress now so often met in the streets, on the one hand, or the Bloomer costume on the other, we should decidedly prefer the latter. To whatever decision we might come on the points of taste and gracefulness, the Bloomer, beyond dispute, has the advantage of convenience and Health—considerations the 'importance of which cannot be over-estimated. 
The following resolutions were adopted by the Convention:—[Ambassador. 
Resolved, That in our advocacy of Dress Reform, and in the practical exhibition which we make of our theory and faith, whether in our own Convention assembled, in our public appearance abroad, or in the walks of private life, we are actuated by no desire to attract public attention by an eccentric display, or disturb the quiet of public opinion by mere ultraism: but our sole purpose and desire are to perform a serious and important duty to ourselves and to society. 
Resolved, That in the effort which we are making, we seek first of all the blessing of health, which is so essential to the enjoyment of life, to contentment of mind, and to the accomplishment of the true object of our existence. We believe that the blighting curse of weakness, degeneracy, and hereditary disease, acknowledged and confessed in our land, and deplored daily by an enlightened press and in public manifestoes, has been fastened upon American Society, in a great measure, by long continued violations of the laws of health in the modes and habits of female dress. We seek to become exempt from these evils, and to reclaim society from these abuses; and we advocate, therefore, the entire repudiation of all form and appearance of dress, which needlessly restrain motion, and repress activity, hoping thus to encourage among women the cultivation of more active habits, to awaken a fuller sense of bodily freedom, to remove the growing burden of fashionable trammels by which physical exertion is rendered a task and a dread, and by these means to secure unto woman the proper development of her physical powers, and the full measure of her usefulness in the great social scheme of which she forms a part.
Resolved, That the recent awakening of public interest in behalf of female industry, and the popular cry from certain quarters of ' work for women,' increase our faith in the importance of dress reform; because it is a truth too obvious for argument, that work for women implies the necessity of a dress for women, to work in. 
Resolved, That they who demand for women an enlargement of her sphere of industry, and commend, to her the blessings of health, competence and independence, and they who labor for woman's rights, I and eloquently set forth the advantages to a woman and to society of equality between the sexes, are only tantalizing us with visions of the impossible—visions of blessings unattainable, so long as Fashion holds the sceptre of her supremacy, and enforces upon woman the adoption of a dress which in the industry urged upon her is utterly impracticable, and in which it is impossible for her, with any efficiency, to exhibit a practical use and exemplification of the rights demanded for her. 
Resolved, That woman's entire subjection to the rule of fashion is the evidence of her dependence and interior position; that her present style of dress is the badge and sign of a useless, inefficient and aimless life; and that so long as she continues in the absolute corporeal thraldom which fashion now imposes, the world, deeming this to be hear necessary and appropriate condition, may be expected to oppose her entrance into a more active sphere of life as being absurd, and only calculated to bring her into ridicule and contempt. 
Resolved, That bondage to fashion, such as is displayed in the life of the great mass of American women,
<c04>
is totally incompatible with that thoughtful he and religious character which a Christian people ought to cultivate; for real religion exempts from every false devotion, and leaves us to be mindful of every self-duty, of all obligations to the laws of our being, and of all considerations of public and private good.

From the Boston Journal.
MEETING OF THE ALUMNI OF THE THEOLOGICAL SCHOOL.
At the dose of the exercises of the Graduating Class, at Cambridge, the Alumni of the Theological School sat down to one of Smith's unexceptional a dinners, in Harvard Hall, which having been duly discussed, the annual meeting of the Association was held in the Old Colony Chapel. 
The President, Rev. Dr. Newell of Cambridge, occupied the chair. 
The following officers were elected for the ensuing rear: President—Rev. Dr. Newell. Vice President—Rev. Nathaniel Hall of Dorchester. Secretary—Rev. J. F. W. Ware, of Cambridge. Committee of Arrangements for 1860—Rev. O. E. Everett, Rev. F. A. Whitney, Rev. Amos Stone. Rev. James Freeman Clarke of Boston, was chosen to deliver the next annual address before the Association. 
The President announced that gentlemen were free to offer such remarks upon the exercises of the morning as they thought proper.
Rev. Dr. Osgood of New York, Rev. Dr. Burnap of Baltimore, and others, expressed their gratification at the thought and spirit of the Essays of the Graduating Class, commending especially the reverent and religious tone which pervaded the addressee, in marked contrast with like productions in former years.
The next and most interesting topic of discussion, however, was elicited by the introduction of the following resolution, offered by Rev. M. D. Conway of Cincinnati, Ohio:
Resolved, That the Association has heard with deep regret of the failure, during the past year, of the health of the Rev. THEODORE PARKER; and we hereby extend to him our heartfelt sympathy, and express, our earnest hope and prayer for his return with renewed strength and heart unabated to the post of duty which he has so long filled with ability and zeal.
This resolution was seconded by the Rev. James Freeman Clarke, who said that he took great pleasure in doing so. Though Mr. Parker had gone out from them, and said many hard things of them, be still cherished, as the speaker had reason to know, the tenderest feelings towards the members of the Association. Upon no one would kindly sentiments fall with a happier effect than upon Mr. Parker. They would do him good. It would be manifesting the spirit of Christianity towards Mr. Parker to bless him, and he hoped the resolution would be adopted.
Rev. Dr. Gannett, of Boston, opposed the passage of the resolve. He objected to it as unprecedented. It had never been the custom of the association to pass votes of this nature. For Mr. Parker, personally, he entertained feelings of the deepest kindness. He recognized Mr. Parker's earnestness, his great learning, and his conscientious devotion to duty. He sympathized with him in his personal affliction, but he was not prepared to vote for the resolution, because it would be a virtual endorsement of Mr. Parker's position as a preacher. He (Mr. Gannett) was free to say that he believed a portion of his preaching was calculated to do great good to the world; that it struck deeper into the heart of the great public and social sins than the preaching of any man among us. But another part of his preaching was doing a great harm to society, by unsettling men's faith in the doctrines of the Church and in Revelation. 
Besides, Mr. Parker had said in past years such severe and bitter things of this Association, that he was convinced that even Christian charity did not demand that they should in this particular case depart from their established custom for his benefit, tie closed with renewed assurances of esteem for Mr. Parker. 
Rev. Dr. Burnap, of Baltimore, followed in much the same train of argument, urging that the preaching of Mr. Parker was hostile to faith in the Bible. 

Rev. Dr. Osgood, of New York, expressed for Mr. Parker the warmest attachments of a classmate, and sympathized with him in his affliction, but he was not prepared to vote for the resolution. He thought that Mr. Conway had violated the courtesies of the occasion by asking them to vote for such a resolution. While he sympathized with the man. he could not endorse him as a Christian. Especially his spirit he believed to be unchristian. This had been manifested not only in former years, but in his late book it appeared in a great degree. 
Rev. Charles E. Ellis, D. D., of Charlestown, took the same view as former speakers of the impropriety of the resolution, and intimated that the object of the mover was not fully expressed; that there was something more than sympathy for Mr. Parker's sickness intended. 
At this stage of the discussion, the meeting became somewhat agitated. Various propositions were made, and it was suggested that the mover withdraw his resolution. 
Mr. Conway explained, remarking that be had no intention of committing the association to the theology of Mr. Parker; and though it was an unprecedented thing for the association to pass resolutions of this kind, sympathizing with brethren removed by sickness from their fields of labor, that was no reason why they should not change their custom, which would be 'more honored in the breach than in the observance.' If the association felt the sympathy for Mr. Parker which they expressed, let them say so by their vote. He re-affirmed that he had no desire to commit the association to the theology of Mr. Parker, and he respectfully declined to withdraw his resolution. 
A motion was then made to adjourn. Rev. James Freeman Clarke insisted upon a vote on the passage of the resolution being taken. He said that here was a question that seemed to him to interest everybody. It was something more than a question of mere form, and he hoped the Association would express their honest conviction. If they entertained sympathy for Mr. Parker, he wished them to say so. But if they did not, be wished them to say that too. 
Rev. Or. Burnap again addressed the chair. He commenced an elaborate argument to show that Mr. Parker was an enemy to the Bible, condemning him for continuing to preach from it while he denied its Divine origin; but be was interrupted by Rev. Dr. Stebbins of Woburn, who objected to the passage of the resolution, urging the discontinuance of the discussion, and the suppression of the question. 
About this time, Rev. Mr. Ware, the Secretary, rose and said that this was a private meeting of the Alumni, and as he observed individuals present who did not appear to be members of the association, some of whom were taking notes, he suggested that the meeting be cleared of all who were not connected with the association, and that reporters especially be requested to retire.
Rev. Dr. Stebbins expressed the hope that the reporters would not be sent away, expressing his belief that they knew well enough what to report and what not to.
The hour—4 o'clock—having arrived for the delivery of the address of Rev. Dr. Bellows of New York before the Alumni, the motion to adjourn was renewed, but before the vote was taken, further discussion ensued.
Rev. Dr. Gannett said he valued honor more than the pleasure of listening to the address of Brother Bellows. The question was whether they should extend their sympathy to Mr. Parker, and pray for his return to a post where he had been engaged with all his zeal and ability in disseminating principles in opposition to the tenets of their faith.
Rev. Dr. Hedge expressed the hope that Mr. Parker would come to the Music Hall. He was doing a good work. But while be sympathized with Mr. Parker, he regarded the resolution as an imposition, and hoped it would not be adopted 
The question on adjournment was then taken and earned by a vote of about two to one.

From the Claremont (N. H.) Advocate. 
MORE GROWLING.
The Boston City Government have had the annual growl about their Fourth of July orator. At their meeting on Thursday evening last, some of the members, probably those most afflicted with the cotton mania, dissented from passing a vote of thanks to Mr. Sumner for his admirable oration at the City Celebration, and some did not hesitate to utter the wont and most insulting language in relation to him. It is said he was used very much as Rev. Mr. Alger was used last year; and finally, by a vote of 21 to 11, the vote for the customary vote of thanks was postponed one week. Some of the members thought this vote would prove them dolts, and the people of 
<c05>
he State will doubtless very generally agree in that opinion. The whole proceeding was most supreme-ridiculous and sickening. 
The Nashua Telegraph thus refers to the matter: 
POOR BOSTON! Boston folks will have to go to South Carolina to get somebody to deliver their Fourth of July orations. People there are not troubled with any notions about freedom, which are apt to occur to Boston folks on the Fourth of July, George Sumner, one of the best scholars, and one of the best informed men in all matters of law in the country, delivered their oration last week, and he said something about what our fathers used to talk about on these occasions, and Boston propriety took fire, and got itself into quite a mass. In a short me, these modern Athenians will not allow the Declaration of Independence to be read.

THE 'HELPER' FUND. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune. 
Sir: Mr. John C. Underwood of Virginia, having nobly consented to devote a portion of his time, during the present Summer, to the collection of subscription in the Eastern States, in aid of the fond for the publication and distribution of a cheap edition of Helper's Impending Crisis of the South,' has received full authority from the Committee for that purpose. 
Mr. Underwood has accepted this commission on the express understanding that his labors in the cause are to be considered as his subscription to the fund, and on this account, as well as on account of his past services in the cause of Freedom, the Committee would be speak for him the kind attentions and hearty cooperation of the liberty-loving citizens of the Eastern States. Mr. Underwood will leave New York early next week. Respectfully yours, &c.,
WM. HENRY ANTHON, 
New York. July 15, 1859. Treasurer, &c. 
A FATHER RUNNING OFF WITH HIS FAMILY. Saturday last, an old negro man of Steubenville, named Tom Snowden, in connection with one or two other able gentlemen of that place, hitched up a conveyance and went to West Liberty, in this county, for the purpose of carrying away a slave girl and her child, mother and brother, the property of Josiah Chapline. The old man Snowden is the father of the family. In the evening, the family was sent down to the mouth of a lane some distance from the house, where they were to take a carriage which was provided for the purpose. Some of the citizens of the vicinity, having observed the colored folks during the day, decided to watch their movements, and so intercepted the carriage as it was moving away with its load. The citizens demanded a halt under a penalty of cold lead. When the two parties came together, it is said, the old man Snowden fought desperately, and was several times knocked down before he would yield. All the negroes engaged in the affair, slave and free, were arrested and committed to jail by a magistrate, brought to this city, and safely confined for trial.— Wheeling (Va.) Intelligencer, July 7.
MERITED SUCCESS. A very large audience last Sabbath listened to the closing discourse of the colored preacher, Rev. J. Sells Martin, whose efforts, during the six weeks he has supplied the pulpit of the First Baptist Church, have attracted much attention and high commendation. Of Mr. Martin's history we have heretofore spoken. He came to Boston in the spring an entire stranger, and spent a week at the Harvard Street Church, with Mr. Eddy, with so much acceptance that he was invited to Tremont Temple, where he labored with much success for six weeks, when he came here to supply the pulpit of the Baptist Church during the vacation of the pastor. While here, he has given the most complete satisfaction to the largest Protestant congregation in the city; his sermons, delivered without notes, are full of fresh thoughts, eloquent passages, sound argument and forcible illustrations, while his manner and style are peculiarly pleasing. His closing discourse was one of unusual power and clearness, and evinced a mind of no ordinary depth and originality. The surprising genius of this young fugitive has won the attention and warm eulogium of all who have heard him, and their best wishes will accompany him abroad. 
We learn that he goes from here to supply the pulpit of the Tremont Temple Church in Boston, during a two months' absence of the pastor, and if those who sneeringly deride the capacity of the colored race, desire to put their sentiments to a practical test, let them note the entire success with which he will hold and interest the largest congregation in New England, numbering 3000, and mostly young people. 
On our outside of to-day may be found a poem from the pen of Mr. M., which possesses unusual merit, and is stamped with the unmistakeable marks of talent and poetic genius, meriting an attentive perusal. We know we but express the wish of our citizens, when we hope soon again to see Mr. Martin among us.—Lawrence American. 
The Pennsylvania Medical Society has exhibited a narrow-mindedness altogether disgraceful to its members, by adopting a resolution recommending the members of the regular profession to withhold from the faculties and graduates of Female Medical Colleges all countenance and support, and that they cannot consistently with sound medical ethics consult or hold professional intercourse with their professors or alumni.' The Female Medical Colleges of Pennsylvania, it should be remembered, are strict Allopathic; so we are forced to conclude that the objection to them is founded solely upon the fact that they afford the means of education to women. We echo the sentiment of the Philadelphia Sunday Dispatch:' Shame upon the men who, while prating about their respectability, would combine to rob women of the means of supporting themselves and their families. Such finitessimal littleness cannot benefit them. The public are ever willing to aid the weak, and support them against the strong. The war against women cannot be sustained by the public voice; it will recoil upon and injure those who are so arbitrary and selfish as to endeavor to interfere with them.'-A. S. Standard. 
MANUMISSION OF SLAVES. A very interesting scene occurred yesterday at the Probate Court, says a Cincinnati exchange, and as it is national in its character, we desire to call the attention of political philosophers of every section of the Union to it. There is nothing new in the affair, but nevertheless it involves an unanswered problem, and one which politicians generally avoid. Anthony Gustave, recently a slave of Heloise Cory of New Orleans, and Lucy, a negro woman about 40 years of age, and her child four years old, late the property of Charles DeBlanc, also of New Orleans, had their manumission papers recorded in the Probate Court yesterday. Mr. Leonce Boudousquie of that city exercised the power of attorney for them. They are now citizens of Ohio, and will henceforth endeavor to do here what the Republican State of Louisiana prohibits their class from doing.
A NARROW ESCAPE. We learn that a free-born colored man of this city, named Henry Price, narrowly escaped being sold into shivery, in the State of Missouri, a short time ago. It seems that Price being in St Louis, a steward on one of our boats, was sent of some errand into the city, was caught by some thief, put in jail as a fugitive, and laid in jail more than a week, and was finally obliged to pay $14 fees before he was set at liberty. Had he not been able to prove his condition—that of a free man, he would have been sold into slavery to pay the charges of his keeping. Such outrages need no comment, they speak so loudly for themselves.
To steal a family of free people, as was done in Cumberland county a few days since, and to sell them into hopeless slavery, is a matter of small import when compared with the escape of a fugitive from slavery!—Pittsburgh Gazette.
The New York Tribune, National Era, and Peninsular News and Advertiser, by some process of law known only on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, were made to appear before the Grand Jury of Dorchester County, at its last session, to answer to the not sufficiently-to-be-abhorred crime of opposition to the 'peculiar institution.' Like the Baltimore Convention, the grand jury had evidently concluded to do something; but after examining numerous witnesses, and ascertaining the fact that many intelligent, respectable citizens of the Eastern Shore subscribed, paid for, and read Republican papers, they wisely concluded not to do it. The freesoilers laughed, and prepared a rich account of the whole transaction for publication, but suppressed it in order to shield their imprudent neighbors from further contempt and ridicule.—News and Adv.
KIDNAPPING COOLIES. Advices from China state, that both at Canton and Whampoa men detected in kidnapping hare been seized by the people, and crucified.
A BAD SHOWING FOR THE SLAVE TRADE. The Oxford, Miss., Mercury says that three out of four, or seventy-five per cent, of the imported Africans purchased by planters in that vicinity, have died. 
Miss Loretta Nickerson has been appointed Post-Mistress at South Harwich, in place of her father, John H. Nickerson, deceased. 
Eighteen or twenty colored persons, of both sexes, recently arrived at St. Francisco from New Orleans, having been manumitted by their owner. 
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extracted of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How complexity this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILLIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURRUI, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSLA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body of an alternative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because may preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or anything else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonyms with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the disease it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentry. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner pill and for Purifying the Blood. 
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic. 
Price, 25 cents per Box; five boxes for $1.00 
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, hare lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, to our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they ate given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and, the treatment that should be followed for their cure. 
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S and take no others. The sick want that best aid there is for them, and they should have it. 
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., Boston
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J.N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6 m May7

LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby. offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford Mass and constituting a part of the original Community domains are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of Purchasers Upon some of them are pleasant dwelling and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere ct buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege. rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families and superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantage of the Hopedale Home School- a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid the attainment of thorough, symmetrical and practical Education--will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home. 
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious economical family. 
For further particulars and all necessary information inquire of E.D.DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homestead of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle is our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be selves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted as hither, the next best thing, is to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances will allow we are therefore pleased with BR. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement to be crowed with success-Practical Christian.
