THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisement inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper. viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institutions of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power: and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are not in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
Our Country is the World, our Country are all Mankind.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 5.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1623.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
WITHDRAWAL OF SECRETARY CAMERON.
The public cannot but be glad at the retirement of this gentleman from the great office of Secretary of War. We give him credit for his fine energies, and his fortune from obscurity and indigence to wealth and power may well be admired; but his integrity has been often severely questioned, and on an important feature in the fundamental law of the land, he has principles of the most pestiferous description. It is on the later ground that there must be common exultation on his withdrawal. He is the very man-the identical Secretary of War-who recently urged, in an official paper, the arming of the blacks of the South for the suppression of the rebellion. The illegality and imprudence of this suggestion need not now be enlarged upon. When he had the audacity of broaching it, the independent journals of the country-and in independence THE PILOT must be allowed to be bold enough-arraigned him in merited terms. Had his advice been respected by the President, the loyal parts of Virginia and Tennessee, and the whole of the States of Kentucky, Missouri, and Maryland, had now been out of the Union, and for seceding they could not be condemned. In that case, the Federal Constitution had been broken against them, and in self-defence they would be compelled to rebel openly against the consequences of the violation. But the Chief Magistrate kept his oath of office, and the allegiance of those sections of the Union has not been destroyed. Nor is this all the trouble Cameron's abolition manifesto had been followed by: it would have intensified the treason of the remainder of the South ten thousand degrees, given incalculable augmentation to the savagery of the war, and it would lead to the perfect dissettlement of the whole negro race in the country. Nothing so pestiferous to the Republic as this arming plan of Simon Cameron ever issued from the Cabinet. Various causes are assigned for his retiring. We dare say the man has been politely expelled the Cabinet on account of his rabid abolitionism. For the same powerful reason, the President should never have engaged his services. But better late than not at all; and the people of the United States may thank Providence that the politician who was bent on arming the four millions of blacks at the South is now out of office. We hope the Chief Magistrate will put more scurvy heads in the basket. Lane and Phelps should not be continued a single instant in the army. These vulgar Brigadiers are indebted for their epaulets to Simon Cameron, and Simon Cameron's principles they are carrying out with all their fanatic zeal. If they be not sent home, they will do irretrievable damage to the cause of the Union. Their present course of conduct indicates nothing else. It is the chief misfortune of this nation that electioneering services are the most powerful recommendations for place. As those services are in a majority of instances of a disgraceful kind, and therefore, the work of rogues, the fact cannot but lead to irretrievable public loss. Simon Cameron is a striking evidence of this. It may be that he will get another post: whether he does or not, there is ground for national exultation that he has no more control over the war department. One deadly foe to the Constitution is now out of the Cabinet. This is a weighty blow on the fustian, fanatic head of abolitionism. The rail-splitter has used a heavy axe. His oath of office requires of him to continue wielding the weapon.-Boston Pilot.
ABOLITION LICENSE.
The civil war by which the Republic is now on the verge of irreparable disappointed political ambition of the South, and the abolition doctrines of the North fanatically used for the overthrow of the chief Southern interests. These are the agents from which the rebellion has sprung. Had the latter never existed, it is certain that treason would not make its appearance in the slave States. The public men of those wretched sections of the country have shown a disobedient, distempered, aspiring, violent nature, in presence of which no legislation could be permanent-before the arrogance of which no laws could endure. In the absence of abolitionism, the treason of the South had not, perhaps, yet appeared, but break out it would before a great length of time. The rabid conduct of the philanthropists only hastened its incubation. But had the latter shameful truth not existed at all, had it been the case that the loyalty of the South were as entirely free from all taint as the fair spirit of the Constitution could require it to be, a doubt cannot be entertained that abolitionism per se would provoke the slave States to rebellion. There is guilt in the South proper to itself; but had it been completely free from guilt from proper reasons, its submissiveness the Black Republicans would lash into open revolt. In each division of the country, the Constitution has been murderously aimed at. It is difficult to settle on which side the larger treason prevails. On the first perception, abolitionism has it, and like all first judgments of a universal nature, this fires perception may be very well admitted to be true.
We have now in the field over six hundred thousand armed men for the suppression of the Southern rebels. Against this nothing can be said; in favor of it, every tongue and pen in the land should be deliberately exercised. But the Northern rebels are allowed to persist in their treason. Nay, they are at full liberty to increase in it. Abolitionism, which has been the principal cause of Southern disloyalty springing to action, was never so violent, so extreme, so wicked, so fanatic as it is at this very instant. Its clergymen, its editors and its "wretched spouters"-both men and women-are now in bold enjoyment of the utmost license of action. The Administration, however, does nothing to check them. On they go, in their certain treason, without a single barrier to stop their progress. The pillars of the abolition churches are made to vibrate every day and evening with emancipation sermons of the anti-slavery societies are in the fullest exercise; for the abolition journalists, no excess is too wild for advocacy, and the speakers of the tribe are utterly unbridled in their speech. Still, the government at Washington does nothing to hinder the guilt. This may be the result of having too much duty on hand. No doubt the rebellion of the South will be squelched down at last. But the real integrity of the Union is impossible while abolitionism is allowed to prevail. The rebels of the South are not better entitled to the misfortunes of war than the abolitionists-the traitors of the North. Down the latter must be put, as deeply as the former, or there can be no continuance of the Republic. It may be, that the Administration, which has given high military places to Lane and Phelps, has a clear perception, and an upright, patriotic, resolve on the case; but we advocate the uprising of the people in public meetings for the suppression of abolitionism-for the removal of one of the causes of the present rebellion-for the stern
<c02>
demand of real action by the government with the fanatic rebels of the North. If they be tolerated, the fires of the rebellion will continue inextinguishable. But we have an abolitionist Congress!!!—Ibid.
A GOOD SYMPTOM.
We quote below from the Worcester Spy the following timely, and no doubt just, piece of criticism upon Wendell Phillips's lecture. From the description given of it, the philippic is the same which this past favorite of the Spy, and of the other abolition newspapers, and of abolition gatherings in general, has delivered on repeated occasions recently. The charm of his oratory, however, now ceases to exercise its wonted influence over even a Worcester audience. The reason is plain. The country is now dealing with facts instead of theories, and with those facts the speculations of Mr. Phillips are inconsistent, so that "his tone in reference to the Government was," as the Spy justly observes, "in all respects unfriendly." In a word, the good peo­ple of Worcester, who have been in the habit for years of listening with delight to Mr. Phillips, who were fed upon his diatribes and rolled his invectives as a sweet morsel under the tongue, begin to feel that this indulgence has betrayed them into a false position towards their country: and as they feel this, "outward graces" and all the tricks or accomplishments of elocution pall upon the eye and the ear-and, as the Spy now does, they call
"Him vile who was their garland."
This is the natural course of things; and the change which it exhibits is no less inevitable than gratifying. Mr. Phillips's lecture is no whit worse in the key-tone and animus of it, than Mr. Sumner's. at the Worcester Convention, early in October last, which was received by a majority of that body with such enthusiasm—but the times have changed, and men's minds with them.
The Spy cannot, however, forgive those who have always seen and resisted by argument and expostulation that course of fanatical abolitionism, which has brought our country to its present deplorable state; and, accordingly, in the same sheet, in which it disposes of Mr. Phillips so summarily, it uses some characteristically elegant language towards a Button newspaper, the "organ and oracle," it would seem, of those who have felt the folly and guilt of destroying their country on professed philanthropic principles. It dreads the effect of the "memorial," 'to Congress, sent forth by the Courier, and which is having so wide a circulation. It denounces Phillips for his logical deductions from "the negro question," and assails the newspaper in question for taking means to induce Congress to let the negro alone. This is the Spy's article:—
"Wendell Phillips's lecture, last night, brought out a large audience at Mechanics Hall, thought not so large as some we have had there on other occasions, this winter. He spoke of the war, a topic, he said, that should be the only one with every serious minded American. But the lecturer fell below his reputation for eloquence. There was a lack of heartiness and generous enthusiasm. We have never heard him when his words had so little power to control the sympathy of his audience.
"There was no lack of the outward graces that have contributed to give him his high position as an orator. The failure came from the clear, strong, and just con­viction that he was atrociously unjust to the men in whose hands rests the control of our national affairs. The man who can so unhesitatingly denounce Mr. Seward as a 'Micawber,' and Mr. Lincoln as a man 'who left his brains and conscience in Kentucky,' does not deserve to hear enthusiastic responses from an intelligent audience. His injustice was felt as one feels the utterance of falsehood. Moreover, his vitu­peration was ill-timed as well as misdirected.
His tone in reference to the Government was in all respects unfriendly. Looking at the rebels, he saw ability, statesmanship, and others great and noble qualities, on account of which, he said, they deserve success; while in our Government he saw nothing but imbecility and lack of everything that can merit eulogy. It is not thus that patriotic men deal by the Government at a time like this. It is the habit of Mr. Phillips to utter invectives, and in his mind, it may be, they have less meaning than to those who hear them. This, however, cannot render such injustice excusable."—[Boston Courier.
The further reports of the Anti-Slavery meetings show that we even grow in grace, beyond the pitch noticed by our correspondent, "Bristol." In old Federal and Democratic party times, many of our readers will remember that famous writer on the side of the Democrats, Mr. Austin, who signed his communications "Honestus"—whence he became known to his opponents as "Hony Austin." When a specially fierce attack was made upon him from the opposite quarter, it was the custom of "Hones­tus" to retort—" By their roaring you may know they are hit." We infer, on the same grounds, that the "gentle stirring up of the negrophilists in this paper, of yesterday, made them feel their mortality, and afforded another convincing illustration of how these, gentle philanthropists can rail.
But as the best set-off we can furnish for their amiable allusions to this paper, the following pas­sage in the speech of Senator Davis of Kentucky, delivered in his place, on the 22d inst., seems to fit their case precisely:—
"But, Mr. President, these fanatics, these political and social demons, your Beechers, your Cheevers, your Phillipses, and your Garrisons, come here breath­ing pestilence from Pandemonium, trying to destroy this Union, so as to secure over its broken fragments the emancipation of slaves. They oppose Mr. Lincoln, us honest and pure a man as ever lived, because he stands by the Constitution, and is opposed to interfering with slavery. The utterances they have put forth in this city have desecrated the Smithsonian Institution. It the Secessionists had dared to give expression to the same utterances, they would have been sent, and properly sent, to Fort Lafayette or Fort War­ren. What will you do with these monsters? I will tell you what I would do with them, and with that terrible monster Greeley, as they come sneaking around here, like hungry wolves, after the destruction of Slavery. If I had the power, I would take them and the worst Seceshers, and hang them in pairs. (Laughter.) I wish to God I could inflict that punishment upon them. It would he just. They are the disunionists. They are the madmen, who are willing to call up all the passions of the infernal regions, and all the horrors of a servile war. This they would carry out over the disjected fragments of a broken Constitution to obtain their unholy purposes, and I am too fearful that the Hon. Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Sum­ner) sympathizes with them. (Laughter)."
No wonder that Senators more familiar with Mr. Sumner's sympathies laughed that Mr. Davis should feel the slightest hesitation about his entire communion with the others designated.—Boston Courier.
"The sole object of solicitude with the aboli­tionists," says Wendell Phillips, "is the negro." The thirty millions of white people are not regarded at all-the sole object is the negro! Why don't they all go to Africa, then? They could indulge their "solicitude" there without harm to any one, except the "object" of it.-Boston Post.
<c03>
THADDEUS STEVENS.
We trust that no good citizen awl patriot read the telegraphic report in yesterday's paper of Mr. Thaddeus Stevens's fanatical and insane ravings without indignation and disgust. The madness and reckless­ness of such language at such a time are inconceiv­able; we can compare the man who talks in this bedlamitish strain to nothing so much as to a mis­chievous monkey playing with fire in the magazine of a splendid line-of-battle ship. But Mr. Stevens is no inconsiderable person, but the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, and the leader, so to say, of the House of Representatives; and thus his words are not like water spilled upon the ground, but rather the dragon's teeth that sprang up armed men. The President of the United States has exer­cised pretty liberally during the past year the privi­lege of arrest and imprisonment during his pleasure; if such powers are to be used at all, we recommend Mr. Stevens as a proper subject for them. We would not send him to Fort Warren or Fort Lafayette, but simply to the nearest lunatic asylum, where he may have his head shaved, a large blister put on between the shoulder-blades, and be fed on bread, water, oat-meal gruel and other anti-phlogistic diet, till returning reason reassume its sway.—Bos­ton Courier.
The Liberator.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The twenty-ninth annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was held in Boston, on Thursday and Friday of last week, commencing at 10 o'clock on Thursday, at Allston Hall, corner of Tremont and Bromfield streets, with the exception of the closing one on Friday evening, which was held at Music Hall. A large number of the old and tried friends of the cause were in attendance, from various parts of the State, and the proceedings were characterized by the same earnestness and faith in the ultimate triumph of the right, which have made the meetings of the Society memorable from its organization to the present hour.
Edmund Quincy, Esq., one of the Vice Presidents, presided on Thursday, and, after calling the meeting to order, stated that prayer would be offered by Rev. <illegible> After the conclusion of the prayer —which was appropriate to the occasion, and to the condition of the country—Edmund Jackson, Esq., Treasurer, read his report, as follows:—
RECEIPTS
Of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society from January 1, 1861, to January 1, 1862.
Balance in the Treasury, Jan. 1,1861, $1234 24
Bequest of the late John Rogers, 100 00
Receipts from the Bazaar, 183 33
Contributions at the meeting of July 4th, 161 15
Contributions at annual meeting, l92 83
Contributions at the 1st of August meeting, 89 75
Donation from the Hovey Fund, 150 00
Pledges, subscriptions and donations, as published monthly in the Liberator, 1599 08
Total, $3710 43
DISBURSEMENTS
During the same period, as follows:
Paid Office Rent, $487 50
Expenses of annual meeting, 250 00
R. F. Wallcut, one year's salary, 425 04
E. H. Heywood, General Agent, one year's salary and expenses, 886 14
C. C. Burleigh, lecturing and expenses, 167 00 
Printing, 84 32
Office furniture, 24 00
Reporting by J. M. W. Yerrinton, 97 00
American A. S. Society, 408 33
Repository, 80 00
Expenses at Framingham meeting, 25 69
Circulating Petitions, 19 00
Fifty copies Liberator, 24 00
A. T. Foss, lecturing and expenses, 535 87
Sallie Holley, do. do. 136 73
Charles L. Remond, 7 50
Samuel May, Jr., 41 25
Balance, 11 06
Total, $3710 43
EDMUND JACKSON, Treas'r.
January 10, 1862. I have examined the accounts of Edmund Jackson, Treasurer, for the year 1861, and find the same to be correct, and properly vouched; and the foregoing abstract of the same is correct.
WM. I. BOWDITCH, Auditor.
Three Assistant Secretaries were then appointed— C. K. WHIPPLE, J. M. W. YERRINTON, WENDELL P. GARRISON.
On motion of Mr. Garrison, a Business Committee was appointed, as follows:—W. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Maria W. Chapman, C. L. Remond, Lydia Maria Child, Henry C. Wright, Giles B. Stebbins.
On motion of Mr. May, the following Committees were appointed:—
On Nomination of Officers—Samuel May, Jr., of Leicester; Jas. N. Buffum, of Lynn; Wm. Ashby, of Newburyport; J. B. Swasey, of Roxbury; Briggs Arnold, of Abington; Henry Abbot, of Amherst; Samuel Barrett, of Concord; George Miles, of West­minster; Alvan Howes, of Barnstable.
Finance Committee—E. D. Draper, E. H. Heywood, Maria S. Page, Mary Willey, Thos. M. Hathaway, Elbridge Sprague, Georgina Otis.
The President then introduced Rev. WM. R. ALGER, of Boston, who was received with applause.
SPEECH OF REV. WM. R. ALGER.
I congratulate you, Mr. President, on the goodly auspices which are over you at this time of your meeting—friendly and hopeful May breathing in your ranks, although frosty January hangs in the air.
Since you last met together, all abroad, gigantic steps have been taken towards the consummation you have so long devoutly wished. Then, JOHN Brown (applause)—I believe, Mr. President, it is the custom for all the speakers on your platform, outside of your own circle, to apologize for making any allusion to that departed hero, and say they don't approve of his course; we will omit that, on the present occa­sion (applause)—then, I say, JOHN BROWN had just stepped serenely from North Elba to Harper's Ferry, and from Harper's Ferry to the stars. Now, his soul, multiplied by half a million, and transfused through as many gallant hearts, is marching on. His soul, filling the heavens with flame and the earth with thunder, is marching on to that victory which his right arm and ride could not achieve. (Applause.) The
<c04>
omens of the hour are good. Even if this revolutionary spasm should terminate by restoring things simply as they were before, ostensibly, still, an unspeakable gain will have been made in reality; for the dominance of the South in our politics is hopelessly broken forever. (Loud applause.) And, furthermore, the exclusive monopoly of the production and supply of cotton is hopelessly broken forever. (Renewed applause.) And, in consequence of that, still more and further, the price of slaves has been fatally lowered, and thus the backbone, the vital motive, to slavery propagandism taken out; so that, even should worst come to worst, a colossal, unimaginable advance and gain have been made. But I, for one, do not believe that these things will eventuate and close in a simple restoration of the status quo. Far from it. Our Southern brethren-"our misguided brethren of the South"-saw what is called by sailors a cyclone; that is, one of those gales in southern seas which have a rotary motion, and, at the same time, a very rapid forward motion on their axis. They saw this storm whirling round in the direction in which their ship Confederacy was sailing, towards the gloomy port of slavery. They cut into the outer circle of the storm, thinking to be hastened on their way-forgetting that it was moving with irresistible and tremendous activity on the line of its axis towards the smiling haven of Liberty. (Applause.) I expect, Mr. President, one of these bright mornings, to see, by some Providential interposition or other, the bloody curtain of this tragedy which is going on in our country torn aside, and the lights of Justice and Freedom streaming across the stage on the ruins of the sole cause of our troubles, on the sprouting germs of united interests, and on a people, hand in hand, marching to the goal of a harmonious and enduring prosperity. (Applause.) This cheerful faith I, for one, cherish, and mean to, until disastrous facts and necessities shall destroy it,-which I think they never will.
It is true, events move too slowly for our impatient hopes. Old Augustine said-"God is patient, because he is eternal." We, being finite, and so quickly passing off the stage, are naturally impatient. And sometimes, when we see how slowly events appear to be moving towards the end we covet, we cannot but sigh and complain, and wish the end were clearer and nearer. The old Greeks were accustomed to commemorate the battle of Plataea, on each occurrence of its anniversary, by crowing the bowl of Liberty amidst the very scenes of its occurrence. They went out with paeans and garlands, beneath the brilliant Grecian sky, and, amidst the tombs, weaving wreaths, and hanging them on the sepulchres, they filled the bowl with wine, and poured it out upon the sod, conjuring back again the shades of the immortal heroes of the asphodel Elysium, to join with them in their rite of Liberty. We, too, have our famous battlefields, our storied tombs, our illustrious names, our blue sky, our mountains and our sea; when, when shall we, too, crown our bowl of Liberty? (Applause.)
Mr. President, the subject upon which I propose to submit a few thoughts to you and to this audience, on this occasion, is this: What to do for the public good, and how to do it. As constituent members of the country, it belongs to us to do whatever properly lies in our power for the good of the country. Now, in this direction, what can a single citizen do, and how shall he do it?
First of all, he is bound to exemplify, in himself, the principles and virtues which he wishes to see become universal and supreme in the institutions and usages of the country. This is a direct way to the accomplishment of his end; for the collective country is made up of individual citizens. Its character, conduct, experience and destiny are composed of and determined by them. To fulfil this duty is also the direct way for him to acquire public respect and influence, private integrity and peace. But to fail of doing this is to incur serious censure and odium-to become himself a sour, querulous and pernicious disorganizer. Now, I believe that it will usually be found true of Reformers, that they observe this primal and cardinal obligation. They do incarnate in themselves and observe in their conduct, in an unusual degree, the principles and sentiments and rules which they hold up for the observations of others. It is one of the great, current, fashionable fallacies of the world to charge them with the opposite; because every one whose interests are assailed, whose ease is disturbed, whose complacency is rebuked by their assaults, by their requirements, by the ideal which they set up in superiority to his real,-every such one, naturally following the mean impulses of our nature, strives to avoid the point and edge presented to him by some evasion or other; and the most obvious is, to retort and say-"You are guilty of as great crime in this particular as I am in that", and in that way undertake to evade the obligation. So that the fashionable criticism of Reformers as "malignant philanthropists," and all that style of invective which is so current and common, is really, as a general law, in my opinion, unfounded and false. So obvious and almost inevitable is the result of rebuke and odium which will come upon the Reformer, if he does not exemplify in himself what he preaches to others, that he will naturally be very careful to exemplify it. Perhaps some of you have read the modern fable-as good as anything in *sop, I think, although it is new-The Sparrow and the Eagle. One day the sparrow went to the eagle, and said to him, "May it please your royalty, I notice that you fly away with kids and lambs, that never did any harm to anybody. There is no creature in the world so malignant as the cat. She prowls round our nests, eats up our young, and bites off our own heads. She feeds so daintily, she must be good eating herself. She is lighter to carry than a kid, and then you would get a famous grip in her loose fur! why don't you feed on cat?" "O," replied the eagle, "I had the worm here this morning, who asked me, 'Why don't you feed on sparrow?' Is that a piece of worm's skin I see on your beak, child?" The sparrow cleaned her beak on her feathers, and said, "I should like to see the worm that asked you that question." "Stand forth, worm," said the eagle; when the worm appeared, the sparrow snapped him up, and then went on with his argument against cats. (Laughter and applause.) The application of this fable is obvious. I do not believe that the charges which are so frequently made against Reformers have any foundation, in one case in ten thousand. However, it is well enough for us all to bear in mind, that while we are
<c05>
holding up a high standard of duty for other and for the State, we are to be careful to see to it that we come up to it ourselves.
Then the next thing which the individual may do for the public good is with a quick and generous eye to recognize every form and particle of good already existing in others or in the State, and strive, in the most cordial and most hearty manner, to nourish and extend that—to increase and diffuse that, so that, from the present beginnings of good, there may be spread abroad, to final consummation, universal good. To labor consciously and earnestly in that direction is a contribution to the public good which every individual may make—an offering to lay on the altar of the great human weal which will be incense in the nostrils of the Almighty, and upon which no man can fling odium.
Now, what are these beginnings of good which we are to recognize, and, by recognition, by praise and honor, strive to increase? Well, the consummation of all hu­man good is the full, free and happy exercise and fruition of all the faculties of human nature; and whatever contributes towards that is in its degree good, and to be recognized and prized. Knowledge is good, freedom is good, enterprise, energy, industry, resolution, are poor; but, above all, truth and virtue are good. But in order to know what the truth is, and to feel the sanctions of virtue, there must be a free stage for their exhibition—there must be unhampered freedom of speech and discussion—unlimited criticism, pro and con, in order that all fallacies may be refuted, and all truths be enforced and established. Every individual, according to his lights, his gifts, his opportunities, should contribute his part to this great process of puri­fication and enlightenment, helping, according to what in him lies, to establish correct ideas on all points which concern the welfare of the country. The op­position to this course, which is so common in every direction wherever we look, is as absurd as it is aston­ishing and disastrous.
There is but one other particular specification that I desire to make under this general head,—a matter very obvious, and yet most sadly unappreciated and vio­lated,—and that is, the duty of selecting for our pub­lic offices none but sound, trusty, and competent men. If we could see in one view the amount of evil which has come to the character of our people and to the welfare of our country, from the predominance in oar offices of political advancement and power of unprinci­pled men, there is not a man on the continent who would act shudder with surprise and horror. And, on the other hand, if we could see what an amount of good would be consummated at once if no man was ever put into any office in the gift of the American people, who was not a wise, honorable, and devoted man, determined, according to the best of his abili­ties, to support justice and human well-being, we should be filled with wonder and delight. We have been slow to learn the lesson that Carlyle has taught with prophetic eloquence and power, that only the best men ought to be in places of rule. There is no trouble in finding out who the best men are, if we only desire to do it. The difficulty is, we do not care much about it, but let things drift along as they will. In ancient Greece, it came to be considered that the lot was the best symbol of Democracy. They chose orators, commanders, magistrates, by lot. Antisthenes once advised the Athenians to vote that asses were horses, because they had made generals by votes. This, instead of being the highest expression of freedom, is, as Dr. Lieber has well said, "the annihilation of freedom." When a speech is to be made on an important occasion, if Demosthenes can be had, how absurd it is to put his name into an urn, with those of a dozen tedious declaimers, and run the direful risk of which will come out first? The lot is the blank nega­tive of intelligence. Chance is the direct antithesis of choice. Now, it is true, we do not take our rulers in this way—by sheer luck; but we often do what is a great deal worse—a great deal worse; we let half a dozen corrupt politicians combine and collude in nominating men who they suppose will be the most subservient to their selfish ends, and then we support them pell mell, without a question. (Applause.) In the Koran of Mohammed there is this verse—"The ruler who appoints any man to an office when there is within his dominions another man better quali­fied for it, sins against Allah and against the State. "I wish that same verse were in oar Bible. (Applause.)
But another political crime we are guilty of, which every citizen, ought to understand, is that of permit­ting selfish ambition and resolute perseverance to put itself into whatever office it pleases, and bear away the authorities and the honors of the country. Instead of seeking out the noblest men,—those who are the most competent to fulfil official duties in the most beneficent manner,—and conferring upon them offices and honors and responsibilities, we lie quietly back, and allow self-seekers, noisy self-asserters, who are omnipresent, to lay hold of whatever prizes they desire, and take whatever positions they assume themselves to be worthy of. I have nothing to say on this platform, or anywhere else, against an honorable ambition,—a man seeing a high prize, fixing his eye fast upon it, and firing his heart to pay the price manfully, and win and wear it worthily;—that is good. But it is a very different thing when we allow selfish, incompetent as­pirants by frauds and tricks to accomplish their ends, and injure, perhaps destroy, the country. A true patriot, who climbs by genuine superiority, mounts as the lark mounts through the matin clouds, with prophetic sunshine on its breast, while the world yet lies dark below; but the selfish demagogue, who climbs from station to station by scandalous means, rises as the scum rises, collecting the filth of the successive strata through which he ascends, and making a clot on the top. (Applause.)
The last thing that I would specify which an in­dividual can do for the public good is this: to criticise and censure and lessen, to the utmost of his power, every element of evil that be sees anywhere in the country. This is only the reverse statement of the former duty; for to destroy and remove an evil is a good; therefore, the criticism about merely negative work is all irrelevant and forceless. This is just as positive as any other work. Suppose a machine, upon whose working you rely for subsistence, is stopped by a pebble in the cog-wheel,—is it not a positive good to take die pebble out? And yet it is only attacking and removing an evil. Ignorance, intemperance, selfishness,
<c06>
hate, unprincipled rivalry, are evils of the most enormous magnitude. I think it is a most noble good service if any one is able to fasten on those, criticise them, point out their true character and operation, make them odious, make it disgraceful for any one to be their votary, and thus clear the way for the forms of pure good to come into operation. This a part of the duty, not only of the reformer, as such, but of every citizen, as a member of the community. And yet, there is nothing in the world that is so popular among the common multitude of easy and well-to-do people,-fogies, hunkers and conservatives in particular,-as the outcry against the assault upon evil, "You want to do good to the public, do you? Well, then, in Heaven's name, hold your tongue and keep in private; let other people alone!" That is what they say; and yet, the absurdity of this-how obvious it is! It is refuted by a common sense view of the facts, for no great evil lodged in a community ever died out of itself. It has a self-sustaining, self-propagating power, as all other things have in the world; and if let alone, it will destroy the body politic on which it fastens and thrives. It must be assailed and destroyed, or else it will destroy the people. Common sense tells us this; and then, look at history! Have mankind been served in the great epochs and crises of the past by men who held their tongues, kept in private, and disturbed nobody? Not at all. Come from your graves, ye heroes, saints and benefactors of mankind in every age! Were you not the contumely and the buffet of your contemporaries? It has always been so, and will be, until mankind grow a great deal wiser and more charitable than they are yet.
In order to the full realization of the good growing out of this only one condition necessary, and that is freedom of discussion; that criticism shall have a fair field every where, without being persecuted or prevented, the only checks that are allowed to be put upon it being simply fairness and good temper. Within these limits, let evil be assailed; let even truth and good be assailed, because out of the agitation they will vindicate themselves. All that is requisite is freedom.
I believe, Mr. President, in presenting this view of the case-so old and hackneyed that I am afraid it is tedious, and yet so overlooked and neglected that it is vitally necessary-I am not going beyond the line that, on this platform, is considered useful. Hinc lacrymce. This is the reason why your little body, pledged to opposition to slavery, is so odious to the community, that sometimes you find it hard to get a "respectable" men (so called) to be seen in one of your gatherings. It is to your honor, to your everlasting credit, that you have this odium, and God grant that it may endure until it has done its work! (Applause.) If the knowledge which the Anti-Slavery Society has had, and has most bravely endeavored to diffuse through the whole country, had been attended to, we should have avoided this long series of calamities which have now culminated in civil war, with all its horrors. There were hundreds of men in this country who knew perfectly all the perilous facts of the case twenty years ago, and faithfully unfolded them before the public. Had they been heeded, had their statements been discussed, had they been opposed, no matter how much, if fairly, for the elimination of truth, all this would have been averted. But the people of the South, insane with arrogance and conceit, turned an ear of deafness and a front of wrath, and the great leaders and majority of the North, absorbed in business, caring for nothing in comparison with making money, were indignant, irritated, and treated this presentation with persecution and contempt, refusing to let the truth go forth, and we see the result to-day in this awful catastrophe! So will it always be. If criticism and discussion are permitted to have their full sway, untrammelled, thousands of evils will be prevented from reaching the explosive point of ruin; but if they are stifled or restrained, the evils will go on, until they burst in desolation and horror. That is the lesson of all experience, and common sense cannot fail to see why it is so, and must be so.
There never was a country in the history of the world which rested so entirely upon falsehoods as the slaveholding portion of the United States of America, in the last fifty years; and we know very well how swiftly harmony and belief, the elements of all enduring power, fly from foundations hollowed with lies and honey-combed with sophistries. There are three sets of falsehoods on which the institutions of the South rest totteringly, and soon to fall. There are a dozen connected falsehoods in political economy, there are half-a-dozen fundamental falsehoods in ethics, there are half-a-dozen more gigantic falsehoods in facts-and upon those three sets of lies rests the South. It would be interesting to some, but I fear tedious to most of you, to undertake to specify these in detail. We will let them pass with simply an allusion to one or two.
In regard to political economy, the Sooth knows itself to be dependent upon the rest at the world; it sees the North to be free, rich, prosperous. Instead of looking into the laws of political economy to dis­cover the true reason of this, in their childish igno­rance and conceit, they say, "It is all the fault of the North; they take our money away from us. We make all the money in the country, and the North steals it away from us by tariffs, and various other shrewd Yankee devices." The best service that could be done to the South would be to bay about five hundred copies of Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, Henry C. Carey, and other good works on Political Economy, and send them (if it could be done) to dif­ferent parts of the South, and compel the people to read them. They would then see that all their trou­bles come from the falsehoods on which their political system rests.
Then in regard to ethics, they maintain (and it would be amusing to read extracts from their papers on this point) that they are the transcendent virtue, culture and refinement of the earth, because they have no manual labor to perform; they are supported by their slaves, and hence have abundant leisure to learn to ride horseback, to shoot the rifle, to use the bowie-knife, and various other graceful and elegant accomplishments of that sort. Very gross falsehoods in ethics; for we know that the elevation of a people is determined by the scale they reach in justice, in brotherly love, in the observance of the cardinal principles and sentiments of truth and humanity; and in these respects, where are they?
18
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Then, for the falsehoods in fact. They are truly ignorant, lawless, fierce; they falsely fancy us so. They cavy, hate and fear as; and they call these ignoble passions magnanimous scorn. We pity them; they imagine we hate them, and tremble at them. Hardly any Southern writer can pea a dozen lines without directly stating a falsehood, and indirectly betraying a truth. They are impatient of the superiority of the North, and vainly try to disguise their chagrin in boastful satire. Let me read a sweet morsel from the Richmond Whig:-
"The Yankees are very little better than the Chinese. They lay the same stress on the jingle of their dollars that the Celestials do on the noise of their gongs. With money in their pockets, won from a generous and chivalrous race, and multitudinous as a Norway rats, they are swollen with conceit. The utter break-down of the Yankees forces empire on us of the south.
Now, we know very well, it is perfectly obvious to us, that the Yankees art no "failure" at all. We take care of ourselves; we enjoy equal rights; we are pretty independent of the world; we hare no mobs; no cry of "Bread or Blood!" in our streets; and we do not hare to appoint a secret body of police to watch one portion of the community, and see that they do not cot the others' throats. The Richmond Dispatch says they have the best society in the world; and in the next paragraph it says:-
"The great slaveholders in Virginia form a stone wall of indomitable resistance to any reconstruction of the Union; feat the poor whites, the single-nigger men, are the instruments and spies of Lincoln, not only in Richmond, but all over the South. It is appalling to think of the mischief they may commit. A corps of secret agents should be appointed to watch them.
It is the falsehoods in political economy, in ethics and in facts that they cherish, which are proving the ruin of the South. Their practical refutation by the irresistible logic of events will bring the South its only possible salvation. For forty years, the slaveholders have deliberately looked on lies; now their retribution shall be a Vision of the truth.
But I fear I am wearying you. Here is our good friend, Mr. Phillips, the hero of this platform, whom I am detaining you from hearing, and I will very I soon make way, and you shall listen to him. But let me, friends, before I sit down, say, that however dark are the forebodings of many,-and I thought Mr. Phillips himself was terribly gloomy in his programme the other night,-I feel, in every sense, (with only the qualification of sorrow for the crimes and calamities of war,) chip and merry, and think everything is coming out right. They say we cannot whip the South. I do not believe that. In fact, I am confident of the contrary. We have two to their one, with the right on our side. If we cannot conquer, it is a pity. Besides, we have not got the united and total South to whip. We must remember that the "great slaveholders" are only three or four thousand, the "single nigger men" fifty times as numerous, and those who do not own a dollar of slave property are millions. When a few tremendous blows have been struck, you will see these rebels yielding much more readily and gracefully than they have bragged about. The great majority are fighting under delusions. These delusions, many of them, will inevitably be dispelled by the progress of events, and then their will be a tremendous collapse of the motives for fighting. Undoubtedly, those men who are in the Confederate armies are brave men. I would not say a word against their valor or determination; but they are men; and although passion may govern men momentarily, yet it is passion pervaded and magnetized by interest that governs men permanently. Passion, provoked to acute heat, may do great things for a little while, but if it is not fed by principles, it does not last-it quickly burns out. They have not got any 
principles to feed their passion. They are fighting only from passion, and they will collapse much quicker than many people believe. And then, as to the "hopelessness of reunion, "the "perpetual feuds," that our quondam friend, John Bull, talks about, and "the fixed fact of secession," "the country is severed, and can never be brought together again "-it is all exaggeration or fallacy! Look at history! There have been separations, feuds, fifty times as deep as this, and yet the parties have come together again, and so shall we. Look at the war of the White and Red Roses, at Cavalier and Roundhead, in England In <illegible> Look at the Huguenot and Catholic. I believe that this rebellion will be crushed, and that without any very great prolongation of time. Rebeldom already trembles under the effects of Dupont's and Sherman's descent at Port Royal, whose significance our Whittier has just put into verse. How will they feel when the winter of our discontent is made glorious summer by this sun of Burnside. (Applause.) Are they prepared for the other blows to follow? A boy got down his grandfather's old continental musket, and amused himself by loading it. He put in six charges, and then his grandmother snatched it away, and fired it, in order to hang it up in its place. The gun knocked her a dozen yards. "Don't get up yet, grandma," cried the boy, "there are five other charges to come." (Laughter and applause.)
No, this country is one, and will be one forever. When geography, history, material interests, moral destinies, make a nation one, however violent the shocks, they are temporary. What force can there be to rend asunder our mountain chains, to separate the ashes of the dead and the blood of the living?
"Or what new perpendiculars shall rise
Up from our streams, continued to the skies,
That between us the common air shall bar,
And split the influence of every star?"
Finally, I do not indulge in those lugubrious forebodings in which many very tender-hearted old fogies do in regard to the negroes, if they are set free-that they will imbrue their hands in the blood of the slaveholder that they are going to rot in laziness-that they are not going to lift a hoe or do a thing-that the two races cannot live together. I do not see it so. They hare lived together so long under the laws of oppression and injustice, the slaves supporting the whole: cannot they get along better still under the laws of justice and mutual kindness? Cannot the slaves take care of themselves without the load of their masters, as well as with that burden? I would say, with our darling and glorious Whittier, whom I never admired so much as when I read his last poem-I would say with him, " Let it come," and take up the song of the contraband-
"Oh, praise an' tanks! De Lord be come
To set de people free;
An' mass tiuk it day ob doom,
An' we ob jubilee.
De Lord dat heap de Red Sea waves,
He jus' as 'trong as den;
He say de word: we las' sight slaves;
To-day, de Lord's freemen."
We read, in the Koran, "Paradise is under the shadow of swords." Beneath these crossed blades of North and South may the way of the slave lie into the Paradise of liberty. (Applause.) Better times are coming in the future for this genial, joyous, credulous, but oppressed and downtrodden race; better times, both in their old original home and in America. Caesar, coasting along the shores of Africa, dreamed he saw an army standing on the beach, in tears, and stretching out hands of supplication. On awakening, he wrote upon his tablets, "Corinth and Carthage," and determined to rebuild those cities. The Genius of Christendom, coasting in imagination along that tragic shore, dreamed she saw an army of ghosts -the ghosts of so many generations of slaves, captured, driven into exile and death, with every accompaniment of abuse and horror. On awaking, with disturbed conscience, she wrote on her tablets, "Sierra Leone and Liberia," and established those colonies, the vanguard of a redemptive power, which shall finally spread the light and fruits of liberty over the whole continent.
In Pagan Rome, it frequently happened, that on the death of their masters, slaves, emancipated by will, followed the funeral, wearing Liberty caps. 0 if this colossal oppression of the South might but die in the agony of this war, and to funeral be followed by four millions emancipated salves, in Liberty caps! (Applause.)
<c02>
And if they join hands around the grave, we will not weep to hear them sing-
"We own de hoe, we own de plough,
We own de hands dat hold;
We sell de pig, we tell de cow,
But nebber chile be sold.
De yam will grow, de cotton blow,
We'll has de rice an' corn:
Oh, nebber you fear, if nebber you hear
De driver blow his horn!"
WENDELL PHILLIPS followed, in a speech of great eloquence and power, the leading ideas of which were embodied In his address on "The Times," printed a fortnight ago. For this reason, we attempt no report of it here.
At the conclusion of Mr. Phillips's speech, the meeting adjourned to half-past 2 o'clock, P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION. The meeting was called to order by James N. Buffum, of Lynn, who introduced to the meeting J. B. Swasey, Esq., of Boston.
Mr. Swasey commented on the statement of Henry Ward Beecher that the North should beware of imitating the South by unconstitutional action. He showed that the exigencies of war require a policy and a course of action entirely beyond that ordinarily contemplated by the Constitution; and that, since that instrument recognizes the possibility of war, and provides for it, the movements indispensable to success in war are not in violation of the Constitution. Great darkness and doubt prevail in the public mind in regard to this matter. Gen. Sherman neglects the instructions of the Secretary of War about drilling and arming the slaves; and our people at home do not see that military law under the Constitution is just as constitutional as any other law. Even Mr. Beecher hesitates before this question; cannot recognize the expediency of emancipation under martial law; does not remember the benefits of the overthrow of slavery even in Jamaica, where it was so strongly opposed. When such a man fails in this emergency, the prospect for heroes is dark indeed. Who knows what military dictator from North or south may override us, so deep is the demoralization of the Northern people!
He, however, took a more hopeful view of the position of the country than that taken in the morning. He expected military success on the part of the North, and great results to freedom from such success. Perhaps a generation of toil and conflict is before us. But he believed no fugitive slave would ever again be returned to bondage from New England.
Mr. Ezra H. Heywood, (who became acting General Agent during the illness of Rev. Samuel May, Jr.) then made a statement respecting the action of the Society and the labors of its Agents during the past year.
On motion of Mr. May, the Finance Committee was enlarged by the addition of Elbridge Sprague of Abington, and Miss Georgina Otis of this city.
Mr. May spoke earnestly of the continued necessities of the cause, the urgent need of unremitting labors in this critical hour, and the duty of giving liberally to sustain those labors. The Finance Committee then entered upon their work of collection.
Mr. GARRISON then mentioned the case of a colored man. Levi Ward, who, having redeemed himself, his wife and one child from slavery, was now seeking means to purchase the freedom of another child.
Mr. WARD appeared on the platform, and gave some account of his life. Born a slave in Maryland, he began, at fourteen years old, to work in spare hours for the purchase of his own freedom. He was accustomed to split rails at night for this purpose; and when it was accomplished, he felt as good as Mr. Lincoln, though he had become only a freeman, while Mr. Lincoln had become President. (Applause.) He served nine years as pilot on the Chesapeake. He paid $1300 for himself, $500 for his wife, $450 for one child, and was now raising the residue of another $450 for his second child.
Mr. GARRISON remarked on the absence of revengefulness and bitterness of spirit in the story of Mr. Ward. He declared this to be characteristic of all the statements of freed slaves he had ever heard. They exhibited only thankfulness to God for their deliverance; and we should take to heart the lesson taught by such facts, as well as by the patient and persevering industry with which Mr. Ward had sought the freedom of himself and his family.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, of Salem, next spoke. He had been for some months comparatively silent, and he could see little to hope in our position at the present moment. He sided rather with Mr. Phillips than with Mr. Alger in the view taken of our prospects. Few men could place themselves in the point of view of the black man, and the more one did so, the less encouragement would he feel. Not only in Washington and in Pennsylvania, but in Massachusetts, the colored man is still disfranchised, and kept in an unequal, a degraded position. In Washington, he (the speaker,) would be no safer now than he was ten years ago; even in Massachusetts, his native State, he could not shoulder a musket for his country; and if he were with the army on the Potomac, he could not wear the national uniform. Things were not so in 1776 and 1812, under Washington and Jack son. In both these wars, black men as well as white shed their blood in defence of their country. Now they are not allowed even to bear arms for this purpose. Yet not one of this race has been found a rebel or traitor to his country. Such treatment, under such circumstances, made him doubt whether the boasted forbearance and forgiving spirit of the black man were a virtue. They had yet to prove their manhood by rising against their masters. This people, whether triumphant or trampled under foot, are an existing element in this country. They have grown, under all sorts of persecution, to more than four millions. As well can you extirpate the Canada thistle as expatriate them. At this moment the negro is blocking the progress of the Government's success, nor will the rebellion be put down until justice is done him. You cannot with impunity violate God's laws upon this subject, any more than his physical laws. John Brown has shown us the way to success. If freedom come not so, beware lest this poor blind Samson pull down the pillars of your national edifice, and bury you with himself in its ruins.
Hon. F. W. Bird was then called on by the President. He asked-
Who is it that now keeps the child of Levi Ward in slavery? Not the local laws of Maryland. It is the Massachusetts troops whom we have sent there; it is you and I who are protecting slavery in Maryland and Virginia to-day. Against Constitutional right as well as justice, the blacks are held in slavery by the Federal officers, or sent back to the masters from whom they have escaped. When Major General Banks was Governor of this State, he vetoed the measure which would have secured militia privileges to the blacks, in this State. Mr. Seward has uniformly declared that this war is for the institutions of the South as they were before the rebellion. The war we are now making is not only not against slavery, it is expressly for the protection of slavery. Our Government has not emancipated a single slave where it could imprison him. Those in possession of the Federal army are still held as slaves. We hare slaves with their rebel masters at Fort Warren in Boston harbor, waiting for the release of those masters to be again placed in their power. The slave roll is called there every morning under the shadow of Bunker Hill. He was no longer for "schooling ourselves to silence" under such circumstances. The key of the slave's chain is now kept in the White House. Our administration has gone to the rescue of slavery, which had almost committed suicide.
Mr. Buffum wished to ask whether, in Mr. Lincoln's very peculiar circumstances, he had not done all that could reasonably be expected of him. His appointment of the anti-slavery General Lane to active service he thought was an encouraging sign of progress.
Adjourned to 7, P. M.
EVENING SESSION. The meeting was called to order soon after 7 o'clock, Mr. Quincy in the chair. The first speaker was William Davis, one of the fruits of
<c03>
the great rebellion, plucked from the "sacred soil" of Virginia, and gathered into the garner of Freedom. He gave a highly interesting account of the condition of his fellow "contrabands" at Fortress Monroe, testifying, not only to their willingness, but eagerness, to labor, and their appreciation of the great boon which has been conferred upon them. He said he was born and raised a slave. He bad seven children, five of whom had been sold away from him.
He noticed the claim often made that the slaves do not desire freedom, and that they expressly say this when asked by their master and his friends. He frankly admitted that be had often made this same answer to the inquiries of his mistress, being well assured that it was his only way to escape being sold South. But, said he, when William said so, William lied. He knew, and God knew, that he wanted to be free. When Mr. Pierce, one of their teachers in the Fortress, asked if they wanted to be free, they all shouted, yes! They were also very desirous of education. They need books, teachers and money. They wish to learn to read the Bible, and they wish instruction of all kinds, understanding that it will help them against reenslavement.
SPEECH OF HON. N. H. WHITING.
Hon. NATHANIEL H. WHITING was then introduced, and spoke as follows:-
MR. PRESIDENT,-This Anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society is convened under new and most extraordinary circumstances. The mob-the spirit of slavery-which has so long pursued us, widening its dimensions and gathering up all its forces, is now hunting for the life of the nation. The sanguinary conflict raging around us might well have been prevented if the warning voice of the despised and persecuted Abolitionists had been heeded. And now, when the maddened and despairing Slave Power has precipitated the country into this direful contest, the mission of the Abolitionists remains the same, and that is, to preach the truth,-to proclaim, as ever, that Righteousness alone exalts and saves a nation, and that sin is a reproach to, and will be the destruction of, any people.
Peace is valuable, but it can only be secured through purity and truth. Union is worth seeking and preserving, but its inevitable conditions are that the parties shall be agreed. There never was, and there never will be any concord between truth and falsehood, freedom and slavery, Christ and Belial. For many years these truths have been sounded in the ears of this people, but they would not heed them. The consequences of this insane folly are now before us.
Sir, it is sad to think, after all the light furnished by the experience of past ages, that we can find no better, way of settling difficulties, determining the value of principles, and the true theory and practice of political, social and religious life, than by cutting each other's throats. It is a melancholy and by no means encouraging result which presents to us this bloody harvest as the culminating growth of the understanding, heart and conscience of civilized man. A nation, occupying the front rank in intelligence, prosperity and freedom, is torn by intestine convulsions, and is seemingly on the verge of dissolution through the mad ambition and unreasoning prejudice of a portion of its people. "Grim visaged War," with his storm of fire and blood, arches over our sky. A people, who, by the ties of nature, of language, of history, of destiny, should be fast friends and fellow-countrymen. -knowing no strife, no rivalry, but that of peaceful progress, and an emulation to present the fairest picture for the copy of less favored nations,-are at deadly enmity.
Yesterday, we thought, and loudly boasted, that we were on the full tide of successful experiment in free government. Our eagle flapped his wings exultingly over land and sea, and screamed a joyful welcome to the oppressed of every clime. To-day, the stars and stripes are no longer recognized as the national emblem over half the land, and they are mocked, jeered and insulted by the minions of despotism in every land.
Why this change? How does it happen that over this board and goodly land there is discord and violence, commercial disaster and ruin, the neighing of the war-horse, and all the grim preparation for the terrible game of war? How, but because the people of this country have been so foolish as to imagine they could combine truth and falsehood, freedom and slavery, in fraternal and harmonious union? A thousand times had the experiment been tried; as many times it had failed. The earth was covered with the graves of nations perishing in the embraces of the monster, Slavery. The warning voice of prophets, martyrs and patriots was uttered to us in vain. Like Sinbad the sailor, we took the "Old Man of the Sea" on our shoulders, in order, as it was said, to carry him a little way, that he might get ready to die decently. But his legs have been drawing tighter and tighter about our neck, and we are in great danger of being strangled in the operation, because we have not the strength or disposition to throw him off, and dash his brains out.
But, sir, whatever may befal this nation in the great convulsion through which it is passing, you, and those who have wrought with you through these weary and disgraceful years to awaken her from the sleep of death into which she had fallen, will be guiltless of the blood of this people.
I know there are those, principally such as have fed upon the nation's life through the plausible catchword of Democracy, who, with brazen mendacity, declare that the Abolitionists are the cause of this rebellious war against the General Government. Not that they stole the national forts and arsenals, robbed the treasury, insulted and fired upon the flag, bombarded Sumter, beleaguered the capital, and murdered our people. Nothing of that sort. But then they have, by their intemperate and unconstitutional agitation of the slavery question, at last exasperated the South to madness, and enabled the demagogues there to precipitate her into a rebellion against the Union. Now, whoever asserts that the discussion and condemnation of slavery is unconstitutional, or that we have not a right to legislate for its restriction and final overthrow, are guilty of branding the founders of the republic as hypocrites and liars, as well as traitors both to God and man.
They said they founded this Government in the interest of freedom; that all men had a natural right to this divine gift; and that they ordained the national Constitution to "establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, promote the general welfare, provide for the common defence, and secure the blessings of liberty to the people." And whatever apparent compromises they might have made with slavery for local and temporary purposes, they always looked upon it as an evil, and never ceased to hope that, through the prohibition of the African slave trade, and in other ways, it would gradually disappear. The Washingtons, Jeffersons, and others declared that the exercise of their political power should not be wanting to remove it; that "one hour of the slavery to which the negroes were subjected was more intolerable than whole ages of that which they rose in rebellion against;" and that when the conflict between the masters and slaves should come, as come it would, there was "no attribute of the Almighty that could take sides with the oppressor." And the brightest page in the history of the infant republic is that which records, in the Ordinance of 1787, the entire prohibition of slavery, in all the vast region northwest of the Ohio. Indeed, there has not, perhaps, been an Administration, or Congress, from that day to the present in which slavery, in some of its aspects and relations, has not been a subject of agitation and legislation; and yet we are charged with having sought to wrest the Government from its legitimate uses, and pervert it to the exercise of powers utterly at war with the Constitution, and of the Declaration of Independence upon which it rests!
The truth is, the Abolitionists are the only lineal descendants of those heroes who founded this republic, and the real friends of its growth and prosperity. In
<c04>
their unceasing denunciations of slavery and its abettors, they have but given voice to the unperverted instincts of our common humanity; and have only feebly argued the case of human rights against slavery, which, in the glowing language of Theodore D. Weld, "has been adjudicated in the court of conscience times innumerable. The same verdict has always been rendered-'Guilty!' The same sentence has always been pronounced,-'Let it be accursed!' and human nature, with her million echoes, has rung it round the world in every language under heaven, Let it be accursed! Let it be accursed!' And his heart is false to human nature who will not say Amen!"
Ours has been, and still is, a war of opinion and principles; the light of Christian civilization against the five-fold barbarism of slavery. Being a conflict of opinion and of principles, we were desirous that it should be settled, if possible, through the enlightened and peaceful growth of public opinion. Slavery has chosen that it shall be otherwise, and so we find ourselves launched out upon an ocean whose shores no man can see. What shall be the length of the voyage, what port we shall enter, whether we shall be swallowed up in the great maelstrom, like so many nations that have gone before us, or shall enter gloriously and triumphantly the peaceful haven of universal liberty, will depend mainly upon the people of the loyal States. If we are true to the Idea upon which the Government was professedly founded, and avail ourselves of this wanton and causeless rebellion of the pampered minions of slavery to crush the poisonous serpent whose deadly fangs are aimed at the life of constitutional liberty on this continent, the contest will be short, though, as Gen. McClellan says, it may be desperate.
But, Sir, in my judgment, there never will be a reconstruction of the Union in which slavery shall be a recognized element and controlling power. I believe, too, that there can be permanently but one government in the limits of this nation. More than that will be the signal of continued war and bloodshed. Our lakes and rivers, our mountains and valleys, our varied climate and productions, our net-work of railroad and telegraph, our community of interests, of language, of race, imperatively demand that there shall be but one government, which, at last, will be all slave or all free. It is too late in the day, altogether too late, Sir, to think of founding or maintaining a democratic government which shall recognize the ownership of men as a cardinal principle in its organization and life. That experiment, thank God, is played out. Those who think the old machine, half truth and half falsehood, half liberty and half slavery, half God and half devil, with the devil always employed as engineer,- can be again repaired and put upon the track, and that intelligent, freedom-loving men will again place themselves under its guidance and control, know little of the age in which they live, and have studied human nature and the history of the race to very little purpose. It even begins to be whispered in unwanted quarters, that we have already paid sufficiently dear for that kind of whistle.
It is time that we looked this question of slavery fairly in the face, and prepared ourselves to meet it like men upon whom the dread, yet glorious responsibility rests of settling this whole "irrepressible conflict" at once and forever.
Slavery rests solely upon force. It has no other foundation, neither in soil, climate, color or race. It is the doctrine that "might makes right" in its last analysis, and carried out to its legitimate results. I am stronger than you, and I sell you in the market, write you down as "property," and drive you to unpaid toil. To-morrow, through your own strength, or with the aid of others, you sell me upon the auction block, and expose me to all the fearful contingencies of "goods and chattels personal, to all intents, purposes and constructions whatsoever." And this is all the validity there can ever be to slavery's title deeds. It has now scornfully rejected the protecting power of the government which has so long saved it from the condemning brand of outraged and indignant human nature, and aimed a parricidal blow at its heart. Does it still deserve the toleration, the sympathy even, which it receives from men in high places? Have we not already suffered enough in character, in prosperity, in everything which honorable men hold dear, by our connection and complicity with slavery? Who that sees what this country is, and what it might have been but for this demon,-who that contemplates this dreadful war into which it has plunged us,-the thousands on thousands of lives, the millions on millions of treasure which are to be thrown into its awful cauldron,- the widows and orphans it will make,-the general demoralization that will follow in its train,-the cup of bitterness and hate it will leave for us and for posterity, and all the unnameable horrors of which it is the cause,-who that sees it all is not ready to exclaim with Macduff-
"But, gentle Heaven!
Cut short all intermission: front to front
Bring thou this fend of 'Slavery,' and myself;
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
Then Heaven forgive him too!"
To me, sir, it is as plain as that I am standing here, we have got to tear up slavery, root and branch, or the conflict upon which we have entered will outlast this generation, or end in the destruction of constitutional liberty in these once United States. There is one door open for us-but one-and that is the door of Universal Emancipation. (Loud applause.) Through that, and that alone, we can pass out of the darkness and death which now encompass us, into the glorious sunlight of Liberty, Union, and Peace.
But that passage must be speedily made, if at all. Not only are we exhausting our resources, wasting our energies, by this protracted conflict and these gigantic armaments, but the danger of foreign interference grows more and more imminent every day. That power, which has belted the globe with its empire, and which has never scrupled to commit any outrage, or robbery, or cruelty upon other nations or people which it has deemed necessary for its own aggrandizement,-the extension and perpetuity of its dominion,-is watching eagerly for a plausible pretext to strike a crushing blow at a nation which has become so form idable an industrial and political rival that even now it has outstripped her in the range of peaceful commerce, in political institutions, and in public and private liberty. They thought they had that pretext in the arrest of Mason and Slidell, by Capt. Wilkes, on the deck of the steamer Trent. And nothing, perhaps, shows more palpably how heartless and unscrupulous the British Government is, and to what desperate straits they are driven in their desire to cripple and destroy the American nation, than the avidity with which they seized upon this shallow excuse to pick a quarrel with us in our great extremity, for doing what they have claimed the belligerent right to do, and have done, persistently and most offensively, to other nations, for many years.
That pretext has been removed. The rebels have been given up, with "a suitable apology," to the British authorities. Unless they have gone where they will not again be heard from "until the sea gives up its dead," they are now safe on British soil, enjoying the protection and hospitality of that consistent, liberal, friendly "neutral power." We have swallowed that bitter pill, solacing ourselves, meanwhile, with the thought that we have made it less unpalatable by sugaring it over with splendid phrases about "the rights of neutrals,"-"the freedom of the seas," and in exchanging congratulations upon the tardy adhesion of Great Britain to those principles of international law for which we have so long contended, and which they have so long denied. Just as if they had ever acknowledged any other law in their intercourse with other nations but that of the strongest; and as if they would not to-morrow, if they thought they had the power, and could make anything by it, unhesitatingly disregard and trample on the very principles under which they claimed the surrender of the rebel envoys.
"But," say some, "England is committed on this issue before the tribunal of the world." But, alas! the only world for which she has any love and respect
<c05>
is that which is bounded by the circumference of a little island in the North Sea; and the only tribunal to which she appeals is that which proclaims its edicts through the months of her thousand bull-dogs that flaunt her insolent and remorseless flag all round the globe. O, my fellow-countrymen! lay not the flattering unction to your souls that you have avoided a war with England by the painful humiliation to which you have submitted. That pretext removed, another can easily I be found. The spirit which seems to actuate the British people, as shown by their leading newspaper organs, is perfectly flendish. To show its character, permit me to read a short extract from the organ of the conservative aristocracy, who really hold the issues of peace and war in that Government It is the London Morning Herald. It will be perceived that they do not pretend that the claim for the surrender of the rebel envoys was anything but the most transparent of pretexts:-
"A pugilist advancing warily upon a robust adversary, when he sees his foe throw himself upon the ground, and hears him cry for mercy, is not wore taken aback than is the British people so thoroughly dumbfounded by these unexpected demonstrations in the midst of its preparations for war. We trust that our government will profit by this gratifying lesson. Should a similar difficulty arise again, we shall know next time how to deal with the American Government. If we are justified, a we believe we are, in viewing the resolve of the American Government in this mirror of popular opinion, we suppose that our differences with America will not for the present lead to war. But enough has occurred to put us on our guard for the future, to teach us to be very watchful of the temper of a people which seems to have two faces, like the god Janus, to be as shifting as the sands of the sea, and as changeful in color as the chamelion. This concession of their not be allowed to fetter us in our future course. We have a more immediate interest than before in the struggle between North and South; we have found that it concerns ourselves, and learned that its continuance is fraught with danger to our peace."
Now, sir, I do not say that this expresses the universal sentiment of people and press in England. There are honorable and noble exceptions to it in all classes. But I do say, that, so far as appears, this is the prevailing current of public sentiment in the controlling classes of British society. And do you think that a Government whose accredited organs can use such language as this, is to be mollified or baulked of its purpose by any concessions we may make? The cry of "inefficiency of blockade;" the "atrocious crime of sinking vessels at the mouths of harbors," instead of shooting our enemies from the mouths of cannon, after the manner of our more civilized, humane, and Christian prototypes across the sea; "the necessities of commerce"; "the desire to stop the effusion of blood"; anything, even the plea of the wolf for eating the lamb, will answer for the resolved mind, which never scruples in the use of means to accomplish its ends.
Sir, I venture to say that, whoever lives to feel the warmth of returning Spring, with this rebellion not crushed out, will witness an armed intervention in our affairs by England, France and Spain, and perhaps other European powers. They say we have not a friend among them all. Perhaps we do not deserve any. But let us be true to ourselves, to right and justice, and we shall at last receive the sympathy and encouragement of all liberal-minded men throughout the world.
As the only means to crush this rebellion, restore peace and Union to our distracted country, and avoid the disgraceful alternative of a humiliating peace through the dismemberment of the nation, or a death-grapple with the great powers of Europe, let us to-day proclaim liberty to the captive in a decree of UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.
Let us make haste to do this vital work. The hand of destiny is moving rapidly on the dial plate of time. The "Sisters Three," who weave and wash the shroud in which are buried the dead nations, are busy at their task, and the solemn refrain comes to our ears:
"Time Was unlocks the riddle of Time Is,
That offers choice of glory and of gloom;
The solver makes Time Shall Be surely his-
But hasten, Sisters ! for even now the tomb
Grates its slow hinge, and calls from the abyss."
"But not for him," I cry, "not yet for him
Whose large horizon, westering, star by star,
Wins from the void to where on ocean's rim,
The sunset shuts the world with golden bar,
Not yet his <illegible> shall fail, his eyes grow dim!"
But, Mr. President, not to detain the audience longer, allow me to say, in conclusion, that the only hope of salvation for this nation is, that the devil, from whom has proceeded this insane and wicked rebellion, shall be exorcised and driven out. How can this be done?
It is related in the New Testament that, when Jesus sent his disciples out to preach the gospel, he gave them power over serpents and unclean spirits, that they should receive no harm. After going out on a mission, they came back rejoicing, saying that "even the devils were subject to them." But, one day, a person possessed with a dumb spirit was brought unto Jesus, with a request from the father of the possessed one that he would cast him out, saying at the same time he had carried him to the disciples, but they could do nothing for him. Jesus cast the devil out, though his hold of the patient was so strong and tena­cious that he rent him in departing, and he was taken up for dead. After he was gone, the disciples inquired of Jesus, "Why could not we cast him out?" "Because," said Jesus, "this kind goeth not out but by fasting and prayer"! In like manner the devil that has ruled this nation, that possesses this people, goeth not out but by fasting and prayer. We must fast from pride, from avarice, from ambition, from prejudice and hate towards a poor, oppressed race. We must make the sublime truths embodied in the Declaration of Independence a real verity in the nation's life. In this way, in this way only, can the devil of slavery be cast out-the sick man healed and saved. And though he has been so thoroughly coiled around the nation's heart, and has taken such complete possession of all its faculties, that in his flight he will rend every fibre in its body, and the patient will very likely be taken up for dead, yet, once purified and redeemed from the foul fiend, the divine beneficence of Omnipotent Love shall take him by the hand, as it did the apparently lifeless youth in the olden time, infuse into his veins the warm currents of vigorous and healthful life, and he shall go on his way rejoicing through long years and ages of prosperity, freedom and happiness.
Dr. J. S. Rock said the nation was negro-mad. It chased him, caught him, and held on to him with a tenacity like that expressed by Ruth to Boaz, "Where thou goest, I will go; where thou lodgest, I will lodge." This rebellion was palpably an effort to ex­tend and nationalize the system of slavery,-it might even be called slavery itself. Yet those men who had dared to acknowledge this, like Fremont and Cameron, were removed to give place to hunkers and kidnappers. To charge the Abolitionists with this war was like accusing one who had given warning that the slow-match was near the powder, of having caused the explosion. Slavery displays its own character in its effects, whether upon slaves, masters, or neighbors. What was to be done with the slaves? it was asked. They will suffer, of course, from lack of floggings, privations, separations, from being relieved from the burden of their masters support! He thought we need not be concerned about the slaves. It was the roasters, rather, for whom we should be solicitous. They have vowed never to work where they can steal.
Facts prove the capacity of the free colored people to take care of themselves, for, under all disadvantages, they acquire property, support their own paupers, and contributes something towards the support of the "poor whites." Nor do they need to be sent off to some tropical colony. They are capable of enduring all temperatures that a white man can. Why are the blacks alone invited to leave this country? It is because we have been wronged, and, as the Spaniard proverb puts it, "Since I have wronged you, I have never liked you." Slavery will go down if we have a foreign war; 75,000 free blacks and 750,000 slaves, capable of bearing arms, will be a power that white men will be "bound to respect."
Mr. Garrison followed, speaking in a hopeful and encouraging strain. His speech will be printed next week.
<c06>
FRIDAY MORNING. 
At 10 o'clock the Society was called to order.
GILES B. STEEBINS, of Rochester, N.Y., said it might be supposed that the persons present at the opening of the meeting were Abolitionists, and he should speak on that supposition.
We are accused, as defenders of the slave of caring for no other person, of disregarding the other constituents of society. But in fact, by the very act of taking a humane and Christian point of view, by looking at the rights and interests of the poorest and weakest, we see with special clearness what are the rights and interests of all, and what course of action will best promote the welfare of all.
Our work as Abolitionists is not affected by the probabilities in regard to this or that issue of the war. We are still to pave the way for emancipation, which must inevitably come. Union or disunion, reconstruction or the old order, no matter which may result, slavery must go down. That is the one thing settled, and we must prepare the public mind for that result. The work is not done, even when the shackles have fallen from the slave. What prejudice and hatred, must still be Overcome and removed after he has become a free­man! This is our work, a work of long; years.
We have put ourselves in the position of the slave while pleading his cause, and we must continue labor in the same way. It is this fact which has main the Abolitionists more clear-sighted as to the immorality and the disastrous effects of slavery than any other class. We know that to-day the negro holds, the nation in the hollow of his hand. He is to turn the scale, and our action in relation to him is to prolong or put down the rebellion. We are dying out as a nation, for want of a purpose. The Abolitionists alone have a just, worthy and manly purpose, namely emancipation, and this ought also to be adopted by the whole country. It is this which should inspire Gen. Sherman at Port Royal, and immediately on its adoption Savannah and Charleston would drop into his bands. Why should we not learn from the example of John Brown? His army of twenty men inspired by this purpose, made Virginia tremble from one end to the other. On the other hand. McClellan, wanting this purpose, sits inactive with his mighty army, guarding the capital, and the enemy vainly challenge him to meet them at Manassas. The Abolitionists see these things clearly, and must educate the people to see them; must teach the North that the rebels have divested themselves of all Constitutional rights; that slavery may be destroyed now under the Constitution; and that whenever freedom shall be proclaimed, success begins.
He did not take that hopeless view of our prospects which seemed to depress others of the speakers. On friends have not too severely criticized the Government, but they have underrated the pitch of public sentiment, at least if New England is not behind the West in this regard. He knew of vast progress is the sentiments of the people, at least in the West. He had been a witness of the unanimity which Fremen evoked all over that region. He might almost have been a dictator in carrying out emancipation. It was sad to think of New England as falling behind the West in Anti-Slavery sentiment, yet he feared it was so. He had heard Charles Sumner grossly abused is Boston hotels, without rebuke from people respectable in external appearance. In Illinois he was sure that such calumny would have been answered with words if not with blows. There is a difference in the expression of feeling between East and West. Taking them together, however, he really believed that majority of the Northern people desire and approve the immediate emancipation of the slaves as a measure.
And this cause is constantly gaining fresh adherents and among classes the most diverse in opinion upon other subjects. Dr. Brownson, representing the extreme of ecclesiastical conservatism, openly declare that emancipation is the only safety of this nation. On the other hand Andrew Jackson Davis, representing the highest degree of spiritual freedom, takes precisely the same ground in his widely circulated Herald of Progress. The extremes being thus unani­mous upon this point, the means are constantly tending in the same direction. Soldiers in the ranks an feeling this influence from without, and are beginning to feel that the inspiring word has not been spoken to them by their leaders. All classes are perceiving at last the great truths that the Abolitionists have been proclaiming for years.
Why have we war to-day? Why are we subjected to a thing so horrible as war always is? a thing which never comes but from the low state of development of man's better nature. This war was inevitable, considering the state of depravation to which the nation had sunk. Our care must be that it shall not be a renewed five, ten or twenty years hence. Civilization and barbarism are contending, and the latter must be throttled forever. The public press is far below the feeling of the people all over the country. on this question. Does the Post utter the sentiment of Massachusetts? Does the Courier speak the mind of New England? No!
So with the Administration, which admits itself be without a purpose, drifting along at the mercy of events. The wise man takes opportunity by the fore lock, and makes events. Whatever the grade of advance of the people, the Government is far behind them. Lincoln is without a policy, while Jefferson Davis has one that is real and vigorous in action however Satanic in character.
Yet, let us not be discouraged, remembering the law of degrees. Not all at once, step by step only, the people will come up, and the Government must ultimately follow them. "The mill of God grinds slowly, but it grinds exceeding small." We should be sustained by broad and cheerful views, working on with steady perseverance for the accomplishment our great object. Garrison does not now speak alone. The New York Tribune speaks with him. Many papers and many persons speak with him, and the circle is widening daily. After his thirty years of persecu­tion and unpopularity, the nation finds itself compelled to move in his direction.
Probably a year from this time will have decided the fate of this nation. Probably twelve months will bring us either the jubilee or a defeat. If the latter it can be but temporary. But are shall have, in either case, a sense of duty done to humanity and to God.
No true word, no grand deed, is ever lost. The words and deeds of John Brown will go down the path of time as redeeming and strengthening influences for all succeeding nations; and whatever we may do towards the freedom of the enslaved will like manner live and bear abundant fruit after as (Applause.)
On motion of Samuel May, Jr., it was voted that half-past eleven be assigned for the consideration of finance.
It was also voted, on motion of Mr. May, that the Committee on the Nomination of Officers be enlarge by the addition of George Miles of Westminster, and Alvan Howes of Barnstable.
HENRY C. WRIGHT offered the following brief re marks, with the accompanying Resolutions, as a substitute for a speech:-
HENRY C. WRIGHT Mr. President, I want to make a speech, but not in the usual way. I would make it in the form of Resolutions. I do not offer them with a view to have the meeting act upon them, but simply as expressive of my own thoughts and feelings. I wrote them solely with reference to my own convictions, and not with any reference to the convictions of the Society or the meeting. I will read the Resolutions, and if it is thought best to put upon record what I say, I wish them to be recorded as my speech:-
Resolved, That we regard the preservation of liberty and the abolition of slavery as of more importance to the people of this and of all nations, than the preservation the Constitution and Government of the United States or of any other particular form of government
Resolved, That slavery is the foundation-principle and animating and controlling spirit of the slaveholders' rebel
JANUARY 31.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
lion and all efforts to crush the rebellion not prompted by intense and enduring hatred for slavery, and supreme religious devotion to liberty must prove abortive 
Resolved, That the present war, on the part of the South, is avowedly a war for the abolition of liberty and the preservation of slavery; and on the part of the North, is—though covertly and not in from, yet in fact and in its results—a war for the abolition of slavery and the preservation of liberty. 
Resolved, That the present bloody and sorrowful conflict is not between rival States and governments, but <illegible> between liberty and slavery, and the conflict is inevitable. and can never be repressed but by the entire and unconditional abolition of one or the other of the contending powers.
Resolved, That until the friends of freedom and free institutions shall have courage and honesty openly and emphatically to avow that are struggling for liberty and against slavery, they do not deserve, and cannot hope to succeed in their efforts to bring the war to a speedy and triumphant issue.
Resolved, That no slaveholder nor apologist for slavery can be loyal and true to constitution and government whose object is "to establish justice and to secure the blessings of liberty" and every concession to slaveholders, because of their supposed loyalty, is the foulest and most fatal treason against a government aiming at such noble objects.
Resolved, that while a bullet may kill the slaveholder, an idea atone can kill slavery; that all that has been achieved for liberty and against slavery, in the ages and kingdoms of the past, has been gained in a war of ideas and not bullets? and never was the duty more incumbent on Abolitionists than at the present hour, to engage earnestly and persistently in that war of ideas inaugurated by W.L. Garrison thirty years ago, and in which they have striven successfully for the abolition of slavery and the preservation, propagation, and perpetuation of liberty ever since.
Resolved, That as Abolitionists, we can now innocently and earnestly support and help execute the constitution of the United States, because it now empowers us to abolish slavery and proclaim liberty to all under its jurisdiction and if we do not use this power, and thus at once remove the cause of all our national troubles, we deserve, and shall receive, the execrations of mankind.
I close with a repetition of one remark. Slavery cannot be loyal to liberty, nor liberty to slavery. Slaveholders cannot be loyal to a government that aims to secure liberty; and the moment such a government attempts, in any way, to sustain slavery, it becomes a traitor to liberty, and incapable of answering the great end of its existence. 
Rev. SAMUEL MAY, Jr., said he had been very much gratified with the speech of Mr. Stebbins, because the whole tone of it was well suited to impress upon Abolitionists the point at which their efforts should be chiefly aimed. Many seem to think that the specific action of bodies like this Society is nearly over, and that same work will now be done by other agencies. This in his judgment, was entirely erroneous. He never saw greater necessity for the and vigorous effort of this Society. The nation still needs to have constantly held up before it those ideas and those methods which we, and we alone, have been accustomed to present Never was the enunciation of the grand and simple principles of Anti-Slavery more needed; never were the earnest labors of every Society and of every individual more needed than now. Though we have much cause to feel encouraged, all is not clear nor hopeful. Not only the heads of the people but the people themselves are yet far from an enlightened position. Mr. Stebbins had given good evidence of the latter. Even the very favorable advance which he had described in the Anti-Slavery sentiment of the West needs to be enlarged and deepened. And certainly what he affirmed of the shortcomings of New England is lamentably true. His story about the abuse of Mr. Sumner in Boston was matched by what he (Mr. May) had just heard from a graduate or Harvard College, who attributed our present difficulties to the ambition of a few at the South, and the foolish fanaticism of a few at the North, and who was indifferent to slavery and in favor of a restoration of the old Union. Such men found their support in the Post and Courier of this city. [A voice cried out— "The Advertiser too."] Mr. May thought the Advertiser the most heartless and cold-blooded paper he had ever read, but he would not class it with the other two for venality and unscrupulousness.
Shall we take the view presented by Dr. Howe respecting the policy of the Government towards the slaves in Fortress Monroe, [namely, that, since the slaves who have taken refuge in that place are held in confinement there,. and guarded like prisoners, and since the wages of their labor of their labor are merely credited, instead of being paid to them, it may be the purpose of the Government to keep both men and money for ultimate surrender to their old masters;] or the more charitable view presented last night by Mr. Garrison? In either case, we must keep actively and vigorously at work.
HENRY C. WRIGHT read an extract from a New York paper reporting a farewell conversation between Gen. Lane and the President. To the inquiry of Mr. Fowler whether there was a particle of evidence in support of that statement, Mr. Wright replied that it was given by a correspondent of the Tribune, who signed his name to it.
Mr. HENRY WILLIS of Battle Creek, Michigan, said that in a recent conversation, James II. Lane had declared to him that he did not believe there was a single loyal slaveholder in the United States. He would never send back a slave, either to a loyal or a disloyal owner. He proposed to free the slaves to put down the rebellion. In reference to the assertion that the slaves, if liberated, would be a burden on the coun­try, Lane said there were five thousand contrabands in Kansas and not a pauper among them. Our only motto said he, is universal emancipation. It shall be when I take the field.
Mr Willis referred to the enthusiasm of the Northwest for Fremont and his emancipation policy. Give us him, the people cried, and down goes the war. Universal gloom followed the revokal of the proclamation and the recall of Fremont. The public feeling had received a most disastrous check, disastrous check, but it would rise again if he returned.
The hour for the consideration of finance had now arrived, and WENDELL PHILLIPS rose to speak on that question. He said—It seems unnecessary to urge upon Abolitionists the support of their own organs and meetings. We comfort ourselves with the tendency of events. That is but a word. Events are only the result of ripened effort. Gen Lane had guarded a loyal slaveholder's family of slaves in Missouri from Jennison. who would have liberated them. In fact, we cannot trust any one half so far as we can see him. One might except Montgomery or Jennison. Slavery has undoubtedly received its death-blow. The only question is by what road we shall reach emancipation. The President thinks we drift that way. But who helps us drift? That is the work of the abolitionists. They have lost some of their former allies in the Custom House— Republicans, who have now stopped working. We must work harder, scatter tracts and preachers, and support those men in Congress who would like to favor emancipation. We have six agents where we should have seventy. The people are ready to hear. Lyceums which could not formerly endure an Abolitionist on any topic, now invite them, stipulating that they shall talk on slavery. It is the sense of an anti-slavery public which has sustained the Tribune in its decided anti-slavery position. But we make the anti-slavery public. They are not yet all converted. Brownson's subscribers dwindled to two hundred from two thousand, after his article on emancipation. The Abolitionists need still to be seen in advance. They have now the assistance of the pulpit everywhere, and of religious presses. Let them not be outstripped by these. Real peace is not to be expected for many years. Union or out of it, South Carolina will hate New England. Victory by McClellan will not bring us back Representatives and Senators from the South. All we can hope to do is to set in motion instrumentalities will eventually wear out prejudice 
<c02>
and hatred. There is no speedy panacea for our disease of long standing. We may have a military republic for long years. Is this a time to fold our hands, and to leave our work to recent converts and shrewd hypocrites? Speak through types, if you- can not of yourselves. Mr. Beecher found no way for emancipation through this war, because he had never read John Quincy Adams. It was this Society which had put in circulation the opinions of that statesman in regard to emancipation under the war power, and which ought to be known everywhere. We must direct the guns which the rioters of last year are now pointing on the Potomac. There is no hope of a coup d' etat in this country, as Mr. Willis had hinted. It were better not so; we cannot safely throw overboard the rule of the majority. We must educate the Government, how­ever slowly. Fremont wag long since educated, when he wrote his proclamation. We must educate the peo­ple to gain him back an a Major-General. He might still be there, if the West had not hang its head. The undertone of the West had just saved Siegel from dismissal, and it might have saved Fremont. The Ger­man element knew what it wanted, and was in ear­nest. It leaves to Yankee Captains and Colonels the dirty work of returning slaves on the Potomac. They have come over from Europe to enslave no man, black or white.
Mr. Philips closed by an appeal for the treasury.
Charles LENOX REMOND next spoke, saying that though he did not wish to take gloomy views, or to throw cold water on the cause, and though he had been reproved for his desponding remarks of yesterday, he thought those remarks should be rather reaffirmed than retracted. He found confirmation of them in Mr. Phillips's language. He would not have the colored man school himself to silence, but yet patience, cau­tion and perseverance were necessary. He saw small cause for encouragement while Boston remains a base conservative city, and Massachusetts a base conserva­tive State. The foreigner of every nation is welcomed among us, and may take part in our present struggle, but more than 4,000,000 loyal Americans are disfranchised and disregarded. The fact (the speaker said) that he remained in this country proved that he loved it and desired its welfare. But none but a colored man could judge of the depth of discouragement felt by that class or the weight of the prejudice against them; therefore no one could judge of the position and action they should take. The leading voice of the nation cries-" Let the negro go, if we can recover our business and regain peace in the country." An anti-slavery meeting recently held in Danvers was mobbed by a party of soldiers, led by a Salem officer, from a neighboring camp. While such things contin­ued, he could not be cheerful.
J. B. SWASEY, Esq., of Boston, said that he had not wished to put the Advertiser in the same grade of guilt with the Post and Courier. But these all represented the trade and influence of Boston, and all alike hated the Anti-Slavery Society, and the cause of freedom in which it was laboring. The Advertiser was not so utterly base, malignant and indecent as the others, because it represents a phase of Boston "respectability." But it was only more insidious as it was more respectable.
Mr. HENRY WILLIS wished to mention an incident which took place at Battle Creek, Michigan. A colored man, Harrison Brown by name, had come from Kentucky to that place nine years before, and had led an honest and industrious life, paying for his 80 acre farm, and raising fine crops from it. When the volunteers were about to leave Battle Creek, Brown was asked if he would go with them to fight the rebels, He replied, I will go with you if you will guarantee me <illegible> I return that I shall be a man, and enjoy the rights of a man. He begged them further to remember that the blood they were to lose in battle would be spilled by slavery, and that interest as well as duty and right strongly called on them to help the slaves. They promised that they would help them. And these men came back from Bull Run believing that their defeat was owing to the help given to the rebels by their slaves.
Mr. Willis referred to the lecture of Dr. Cheever and the songs of the Hutchinsons in Washington as cheering signs of the times; and told of his own indoctrination in anti-slavery truth in Baltimore, at an early age, about the time Mr. Garrison was imprisoned there.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON brought forward some resolutions, the report, in part, of the Business Com­mittee. Before reading them, he welcomed Mr. Willis to Boston, speaking of the hospitality which he had received from him in Michigan, and of the thoroughness of his anti-slavery labors there. His friend Willis, he said, bore no small likeness to John Brown, both in feature and spirit.
The resolutions were as follows:-
Whereas, since the last anniversary of this Society, eleven of the Slave States have treasonably acceded from the Union and organized an independent Southern Confederacy, the original design of the conspirators being to seize the Capital and overturn the National Government; and,
Whereas, their coarse has been marked by all that is perfidious, unprincipled, brutal, thievish and piratical in spirit, in the seizure of the national custom-houses, post­offices, mints, arsenals, forts and naval vessels within their limits, and by the confiscation of Northern property and does to the amount of hundreds of millions of dollars, and by the capture and destruction of numerous ships on the high seas sailing under the American flag; and,
Whereas, every one of the remaining Slave States (Delaware excepted, because only nominally included in the category) is so full of treason as to require the presence of vast armies from the Free States to force them into feigned loyalty to the Union, the withdrawal of which forces would instantly be the signal for them to join the Southern Confederacy, and raise the standard of revolt; and,
Whereas, the National Government is endeavoring to suppress this formidable rebellion, as wholly unjustifiable on any valid ground of complaint or any rational theory of popular sovereignty, and as subversive of the integrity and peace of the republic; and,
Whereas, under these extraordinary circumstances, it becomes necessary for this Society to define its position re­specting the sanguinary struggle now going on between the Government and the revolted South; therefore,
Resolved, That this Society regards the Government as wholly in the right, and the Secessionists wholly and atrociously in the wrong, on the issues presented; and declares, therefore, that all the accusations brought by the latter against the Government, against the Republican Party, and against the People of the North, of a purpose to treat them oppressively and unjustly, and to act a perfidious part towards them, are false, malicious and calumniatory, incapable of being sustained by a particle of evi­dence, and plainly manufactured to subserve their treasonable ends, and shield their transcendently villanous conduct from the execration of the civilized world.
Resolved, however, That, in thus exonerating the Gov­ernment and People of the North from the foul imputations so lavishly bestowed upon them by the rebellious South, this Society does not mean to screen or extenuate the fear­ful guilt they have incurred, and are incurring, by their complicity with slavery as shown in their opposition to the Anti-Slavery movement, their proscription of the uncom­promising friends of universal freedom, their injustice to the free colored population among them, their apologies and pleas for those who are slaveholders, and their unwil­lingness to throw off the heavy responsibilities resting upon them, by repentance and reformation.
Resolved, That this Society still religiously holds, in view of its pro-slavery guaranties, that the Constitution of the United States, as accepted and administered from the time of its adoption to the hour of the withdrawal of the South, was "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," containing within itself the elements out of which disunion, treason and civil war have as naturally and in­evitably sprung as the harvest follows the sowing of the seed; so that, if the same wild and guilty experiment were tried a thousand times over, the same tragical results would follow, in the nature of things. Nevertheless,
Resolved, That (though it implies no special merit on the part of the people of the North) it is matter of devout thanksgiving that, in consequence of the high-handed, treasonable withdrawal from the Union of the Confederate States,-and also of the imperative necessity, to preserve
even the semblance of loyalty in Maryland, Kentucky and
<c03>
Missouri, (the two last indeed having been recently voted into the Confederacy,) that they should be invested by the armies of the North,-" the covenant with death "is annulled, and "the agreement with hell" no longer stands; so that, for the first time since its formation, the Government, whether by the decree of the President or by act of Congress, has now the constitutional right, which now becomes its solemn duty and glorious prerogative, under the war power, as necessary to the speedy suppression of the rebellion, the removal of its cause, and the preservation of the Union, to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."
Resolved, That (in the language of John Quincy Adams) "by the law of nations, military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and slavery among the rest; that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, bat the Commander of the Army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slave; that, from the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way in which it can be interfered with; and that, by the laws of war, an invaded country hag all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and national power takes the place of them. "Therefore,
Resolved, That for Congress or the President to waive the exercise of this constitutional power is to invigorate the rebellion, give "aid and countenance" to the traitors, imperil the life of the Government and the unity of the republic, criminally prolong a sanguinary strife at a fearful expenditure of blood and treasure, render victory hopeless, and ensure the speedy recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy by the governments of Europe; and thus to lose the sublimest opportunity in the history of the world for the achievement of a grand and beneficent work towards the oppressors and the oppressed alike, and for the establishment of a free republic upon the foundations of impartial liberty and eternal justice.
Resolved, That the worst enemies of the Government are those here at the North, who, wearing the mask of loyalty in order that they may the more effectually sub-serve the designs of the Southern conspirators, are constantly menacing and bullying it with alleged divisions in the army and among the people, to its final overthrow, if it shall dare exercise its unquestionable right by the law of nations, and its undeniable right by the Constitution, under the war power, to abolish slavery as the most effective way, nay, the only method to ward off impending calamities and put down the rebellion; and public indignation should flame against them, so that the soil should be too hot for them to stand upon it, except as objects of universal execration.
Resolved, That the attempt of these pseudo loyalists to place the Abolitionists of the North and the Secessionists of the South in the same category, is an exhibition of brazen effrontery and satanic malignity; being matched only by the assertion that God and Mammon, Christ and Belial, the servants of righteousness and the workers of iniquity, are all equally to be abhorred and condemned.
Resolved, That while we appreciate, at its true value, the insulting and bullying tone of the London Times, and other venal and purchased English journals, against the people and Government of the North, and in encouragement and defence of the Southern traitors; and while we are equally astonished and grieved to find so much misconception prevailing in England as to the real issues involved in this struggle-we, nevertheless, discriminate between the aristocracy, toryism and rabble of that country, and the mass of its intelligent and progressive people, represented by such papers as the London Daily News and Morning Advertiser, and by such men as John Bright, Richard Cobden, Geo. Thompson, T. Perronet Thompson, and Wm. E. Forster, who, clearly analyzing this tangled question, and comprehending the immense difference of spirit and purpose actuating the two contending sections of this republic, are nobly vindicating at home the cause of free institutions in this hemisphere, and espousing the side of the people of the North against the treasonable slave oligarchy of the South.
Adjourned to 21/2 P. M. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. The meeting having been called to order, Mr. May, in behalf of the Committee on Nomination, presented a list of officers, first mentioning that there had been lost from our ranks, since the last annual meeting, the President, FRANCIS JACKSON, and one of the Vice-Presidents, RICHARD CLAP of Dorchester.
The officers nominated were as follows:-
President-EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
Vice Presidents-Andrew Robeson, New Bedford; Adin Ballou, Milford; Jefferson Church, Springfield; Josiah Henshaw, West Brookfield; Henry I. Bowditch, Boston; James N. Buffum, Lynn; George Flint, Rutland; John T. Hilton, Brighton; Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; William Ashby, Newburyport; John Bailey, Lynn; Ellis Allen, Medfield; David P. Harmon, Haverhill; Thomas T. Stone, Bolton; William Whiting, Concord; Ezekiel Thacher, Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remond, Salem; John Clement, Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood, Newburyport; Joshua T. Everett, Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg; George Miles, Westminster; Timothy Davis, Framingham; Zebina Small, Harwich; Wm. Pope, Jr., Dorchester.
Corresponding Secretary-SAMUEL MAY, Jr. Leicester.
Recording Secretary-ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Boston.
Treasurer-Edmund Jackson, Boston.
Auditor-WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Brookline.
Councillors-William Lloyd Garrison; Edmund Qnincy; Wendell Phillips; Maria W. Chapman; Charles K. Whipple; Anne W. Weston; William I. Bowditch; John T. Sargent; Charles E. Hodges; Charles Follen.
Rev. EDWIN THOMPSON was then introduced. He said he felt unwilling to let this Convention pass without saying something. He had attended, he believed, every annual meeting of the Society from 1833 to the present time, and this was the first one in which he had not heard a hiss; and yet some of the strongest utterances he had ever heard had been made here. He thought that if ever any movement had triumphed, it was the old Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
Not long ago, Mr. Thompson said, he heard the Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson lecture in Lynn, and he commenced by repeating the lines of Whittier, so familiar to anti-slavery ears-
"Is this the land our fathers loved,
The freedom which they toiled to win? 
Is this the soil on which they moved; 
Are these the graves they slumber in?"
This from one who had been a hunker of the hunkers! If that did not indicate progress, he did not know what progress was.
In allusion to the general feeling of the public, Mr. T. said he believed the sentiment of the country on the slavery question was very much like that entertained by the members of this Society. Wherever he went, the people almost all talked one way. The blunders of the enemies of freedom had helped the cause mightily. After the attack on fort Sumter, the Hunkers found themselves turned round, they scarcely knew how, and he did not wonder they had felt somewhat awkward ever since.
Mr. Remond had said that the colored people were not heard in the country. He thought differently; that the still small voice of the slave of the South was heard every day, and would have an important influence in the settlement of the great question. He felt much encouraged and strengthened in regard to the issue of the conflict. The reason why the anti-slavery people had succeeded was because they had inquired simply what was right, not what the nation liked. They had relied solely on the truth, and against that, no man or body of men was powerful enough to stand.
Mr. Thompson's remarks were interspersed with several pleasant and pertinent anecdotes, which created considerable merriment, and be was frequently applauded.
Stephen S. Foster said be bad listened with a great deal of attention and interest to the discussions that bad taken place, and had endeavored to profit by them. At the same time, he felt that while he was profited by the remarks of others, he should afford others an opportunity to profit, if possible, by his experience and investigations. He believed that the salvation
<c04>
of our country depended (if it was to be saved) on the union of our countrymen; and, divided and hostile as we had been in our feelings, that union could not take place without great sacrifice of personal feeling. ‘The Abolitionists asked politicians to sacrifice their parties, and they must show themselves as ready to make sacrifices as to ask them.
Two aspects of the cause had been presented to them-one sombre and gloomy, the other pleasing and delightful. It was not necessary, it seemed to him, to decide which of these aspects was the true one, for it matters little; but one thing was certain-the work in which they enlisted thirty years ago must be done, or the slave can never have his freedom in fact, nor can the country ever have a real prosperity. One thing he thought was settled, and that was, that there can be no true liberty in the absence of intelligence and virtue; and just in proportion to their prevalence, would a people be happy and prosperous.
The object of this Society, when it was established, was not merely to destroy the form of slavery, but to destroy the spirit of oppression, which showed itself, at the South, in the form of slavery, and at the North, in the bitter and relentless prejudice against color. Until that spirit was rooted out of the American heart, their work would not be done; and it was not material to him what were the objects of Abraham Lincoln, or what the purposes of General McClellan. This battle of freedom was not to be settled by armies, this question was not to be settled on the battle-field; it was to be settled in the hearts and in the heads of the people of the North. If the people were but right, he cared not what became of the Government.
If we ever had a President who carried out the true spirit of our institutions, that President was Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) He said, when he entered upon the duties of his office, that he stood there simply as the passive agent of the people of this country, to obey the will of his masters, the American people, and he (Mr. F.) had no reason to believe that he had ever swerved from that purpose. He believed that the President was far more willing to go for freedom than for slavery, if he had an undoubting conviction that the American people would sustain him in such a course. Hence, instead of condemning the Administration, he would condemn the Government of this country, which is the people of the country. Was it the fault of Abraham Lincoln that there were four millions of slaves in their chains to-day, that the traffic in human flesh was still going on in the city of Washington? No, the fault lay back of the President, or the Administration. Where was Congress? (Applause.) If the people wanted freedom, why did they not say so, through their representatives, and take the responsibility on their own shoulders, not ask Abraham Lincoln to do it? (Applause.) Many a man had stepped in advance of his party in this cause of freedom, during the last thirty years, and what had been his fate? Crucified, almost without exception! Why blame Abraham Lincoln for not going for the abolition of slavery, when Charles Sumner could not have the support of the Republican party of Massachusetts?
Mr. Foster thought it was a mistake to suppose that the people were all right on this question; that they were demanding, with an almost united voice, the overthrow of this accursed institution. It was not so. He had no doubt that if the question were put to the masses, whether slavery should be abolished, that they would vote for it; but if they were asked to cast off the hunker leaders, and avow a purpose to support the Administration in spite of their leaders, they would not do it. The Government was between two contending influences,-the hunkerism of the country, which holds the purse, without which the Administration can do nothing, and the sympathizing feelings of the inert masses, who can do nothing but talk and fight-who cannot pay the bills; and Mr. Lincoln dare not trust himself in the arms of the inert masses. Their duty, as a Society, was, to summon these masses into active life, to breathe upon these dry hones, that they may live If this work could be done, our country could be saved, not otherwise. The "keep-still" policy had been tried, and it did not work. They must speak out, speak as the thunder speaks, in tones against which the people could not close their ears. The moment was full of hope, but full of peril also to both races. Of course, the Abolitionists should exercise the utmost vigilance. This was no time to sleep; and the most hopeful sign of these meetings was the last speech of their noble friend, Wendell Phillips, in which he summoned them to the battle. This question was to be decided by the American Anti-Slavery Society, as the representative of the friends of freedom throughout the land. If they could keep themselves right, all would go well. There was but one door of escape from the evils the country was now suffering, and that was, by repentance, by eradicating from our hearts the spirit of despotism. The negro, ignorant, degraded as he was, must stand by our side, and we must say to him, "Stand there, brother!"
A great and mighty work was entrusted to the hands of the Abolitionists. The eyes of the friends of freedom throughout the world were turned towards them, and their hope (if they understood this question) was in the Abolitionists, in this struggle to vindicate the capacity of the race for self-government. While they were criticising others so freely, the all-important thing was self-examination and self-criticism; for any fault in them was like poison cast into a fountain. They must keep right themselves, or how could they set others right?
Mr. F. then referred to the principles on which the anti-slavery movement was founded, and said that there had been no change in circumstances that could possibly affect any principles that were true in themselves. At the outset, they had demanded the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery, without expatriation, and without compensation. They had declared that slavery was a crime, and that the master deserved, not a bonus for emancipating his slaves, but a halter for not emancipating them. (Applause.)
He declared that the claim of property in man was a false, fraudulent and guilty claim, and hence that to seem, even, to recognize it by compensation was to do a mighty wrong to the great principles of justice. For thirty years, they had presented an unbroken front against the demands of the slaveholder. His (Mr. F.'s) opinion remained unchanged in regard to this matter. Not for his right hand would he put it to a petition asking Congress to compensate loyal masters for the emancipation of their slaves. He questioned not the honesty of the man who did it, but he thought he must have been swerved from his perceptions of truth by the peculiar circumstances that surrounded him.
Mr. Foster then proceeded to speak of the position of the Abolitionists in regard to the Government. The outside world thought they had changed their position. For fifteen years, they had declared that they could not support the Constitution, because of its guarantees to slavery. The Constitution was the same to-day as it was yesterday; not a letter had been changed, and there never had been an Administration so thoroughly devoted to slavery as the present; no other ever returned so many fugitive slaves, nor did so much to propitiate the Slave Power. Under these circumstances, was there any sufficient reason for their going out before the world, and giving their sanction and support to the Government? He thought not, and had acted all along in accordance with this conviction.
For himself, he had no trouble with the Constitution. He defied any man to write a better instrument. There was no more slavery in it than polygamy. It was nothing but a series of great principles, impartial in their application. He claimed that Congress had the right, even in time of peace, to strike down an institution which not only threatened the interests of the country, but was itself a base and criminal institution, just as they had, by the embargo, (as Mr. Phillips had said,) brought ruin to the commercial interests of the North, for the reason that the public good required it.
<c05>
In conclusion, Mr. Foster spoke strongly in favor of increased activity and zeal by the members of the Society in their efforts to touch the conscience and enlighten the mind of the people on the great question now so prominently before the country. He thought that there was an erroneous impression abroad, that the war would settle slavery, and that there was nothing further for Abolitionists to do. The times were auspicious. All that was needed was some mighty man to go forth to rally and lead the hosts of freedom to the conflict-some man who could rally all the friends of freedom into one mighty host. Place Dr. Cheever, Wendell Phillips, Gerrit Smith, Orestes A. Brownson and Daniel S. Dickinson side by side, and they would sweep all before them. He cared not who was in the Presidential chair; he could tell who would make the laws of the country, and that was all he wished. (Applause.)
Rev. Thomas H. Jones, formerly of North Carolina, spoke briefly, vindicating the capacity of the colored man for education, and his title to freedom. In reference to the change which has taken place in the popular feeling, he said that it was indicated by the fact that whereas men like himself were formerly called "fugitives," they were now called "contrabands," and their masters "fugitives." He thanked God for the change. His reliance was not upon Congress, nor the army, but upon the God of the oppressed, who would stretch forth his arm to save. He expected to go to Wilmington, North Carolina, again, as a freeman, and no one need to have any fear that the supply of cotton or rice would be less, after the slaves were emancipated, than it is now. "Take away your masters!" said he. And, thank God, they are going very fast.
Mr. JOHN C. CLUER said he wanted to say a few words in regard to the views of the people on the other side of the water touching our quarrel. The London Times did not represent the bone and muscle of England, by any means. It had always been opposed to the masses. He thought England, Ireland and Scotland were very well represented in the army that is now battling with secession. (Applause.) The aristocracy of Europe were on the side of the South, the people sympathized with the North. The "Complaint of the Negro" was a common song of the factory operatives in the old country, because their own oppression gave them sympathy for the slave. If Lincoln should proclaim emancipation, the people would rebel against their Government sooner than have a war with this country.
He was pleased to see the great change that had taken place in the community, and especially among the religious sects. They did not feel obliged any longer to go back to antediluvian times, to Sodom and Gomorrah, but could pray for the success of our army, and for the liberation of the slaves. He congratulated the Society on the manifest progress that had been made, and the auspicious signs of the times; and in this connection paid a warm tribute to Mr. Phillips as a genuine Democrat, referring to the fact that when Mr. P. was in England, instead of seeking introductions to the aristocracy, he perilled his popularity by finding his way into a loft among the Chartists, and spoke with them and sympathized with them. He (Mr. C) was one of those despised, hunted and banished Chartists, and he knew that every one of them sympathized with the North, especially when it comes up to the mark of adopting, as its motto, "Liberty for all men, regardless of birth or complexion!" He was an anti-slavery man, not because of the black man or woman in slavery, but because the liberty of his own wife and children depended, in some degree, on his laboring, and thinking, and speaking for others. God speed the day, said Mr. C, when the stars and stripes shall be emblematic of freedom, and when a shout of jubilee shall be heard throughout our country, proclaiming that all beneath that flag are free and equal, enjoying all the blessings of liberty!
Mr. May, from the Business Committee, read the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That to our already lengthened obituary registry, we have now to add the name of Francis Jackson. Lent to humanity in a period of its sternest need, but eminently endowed to meet its demands; as a man and a citizen, possessed in a high degree of those generous qualities which dignify and adorn as well as perpetuate a State; a lover of justice above everything else; as a reformer, among the earliest in our times, as well as truest, bravest and most serene; seeing always with anointed vision, with duty ever his guiding star; none were too high for his kind but firm rebuke when sinning, none too low for his sympathy and succor when suffering; his roof sheltered freedom of speech when driven by mayors, mobs, and the whole multitude from every other refuge:-there, too, was welcomed the fugitive slave, and there he was ever secure. The cause of Temperance and of Peace found in him a constant and consistent advocate and supporter; the Woman's Rights enterprise shared largely in his ever abounding beneficence; religious bigotry and intolerance stood abashed and rebuked in the sunshine of his noble and manly life, which illustrated the highest love of God in never-ceasing regard for man; and, exalting as he did, in every relation of life, the possibilities of human nature in its reach towards perfection, his departure is a private, a public and general loss, mourned most deeply by this Society, whose presiding officer and ornament he was for so many years.
Resolved, That the Anti-Slavery cause, within the past year, in the translation to a higher sphere of those venerable men, Richard Clap, of Dorchester, (for many years an honored officer of this Society,) Nathan Winslow, of Portland, and Amos Farnsworth, formerly of Groton, has parted with those who were among its earliest, most intrepid and earnest friends, advocates and benefactors, whose memories deserve to be held in grateful and lasting remembrance.
THE PRESIDENT. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, that it would hardly be proper in me to allow the first of these resolutions to pass without a word, in view of the fact, that you have done me the great honor of placing me in the seat made vacant by that lamented death. I did not feel, at the time the nomination was made, and accepted by you, as if I could speak upon that theme, when I remembered that at the time I first came into this cause, five-and-twenty years ago, Mr. Jackson occupied the chair of its presiding officer. He presided at the first meeting I ever attended and addressed, and has stood before the world, especially before the world of Massachusetts, and more particularly of Boston, as it were, the incarnation of the Anti-Slavery cause; and he bore it so simply, with such dignity, he made it so eminently respectable and honorable, that even those who hated anti-slavery, honored and respected him. There was no man who went down "where merchants most do congregate," among the bank officers and insurance officers and the men of business,-there was no man in Boston more honored by that class of men than Francis Jackson. With a modest competency- modest, as the ideas of the world now are-which he had acquired by his own industry, there was no man in this city, which boasts so much of its charities and munificence, who exceeded him in liberality in proportion to his means. I have no hesitation in saying, that not Amos Lawrence, nor Samuel Appleton, nor any of those men whose names are proverbial for their bounty and munificence, gave more to public objects, or private charities, in proportion to their means, than Francis Jackson. But, beyond and above all that, I honor, esteem and love him, as the representative of the Anti-Slavery cause, in which position he has stood certainly since 1835, in the very forefront of the anti-slavery battle. At the time when this city was full of mob violence, when Mr. Garrison was dragged through the streets, and was rescued from the hands of the mob only by having the keys of the jail turned upon him, when the Mayor declared that he was incompetent to afford him any other protection, -at that very time, when it was doubtful whether the society of ladies which was the occasion of that mob, could hold its meeting any where, without the building in which it was held being torn down, he offered his house for the use of that Society, and said that if an anti-slavery meeting
<c06>
could not be held in his house without its being destroyed, he was ready to have it fall, and would rather have it fall. He had entered the anti-slavery cause before that, but that was the month of his baptism into it, and from that time to this, then is no man whose name has been more thoroughly identified with it than his. I acknowledge the honor you have done me by putting me in his place. I wish I could believe I could fill it in any way property; but I will <illegible> best I can to justify the confidence you have placed in me. And I can say, that I hope my term of office will be very short. I wish I could feel that this is the last meeting which the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will ever hold, excepting when they come together to rejoice with the slave at the jubilee. (Applause.)
As to these other honored names, leas known, perhaps, to many of this audience than Mr. Jackson, those who have been in the habit of attending antislavery meetings for the last thirty years know them well. We well remember their reverend heads, their venerable features. We recollect their acts of bounty and munificence. We remember the countenance, encouragement and advice which they have given to the cause, and which have greatly tended to its advancement.
HENRY WILLIS, of Battle Creek, Michigan, said- The name of FRANCIS Jackson has for twenty-five years oven held in the highest esteem and honor by the anti-slavery portion of the Northwest; and I know that I speak the universal feeling among them, when I say, that the death of no man in the nation, perhaps, could have been more deeply regretted than that of FRANCIS JACKSON.
The question was then put, and the resolutions adopted unanimously.
Adjourned to meet at Music Hall, at 7 o'clock.
EVENING SESSION. The evening meeting at the Music Hall was largely attended, and addresses were made by Rev. A. A. Miner, Rev. J. M. Manning, and Wendell PHILLIPS. We shall print them in full hereafter.
The receipts at the meetings (which will be acknowledged in detail next week) were as follows:__
Contributions, 471.15; Pledges, $350.50 

THE TWENTY-EIGHTH ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
This Anniversary was held as usual at the Music Hall, on the 22d of January, and was successful beyond the anticipation of the ladies who gave out the invitations. The travelling was very bad, and the state of the atmosphere such as to take all elasticity from the spirits of men; yet the large Halt was very full. Considering the hard pressure of the times, and the numerous imperious demands now made on individual benevolence, the donations were liberal. Most of our old friends remembered us, and in letters of warmest sympathy bade us God speed, regretting that the circumstances of the country rendered it necessary to diminish their customary contributions. All these letters expressed, more or less earnestly, a deep conviction that the Abolitionists of the old school ought not to discontinue or abate their exertions. This conviction is founded on the fact that the community in general are sadly deficient in sentiments of justice and humanity toward the slaves; and therefore whenever the time of emancipation comes, or in whatever form it comes, there is great danger that little or no attention will be paid to their welfare and improvement. The habit of believing only the masters' statements, and of regarding only the masters' interests, has become so inveterate, that a constant and energetic exertion of moral influence is needed to counteract it, or at least to modify it. We cordially thank our friends, one and all, for the pecuniary aid they have given us to carry on this righteous work, and also for their letters of sympathy and good counsel.
One of the most interesting features of the meeting was the presence of Mr. Davis, a highly intelligent dark brown man from Fortress Munroe; one of those of whom we have heard so much under the name of "contrabands." It is touching in the extreme to hear this man tell how earnest was his desire to learn to read the Bible, and how diligently he applied himself to the task, with the help of his master's little son. God be praised that the secret prayers and smothered aspirations of struggling millions at last find their way to the ears of all the people! Thanks to the Father of All that the old abolitionists have been permitted to be HIS humble agents in this great work! May HE enable us to endure unto the end!
A more full and detailed report of the meeting, with acknowledgments of the Contributions made on the occasion in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause, may be expected in a future paper. Our friends will be glad to hear that, after deducting all expenses, which were lighter this year than usual, the sum of not less than Three Thousand Dollars will be realized to the American Anti-Slavery Society. It is proper to state, that in that amount are included all the payments which have been made during the last four or five months, in response to the call for contributions in advance. of the 28th Anniversary, - which payments amounted to about eight hundred dollars, exclusive of special donations in aid of the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
Found! At the Anti-Slavery meeting at Allston Hall, on Thursday evening,-alluding to the mobocratic interruption of last year's anniversary,-we inquired, "Where is Mr. James Murray Howe?" The next day we received a printed card, as follows:- "James Murray Howe & Co., Note, Stock and Exchange Brokers, No. 92, State Street (up stairs,) Boston! "Our inquiry is answered. "All's well that ends well."
DEFINITE NEWS FROM THE BURNSIDE EXPEDITION. Definite news from the Burnside Expedition is received, from which we learn that the squadron has experienced terrible weather off Hatteras, with the wreck of several vessels, and the destruction of much valuable property, but fortunately with the loss of only a few lives. At last accounts, General Burnside had succeeded in getting his entire force into Pamlico Sound, and all the indications were favorable for the ultimate success of the expedition.
NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. The Sixth Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York will be held in ALBANY, at Association Hall, on FRIDAY and SATURDAY, February 7th and 8th, commencing at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M. Three sessions will be held each day.
Among the speakers who will address the Convention will be Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Parker Pillsbury, Rev. Samuel J. May, Susun B. Anthony, Wm. Wells Brown, Aaron M. Powell, and others.
 MIDDLESEX CO. A. 3. SOCIETY.-A quarterly meeting of this Society will be held In Jackson Hall, at Lowell, on Sunday next, Feb. 2d, at the usual hours of public assembly, morning, afternoon and evening.
Rev. Samuel May of Boston and Parker Pillsbury will attend the several sessions.
Let the county be well represented!
WENDELL PHILLIPS will speak before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon next.
JOHN S ROCK, Esq., will deliver his lecture on "The Colored Man and the War," where he may be invited, for a trifle over his expenses His address is No.6 Tremont Street, Boston,
MILFORD, N. H.-C. L. REMOND will deliver two lectures in Milford, N. H., on Sunday afternoon and evening next, Feb. 2d, at 1 and 7 o'clock.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren- Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Atlantic Magazine for February.
AT PORT ROYAL 1861.
The tent-lights glimmer on the land,
The ship-lights on the sea; 
The night-wind smooths with drifting sand
Our track on lone Tybee.
At last our grating keels outslide,
Our good boats forward swing;
And while we ride the land-locked tide,
Our negroes row and sing.
For dear the bondman holds his gifts
Of music and of song:
The gold that kindly Nature sifts
Among his sands of wrong;
The power to make his toiling days
And poor home-comforts please;
The quaint relief of mirth that
plays With sorrow's minor keys.
Another glow than sunset's fire
Has filled the West with light,
Where field and garner, barn and byre,
Are blazing through the night.
The land is wild with fear and hate,
The rout runs mad and fast;
From hand to hand, from gate to gate,
The faming brand is passed.
The lurid glow falls strong across
Dark faces broad with smiles:
Not theirs the terror, hate, and loss,
That fire yon blazing piles.
With oar-strokes timing to their song,
They weave in simple lays
The pathos of remembered wrong,
The hope of better days,—
The triumph note that Miriam sung,
The joy of uncaged birds:
Softening with Afric's mellow tongue
Their broken Saxon words.
SONG OF THE NEGRO BOATMEN.
Oh, praise an' tanks! De Lord he come
To set de people free;
An' massa tink it day ob doom,
An' we ob jubilee.
De Lord dat heap de Red Sea waves,
He jus' as 'trong as den;
He say de word: we las' night slaves;
To-day, de Lord's freemen.
De yam will grow, de cotton blow,
We'll hab de rice an' corn:
Oh, nebber you fear, if nebber you hear
De driver blow his horn!
Ole massa on be trabbels gone;
He leab de land behind:
De Lord's breff blow him furder on,
Like corn-shuck in the wind.
We own de hoe, we own de plough,
We own de hands dat hold;
We sell de pig, we sell de cow,
But nebber chile be sold.
De yam will grow, de cotton blow,
We'll hab de rice an' corn:
Oh, nebber you fear, if nebber
you hear De driver blow his born!
We pray de Lord: he gib us signs
Dat some day we be free;
De Norf-wind tell it to de pines,
De wild-duck to de sea;
We tink it when de church-bell ring,
We dream it in de dream;
De rice-bird mean it when he sing,
De eagle when he scream.
De yam will grow, de cotton blow,
We'll hab de rice an' corn:
Oh, nebber you fear, if nebber you hear
De driver blow his horn!
We know de promise nebber fail,
An' nebber lie de word;
So like de postles in de jail,
We waited for de Lord:
An' now he open ebery door,
An' trow away de key;
Be tink we lub him so before,
We lab him better free.
De yam will grow, de cotton blow,
He'll gib de rice an' corn:
So nebber you fear, if nebber you hear
De driver blow his horn!
So sing our dusky gondoliers;
And with a secret pain,
And smiles that seem akin to tears,
We hear the wild refrain.
We dare not share the negro's trust,
Nor yet his hope deny;
We only know that God is just,
And every wrong shall die.
Rude seems the song; each swarthy face,
Flame-lighted, ruder still:
We start to think that hapless race
Must shape our good or ill;
That laws of changeless justice bind
Oppressor with oppressed;
And, close as sin and suffering joined,
We march to Fate abreast.
Sing on, poor hearts! your chant shall be
Our sign of blight or bloom,—
The Vala-song of Liberty,
Or death-rune of our doom!
WHITTIER.
From "Punch."
THE TWO MESSENGERS.
COLUMBIA.
I have a message must cross the sea,
But I doubt what message it shall be:
And be it Peace, or be it War,
A fitting post I would choose therefor.
So say, you bonny birds of mine,
Around which neck shall I tie the twine?
THE EAGLE.
Round mine, round mine, my mistress sweet,
My wings are broad, and my flight is fleet:
And I have a beak to rend the prey,
And talons for all my course would stay:
And I can swoop over land and sea—
Then "War," and your message tend by me.
THE DOVE.
Round mine, O mistress sweet, round mine:
I'm swift as arrow, and true as line:
Nor talons sharp, nor beak have I,
But a soft sweet voice, and a pleading eye;
And none will harm me on land or sea—
Then "Peace," and your message send by me.
THE EAGLE.
The Lion stands in act to spring,
Her glove Britannia lifts to fling:
A haughty claim asks naught reply,
He half has conquered who dares defy;
With the Lion the Eagle should parley held,—
Then give me the message brief and bold.
THE DOVE.
The dugs of the Lioness suckled thee,
When first thou camest over sea:
Better, I ween, than Britannia's glove,
Is the hand of Britannia clasped in love.
Twixt Dove and Lion calm speech may be—
Then the message of Peace send thou by me.
THE EAGLE.
Thou hast boasted and blustered and talked of fight,
Hast set a bold face in lieu of right:
If breath thou bate, or back thou draw,
Or instead of battle offer law,
Oh, scornful the Lion's laugh will be—
Then the message of War send thou by me.
THE DOVE.
If thou has boasted, boast no more;
If war thou hast challenged, repent it sore:
The devil's wickedest whisper to man
Is, "Let wrong since wrong began."
<c02>
Oh, glad the Lion's great heart will be,
If a message of Peace thou send by me.
And still in doubt doth Columbia stand,
A bird and an answer on either hand;
For War-the Eagle with eyes a-glow:
For Peace-the Dove with her plumes of snow.
But Peace or War should the message be,
Twill find them ready across the sea.
The Liberator.
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN WORCESTER.
Worcester, January 19, 1862.
Mr. Garrison,-I fear you will think from an edi­torial article in the Daily Spy of this city, upon the lecture of Wendell Phillips delivered here upon the war, that we are receding into the dark ages. It shows either unpardonable bigotry or inexcusable ignorance. Claiming to speak in behalf of the audience, the editor says that it "fell below his reputation for eloquence. There was a lack of heartiness and generous enthusiasm. We have never heard him when his words had to little power to control the sympathy of his audience."
Perhaps he has not attended the two courses of lec­tures sufficiently to judge, or that he has not lived here long enough to know that the enthusiasm of a Worces­ter audience never rises to white heat; else he would have seen that, besides being unusually large for a Lyceum lecture, the applause was as cordially given as in any of the preceding ones. Such is my impression as near as I can recollect, never having charged my mind with a comparison. So far as Mr. Phillips is concerned, it is needless for me, or any one else, to come forward to defend him; but truth, and the interest I feel in the reputation of our city, both for liberality of sentiment and the ability to look beyond the superficialities of the present into the horoscope of the future, compel me to give utterance to my conviction, that his views met with a response from a majority of that audience. There has been a time when such a deep-rooted prejudice against his disunion sentiments existed here as to prevent him from calling out the large number that his high position at an orator merited; and it is as unjust to us as a community, as it is to him, to assail him now at the expense of our common sense.
What did he expect of such a man-one who had laid honors, such as few men could win, at the foot of the bleeding slave, who has sacrificed social position and worldly fame in his devotion to the immortal prin­ciple that all men have inalienable rights antecedent to and independent of all written parchments, which lie at the basis of all law, and upon which alone any government can be safely founded? Did he ex­pect such a man to tread the same path with Edward Everett and Mr. Dickinson?
Certainly, if it is the business of the nation to educate Abraham Lincoln, it would seem that it is our business to educate the editor of our leading anti-slavery journal.
No man with his eyes open can deny the superior ability, statesmanship and efficiency, as manifested by the rebel government, in contrast with our own, and whoever seeks to conceal it is, perhaps unconsciously, doing the greatest injury to our cause. There is never anything gained by wilful ignorance or blindness. To admit such a fact does not necessarily disparage the North. The South has been plotting and preparing itself for the foul work these thirty years, while the North has been engaged in peaceful pursuits, and the diffusion of a higher knowledge than the art of war; and now that the two extremes of barbarism and civil­ization are met in a death-grapple, a final victory to civilization, through the tactics of barbarism alone, is impossible, for it is not skilled in it. The battle-field is a trial of strength alone, and unless there is a principle behind to inspirit the masses,-a systematic plan of action that shall secure every advantage, ever wary of the chances of defeat,-an acute generalship that shall look with a prophet's eye into future contingencies, as well as into every possible present relation both at home and abroad, sparing no opportunity the exigen­cies of the occasion may call up to weaken the foe,-it does not even rise to the dignity of war; it is the mere trial of brute force, a laughing-stock in the eyes of the civilized world. Such is the position of the North, whether we acknowledge it or not. Our victories are more shameful than our defeats. Without a purpose, a point is yield as soon as gained.
Said a Republican, not long since, in reply to the satisfaction I expressed at Mr. Seward's order to Gen. McClellan, "I have not a particle of faith in Seward. The Cabinet is good for nothing, so afraid they shall touch slavery. Once in a while, the government will push ahead a little way; then it gets frightened, and takes it all back." When I said that Lincoln was not a man of great intellect, that he had not the gift of foresight which is the essential quality of a statesman, he replied, "Any man of common sense might know that such a course will ruin the country," to which I of course readily assented, mentally bemoaning that, of all sense, common sense should be the rarest.
Yes, and the editor of the Spy has made some good sound criticisms on the apparent lack of purpose and efficiency on the part of the administration, and I am afraid he will have to make them again. But now he, as well as the rest of us, is hoping and waiting to see what Will "turn up" when this Burnside expedition reaches its destination. If it shall "flash in the pan," as the other did, well may we sound the knell of our last earthly hopes.
I have no doubt of the ultimate result of this conflict in favor of freedom, but whether it will come through the government, or successes on the battle­field, is quite another thing. First, the North is too far advanced in civilization to prosecute a war successfully. I should have no fault to find with the leniency with which she treats rebels and traitors, provided she would extend it to slaves also; but, then, I know that a war cannot be carried on successfully without adopting the sanguinary code of war. No one goes more heartily for wars that don't hurt anybody; for where good and evil exist, there must be collision until the evil is eradicated. Civilization prescribes a removal of the iniquity that causes the strife, and the common sense of the people recognizes the principle, and will ultimately enforce it. That it has not done so before shows the strong hold a republican government has on the feelings of the people. If, in the course of the struggle, the government shall be overturned, (which is not improbable, for war sweeps every thing before it, regardless of the slow quibbles with which it is trying to adjust every thing to the exactness of a constitutional hair,) we need have no fear of anarchy. Other dangers may excite our fears, if the people are driven to such an extremity, but not that. Respect for law is grafted in our nature.
Let the name of Fremont be mentioned, and how the smothered indignation of the people bursts forth into irrepressible enthusiasm, showing how deeply his name is engraven on every heart! Yet it is never allowed to weaken their loyalty to the official authorities that dared to remove him. If we could have Charles Sumner, who is the leading representative of the moral, conservative element, which is the vital, animating spirit of all just legislation, as the presiding genius of the Republic,-Wendell Phillips, representing the radical clement, as the civilian and statesman to guide the impulses of the people to their godlike mission,-and John C. Fremont as commander-in-chief of the army, -we would have a quick solution of the question on an enduring basis. If we had the control of the world, however, it is to be feared it would be in a much worse fix than now. God who sits on his throne in the heavens is guiding the storm. To each he has given his mission to perform, and placed him in the position to fulfil it, with no other responsibility than to be true to his own sense of duty, and he will take care of the result Holding the negro in hit right hand, and the American Republic in hit left, he has passed the irrevocable decree, that only when justice is done to the one shall the other be triumphant. That is the lesson he has given us to learn, and just in proportion
<c03>
to our quickness to learn it will our woes be averted. The impulses of the people are only kept down by the confidence they repose in the government, not smothered; and, if disappointed in that, with poverty staring them in the face, bankruptcy threatening the nation, it is very essential that somebody should be looking forward to such an emergency, and preparing for it.
The hour for Abraham Lincoln's greatness has gone by. Whatever he does now, in the way of justice, will be through compulsion. He was never the man for the place, and never was there a more difficult place to fill, or a position more trying to sustain; but when the nation is in danger, it will not do to spare the man because he has not the ability to grasp the issues which must be met.
After all, common sense does more than legal technicalities as the arbiter of a nation's destiny, as well as in the settlement of a new principle. The application of law to a particular question summons common sense to its aid to ensure its success, quite as much as it does a knowledge of legal science. Look at the subject of international law, and there are about as many opinions as lawyers. One thing is certain, that a principle so hurriedly settled in war time will have no lasting duration. If England is bent on a war, she will have it quite as soon now as before, though on another pretext. We have shown our weakness quite as much as a desire to establish a principle, by the haste with which a question of such momentous importance has been summarily disposed of, when the most trifling questions of law must go through with endless discussions and legal forms.
Governments are always selfish, and it is not strange that a monarchy should look with jealous eyes on a republic. It is the people from whom we are to ex­pect sympathy, and we cannot expect them to wait forever to know our purpose, when, the longer the struggle is protracted, the more their own interest will suffer.
The tax question in relation to woman will never be settled by law, until common sense makes the decision. The statute requires all property to be taxed not expressly exempted by law, while the Constitution expressly forbids any tax to be levied without the consent of the people. Between the two, there is room for all manner of disputes and cavillings, because a new principle is to be recognized not hitherto acted upon, whether women are to be considered a part of the people; and there is no law to decide that point. It will be evaded as long as woman will permit it by paying her taxes; for governments will never relinquish power until compelled to. But every lawyer knows that, when the question does come up, the shortest cut will be to end the whole by allowing us the right to vote.
I hope the Abolitionists are about through with the compensation matter. At the outset of the war, it would have been far better to secure emancipation by compensation than to go to fighting; but now that the country is burdened with debt, and Northern merchants have been swindled of their just dues by the South, certainly they should not be burdened for that exceedingly rare specimen of the genus homo, the loyal slaveholder. Abolitionists have nothing to do with it. 
S. E. W.
MISSIONARY POLICY VS. ANTI-SLAVERY PRINCIPLE.
The British Standard contains extracts from a letter written by Rev. Dr. Rufus Anderson, Senior Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, to the Secretary of the English "Turkish Missions Aid Society," in relation to the existing war. In the course of this letter he says-
"I am sorry to see the excellent Earl of Shaftesbury reported to say at Dr. Cheever's farewell meeting, that, if this war was to be prosecuted on the basis of our Constitution, the work could not have the sympathy of Christian England, or to that effect.
But our only hope in this terrible conflict with slavery is fighting on the basis of our Constitution. Stepping off that basis, we fall to pieces into anarchy. The exigencies of war are such that we do not need to violate the Constitution, and in the use of these exigencies the Government must not go in advance of the public sentiment, east and west. I have entire confidence in our President, and all the more for his regard for the Constitution he has sworn to uphold.
Let England, France, the whole world, stand aside and leave us alone; only let praying people remem­ber us at the throne of grace, and I cannot doubt the Lord in his goodness will so bring us out as to awaken the admiration of the world at his goodness."
The Reverend Secretary has long been accustomed to concede, in agreement with the pro-slavery missionaries whom he sent among the Cherokees and Choctaws, that the preaching of Christianity "must not go in advance of the public sentiment," as far as opposition to slavery is  concerned. Of course, he naturally applies the same limitation to the function of the President of the United States, when he is called to act in regard to slavery.
Admitting that our conflict is with slavery, he yet wishes the President to spare that enemy to the full extent that the Constitution requires, and to the full extent that the public sentiment requires. And in regard to England, France, and whatever people of other European nations hate slavery, he wishes them to stand aside and leave us alone; praying, if they will, that God will do whatever is needful, (that is, that he will repent of our sin for us, and perform our duty for us,) but abstaining carefully from any word or act reminding us of that sin and that duty.
The wish of Abolitionists, in direct opposition to that of the Reverend Secretary, is this: that the President, when thinking of his oath to maintain the Constitution, should remember its provisions in favor of liberty at least as much as its provisions in favor of slavery; that he should not be afraid to go for­ward, leading public sentiment in the direction of justice and liberty; and that the friends of freedom, all over the world, would speak and act promptly in the interest of American freedom; urging upon our hesitating Government (a Government hesitating as much from want of principle as want of courage) the duty and the advantage of using the legitimate opportunity which war has given, to make an imme­diate and final overthrow of slavery.-C. k. w.
ENGLAND'S POLICY.
BOSTON, Jan. 20, 1862.
MR. EDITOR,-Though there is comparative tranquillity in the public mind, just now, to what there was several weeks ago, respecting our difficulties with England, we arc confident that, on her part, this feeling is still as strong, bitter and determined as ever, if not increasing in bitterness and intensity every week, -though on the surface it may not appear so palpably manifest.
We cannot banish the thought, nor disguise the feeling, that John Bull is seeking by every secret artifice, by every unfair, unjust and unrighteous means, to make trouble with the United States Government, to the effect that an open rupture will be the result; and the truth of the old adage-"Where there is a will, there is a way"-will be again verified.
War with England is inevitable, sooner or later- and the latest at no distant day. And she is preparing for it! England's activity in all the "pomp and circumstance of war," is her note of preparation. Proverbially crafty, subtle and treacherous, she knows precisely when to strike, and where her foe is weakest. Her professions of peace and good-will, for the universal rights of man, &c., are known to be mere professions, base shams, whenever they seem to conflict in the least degree with what she conceives to be her material interests. Sole judge of the word's indebtedness to her in general, and certain nations in particular, she modestly claims to be, by might or right, (immaterial which,) a self-appointed guardian of civilization-after the manner of the wolf, who kindly placed himself in charge over the sheep. Her most uniformly marked characteristic hat ever been that of selfishness, regardless of the eternal principles of right and justice. Her own private interest has been the chosen watchword through all her years of struggle and of growth. Indeed, when we remember
<c04>
her in connection with Ireland, America, India, China, &c., we question whether this has not been her only and her highest policy. At least, to this kind of policy alone has she been consistent and true. Proud, arro­gant and selfish, she always seeks to call her own that which is most valuable to others. With a large and rapidly increasing navy, heretofore supporting itself by conquests, but just now with nothing particular to en­gage its service, to pay its way-by thinking to take ad­vantage of our present weakness, by apparently every­thing to gain and nothing to lose, in a contest with the United States-these are the motives which prompt her to deliberately manufacture pretexts or causes, that she may justify her present offensive and menacing attitude towards us, that she may widen the breach more and more, and finally embroil the two nations in terrible war.
If it does come to this, as present indications por­tend, may our Government so manage affairs as not only to expose England's heartlessness throughout the earth, but to hare the sympathies of the civilized world enlisted in our behalf.
I trust our nation's rulers realize the patent fact, that the best preventive of a war with England is a thorough and complete preparation on our part. This is better than cure. May it prove effectual!
G. A. B.
MEETING OF OLD COLONY A. S. SOCIETY.
A meeting was convened at the Town Hall, in Ab­ington, on Sunday, 19th inst., under the call of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society, for the purpose of considering the present war, and its relations to sla­very. Owing to the storm, the attendance was not large. Messrs. Pillsbury, Remond and B. Loud ad­dressed the meeting.
The following resolutions were offered by Mr. Pills­bury, and adopted. It was voted that they be pub­lished in the Liberator and Anti-Slavery Standard:-
1. Resolved, That the sudden uprising of the North­ern people, at the fall of Fort Sumter; the flashing in­dignation felt at the mob massacre of the troops in Baltimore, on the 19th of April last; the almost unan­imous approval of General Butler's doctrine of the slaves being not merely "contraband of war," but human beings, entitled to all the rights of humanity; the prodigal liberality with which the wealth of the country has been brought to support the Government in the conflict; and, more especially, the sublime and enthusiastic joy at the Proclamation of General Fre­mont in Missouri-all these are more than assurances that, but for the nightmare of governmental hindrance and hesitation, the present rebellion would long since have been suppressed, and slavery, its only cause, blotted from our country forever.
2. Resolved, That, in the language of Daniel Web­ster, "This Government can be broken up; every government can be; and I admit, there may be such a degree of oppression as will warrant resistance and a forcible severance. I know that the law of ne­cessity always exists." And whether the people should submit to support an army of 700,000 men, in almost a "masterly inactivity," month after month, with all the nameless and numberless attendant ills and woes, to protect the existence of a system of crimes and cruelties that has produced all the calamity, sooner than hurl such a Government, such a Presi­dent and Cabinet as ours, suddenly from their place and power, is a question that needs not the wisdom of a Webster to decide, so much as a Cromwell to carry a decision so righteous into execution.
GUILT OF THE AMERICAN CHURCH.
The American Church, meaning by this term those large bodies which represent the prevailing religion of the day, has been both the pliant tool and the great bulwark of American slavery. So far from influencing it, it has controlled her. So far has the Church been from Christianizing this barbarism, that it has paganized the Church. I but ask any one who doubts this to read the masterly demonstration of Dr. Taylor Lewis, of the fact that the Church, North and South, has been controlled by the political principles of John C. Calhoun. These bodies have been partially united in great religious and beneficent societies, such as the American Tract and the American Bible Societies, in which the same policy has been pursued, and the subject of slavery refused all admittance to the platform of their great Anniversaries, or into any of their publications. should speak more correctly were I to use the term Anti-Slavery, for Slavery has been admitted to full communion in both. This is all fortunately terminated. The Episcopal, Methodist, Baptist and Presbyterian churches have been disrupted by the present political convulsion, and are about to assume, or have already assumed, separate organizations, so that we may safely conclude that this barrier has been removed out of the way. We have not, it is true, become thoroughly divorced from the baneful influence of this unholy alliance between the Church and Slavery. I find that in some quarters there are still declarations of ardent desire for reunion with the "Southern brethren." Yet, it is I think, hardly conceivable that the masses of Northern Christians feel very strongly bound to those who advocate, pray for and strenuously support this crusade of robbery, rapine and blood which the South has inaugurated, or are very desirous of any further intercourse with them-nor, at all events, Slavery continuing. We were also bound to the South by strong commercial ties. New York has been called, and not incorrectly, a prolongation of the South. Her late Mayor, no longer ago than last January, advised that she secede with the Southern States, and even did propose himself as the peace candidate. New York has been a Pro-Slavery city, because she supposed that her financial interests were inseparably interwoven with the Southern States. It is only to state a fact patent to all, that there was no demand which the South could make, which our great commercial and manufacturing cities were not ready to grant. This was true, even of Boston herself, who, although in advance of others, received more credit for Anti-Slavery sentiments than she was justly entitled to receive. This bond has been severed; the trade of the South has been withdrawn, her vast debt has been repudiated, and our own money employed in forging the arms and preparing the engines of war which are employed in shedding the blood of the best and bravest of our sons. Commercial men have been compelled to see this. We have lost more by the South than we have ever gained. This Southern trade is a losing business, and this commercial intercourse with the South is no longer desirable, except under greatly altered conditions. The South has held us by the still stronger bond of political and constitutional ties. The Constitution does contain concessions to slavery of a most important character. No one conversant with the history of that document can for a moment successfully deny it. No man ever has denied it, who was thus informed, except a small number of Abolitionists, who appear to have assumed this position as a salve to their consciences, when called upon to take the oath of allegiance, They have satisfied themselves, doubtless, but convinced nobody else. It would be amusing, were it not painful, to hear some of the most faithful, able, and earnest Anti-Slavery men laboring, as in the fire, wearying themselves in the vain attempt to establish the monstrous absurdity that flies in the face of the whole current of testimony upon the subject, that the Constitution is an Anti-Slavery instrument. There never has been any possibility, heretofore, of a constitutional abolition of Slavery, simply because the Constitution guarantees the pretended rights of Slavery in many particulars. But now that Slavery has risen up for the destruction and overthrow of the Constitution, we are no longer held bound by the obligations. That the government cannot now constitutionally declare emancipation, is a gross absurdity. The law of self-preservation is the first law of nature, and the idea that a system must be permitted the enjoyment of privileges which in time of peace may have been secured to us, under a government, when by war it is seeking to compass the destruction of the Government itself, is simply non-sense. The Government has suspended the writ of "habeas corpus" and the freedom of the Press in the North, the very Jachin and Boaz of our freedom, and as we all agree properly why then: should we continue to talk about the rights of Southern slaveholders under a Constitution that they have spit upon and trampled under their feet?
This the Government has already done, and we uphold them in doing it; and rejoice to see the firmness which they have displayed; this which, if at-
<c05>
tempted in time of peace, would have brought the heads of every member of it to the block. Why should we not, then, cease to talk about the constitutional rights of rebels and traitors? The path is clear-never was there a nobler opportunity presented to a great nation-never was there greater need that we should apply the wise saying of the ancients: "Gnothi ton Kairon,"- know an opportunity. We have also got clear of compromise; we have found the open sea; we are through that which has been both Seylla and Charybdis to the Ship of State; we cannot split upon this rock if we would. Jeff. Davis has settled this for us by the flat declaration that no terms will be accepted or for a moment entertained; that independence, that is, the disruption of the Confederacy, is that for which they are fighting, and that independence they will have at whatever cost. The man who shall rise with a series of compromise resolutions in our next Congress, would be greeted by roars of derisive laughter -he would not be considered worthy even of contempt. This is plain, we must tight it out, and that in the shortest way and most summary manner. This too must be observed, that if now when the opportunity is afforded, the occasion furnished by the South itself, we refuse to accept, we increase our guilt tenfold. If we continue to foster this iniquity now that every plausible pretext is taken away, and all obstacles removed, we prove that our disease is incurable-we shall deserve to be plunged into that abyss of national ruin upon whose brink we are now standing.-[ Extract from Thanksgiving Sermon by Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, of New York.
"THE MOB" IN AMERICA.
The whole course of the dominant portion of the English press, since the Southern outbreak, shows that there has been a settled purpose, by unparalleled misrepresentation and falsehood, to stir up the people of England to hatred of America. It is very seldom that we have quoted in our columns the abuse which has met us in the English prints, as we have felt unwilling to lend them any help in the work of scattering abroad firebrands, arrows and death. The time has come, however, when these efforts of an aristocracy that hates democracy with a bitter hatred, and that is determined to use the press and every other available instrumentality to array the English people against their brethren here, should be exposed. The London Times and its kindred incendiaries are in the constant habit of designating the people of this country-the masses, who vote for our rulers, and who are in reality the governing power-as "the mob." Their art is to keep down the democracy of England, by vitupera­tion of "the mob" in America. This mob, meaning the free, hard-working, intelligent electors of our President and Congress, are perpetually represented as a rude, ignorant, ungovernable mass, who render life, liberty and property insecure, trample down the laws, and control the officers of government by violence and threats. Special pains have been taken to show that in the affair of the Trent, our Government was sure to act unreasonably, because it must obey "the mob." President Lincoln is exhorted to tear himself from "the mob," and to throw himself upon the army to sustain him in doing right. The correspondent of the Times, Wm. H. Russell, LL. D., the paid calumniator of republican institutions, writes home that if Mason and Slidell should be surrendered, our Government would be broken up; so violent and ignorant are "the lower orders of the people," and so "saturated with pride and vanity, that any honorable concession, even in this hour of extremity, would prove fatal to its authors"! How long are the people of England to be made the dupes of such disgraceful slanders? Says the N. Y. Evening Post:-
"The men who, for their own reckless ends, thus defame a kindred people, do so when they might know, if they took pains to investigate, that there is not a solitary fact, or even semblance of fact, upon which to ground their wicked assertions.
If the misrepresentation to which we allude had no other result than to estrange two nations who ought to be friends, it would be had enough. But they have, and are intended to have, another and more mischievous effect. These calumnies are used by those who put them forth as arguments against free governments; and when the London Times asserts in one column that the free States are now ruled by mob law, it eagerly deduces from this, in another column, the failure of democracy, and solemnly warns the people of England against the dangers to which John Bright and other British liberals would expose them by popularizing their government. This is the real object of the abuse which the press of Great Britain has so pertinaciously heaped upon us and our cause for the last year. We have been an inconvenient argument in the mouths of the British liberals, and every Tory rejoices at our troubles, and will sleep easier for our destruction." [American Baptist.
THE MOB POWER.
One of the persistent lies with which the English papers are filled, regarding America, is the charge that the governing power in the United States is the mob power; that the President and Cabinet are forced on at the command of an unprincipled, unreasoning mob. This charge is made day after day, with the sole design of still farther prejudicing the English mind against the loyal portion of the Union. The papers know better. They have not the slightest cause for their charges, except the wild stories told by English travellers in this country, of Arkansas back-woods life, and yet they repeat it as one of the self-evident facts which needs no argument to sustain it. The London Chronicle of Dec. 14th, now before us, is full of these charges and insinuations. It speaks of "the American Executive, and its tyrant-the mob," the influence of "the New York rabble," and says that "Englishmen, no matter of what class, are totally unlike the rowdies who compose electioneering mobs in America."
If there is one particle of honesty or fairness left in the Chronicle and its associates, the unanimous acquiescence of the American people in the decision of the Administration to deliver up Mason and Slidell must force them to retract this miserable and lying slander. Through all the country, grating as that surrender has been to every American, there has not been heard a protest from the loyal press or people. "The mob" has not been found or heard, on this side the water; but there is every symptom of a mobbing and riotous spirit controlling the tone of the English papers toward America. We look at the matter calmly, they fiercely. They rave like a wild bull, and vastly unlike the dignified demeanor of the royal beast they affect for their national representative.-Cleveland Leader.
WITHHOLDING THE EFFECTIVE BLOW.
After ages will read with astonishment that in 1861, there was in the United States a most formidaable rebellion against the Government, growing out of a desire to perpetuate and extend human slavery, which rebellion brought desolation and ruin to many, and imposed grievous burdens and hardships upon all in the loyal States; and, notwithstanding all this, a large party was found in the loyal States who insisted that slavery must not be struck at nor harmed in the contest, and that this party was potential enough to control the actual conduct of the war, and so direct it that no vigorous homethrust was made at the heart of rebellion in 1861, for fear that slavery might suffer equally with the rebellion. That through the same influence, the expedition to Port Royal which opened so brilliantly, was suffered to languish without suitable reinforcements, and to degenerate from being the dread and terror of Georgia, South Carolina and Florida, to a mere ditch-digging and cotton-picking operation. So, too, it will be recorded that, throughout the year, and down to its close, treason infested the various Departments of the Government itself, paralyzing it efforts, and counteracting its plans, without encountering that stern determination on the part of the Government to root it out, that would seem to be requisite and proper.-Washington correspondence of the Dover Star.
EPIGRAM ON A RECENT OCCURRENCE.
Messrs. Raymond and Greeley,
(We say it quite freely,)
You're a jolly green set,
And your wits are bat small,
In offering to bet
With the Herald at all.
You have known Bennett long-
That no temples can fetter;
And his sheet if you read,
(As you ought to, indeed,)
You should see, by this time, the bad man is no better!
- Vanity Fair.
The pirate Sumter had arrived at Cadiz, where she landed forty-five prisoners, the officers and crews taken from three Federal merchant vessels that she had destroyed.
<c06>
SLAVERY AND THE WAR.
The war upon the South, which was begun with high-sounding pretext of devotion to the Stars and Stripes and attachment to the Union, has degenerated into a blind, atrocious and fanatical crusade against the institution of slavery. The vulgar and bloodthirsty Abolitionism of old John Brown, in all its <illegible> brutality and villany, is now rampant at Washington. Eschewing all statesmanship, all the obligations of the Constitution, and all justice and humanity, the Northern politicians have given themselves up to the prosecution of the crude schemes of the very canaille of Abolitionism, and in their blind rage level in indiscriminate ruin the institutions and civilization of half a continent. Forfeiting al claim to the character of statesmen, they have converted themselves into a horde of vulgar incendiaries, as despicable as they are atrocious and immeasurably wicked. From henceforth, all who sympathize with them, who enlist in their armies, or in any way lend them aid and comfort, become partners in their inexpiable guilt, and sink themselves to the same depth of brutal depravity.
The contrast between the enlightened, humane and honorable policy of the South and that of the North, affords the most striking proof of the humanizing and beneficent influences of slavery. The civilized nations of the earth are beginning to open their eyes to the elevating and salutary effects upon society of the ennobling institution. They see a people reared under it influences, displaying in the conduct of a war waged against them with unexampled atrocity and an utter disregard of the rules of civilized warfare, all that justice, humanity, magnanimity. moderation, and stainless chivalry, which enter into the highest type of human civilization, in damaging contrast with the low, vulgar and brutal atrocity of their adversaries, which only finds a parallel in the Sepoys of India and the Druses of Syria, whose crimes against humanity have recently excited the abhorrence of Christendom. These developments of national character are causing the people of Europe to revise their notions of the subject of slavery.
The history of the world may be challenged to show a nation which has reached or long maintained a high civilization without slavery, either absoluter, as in th South and other countries; or in a modified form, as in the present European systems of labor. A monotonous social level, without the subordination of a menial class to one dominant and superior is uniformly attended with social degeneracy and corruption, and national weakness and degradation; as witness the effeminate populations of India, and the degenerate North, which has not been able to preserve its virtue or its freedom against the deteriorating influence of its false and defective social system.
The hostility of the North against the South and Southern institutions is Prompted by malignant envy of the superior advantages which the South enjoys as the results of slavery. This atrocious war is the offspring of a malignant jealousy in the Northern mind of the superior prowess, prosperity and happiness of the Southern people-jealousy which hates the excellence it cannot reach. Phelps, the Yankee Abolitionist in command at Ship Island, in his recent proclamation discloses clearly the real grudge which is inciting the Northern Vandals to such desperate efforts for the destruction of slavery. 
He says:
"It is our conviction that monopolies are as destructive as competition is conservative of the principles and vitalities of republican government; that slave labor is a monopoly which excludes free labor and competition; that slaves are kept in comparative idleness and ease in a fertile half of our arable national territory; while free laborers, constantly augmenting in numbers from Europe, are confined to the other half, and are often distressed by want; that the free labor of the North has more need of expansion into the Southern States, from which it is virtually excluded, than slavery has into Texas in 1848."
The thief would steal the property of his neighbors, which he at once envies and covets. He utters the sentiment of a burglar or a footpad, who thinks himself entitled to appropriate the property of others, simply because he craves it. The South fully appreciates the motives and designs of her marauding invaders, and will continue to repulse them with a heroism and determination only increased by the progressive development of their unparalleled villany.
-Memphis (Tenn.) A Avalanche.
In the above article are concentrated all that superciliousness, mendacity, fiendish malignity, contempt of the people of the North, and hatred of free institutions, which characterise the degraded South.
TENNESSEE LEGISLATURE-NO RECONSTRUCTION OF THE UNION.
The following resolution were introduced in the Senate on the 10th ult. by Mr. Cardwell, and were referred to the Committee on Confederate Relations:
A Resolution expressive of the Opinion of the Legislature of Tennessee in regard to our future policy and determination to maintain our Declaration of Independence of the old Government of the United States:
Resolved, By the general Assembly of the State of Tennessee, as its unanimous sense; that any and all proposition of the Congress of the (so-called) United States of America to reconstruct a Union which they have prostituted to the base purposes of annihilating the liberties, trampling upon the rights, destroying the lives and plundering the people of the Confederate States, thus driving them to the assertion of their independence and the formation of a new confederacy, for the maintenance of their <illegible> lienable rights and the preservation of their sovereignty, is but another from under which our enemies would subjugate the South and reduce us toe the despotism of their degrading doctrines, and that we cannot view any such proposition of reconstruction in any other light than as a crowning insult to our intelligence and manhood to thus approach us after the acts of rapine, murder and barbarity which have marked their inhuman invasion of our territory: and that any such proposition should be met promptly and unhesitatingly with our indignant rejection.
Resolved, That the secret sympathizers of Lincolnism in the South, if any there be, who may favor any such insulting approach of our enemy, deserve to be branded as traitors to the South and enemies of their country.
Resolved, That any commissioners appointed by the Lincoln Congress, it Washington, to the Government of the Confederate States, having for the object of their mission a reconstruction of the old Union should be at once promptly rejected by the Government of the Confederate States.
Resolved, That the Confederate States and their people ardently desire a peaceful solution of existing difficulties with the Northern States, and that as honorable peace, guaranteeing our independence, would be hailed by our people with joy and satisfaction; but that, having taken up arms to achieve our independence of a government which has cruelly persecuted and oppressed us, and which has shows a determination to overturn every guaranty of our usurpations, the people of Tennessee cannot with honor and safety to themselves, and with security to their posterity, consent to any treaty which shall not recognize their entire independence of any political connection with the Government of the (so called) United States.
Resolved, That the Governor be requested to forward a copy of these resolutions to each of our Representatives in congress, and also a copy to each of the Governors of the Confederate States, with a request that they be laid before their respective State Legislatures.
LITERARY SOLDIERS.- A correspondent of the Congregationalist writes:-"Never before was the postmaster of Annapolis so Overrun with business. These Massachusetts regiments especially are a puzzle to him, they are such writers of episiles. Some Maryland ladies, though of New England birth, were recently in my tent, and they expressed their utter astonishment at the number of letters that were poured in at my box beside the tent door. They examined them, and admired the neatness and beauty of their chirography. They said they wished that Mary land people understood such things and would imitate them. They really looked upon our soldiers as a superior order of people, and if it was an illusion of their fancy. I said nothing to disturb it. They were reminded that we came from a land where 'the schoolmaster is abroad,' and always has been, from the time of its earliest settlement, consequently we have raised up a class of men who can write their names, and make their mark, also. We send away from two to seven hundred letters daily, and receive mails twice a day, varying from half a peek to three bushels."
