THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS— Two dollars and fifty cents per annum,in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PRILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our country is the World, our countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXX. NO. 33. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 1860.
<COL 1>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Journal of Commerce.
MR. HYATT AND THE CLERGY.
In the opinion of Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt and other anti-slavery philanthropists, the clergy of the United States are deemed more or less ignorant of the evils and sins of slavery, and hence has been printed for their special use, and distributed among them, Senater Sumner's recent speech, called the’Barbarism of Slavery.'
If, however, the clergy generally have read and heard all that the Abolitionists have, for many years past, spoken and written on the slavery question, in the ecclesiastical assembly and the pulpit, on the platform, in the newspapers, and magazines, and story-books, they must be, as is the writer of this, well acquainted with this dark-colored topic.
Now, granting that slavery is the evil described, what, we ask, is the remedy? We are ready to act, but how must we act? Do not annoy us with pamphlets reiterating what has been said ten thousand times or repeating again and again,’Liberate the slaves!'‘Set them free!' But tell us how to do this. Are any of the following the proper way?
1. Shall all the slaveholders be exterminated, and the negroes substituted and established the land-owners? Or shall the reverse take place by exterminating the negroes?
2. Shall the slaves be at once and instantly all set free? and then shall the lands be equally divided between black and white? Then, may either race buy out the title of the other? or, may they go to war and settle the matter?
3. Shall the whites emigrate, or shall the blacks emigrate? Whither, and how, and when shall the emigration be?
4. In addition to the land apportioned to the negroes, shall the whites pay for past services?
5. Shall the United States aid the South, or only compel, in carrying out any plan of emancipation?
Right or wrong, practicable or impracticable, foolish or wise, laughable or execrable, let us have a plan or plans, and let the oratory and the eloquence on the evil and sin of slavery cease. Let tirade and masquerade yield to instruction as to action. Let the yell of Hyatt, and of Sumner, Garrison and others,’Free them!' be supplanted by some definite direction of Lucy Stone, Esq., or Rev. Dr. Antoinette Brown, or Cheever, telling us’How!' B. R. H.

AMERICANS CATECHIZED IN ENGLAND.
A good many of our countrymen complain very justly of an annoyance to which they are subjected in England. Perhaps clergymen are more likely than other men to meet with it, but other men sometimes encounter it. It is a sort of tyrannical, impudent, ultra-radical anti-slavery espionage and cross-questioning. Does one of our American gentlemen appear upon the platform of any English philanthropic or religious society, is he entertained by them at a dinner or breakfast—straightway he and they are assailed by a class of impertinent scribblers, who warn the public against him because he is not a Garrisonian Abolitionist, and take upon themselves to request him to answer a series of questions respecting his beliefs and disbeliefs. We have seen in some of the English papers the most abusive tirades against respectable New England preachers who hold the sentiments upon slavery which are prevalent here. We are glad to see that Dr. Murray of New Jersey has snubbed one of these conceited fellows by inquiring into his antecedents, and publishing the results of his inquiry as a part of his letter of reply. He learns that the fellow’is a secretary, without anything to do, save to annoy persons, and thus to earn a yearly stipend.' One of these ultra conscientious men declined, a few years ago, to meet at a private breakfast a wellknown divine of this city, because he disapproved of a book which the minister had written. On being questioned subsequently by the latter, the Englishman confessed that he had not read the book, but had heard that it was not strongly enough opposed to slavery. If we choose to recount the experiences which we have heard from our most estimable men, who have been attacked with inquisitorial impertinence in England, our readers might have a less favorable idea than they now have of English courtesy. But it would not be fair to judge the nation by such instances. Yet the annoyance has become so frequent, that it may not be amiss to allude to it. Dr. Murray has done a service to his friends, in making an example of one of the class of which we have spoken.-Providence Journal.

MR. DALLAS AND LORD BROUGHAM.
Another Scientific Association has been holding its annual meeting in England. It is the STATISTICAL SOCIETY-not of English origin, nor for England, but for the world. It is the first time that it met in the British Isles,—having hitherto met at Brussels, Paris, and other cities on the Continent. This year it met in London. Prince Albert presided; for in England nothing can be done without having a great Lord (who may sometimes be nothing more than a great blockhead) to preside. But Prince Albert is no blockhead; he made a very respectable speech at the opening. At this meeting, Lord Brougham, who is a very old man, and acts and speaks in all matters, excepting those which occupied his mind in his earliest and best years, like a dotard, took occasion to insult in the most gratuitous and wanton manner Mr. Dallas, our American Ambassador, reminding him that a negro was on the platform, (a Dr. Delany, from the United States, who was wondrously gratified, and must needs attempt to say a smart thing, and therefore begged leave to inform the audience that he, too, was a man! which the Manchester Guardian deemed quite an unnecessary announcement.) At this there was the usual clap-trap applause of an English audience, unchecked by the princely President. We only wonder that Mr. Dallas did not instantly rise, and addressing the President, say:—'Sir! it would be a matter of entire indifference to me if the noble Lord who has just spoken were himself a negro, or if this entire association were black; I should think not a whit the more of them, nor a whit the less, if they were. But, inasmuch as the remark of the noble Lord was wholly uncalled for and uncivil, I deem it an insult, as it was intended to be, and act accordingly.' He should then have retired, unless a proper apology was made instantly by Lord Brougham confirmed by the President and the audience. This is the way in which the matter ought to have been treated, in our judgment. Nothing is gained by yielding to British insolence. Give them an inch, and they will take an ell. The English are a noble race; but, with few exceptions, they need, like their favorite dog, a good kick now and then,-we speak metaphorically!
But who were the applauders on this occasion? Not the English gentlemen of Science, nor the statisticians from the Continent. They had too much civilization for that. But they were the real cockneys of London, who were there, not to hear anything about Statistics, or any other matter of Sci-
<c02>
ence. but to see Prince Albert! and to hear him graciously open his lips, and make a gracious speech!
What a contrast between the politeness—the innate civility, if we may so term it—of the French and the unmannerly conduct of our English cousins, in a case where a nice sense of propriety is demanded! We have seen a whole French audience, even in the most exciting scenes, desist in an instant from every manifestation of applause, when they saw that it might be deemed unkind to any one, especially to a foreigner! But the French are, in many respects, far superior to the English in all that relates to the courtesies of life, the graces of social intercourse, and the requirements of the decorum of public meetings.-Journal of Commerce. 

SELECTIONS. 
From the London Patriot, July 26th.
I ALSO AM A MAN.' 
The Statistical Congress had a notable fact in statistics submitted to its considerations in a somewhat unexpected way. It was ascertained that the American Ambassador, assisting at a scientific seance, regarded it as a deliberate insult that his attention should be called to the presence of a negro gentleman in the room. Dr. Delany, who has recently landed in England, has been engaged in the exploration of the Niger Valley, with a view to promote the emigration of free negroes from America to their original home, that they may bear with them the germs of European civilization, and help to develop, by encouraging systematic industry, the vast resources of the African Continent. It is a hopeful and important enterprise, and the tidings which Dr. Delany brings are most cheering. Such a movement as that which he and his coadjutors seek to inaugurate, will be vastly more influential on the diminution and ultimate annihilation of the slave trade, than the most complete preventive service which we can organize on the coast. Dr. Delany was just the man to attend the Statistical Congress; and Lord Brougham's pleasant allusion to his presence in the same room with the American Ambassador would have passed simply as a pleasantry, but that on this one point, a word, a look, a tone, are construed as insults by the representatives of’the freest people upon earth.' The most distant allusion seems to madden them, as is mostly the case where the conscience is at war with the interests, and the professions and practice walk different ways. When Dr. Delany arose, and begged to assure the Statistical Congress’that he was a man,' it did not need two looks at his broad strong brow, and dignified carriage, to be very sure of the fact, and to be set thinking as to what high part such manhood as is being developed among the free negro race in our colonies may play in the drama of the future history of the world.
A correspondence has recently been published between Sir Samuel Cunard and some gentlemen who were passengers in one of his ships, which bears on the same subject. In this case a lady of color, having been accepted as a first-class passenger on board the British mail packet between New York and Liverpool, was not allowed to sit at table in the same cabin with the American first-class passengers; but had her meals served to her, to her great discomfort, in some private cabin, which was made the negro pen for the time. Some English gentlemen on board, bitterly indignant that this should happen under the British flag, laid the facts before Sir S. Cunard, and endeavored to elicit his opinion about them, but in vain. We hope to see the matter taken up and thoroughly sifted in the British House of Commons. We regard it as a stain upon our flag, and we cannot but think that an action would lie against the Company, should the lady in question choose to establish her rights in a British Court of Law.
Again, a controversy is beginning to attract some attention which has recently arisen in our new colony of Victoria, Vancouver’s Island, between two of the agents of the Colonial Missionary Society, one of whom, Mr. Macfie, seems to have contemplated the establishment of something like the American Negro Pew, in the Congregational Church at Victoria, while the other, Mr. Clarke, protested against the institution with great earnestness, offered the’pew' to the whites instead of the blacks, and not being supported as he conceived he ought to be by the Society at home, threw up his appointment and retired to Canada in disgust. These are, then, very significant signs that this question, the admission of the black race to social equality with the white, is becoming no longer an American, but a world-wide question. Indeed, it is not long since, in the Louvre Hotel, at Paris, the same difficulty turned up in a very painful way.
Emancipation has been nobly accomplished. It cost us more than words. We took upon ourselves a heavy burden through our strong sense of what righteousness demanded of us in this matter, and gave an example of which there are not many parallels in the history of the world. So far all was well done. Our colonies have suffered grievous depression, be the causes what they may; but we have never repented for one moment that great act of Emancipation. If it had to be done over again, it would lie done heartily, even at a far higher cost. But a further question now opens on us—that it is becoming not a speculation, but a very practical matter with us in a hundred ways—how much does the assertion that a Negro is’a man and a brother’ practically mean? It is a very fine sentence on paper; it draws, or used to draw down thunders of applause at popular meetings; but does it mean what it seems to mean in familiar practical life? Negro gentlemen and negro ladies are to be met with in abundance in our colonial possessions, and their are not a few of that class in England. Nor are the terms mere terms of courtesy. Dr. Delany, for instance, is as black as a coal, but he is a thoroughly educated man, he bears a diploma, he is an excellent public speaker, and he is capable of rendering important public services to his country and to mankind. What is the status of such men to be? Now, it is one thing to make a pet of a stray gentleman or lady of color of high talent or interesting history, to invite them to public demonstrations, dine them at a Duke's table, and perhaps get them presented to the Queen; it is another to give them carte blanche to travel through our empire, the acknowledged social equals of all whose talent, culture, or fortune, may be of the same level with their own. This position, with all our professions, is not yet won for them. On board a British mail-ship they cannot dine in the State-cabin, and even in our new colony it would seem that they cannot worship in the same pew with their’brethren’ in white. And yet it is our work that they are here at all, and their elevation in the scale of culture and courtesy is the inevitable result of that great act to which we look back so proudly, and which we regard as one of the brightest achievements in our history. It is proved quite conclusively that the intellect of the negro is capable of a very high cultivation, while there is a native courtesy about the race which, as a race, we might imitate with profit. The facilities now afforded to them, especially in Canada, will certainly increase every year the num-
<c03>
ber of negro scholars and gentlemen; and it is time that we made a firm stand to secure for them that entire social equality, without which the Emancipation Act is miserably incomplete. We have no idea that, in the long run, if things be left to take their natural course, there will be an extensive settlement of the black race among the whites in these northern regions. That black skin is a coal-field which Providence has provided to supply the fierce appetite of the tropical sun-to the tropics the negro race belongs, and to the tropics, if left to itself, it tends. But, unhappily, it is not left to itself. All kinds of artificial difficulties, the fruit of the craft and the violence of the whites, lie in the way of its natural development; and for some time to come there will be a large mixture of the negro race in the population of our northern colonies, and even in our own land. We claim for them that the man-and-brother theory shall be acted out manfully, where all theories are exposed to the severest test-at home. In our private society, in our Congresses and Associations, in our railways and steam-packets, and, above all, in our churches, through our broad empire, let there be neither black nor white, as there is neither bond nor free, but let all be one. We are persuaded that a firm course on our part would react most favorably on the condition and prospects of the colored race in America. While we, as a people, give an uncertain sound about this great matter, there is no hope of any progress of public opinion in the United States; but, if we are true to the brave words,’ A man’s a man for a' that,' in our domestic and public life, we shall achieve a second and grander Emancipation for the great race, to which God seems to have committed the future of the tropical belt of the world.
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF H. FORD DOUGLASS,
At the Celebration of the First of August at Abington.
One month ago, Mr. President, we were assembled in the beautiful grove at Framingham, to celebrate the emancipation of thirteen American colonies from the despotism of that old Saxon mother of States, England. To-day, we have come to join our friends here in Abington, in honor of an event somewhat different in its character, one that will be the glory of England, and the admiration of the world, when her brightest military achievements shall have faded from the memory of mankind.
A proud and haughty race of oppressors, accustomed to sneer at every effort that seeks to have justice done the negro, will not care to remember this day, I and the glorious results which it commemorates. It is fit and proper, therefore, that all who love justice and liberty should meet, as we do to-day, to keep fresh and green in our memories an act so sublimely disinterested as that which gave freedom to a million souls in the Carribbean Isles; for, the same earnestness of purpose that won for British Abolitionists this noblest triumph in the annals of the Saxon race, makes possible the total abolition of the accursed system in our own country.
I have found in the West, where I live, and among those of my own race, objections urged against the propriety of celebrating this day, because this act of justice was performed by the people of another government. But, to me, this can never be a reason for withholding from the noble men and women of England our eternal gratitude for that generous act of mercy. Justice is of universal application, and whatever concerns the rights and liberties of one nation, or variety of men, involves all others in the common interest. The bridge that spans Niagara's mighty torrent is supported on either side by a single chain; break it in any of its parts, and that magnificent structure, the grandest monument which the science and mechanism of the centuries can boast, will disappear forever in the howling hell of waters beneath. So with this chain of humanity which God has stretched across the ages; no matter which of its strongly-connected links is broken, either will destroy that continuity of progress by which man alone hopes at last to reach the home of the eternal Father. (Applause.)
The Negro and the Indian, the Malay and the Caucassian, types of an intense diversification, are nevertheless children of the same Creator, influenced alike by the same elements of decay and growth. Indeed, no government can be complete in its social and political symmetry without this variety of race. As the blending of the productions of the four grand divisions of the globe is essential to the highest artistic and commercial growth, so is the blending into one political system an harmonious recognition of the rights of all these various races essential to the highest governmental development.
There is no merit in our civilized, Christian growth over the barbarous forms of other times, unless we can forget our own clan, tribe, race, countrymen and family in application of justice to all people, through the complicated forms of civil government, from the pew to the pulpit, and from the ballot-box to the presidential chair. God save any decent man from ever being compelled to occupy the latter, since James Buchanan has been its incumbent! (Laughter and applause.) But, then, this is a republican government-this is Christianity-all else is an imposition, to be hated and resisted.
I heard Mr. Garrison say, twelve years ago, that he never locked upon a slave, peeled and bruised, robbed of his manhood and herded with cattle, that he was not willing, in the duty which he owed to a brother man, to do all for him that he would for a member of his own family. (Applause.) It was the religious and political self-abandonment of such a spirit that lifted the British slave out of his fetters, and made this day worthy of the consecration which we now make by our earnest words of commemoration.
Mr. President, civil and religious liberty, the right to serve God as one's conscience shall dictate, the right to be secure in one's individuality, complete and perfect exemption from the selfish abuses of an organized and supercilious majority, are some of the rights which this government was established to secure; in all of which it has proved a magnificent failure.
God knows I am no friend of slavery any where on earth. Every pulsation of my heart beats in sympathy with the brave words and braver deeds of the patriots of the old world, who are struggling for po-
<c04>
litical rights, whether it be Victor Hugo hurling back into the teeth of the bloody usurper those memorable words,’When liberty returns to France, then will I return,' or the sturdy blows of Garibaldi on the plains of Palermo, to throw off the Papal power in classic Italy. In me, the crowned and mitred despots who pretend to rule by right divine in the nationalities of Europe will ever find an uncompromising foe. Yet I am ashamed to be compelled to say, that so far as human freedom is concerned, they put to utter shame the loftier pretensions of our own government. There is, indeed, a significant fact projected from the historical back-ground of two hundred years. It is this: that while all the monarchical governments of the old world have been constantly tending to liberty, affording us unmistakable signs of progression, republican America, theoretically an antipode, has been all the while merging itself into a despotism baser and blacker than anything history has yet recorded. Take, for example, that great empire of the North, extending from the frozen Don to the midland sea, that only four hundred years ago began to move from her icy anchorage, laden with a conflicting population from almost every zone—religious rites the most savage, and customs the most uncivil; and yet you will find, despite the barbarous character of her people, that Russia, from Ivan to Alexander II., has been in constant progression in the attainments of more humane and liberal institutions. The serfdom of Peter the Great, which was only a milder type of absolute bondage, has gradually melted away before the increasing heat of democratic ideas. And on the twenty-fifth day of next November, after we shall have elected to the Presidency of the Republic a man pledged not to lift a finger in the work of abolishing slavery in this country but, on the contrary, pledged to slave-breeding, slave-trading and slave-catching; at such a time, we are to behold thirty-five million serfs, lifted by the beneficent policy of the Czar of all the Russias, from the slavery of four hundred years to the political equality of the proudest subject in his imperial dominions.
Emerson says—'Every law indicates some fact in human nature.' Laws are the mile-stones along the pathways of history, that tell how far we have travelled from the rude barbarism of the past toward a higher and a nobler life. Laws are the test of a nation's civilization. The true man's real character consists in what he does, and not what he merely has the ability to do. So I measure the civilization of Russia, Austria, France, England and the United States, by what they do, each in their sphere, for civilization, progress, freedom, all that helps to produce the highest culture, and noblest spiritual development. England has done much for freedom, within the last sixty years, and promises to do much more. This Government has done nothing, and promises to do less. Whatever may be the poverty and destitution of the lower and middle classes in England, resulting from fast-anchored customs which she has inherited from feudal times, she has still a commanding sense of right and wrong. Conservative, land-loving, money-loving, she is still liberty-loving. Englishmen cling with undying tenacity to Runnymede, whose regal splendor pales its ineffectual fires before the sturdy old baron who wrung from the reluctant grasp of their monarch the great Charter of English rights. The safeguards of individual freedom which Magna Charta secured to the people reach all classes and conditions of English life, from the sovereign on the throne to the beggar in the streets. Half a century ago, after the ambitious Corsican had broken his empire against British steel at Waterloo, and, flying the disastrous stroke of fortune, was compelled to surrender himself to the captain of an English vessel, instructions were immediately sent by the government, warning the captain not to approach within three leagues of the shore, lest Napoleon, the disturber of the peace of nations, should avail himself of the writ of Habeas Corpus, and secure his freedom, which no power on earth could prevent. Here, then, was fidelity to constitutional liberty, on the part of this old government, whose corrupt and despotic institutions we are so much accustomed to deplore and denounce, worthy our imitation as well as admiration.
I realize no particular pleasure, Mr. President, in making comparisons that reflect to the discredit of this government and the enlightened Christian character of our people. The Supreme Court of the. United States unwittingly honored the negro race, when it declared they were not citizens under the Constitution. If I shall, by my fidelity and faithfulness to this great cause, secure for my humble name some passing notice from the future historian who shall deign to do justice to the men and the women who in this hour of shameless hypocrisy are found faithful to freedom, I want no prouder mention than that in such an hour as this, I scorned to stand inside of these institutions of a barbarian people, or to become partner with the American Government, the bold and unblushing violator of the rights of man. (Applause.)
You send your boys to college to study the classics; they read Roman and Grecian history, and learn to denounce the despotism of the old nations that have died long ago. But barbarous and infidel Rome, in the darkest ages of her crime, in the reign of her perfidious Tarquin or bloody Nero, never sunk, in her downward tendency to despotism and crime, so low as the civilized Republic of the United States. In acts of wanton cruelty, in open disregard of human life, in violation of every right, sacred and divine, this Government stands preeminent—preeminent in guilty co-partnership with piracy, robbery and wholesale murder.
Doubtless there are many who regard such denunciation as this very unjust. The author of Marble Faun went to a foreign land to write a romance, because, as he said, no shadow or gloomy wrong had crept over the mirror of our commonplace prosperity. Yet our whole history is filled with gloomy wrongs inflicted upon feebler races. We commenced here, with the cant of the Puritans, to steal the Indian’s land by the small acre. Getting bolder with our success, we finally took all they had, and now we don't hesitate to-steal whole States from a sister Republic, and then whip them if they manifest any dissatisfaction. (Laughter.) By treaty-stipulations, we have agreed with other nations to make the slave-trade
<c05>
piracy, punishable with death, and yet this very same traffic was never so prosperous as now. Cargoes, fresh from Africa, are constantly landed in Southern ports, in open violation of our laws, and there is not virtue enough left in our political institutions to punish the guilty parties. But then, upon what ethics does the domestic or coastwise slave-trade, carried on beneath the sheltering wings of the Republic, protected by Congressional law and sanctioned by the whole people, become leas a crime than the African or foreign slave-trade? If it is a crime to steal men in Africa, and transplant them in the Carolinas, upon what principle can you make it a virtue to steal them in Virginia, and transplant them in Louisiana? In the one case, you steal ignorant savages, whose intellectual and moral nature has been blunted and stultified by long centuries of barbarism, and in the other you steal civilized Christian men and women, often your own sons and daughters; for Thomas Jefferson Randolph said, long ago, that’the best blood of Virginia now courses in the veins of her slaves.' The plea is perfectly absurd, that in the one case it is an attempt to reduce innocent freemen to slavery, and in the other that it is simply a transfer of those who are rightfully held in bondage. The Hon. Mr. Goulden of Georgia, who boasted in the Douglas Convention at Baltimore, a few weeks ago, that he had slaves on his plantation fresh from Africa, has just as good a title to them as property, as ever had George Washington or Thomas Jefferson, or any other slaveholder that ever lived, to stain his hands with human guilt. If it be piracy to enslave a man born in Africa, then, by the principles of eternal justice, every slaveholder in the South deserves to die to-day. Slavery is murder, for in its very essence is involved the surrender of all the means of protecting and preserving life. It was not poetic license for Homer to say—
‘God fixed it certain, that whatever day
Made man a slave takes half his worth away.'
He not only loses the will to do and to act as a natural being, but he must also give up the animal instinct of self-defence, and become at once, to use the language of that greatest of ancient philosophers, a’ living instrument.' The murderous character of the system finds daily illustrations in every Southern newspaper that reaches the North—the shooting and burning of slaves—by those infernal fiends in human shape, whose cowardly skulls, in their midnight slumbers, are made to see God's avenging angel of insurrection hovering about them.
Not long since, we had the report of a slave-mother near Florence, in Kentucky, who, after she had been sold on the auction-block with her little girl in her arms—for the purpose of being sent to one of the slave-consuming States of the South, for whose benefit this internal slave-trade is carried on by the General Government—bethinking herself of the many wrongs which she, as a wife and mother, had been compelled to suffer, in her unprotected condition, turned away from the scene-her soul filled with that sublime woe which has made the story of Virginius immortal, in the classics of ancient Rome—she knocked out the brains of this precious jewel which God had lent her, saying that she’ would never rear a child to labor for another without wages.' (Applause.) This is only one scene in the dismal history of this internal slave-trade, which Abraham Lincoln has never given himself the trouble, as a statesman, to think about. I pray God, on this anniversary day, if consistent with his almighty purposes, to comfort and bless this poor slave-mother wherever she is in her chains; but thrice-cursed, is my earnest prayer forevermore, be the man or the party that refuses to lend his or its influence to the overthrow of this abominable institution in the land! (Applause.)
The Boston Atlas and Bee never gets tired with telling the people of Massachusetts about their constitutional obligations and the rights of the South, —as though a piece of paper, which our dishonest fathers put their names to, when they gave their souls to the devil, was to be regarded by us as more sacred than human freedom! If my life and liberty are made to depend upon a majority of votes expressed on a piece of paper, then there is no safety for man on earth, and our Government is nothing but the catchword of rogues, and the sooner it is dissolved, the better. Upon such ethics, the Legislature of Massachusetts may license a man to go through the State, and brain every baby born with blue eyes. I am not certain, however, that humanity may not yet demand such a condition of things, unless this blueeyed Saxon race can be taught better manners. Better that the whole race had been brained ere they left the German forest, than that, through their instrumentality, these millions of innocent persons should be doomed to slavery! It were better far that this Government should perish to-morrow, and be blotted from the map of nations forever, than that the poorest man in the world should be robbed of his liberty to save it. (Applause.)
I wouldn’t sacrifice a sick dog to save a State that would set up the brazen image of Daniel Webster in her capitol, and tolerate upon the platform on commencement-day, in one of her most honorable literary institutions for the advancement of her sons, that most profligate wretch and abandoned political scoundrel that ever lived in any age or country, Stephen A. Douglas. (Applause.)
A pagan king, eighteen centuries ago, commanded the death of all the male children in Judes as a governmental necessity, just as these political parties are now demanding the sacrifice of the negro, in order to perpetuate this Government. We ought to make it a national matter, as an act of gratitude to our patron political saint, to dig up the rotten bones of this monster of India, and carry them to the Capitol of these American States, and with splendid eulogy and pompous panegyric lift his memory from the gibbet which the accumulated diary of the ages has erected, to the loftiest niche in the pantheon of American Heroes. Nay, more than this; we should, instead of sending expeditions to the Arctic Circle to search for the remains of Sir John Franklin, direct them to search ocean's shore and earth's secret places for the bones of the pirate Kidd, and take them to Bunker Hill, and there erect a monument to successful villany that will rival in solid grandeur that old grey shaft, with its cap-stone kissing the clouds. Since we have dethroned God and enthroned the devil,
<c06>
let us be consistent, and have a devilish good time (Laughter and loud applause.)
I have no respect, Mr. President, for these slave-holding institutions that men are trying to save by telling a bigger lie than their fathers. I repudiate the whole Government as one of the necessities of freedom, and would spit upon it as a mean and worthless thing—a league with Satan as black as that which bound together, for the purposes of organized plunder, the pirates of the Gulf, or the Murrells of the American Woods.
Thirty millions of white men have agreed and pledged themselves, by the conditions of this slave-holding Union, to steal and appropriate to their own use the intellectual and physical faculties of four millions black men. The bargain is complete between them. The proudest trophies of American statesmanship are the efforts of the Clays and Bentons of the South, and the Websters and Choates of the North, to keep inviolate this agreement to steal our liberty. All that either party can offer us in return for our votes, is future devotion to the continuation of this covenant to enslave the negro. And I pledge myself here, to-day, in the sight of Heaven, that if ever I shall falter in any effort, either by word or deed, to overthrow this bloody despotism that rests with the stillness of death upon four millions of my countrymen, may my right had forget its cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth! (Applause.)
A robber is defined to be one who takes by force or privacy that which rightfully belongs to another. By this definition, we are a combination of robber-States instead of capital-States, as that political sphinx of New York would have it, whose soul and heart all went to head and brain when he made his great bid in the U. S. Senate for a Presidential nomination.
If there is one thing more than another that rightfully belongs to a man, it is his head, his hands, his heart, his body. These he received not from man, but from the God of the Universe, and by whom only he can lawfully be deprived of them. The man or government that steps between me and my God, for the purpose of robbing me of my freedom, assumes at once all the bloody habiliments of a robber, and I am morally bound to resist such an outrage at every hazard. (Applause.) I care nothing about the circumstances that influenced the actions of the men who consented to this shameful contract, nor do I care, so far as the purposes of the discussion are concerned, whether the Constitution is pro-slavery or anti-slavery; it is enough for me to know, that so long as we, individually as men or collectively as States, remain in a state of loyalty to a Government which we are bound to assist in the slavery of every sixth person in the Government, we are simply a band of robbers; and to the overthrow and utter annihilation of such a combination is to me, and must be to every honest man, the highest test of duty. This is the only course left those who wish, to be relieved from all support of slavery. We can never do an anti-slavery work, if we consent to compromise principle in the least, in order to secure temporary success. Looking at the struggle which resulted in the abolition of slavery in the British Islands, we are taught one very impressive lesson—that God's work is not to be advanced by surrendering to the devil half of the kingdom of Heaven, if he will only let you have the other half. This will do for a successful political juggler like Lincoln, but will never serve a high anti-slavery purpose, such as ours.
When, some seventy years ago, the first organization was effected in England for the purpose of making war upon slavery, Granville Sharpe proposed to them that, instead of directing their efforts against the slave-trade, it would be the most politic to attack the system of Colonial slavery at once. But timid men could think of no such thing; they thought it bad policy to attempt to accomplish the whole thing at once; they wanted to attack the territories, the outposts, the slave-trade. But Granville Sharpe, with a keener perception of the moral necessities of the hour, turned away from such counsel, and uttered this prophetic declaration:-‘You are temporising; with Justice. God, when He founded the universe, made it certain that every bargain with the devil should weaken the man who makes it.'
The conduct of British abolitionists, at the commencement of that memorable struggle, was strikingly similar to that strange madness which has taken possession of the political abolitionists of our day, who shut their eyes upon the earnest admonition of all past history, and blindly pursue the very same policy of moderation towards the American slave system that covered with defeat and disappointment those British leaders after thirty years of effort. They thought then, as the Republican party now thinks, if we can only destroy the slave-trade, the system must die out.’If we can only prevent its extension into new territories,' says Henry Wilson,’ the moral influence of an advancing civilization will wear it away.' I have, it is true, great faith in the sweet and gentle influence of Christianity as an efficient instrument in reforming the manners of men; but history has demonstrated that a race of slaveholders are seldom, if ever, reached in that way. They form a distinct class of sinners, requiring often other than Christian remedies to teach them to respect the rights of men. The moral or political forces, therefore, that can hope to accomplish its extinction, must not leave it alone to its own hateful meditations, but must grapple with it—without compromise, without concession—with the consistency of truth and the logic of an almighty purpose, determined that, in the Union or out of the Union, live or die, survive or perish, to unseat the bloody monster and trample him in the dust. (Applause.)
To be generous with slavery, is either to underrate its power or welcome defeat; for it is not the weak and impotent thing that the discussions of the hour would have the masses believe, but a real power in the land, fortified by social, political and religious combinations, linked and interlinked with the selfish instincts of thirty millions of people, who need the most radical truth to be convinced that God pays, in the end, a better dividend than the devil.
To the great work of revolutionizing public sentiment are we now summoned, that this proud and guilty nation may be saved from God's avenging bolt of retributive justice; for, not till tyrants and
<COL 7>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS0.
The United States constitution is’a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.... There is some excuse for communities when, under a generous impulse. they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States. and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate than it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’
—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
slaveholders can scale the battlements of heaven and drive God from his eternal throne can they crush out in the black man's bosom his determination to be free. (Load applause)
Mr. President, it is written on every page of the mournful and melancholy past, that the slave is either to walk to liberty by a generous restoration of his rights by those who have robbed him, or else through a sea of blood over the broken body of the slaveholder. If this is to be the end of slavery, and there is no escape from the dreadful necessity of revolution, them, I say, the sooner the better; and may God speed the right! (Loud applause.) 
SPEECH OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
MR. PRESIDENT, AND FELLOW-CITIZENS: In taking: In taking a retrospective view of the noble band of men and women whose untiring exertions brought about the abolition of slavery in the West Indies, we cannot do so without being amazed at the amount of opposition which they had to encounter. Millions of pounds sterling had been invested in estates and slaves in Jamaica, and the warehouses in Liverpool and London groaned beneath the weight of the cotton, sugar and rice, the product of the unpaid toil of the slave. The proprietor lived in luxury in England, while the agent and overseer stole themselves rich from the hard earnings of the bondman on the plantation. 
The interest of the planter was represented in both branches of the Parliament, and in the most aristocratic circles in the British empire. Casks of rum and sacks of rice found their way into the palaces of the Bishops of York and Westminster, and the crumbs that fell from the tables of the prelates stopped the mouths of the clergy upon the great questions of Human Rights and Negro Emancipation. Sharpe, Macaulay and their associates were asked why they wished to interfere with the interest of the planter.
'Was man ordained the slave of man to toil,
Yoked with the brute, and fettered to the soil?
Weighed in a tyrant's balance with his gold?
No! Nature stamped us in a heavenly mould;
She bade no wretch his thankless labor urge,
Nor trembling take the pittance and the scourge.'
Those brave and generous hearts were impelled by pure and philanthropic motives, and onward they went, until their truthful denunciation and fiery seal melted the chains from the limbs of the slave. (Applause.)
Prior to the abolition of slavery, the planters urged the inferiority of the blacks, and their want of ability to provide for themselves, as a reason for keeping them in bondage. The world was told that the blacks could never take a position upon terms of equality with the whites. But the fetters had scarcely fallen from the limbs of the bondman, ere the black man took his seat in the Jamaica Assembly as a statesman, at the bar as an advocate, entered the pulpit as a preacher, and joined the social circle as a useful member of society. Like the Marsellaise Hymn, which the Girondins sung at the foot of the guillotine, in ghastly gradation, dying away in one throat, the foolish cant about negro inferiority will die away with the extinction of chattel slavery. The emancipation of 800,000 slaves by the British people was a noble, heroic and just act, and one without a parallel in the history of nations; and the large-souled Curran well described English history when he said: 
'I speak in the spirit of the British Law, which makes liberty commensurate with, and inseparable from, the British soil-which proclaims, even to the stranger and the sojourner, the moment he sets foot upon British earth, that the ground on which treads is holy, and consecrated by the Genius of Universal Emancipation. No matter in what language his doom may have been pronounced; no matter what complexion an Indian or an African sun may burnt upon him: no matter in what disastrous battle his liberty may have been cloven down; no matter with what solemnities he may have been devoted upon the altar of slavery; the first moment he touches the sacred soil of Britain, the altar and the god sink together in the dust; his soul walks abroad in her own majesty; his body swells beyond the measure of his chains, that burst from around him, and he stands redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled, by the irresistible Genius of UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.' (Applause.)
We meet to-day to commemorate the most successful illustration of the result of free discussion ever yet given to the world. Erasmus said, 'Peaceful error is better than boisterous truth.' But a braver and a purer man says-'Peace if possible, but truth at any rate.' We worship to-day at the shrine of truth, and
'He who seeks the truth, and trembles
At the dangers he must brave,
Is not fit to be a freeman:
He, at least, is but a slave.' (Applause.)
The oppressor is always afraid of the truth. The drama of William Tell is not allowed a representation in Vienna, for fear it may endanger the throne of the Austrian Emperor. The Marsellaise cannot be sung in Paris, because it may remind the French people that a tyrant still sits upon the throne of the Capets. The Liberator must not pass through the Charleston post-office, for some poor slave may that he has 'rights which the white man is bound to respect.' But, notwithstanding that Tell is excluded from Austria, the Marsellaise from France, and the Liberator from the Carolinas, the oppressed still feel every pulsation beat for freedom. The love of liberty cannot be extinguished by municipal laws or tyrannical mandates. A gilded uniform for the French and Austrian soldier, or good food for the American slave, will not compensate for the of liberty. The wild beasts that roam over the prairies of the West, or the birds that twitter through the tops of these trees, help to swell the already mountainous evidence, that wherever a heart beats, it longs for freedom.
'Go, let a cage, with grates of gold,
And pearly roof, the eagle hold;
Let dainty viands be his fare.
And give the captive tenderest care;
But say, in luxury's limits pent,
Find you the king of birds content!
No! oft he'll sound the startling shriek,
And dash the grates with angry beak!
Precarious freedom's far more dear
Than all the prison's pamp'ring cheer.'
(Applause.)
This love of liberty, fellow-citizens, is universal, and the African possesses his share equally with the Anglo-Saxon. But the American people consider it a crime in the black man to aspire to be free, and upon terms of equality with the whites, and the white American thinks it his duty to strike at the colored man wherever he sees him. In a World's Statistical Convention, lately held in London, Lord Brougham reminded our Minister, Mr. Dallas, that Dr. Delany, a Negro, was a member of the Congress. Our thin-skinned pro-slavery editors are wonderfully troubled about what they call' the insult.' Mr. South-Side, of the Courier, says, 'The dignity of Mr. Dallas, under the joint assault of Lord Brougham and his black brother, was most commendable.' (Laughter.) Now, Mr. President, this reminds one of the execution of the pirate Hicks, in New York, a few days since. When Marshal Rynders asked him if he had anything to say. Hicks replied in the negative-whereupon the Captain, turning to the crowd, said-'The prisoner declines to address his fellow-citizens.' (Laughter.) The pirate maintained his dignity; so did our Minister in London. Mr. Dallas was a convicted hypocrite, and was struck dumb, before that assembled influence, with the Prince Consort in the chair. (Applause.) This incident between Mr. Dallas and Dr. Delany reminds me of an act in the drama of my own experience. In the autumn of 1849, during the voyage while on my tour to the old world, we amongst our passengers on the steam-ship Canada, a Judge Gwinn, of Mississippi, on his way to Naples, to which place he had been appointed Consul. The Judge was a slaveholder, and felt no little indignation at having an American Negro for a fel-
<c02>
low passenger; and frequently, during the passage, was heard to use hard words towards the colored man. However, this ill-feeling on the part of the Judge did not disturb me. (Laughter.) Our steamer arrived at Liverpool, and here we separated. Three weeks later. I was in Paris to attend the Peace Congress, to which I had been delegated by the American Peace Society. Since my arrival in England, I had made the acquaintance of many of distinction, several of whom I met at the French capital. At the close of the first session of the Congress, and just as I had been introduced to the President of the, M. Victor Hugo, the well-known French poet, I observed standing near the platform, hat in hand, and apparently in a waiting attitude, Judge Gwinn. As I was leaving the gentleman in question, the Judge stepped up to me, and, putting out hit hand, said, 'How do you do, Mr. Brown?' I took his replied, 'You have the advantage of me, Sir; I have no recollection of your countenance.' 'O!' exclaimed he, 'I am Judge Gwinn, your fellow-passenger from America.' He smilingly continued, 'Will you please to introduce me to Richard Cob den and Victor Hugo?' (Laughter and applause.)
I assure you, Mr. President and fellow-citizens, that I felt somewhat indignant that this slaveholder, who, while on the passage from the United States, would not have shaken hands with me with a pair of tongs ten feet long, should come and ask me to introduce him into good society. I very politely said to him, 'As I am not acquainted with you, Judge, and would consider myself responsible for your conduct to those to whom I might introduce you, I must respectfully decline the honor.' (Laughter and applause.)
Eleven years have gone since this interview with the slaveholding Judge in Paris. We have both grown older, and, I hope, wiser. Whether my old fellow-passenger, now Senator Gwinn of California, would ask a negro's assistance to aid him in getting into respectable society or not, I am of course unable to say. (Laughter.) But I would not be surprised, if an opportunity offered, if he should. For, although the United States Supreme Court says, 'black men have no rights which white men are bound to respect,' Americans when abroad, with all their negro hate, are willing to seek the advice and assistance of one whose race they so much dislike while in their own country.
We are fast approaching one of those political scourges which the devil, or somebody else, has imposed upon us every four years-the election of a President of the United States. It is written, that on a certain occasion his satanic majesty took the Saviour upon an exceeding high mountain, and showed him all the world, and said, ' Worship me, and I'll give you this.' Now the same individual, every four years, takes the whole American people, (women and negroes excepted,) (laughter and applause,) shows them the White House at Washington, and says 'Worship me, and I'll put you in there.'
My friend Mr. Ford Douglass said, that if he was the devil, he'd give up the office, since the politicians have done so much devilish work. Now, Mr. President, I think that the devil has forsaken the parties- certainly the Democratic party; for, at the Charleston Democratic Convention, when the party seemed all broken up, and they had failed to receive assistance from the Lord, one of their number appealed to the devil in the following strain. I will read it:- 
'O thou most glorious and mighty Devil, we feel to thank thee for the many favors which the Democratic party has received at thy hands. (Laughter and applause.) Thou hast watched over us, and spared us as monuments of thy amazing mercy. Hadst thou not been with us, we would long since have been dashed to pieces like a potter's vessel. But we know that wherever the Democracy is, thou art there to counsel and advise. (Laughter.) We bless thee that thou hast watched over us in days past, and we would ask for a continuance of thy favors. (Applause.) We thank thee that thou hast given us blacks for our inheritance, and we pray thee to multiply and to multiply, till the niggers shall cover the land as the waters cover the sea. O, may we yet see them as thick in our cotton-fields as the frogs were in Egypt! (Laughter.) O, good and mighty Devil, wilt thou aid us in adopting a platform which shall go for the re-opening of the slave-trade and the acquisition of Cuba. We beseech thee to bless all who have come up to this Convention for thy glory. Remember our absent friends. Be with James chanan in his declining days, for thou knowest that he has served thee faithfully, in this thy earthly kingdom. (Great laughter.) Remember Breckinridge, and, and Cobb, and Lane, and don't forget Stephen A. Douglas, but show him the error of his ways. (Laughter and applause.) We would ask thee to remember Edward Everett; he has long walked in the path that leads to thee. But above all, O good and lovely Devil, we would beg thee to keep an eye over Caleb Cushing, the chiefest of thy servants. (Great applause.) He has labored faithfully for the building up of thy earthly kingdom, and we would ask thee to watch over him, and him as in the hollow of thy hand. (Laughter.) Thou knowest that many of our party have strayed from thee. We beseech thee to bring them back, and cause them to return as did the Prodigal Son.
And now, good and lovely Devil, we would once more ask thee to still be with us; to remain in our councils and aid us with thy mighty wisdom; and when we are done serving thee in this thy upper kingdom, and thou art making up thy jewels, O, we beg thee to gather up the members of the Democratic party as a hen her brood.' (Laughter.) 
Now, Mr. President, when the Devil forsakes his own, as he certainly has the Democracy, we may hope for better days. Let us only do our duty in this glorious cause, and the time will soon come when not a slave shall tread our soil, and our country will be in fact, what it has long claimed to be, 'the land of the free and the home of the brave.' (Applause.) 
SPEECH OF HON. N. H. WHITING. 
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I will endeavor not to weary your patience by any lengthened remarks from me at this late hour of the day, particularly as there are others who are expected to follow me, whom you will be much better pleased and more profited to hear. I do not propose to enter into any controversy with my old associates in to the best means of accomplishing the that we have at heart, which is the speedy and utter overthrow of slavery in this nation. We have common principles and a common purpose; but we differ in relation to some of the measures by which it is proposed to accomplish the desired object. We have been to school so long together, that I think I do not misunderstand them, neither do I believe they will me. 
But I have come up here to-day to join with you in the remembrance of one of the noblest acts, one of the grandest events any where recorded in history. It appears to me that of all the days which men are accustomed to celebrate in commemoration of great events, the birth of distinguished men, or the discovery and proclamation of important truths, there none in whose ceremonies a man can participate with more complete satisfaction and unalloyed delight, than in that which records the emancipation of the slaves in the British West Indies. Not but that there are days in the calendar whose advent and whose history are of equal and even greater importance considered in their relations to the wide race of men; but there is connected with the first day of August, and the event with which it will be forever associated, one fact, which will grow brighter and brighter in contrast with the deeds of cruelty and blood that darken and so painfully diversify the pages of human life all through its history. In the long catalogue of crime and oppression which makes up so large a portion of the annals of mankind, there occasionally shines out the 'memory of a gracious deed of justice and of love,' there peers through the surrounding darkness the sunlight of a heroic action, a spirit of sublime self-sacrifice and undying love. Enough of these are sprinkled along the way-side of existence to keep alive a spark of hope in the human bosom, and in all times to sustain a respectable number in the belie-
<c03>
that somewhere, in some possible era of our world, or in some ultimate phase of human life, there 'is a good time coming'; when 'man will no longer be a wolf to man, or steal and sell and murder his brother.' But in all these memorials of great and good men, of glorious events, the enunciation of saving truths, in all the manifestations of the divine spirit which have rayed out through individuals and nations, there are visible tokens of pain and sorrow, of tears and who. The records have been written in human blood, to be read in the conflagration of burning cities and village, or traced in bleaching human bones all over the surface of the earth. Far back in the ages, in Hebrew emancipation from the thralldom of Egypt, in Grecian and Roman history, in the monarchies, republics, and revolutions of more modern times, every step of progress is marked by the exhibition and use of the same fell spirit of hate and murder. Even that immortal, whose complement was found in the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, becomes the of tragedies, and ends at last in the treason of Judas and the Cross of Calvary. 
The act we celebrate to-day forms one, perhaps the only exception to the coloring with which every great era or event has thus far been shaded. This seems to be pure sunshine, without storm or cloud. The of slavery, which had been blowing for two hundred years over those beautiful isles of the West, was succeeded by the mild and healthful breezes of liberty, without earthquake or hurricane, with a transition as gentle and instantaneous as the fading of a tropic night into the broad light of day. It was neither accompanied, nor has it been followed, by the neighing of the war horse, by the braying of trumpets, the beat of drum, the booming of cannon, the crash of shot and shell, the sack of towns, the mad struggle of contending armies, the prayer for mercy, and the wail of mortal agony. Here were seen no desolate hearth-stones, no widowed wives, no orphans, no Rachael weeping for her children, and refusing to be comforted because they were not, but all was peace, and love, and good will.
The account that has been given of the manner in which the slaves in those Islands received their freedom forms one of the most exquisite, most precious passages, to be found any where in history. There was no boisterous outbreak; there was no indulgence in drunkenness and licentious passions; no mere American Fourth of July with its dissipation, its waste of powder, its firing of guns and crackers, its airing of patriotic phrases, and exhibition of Yankee blarney; but an honest, earnest, joyous thanksgiving and acknowledgment of gratitude to the Divine Being for the priceless boon of human life and liberty; for the tardy recognition of their manhood by their masters; for the blessing of home, and kindred, and parents, and children; for the right to the product of heir own labor, for the chance of education and consequent elevation in the scale of being; for the infinite possibilities of future growth and happiness.
Said I not well, Mr. President, that this is one of the loveliest, most glorious events in history? It dawned upon the world without a single cloud darken the sunlight for any human soul. This is one instance, one instance where an act of simple justice has been performed by one portion of mankind to another without inflicting death, or pain, or sorrow upon any creature or thing in the wide world. In this aspect at least, it is the most brilliant day in the calendar, and every lover of his race, every believer in human progress, will remember each recurring anniversary with a quickening sense of the possibility of removing the wrong and oppression which beset the path of life, and that, too, by the use of means commended alike to the judgment, conscience and understanding of all men. 
But our object here to-day is not commemoration merely. We are not the natural builders of sepulchers. We did not come here to spin phrases of empty compliment to the day, or the men who made it what it is. We believe in work. The world opens up before us. Its wrong and injustice rear their hydra heads on every hand. The sun of liberty, which rose on the eight hundred thousand of the British Isles, has never yet dawned upon the millions and groping in the night of slavery here. Ours is no holiday work. We have the full might of a nation on the side of the oppressor; with passion, and prejudice, and interest, and pride, and ambition, busily weaving, repairing and extending the web of slavery, which holds in its powerful meshes, not only the millions toiling in the cotton fields and rice and sugar plantations of the South, but the prevailing politics, literature, religion and physical power of the whole country. Mighty forces, humanly speaking. What have we got to meet them with? We have all that is good, and true, and aspiring in man's nature. 
'Our friends are exaltations, agonies, 
And love, and man's unconquerable mind.' 
Though Church and State are on the side of slavery, though Mammon and Moloch are arrayed against us, yet slavery in this country must die. It is in vain that Mammon cries ruin to trade and commerce upon 'change, shrieks treason in the capitol of the State or nation, or whines about infidelity in its pulpits. It may gain apparent victories by enlisting in its behalf, for a lime, the blind prejudices of the laborer in his field or work-shop; the timid conservatism of wealth in its palaces and counting-rooms; the unscrupulous politician in his thirst for power and place; the devotees of a false religion in their love of ease, and their fear of being called to judgment for their neglect and oppression of the poor and needy; it may secure, for a time, the services of a venal press, in its faithless Couriers and rotten Posts; its blind and heartless Observers and false Recorders; still it must die, peacefully if it be possible, but still in some way this foul stain must be blotted out, this stupendous wrong must be exterminated. For truly does Longfellow declare that it embraces within itself
'All evil thoughts and deeds,
Anger, and lust, and pride;
The foulest, rankest weeds 
That choke life's groaning tide.'
It is a relic of barbarism, or, more properly speaking, a species of refined cannibalism, altogether out of place in the dawning light of the nineteenth century. The spirit of the age is against it. The instincts of human nature condemn it. Every generous emotion, every benevolent wish, every just sentiment, every expanding and elevating thought or feeling that ever throbbed in a human heart, or sought for expression through the channels of a human brain, is against it, and on the side of freedom. Every church spire, pointing towards heaven, and preaching its perpetual sermon of immortality; every asylum for the refuge of misfortune or the reformation of crime; every effort which is made to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, or enlighten the ignorant, gives an unmistakable verdict against that system which claims property in man. The advancing civilization of all lands cries, 'Away with it!' Its doom is foreshadowed in the click of types in every printing-office, the shriek of the locomotive on every railroad, and the silent pulsations of the electric current as it travels round the globe on telegraphic wires.
But my belief in the ultimate, and even speedy overthrow of slavery in this country, is not derived merely from the ordinary evidences of progress as we are accustomed to measure them; not from the prospective triumph of the Republican party in the approaching election, though I hail that as affording good ground for hope in the peaceful solution of the tremendous problem before us; not from the improved tone of press and pulpit; not even from the increasing humanity and justice of the age; but from the fact, becoming more and more apparent day by day, that it is throwing off all disguises, abandoning all subterfuges, and coming out before the world to claim recognition and protection as a legitimate child of God, and an essential element in all stable and well-ordered governments. Formerly, you know, the plea in an- 
<c04>
swer to the challenge of the Abolitionists was, 'O, know slavery is an evil; but then we cannot help ourselves now; we did not establish it. Our and your fathers, and the government of Great Britain-they <illegible> responsible for its existence. We should be glad to get rid of it, but we don't see any way out of the difficulty at present. Time and the wise dispensations of Providence must furnish the remedy': and so on to the end of a pretty long chapter, and a somewhat plausible one too. But now all this is changed. Instead of regarding slavery as an evil to be tolerated, only because no way presents itself by which it can be removed without causing greater wrong and disturbance than come at present from the system itself, it is affirmed that slavery is a positive good, and the ground-work of all substantial and permanent society, which is to continue so long as government itself endures. 'We do not intend,' say the South, 'to abolish slavery now, or at any future time. The natural and wise arrangement of society is that where the capitalist owns the laborer, and where those who dig the earth become part and parcel of the soil they cultivate.ï¿½
I know Mr. Charles O'Conor, and some others of the sham Democracy, who have come out flatfooted in favor of the righfulness of slavery, are striving to confine the doctrine, in its application, to negroes alone. But this is a flimsy gauze-covering for the naked deformity of the original proposition and assumption, which is, that capital should own labor; do and it is not applicable to the case in hand for two for reasons. The first is, that it is no longer the negroes only who are held in slavery at the South. A large is and constantly increasing number of those in bondage have more white than black blood in their veins; and every drop that follows the application of the driver's whip kindred with the proudest and daughters of the land. Now here is a man half or three-quarters white. You claim him as a slave. On what ground do you do it? That he is a negro? You see it isn't true. What are you going to do with the white part of him, when you subject his negro blood to what you call the wholesome discipline of the plantation-when you apply the whip to his back, and the blood flows-when you sell him on the auction-block-when you keep him in enforced ignorance-when you put him in your inventory of stock, worth so much in the market? Is it a white man or a negro whose back you flay, whose blood you shed, whom you offer for sale, whom you shut out from knowledge, whom you class with your horses and mules? Is it a white or a black man whom you thus put with beasts and creeping things? I ask again, what you are going to do with the white part of 'this cunningest pattern of creating nature' that you claim as so much merchandise in your hands?
I do not know of but one answer to be made by the O'Connor tribe to this question. There is an anecdote related of Curran, the celebrated Irish barrister, which represents him as once challenging a great burly man of twenty stone and upwards, to fight duel. Now Curran was a very small man, and his antagonist suggested that the contest would hardly be a fair one, in consequence of the great disparity of size. Curran proposed to obviate the objection by chalking out his dimensions on the body of the other, declaring that all the bullets which hit outside of the mark should go for nothing. I cannot see how the pretended owner of the partially white man can escape from the dilemma in which his negro-enslaving theory involves him, except by saying it is his intention to buy and sell and whip negroes only, and that if any Caucassian blood flows-if any flesh and feelings are lacerated outside the mark of Ham, it must go for nothing,-is not to he taken into the account. 
The second reason why Mr. O'Connor cannot confine his slavery to negroes is, that he undertakes to justify the system on the ground of a want of capacity to enjoy the blessings and perform the duties of freedom in those who are to be enslaved. Consequently, his theory runs a horizontal line through the Universe, and all who fall below the gauge in his standard of liberty, whether they be white or black, or whatever color they may be, must be taken care of at once, and sold to the highest bidder. No, Mr. O'Conor, your theory is not admissible; your limitation is impossible. The only honest ground for the advocate of slavery to take,-if indeed there can be any honesty in a proposition so monstrous as that which reduces nineteen-twentieths of the human race to the condition of merchandise,-the only honest; position is that assumed by the principal supporters of slavery at the South-namely, that 'society divides itself into two classes,-capitalists and laborers. The former must own the latter. Slavery is the normal condition of the laborer in all countries and times. Wherever he has taken part in, and assumed control of the government, the result has been revolution and anarchy.' Now this is plain talk; within reach of the dullest intellect, whether above or below Mr. O'Conor's isothermal line. The freshest and greenest Irishman that ever came over to this 'free country,' and shouted for 'liberty' while he damned the 'nagers'; the meanest Yankee that ever forsook an honest calling to engage in the wooden-nutmeg business of living by hook or by crook upon his fellowmen-can understand this, and be made to feel, too, though it is accidentally the negro's back which is scourged to-day, it may be his turn to-morrow. When the sovereign people-the toiling millions throughout the country-once see this, they will make short work with the 'patriarchal institution,'-the curse pronounced upon Ham, the Ethnology of our Pundits, and even our constitutional obligations to the contrary notwithstanding. For, though they may have love for the negro, or ever feel a throb of sympathy for any human being but themselves, they do like number one, and they will take care of him, even though they have to throttle number two to accomplish it. 
But I am extending these remarks far beyond my intention when I began, and will ask your attention but a moment longer. With all these 'great allies' around and within us, let us go forward in our work of regenerating the public sentiment of the nation. Let us endeavor to array both Church and State, now so far prostituted to the service of slavery, on the side of freedom where they naturally belong. Let us do this, because it will be an act of justice to a wronged and oppressed portion of our fellow-men, and because it is the only course which will insure to ourselves and our children that liberty, that culture and that virtue, whose possession and exercise are essential to the welfare and growth of individual men, and the security and perpetuity of States and nations. It is not necessary to point out the work for each one to do. Let every one labor in his own harness, and fight with his own weapons.
The act we celebrate was the work of a nation in whose policy and institutions are still found many relics of barbarism and injustice, and whose empire has been widened and extended until its morning drum-beat is heard round the world by the exercise of a degree of violence and oppression that almost staggers belief, and absolutely appals the mind to contemplate. Yet we will rejoice at all the good she has done, directly and consciously, as well as that which has been evolved, in the wise and beneficent arrangements of Providence, from the havoc and robbery which have ever accompanied her march to wealth and power. L us use oar own government as the of England did theirs-place it on the of freedom instead of slavery. We are not responsible for the evil there in the world when we enter it to perform our parts upon the stage: only for that we consent to and connive at. Let us freely use the 'scenery and circumstances' of the theatre where we are called to act, in such way as will best enable us to play the parts which have been assigned to us. My part, it seems to me, is to aid in turning the current of events-which has been sweeping us all onward with resistless force toward the grand mael-
<c05>
strom of slavery-in the direction of the haven of liberty. Let every one be true to his own convictions; be sure that every step taken is a forward one; and, wherever he may be, in whatever department of life he may be called to labor, neglect no opportunity to testify for freedom and for man. 
[Mr. WHITING'S excellent speech was frequently and warmly applauded throughout.]

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION CELEBRATION AT MILFORD, MASS. 
With an increased interest and effect, our annual celebration took place as notified, at the Town Hall, on Thursday, the 2d inst. Three sessions were held, and continued with unflagging interest till the hour of adjournment, 10 o'clock, P. M. The meeting was called to order by George W. Stacy, and the following list of officers proposed, were unanimously elected:-
President-JAMES R. DAVIS.
Secretary-A. T. Wilkinson.
Business Committee-Parker Pillsbury, George W. Stacy, Charles L. Remond, Dr. Dwight Russell, and W. W. Cook, of Hopedale. Finance Committee-C. C. Johnson, Dr. J. H. Hero, Mrs. Butterfield, and Mrs. Walker.
The President on taking the chair, made some timely and pertinent remarks announcing the entire freedom of the platform, and assuring all, friends and foes, of an attentive hearing.
Mr. Stacy read the 58th chapter of Isaiah, as suggested in the following letter, from our beloved pioneer, whose absence by indisposition was in measure made up by reading the following letter:-NORTHUMBERLAND, N. H., July 31st, 1860.
DEAR FRIEND,-I am two hundred and fifty miles from Milford, enjoying a little recreation in this mountainous region; so that I shall not be able to attend the celebration on Thursday next, in your town, as designed doing when I last saw you. But you will have no lack of earnest, faithful, eloquent speakers, and the great historical event of British West India Emancipation will be commemorated, not merely its own intrinsic moral grandeur, but to the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery struggle in our own land.
Next to the crime of enslaving human beings is crime of misrepresenting, for slaveholding ends, the results of their emancipation from slavery. since the liberation of the West India bondmen, the most systematic, persevering and unscrupulous have been resorted to, in every portion of the United States, to create the impression that it has proved most calamitous act; the object being to reconcile public mind to the continuance of slavery at the South as far less an evil than its abolition, and to dispirit the friends of impartial liberty in their labors to hasten the day of jubilee here. No fabrication has deemed too mean, no slander too malignant, no lie too atrocious, to be coined and circulated for this testable purpose. These forgeries and calumnies have been readily believed, so that there is, probably, a small portion of the people who see and know that every thing is working well in the emancipated colonies. How, indeed, could it be otherwise? How could the complete suppression of a system 'the sum of all villanies,' be followed by evil consequences in any direction? Whether reference be made to the moral condition or the material prosperity of the colonies, how could freedom fail to prove an inestimable blessing to those who had so long deprived of it? From the hour they received boon, on bended knee, with throbbing hearts, quivering lips, and shouts of thanksgiving to God, up to the present time, they have been steadily advancing in intelligence, sobriety, industry, economy, all the moral virtues. They have magnanimous cast into oblivion all memory of the terrible wrongs and sufferings they endured while toiling under the yoke, and smarting under the lash; and in no have they resorted to any vindictive or retaliatory act. No life has been taken, no blood shed, no plantation fired. In no part of the world has there be seen a more orderly population, or a more pacific cheering state of things, with so little of military constabulary espionage. Dr. John Davy, brother the celebrated Sir Humphrey Davy, testifies:-'The abolition of slavery has been in every respect advantageous to the negroes, to the planters, and to population generally. Prior to abolition, crime every kind was prevalent, especially robbery. then, [speaking of Barbadoes,] I have not heard the murder of a white man, nor any instance of revenge taken by the liberated, for cruel treatment before liberation. The security, as to, in which the opulent live here, is remarkable. Beggars and want are almost unknown.' The same witness also declares:-'Three-fourths of the labor in Antigua have cottages of their own, and small freeholds. Eighty-seven villages have all been built by emancipated laborers, near the estates on which they were formerly chattels.' The Governor of Tobago says:-'I deny that the peasantry are abandoned slothful habits. On the contrary, I assert that a more industrious class does not exist in the world; at least, where they are working for themselves.' Sir Charles Grey, who was Governor of Jamaica in 1850, says:-'There are few races of men who will work harder, or more perseveringly, than the negroes, when they are sure of getting the produce of their labor.' Thatched hovels, with mud walls, have given place to numerous free villages, regularly laid out, and houses built of stone or wood, with shingled, green blinds, and verandahs, to shield them from the sun. The names of these villages give pleasant indication of the gratitude of the colored people towards their benefactors. They are called Clarkson, Wilberforce, Buxton, Brougham, Macaulay, Thompson, Gurney, Sligo, &c. The names given to their own little homes have most a poetic interest, so touching and expressive their simplicity. The following are samples:-'' Retreat,' 'Thank God for It,' 'A Little of my Own,' 'Liberty and Content,' 'Thankful Hill,' 'Come and See. '
The Rev. Henry Bleby, whose visit to this country two years ago will ever be pleasantly remembered says:-' As for the moral condition of believe the criminal statistics, for the last five years, would compare, without disadvantage, with any country under heaven. I have a membership of 1700 to colored persons, and during the last two years, I have not had a single case of intemperance reported to me. Every Sabbath our churches are crowded with people, anxious to receive instruction. I know of no people in the world who will make such efforts, and exercise such self-denial, to obtain education for their children as the colored people of Barbadoes. It is a falsehood that emancipation has failed to improve the condition of the colored race. Throughout the West Indies, in every island, the condition of the people is incomparably superior to what it was in slavery. Some say, if it has not ruined the laborers, it has ruined the planters. I deny that statement as plainly as I deny the other. Emancipation has proved a blessing, instead of a curse, to the proprietors.'
Then as to the sugar question. In Barbadoes, between 1842 and 1852, the increase of sugar exported was 27,240 hogsheads. The report for 1851 states: 'There has been more sugar shipped from this island this year, than in any one year since it has been peopled.' The report for 1853 announces 'vast increase in trade.' 'A great increase in the value of exports' is announced in the report of 1858. In one year in the Bahamas, the exports and imports increased half a million of dollars. The report for 1858 in Grenada says:-'State of finances most satisfactory. A greatly extended surface is covered by sugar cultivation.' The report in 1858, in St. Kitt's, states:-'A larger quantity of sugar is produced now than in the time of slavery.' In St. Lucia, between the four years ending 1852, and the four years ending 1858, the increase of sugar exported was 1,803,518 pounds. In 
<c06>
Trinidad, in 1852, the crop was the largest ever shipped from the island; and it has been extending since. The report for 1853 speaks of 'marked improvement in the cultivation of the sugar estates.' Export of sugar rose from an average of 310,797 ewt. under slavery, to 425,042 cwt. in the seven years ending 1854.
And this testimony could be multiplied indefinitely given by competent, reliable, authoritative witnesses. Thus are the promises of God fulfilled, as set forth the 58th chapter of Isaiah, a chapter that ought to b read with emphasis at every celebration of West India Emancipation, as the prelude to whatever addresses the occasion may call forth. 'Alleluia! for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth!'
Inspired by this grand example and these cheering facts, let us renew our efforts for the total and eternal overthrow of slavery in the United States, that the nation may be saved from irremediable ruin, and that all hearts and voices may join in the song of jubilee from the Atlantic to the Pacific, every chain being broken, every bondman set free!
'Ho! children of the brave-
Ho! freemen of the land-
That stamped into the grave
Oppression's bloody band!
Come on-come on-and joined 
To make the fettered bondman free!
'Yours for universal freedom,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
GEORGE W. STACY.
The following sentiment was sent from Haverhill, and read by Mr. Stacy, as desired by the author:-
'WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, the printer philanthropist. In the fitting language of nature's nobleman, Charles Sumner, "a man of the purest life and perfect integrity." Let us not trust to posterity to do him honor, but join heartily, now and forever, in the noble benediction of "the great poet of humanity," our Master of Arts and Quaker friend, Whittier:-
"Go on! for thou hast chosen well;
On in the strength of God!
Long as one human heart shall swell
Beneath the tyrant's rod!
Speak in a slumbering nation's ear,
As thou hast ever spoken
Until the dead in sin shall hear-
The fetter's link be broken!"'
Mr. Stacy followed the letter with the touching account of Thom and Kimball, giving the manner in which the boon of freedom was received by the emancipated thousands. He spoke of the impressive grandeur of the day we celebrate, and the manifest indifference and ignorance of the people to its historic bearing.
Mr. Stacy also presented the action of the Sons of Temperance, held at Worcester. July 18th. Conductor Sawin, of Natick. presented the following:-
Whereas, it has been proved that our foreign population can be reached by the principles of Love, Purity and Fidelity-therefore,
Resolved, That it is the duty of the members of this Grand Division to take measures to form Divisions of the Order among our foreign population.
Rep. Cheever of No. 41, moved to amend by inserting 'and colored,' immediately after the word 'foreign' wherever it occurs in the above preamble and resolution. On the motion to adopt the resolution as amended, the vote stood, 27 yes, 27 no-the G. W. P. gave the casting vote in favor, and the resolution was declared adopted. Mark the devilish spirit of caste! Had it not been for Judge Russell God bless him!-by a tie vote the colored man would have been left to the drunkard's doom unpitied, so far as the Sons of Temperance are concerned. What burlesque for the twenty-seven negro-haters, who thus trampled upon human rights, to talk about ' Love, Purity and Fidelity!'
Parker Pillsbury followed in an earnest and telling speech, till the hour of adjournment. We refrain from the briefest synopsis of Mr. P.'s remarks, as a report of the same, with other speeches, will be reported by Miss Albee, of Hopedale, in the Liberator. 
While Mr. Pillsbury was speaking, C. L. Remond and H. Ford Douglass arrived, and were received with applause. The afternoon session gave evidence of increased interest, the large hall being densely filled. Remond and Douglass filled up the time by speeches of great ability, pregnant with the work of the hour. Before the close of the afternoon session, Mr. Pillsbury, chairman of the Business Committee, introduced the following resolutions for discussion, which were unanimously adopted, and voted to be published in the Milford papers and Boston Liberator.- 
RESOLUTIONS.
Parker Pillsbury took the platform and read the following resolutions:-
1. Resolved, That the greatest and most important event in the present century, is that sublime and glorious conquest of justice and freedom unrighteousness and despotism, whose 22d anniversary we this day celebrate, when 800,000 British slave were born into the enjoyment of the God-given rights, of which, through dreary generations, they and their fathers had been robbed and denied.
2. Resolved, That, while filled with joy at signal a victory of Liberty over Slavery in a government of Kings and Queens, we will not for a moment forget, that in this Christian and Democratic Republic, there are 4,000,000 of immortal being still held in a bondage even more dreadful than the has ever seen, crushed between the Church and Government, as between the upper and the millstone; and here, as in their terrible presence, before their righteous God and Judge, we do solemnly pledge ourselves to their deliverance; nor will faint or tire till our labors are crowned with triumph or terminated in death.
3. Resolved, That when Senator Seward, of New York, declared in his celebrated speech in Congress, the last winter, that ' the State the least developed and perfected' in this Union, 'is wiser and better than any foreign State that I know,' he uttered a most daring blasphemy against the whole spirit and genius of Liberty, Justice and Humanity, as seen in British West India emancipation; and as also unfolding itself in Italy, in Hungary, and even under the despotic governments of Alexander of Russia and Napoleon of France.
4. Resolved, That the recent law of Arkansas, consigning to interminable slavery the whole free colored population of that State, and confiscating their property to the use of their oppressors and the state, unless they hastened out of its jurisdiction forever, is without a parallel in the whole history of human pravity and crime-whether the appeal be to the record of legislation in the name of government to the black and bloody deeds of common pirates plunderers, done in defiance of all law, and execrated and punished by the common consent of mankind.5. Resolved, That the declaration of Senator Seward and just cited, viewed in connection with this law of Arkansas, shows that slavery has done its deadliest work upon him; and every true and intelligent lover of liberty will rejoice that he was doomed to disappointment in the nomination to the Presidency, if worse than he has been called to that distinction.
6. Resolved, That we rejoice to hear by telegraph to-day that the city of Milwaukee in Wisconsin, though an American city is still more worthy salvation than were Sodom and Gomorrah since it has furnished ten righteous and brave men to liberate by force and arms (after all legal means had failed) Mr. Sherman M. Booth, who has long been most cruelly imprisoned for resisting the Fugitive Slave Law and aiding a fellow-man to escape from the fangs of a tyrant-master. 
7. Resolved, That the Government of these States is itself a bloody and unmitigated despotism, whether executed by the Whig party of 1848, the Democratic party ever since, or the Republican party of to-day-as represented by the Chicago platform and the declarations of Mr. Lincoln, its present candidate;
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and we boldy declare that the Fugitive Slave Law shall never be executed while we have the power to prevent it, by Abraham Lincoln or any other President; not shall any Slave Insurrection ever fail for want of our sympathy and such aid as we can conscientiously render; and, by the sacred ashes of Lafayette, should other John Browns be sacrificed in heroic effort to deliver the enslaved, we will not fail to sing their praises; and we will rear their monuments of grateful, throbbing hearts, which shall last long after Old Time has mown down the proudest marble, and trampled out the most enduring brass.
The evening session was one of rare interest, and continued till a late hour of adjournment. The speech of Mr. Pillsbury, in review of Dr. Gardner Spring, and the guilty position of the American Church, was graphic and scathing. Remond followed in one of his best efforts, and closed with a touching narration of his feelings as a father watching his sleeping infant, and remembering the fate of millions of his hated and injured race. Even at the late hour, a few moments before 10 o'clock, Douglass was called for, and fearing the weariness of the people, he took the stand reluctantly. He soon found, however, that beating and sympathetic hearts were in harmony with him, and finished our most successful meeting with remarks of great power and natural eloquence. During the speech of Mr. D. in the afternoon, a lady from the audience threw at his feet a beautiful bouquet—a circumstance so unusual to Abolitionists, that it threw the speaker almost into a speechless attitude. But God be praised, the world does move!
The announcement of the liberation of Mr. Booth, by ten armed men while the U.S. officers were at dinner, at Milwaukee, was received with rapturous applause. Let us again 'thank God and take courage,' and feel all the more hopeful for the future; and when our First of August comes, as come it will, our alleluia shall join with unfettered millions, to God who giveth the victory.
JAMES R.DAVIS, President.
A. T. WILKINSON, Secretary.
The Liberator.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, AUGUST 17, 1860.
LORD BROUGHAM AND MR.DALLAS.
Courtesy is an excellent thing—in the its place. Observance of conventional propriety is an excellent thing—in its place. There are, however, matters that rightfully take precedence of both, and occasions on which both may properly he ignored and disregarded.
If a precise, pompous old gentleman, whose only concern is to support his dignity, complains that another has roughly brushed against him in the street, disturbing at once his composure, his garments, and his centre of gravity, we sympathize with him; we feel that he has reason for complaint. If he is an absurd old fogy, he is also a man and a brother, and has a right to walk the streets unmolested. We are disposed to blame the disturber, and to ask him—Why did you jostle the old gentleman ?-But if it then appears that the offender was rushing to rescue child from being run over, —and, moreover, that the complaint of the incarnation of dignity was made after having seen and understood that fact—the case is materially altered; and we are disposed to say to the complainant—Go to the distant parts of the earth with your ceremonious dignity! There are some things of more importance than that!
Let it be granted that Lord Brougham violated the rules of order by introducing justice and humanity into a Statistical Association. Let it be granted that he thus introduced these foreign topics with express design to call the unwilling attention of a defender of slavery to them, and also to direct the notice of the audience to him, in his pro-slavery character, regardless of any disturbance that might thence arise to his refined sensibilities. Is this course of conduct to be censured? Before we thus decide, let us look at the motive that induced it.
If it shall appear that Lord Brougham acted thus in the discharge of an immensely important duty—a duty much less frequently observed than the conventional rules which, in this case, are declared to have been violated—a duty imperatively binding on him as a man and a Christian—the duty of remembering those in bonds with them, the case will indeed be altered.
When a man is drowning, that person is base and unmanly, as well as narrow-minded, who declines to 'take the liberty' of saving him, because they have not previously been 'introduced' to each other. Courtesy then becomes a mockery. Help is the one thing needful.
Here are four millions of people in our country not only mocked, despised and calumniated, but trodden under foot of men; reduced to the lowest point of debasement, and firmly held there, by rich, strong, elegant and chivalrous gentleman, merely to save those gentlemen the trouble of earning their own living. It is unfortunately true that these gentlemen have hitherto successfully held their ground against the civilization and Christianity of the nineteenth century. They flaunt their defiance in the face of the world. They laugh at humanity. They have bribed the priesthood to represent religion as on their side. And, in support of this favorite iniquity, they have perverted law, government, custom, and even the English language; have abolished freedom of speech and of the press; and have established the custom of suppressing all interference in behalf of the weak by brutal violence. Only in one point can their serene audacity be disturbed—the point of personal dignity. This, therefore, is the proper quarter which to assail them; and Lord Brougham is entitled to the Gratitude of every friend of the slave for the thorough and effective manner in which he has taken this course with Mr. Dallas; holding him up to public opprobrium as an ally of the slaveholders; and then, when this act was erroneously represented as intended to insult the United States , promptly disclaiming this interpretation of it, and leaving the personal application in full force.
Slavery wants to be let alone. It must not be let alone. The slaveholder wants to be recognized as a gentleman and a Christian; to be treated as 'a man of honor,' in spite of a character stained with the height of meanness and the depth of baseness. The proper treatment for this insolent assumption is to 'send him to Coventry'; to refuse, as O'Connell did, to take his blood-stained hand; to make him feel, whenever he chances to be in the company of gentlemen, or Christians, that the robbery which he systematically practises, and by which he lives, is every moment present to their minds as the prominent feature in his character. Let the people of any free country, to which he goes, speak to him of slavery when they speak to him at all, and let the same treatment be applied to his allies and defenders. If they take refuge in a meeting of the Statistical Society, let the statistics of slavery be made the order of the day. And let the demeanor of all Englishmen speak so plainly their detestation of the crime in question, that an openly pro-slavery man shall feel himself scorched with contempt whenever he appears among them, either on public business or for private pleasure. And above all, let this treatment be applied, in England, to American clergymen who are known as the defenders of slavery. To treat such persons as men of honor, as gentlemen, or as Christians, is to take part the slave.—C.K.W.
HOME AGAIN. After an absence of three weeks from his post, Mr. Garrison has returned home, much benefitted by his sojourn among the mountains, and will resume his customary labors next week. 
<c02>

MIDDLESEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY. 
EAST LEXINGTON, July 31, 1860. 
FRIEND GARRISON—According to notice previously given, a meeting of the Middlesex County Anti- Slavery Society was held in the Town Hall, at Concord, on Sunday, July 15th, afternoon and evening. 
Mr. Pillsbury read the following very spicy Resolutions, which he supported by a few remarks:— 
Resolved, That American Slavery, in the words of a Senator Summer is a ' Five-Headed Barbarism ;' only traceable to the ' darkest regions of Africa, that nurse monsters; to Guinea, Congo and Dahomey'-countries which still claim the right to enslave captives taken in war, and to sell them to the human blood-brokers of these so-called Christian States!
Resolved, That slavery being this five-fold Barbarism, the slaveholder is necessarily five-fold Barbarian.
Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, have no rights which any human being is bound to respect; and all their so-called governments are but organized Minds of robbers, and their religion no more Christian than the bloody rites of Moloch or Juggernaut.
Resolved, That governmental Union with such barbarians, under the name of Democracy, which enables half the parties to the contract to practice find perpetuate their plunder and robbery by guaranteeing to them all needed aid and protection against insurrection or escape on the part of their victims, as long as their oppressors wish to plunder them, is really the crowning curse and consummation of the Barbarism itself.
 Resolved, That when Mr. Sumner so terribly denounces slavery and slaveholders, and still continues in complicity with them, boldly defending the Republican party, whose nominee for the Presidency is declared advocate of every pro-slavery compromise in the Constitution ever claimed by Calhoun or , endorsed by Webster, and whose platform (announced at Chicago) virtually pronounces Capt. John Brown he gravest of criminals ;—when Mr. Sumner can do all this, without a quiver or a blush, he proves most frightfully that slavery has done its deadly work on him, as well as on the other chiefs of his party, and rendered him utterly unsuitable to be entrusted with the interests of Humanity and Liberty. Resolved, That if Cromwell, Washington, Lafayette, or Garibaldi, deserves well and honorably of mankind, then also does the brave Capt. John Brown, and the few noble spirits who attended him to Virginia; and so much more, as the Tyranny they sought to destroy is greater than was British Rule, and more insufferable than is Italian Despotism.
 Resolved, That the absurdity of professing to hold to an anti-slavery interpretation of the Constitution, while supporting by vote and every way the election of Abraham Lincoln, is beyond the power of words to describe, and shows the masses of the party to be as unfortunate in their mental perceptions, as their leaders are in moral integrity and honesty.
Resolved, That every believer in forcible resistance to tyrants, and especially every admirer of Lafayette, should rejoice in the heroism of John Brown, and pray God to raise up others to complete the work he so well begun.
 Resolved, That the recent attempt on the personal liberty of a citizen of this town of Concord, by the myrmidoms of the Federal Government, has demonstrated how nearly we have lost our own rights, while consenting to, and aiding in the enslavement of others; and proves, moreover, how truly the work of emancipation must begin at our own doors.
Resolved, That treason and rebellion against such government as ours are both a duty and a virtue, and the only possible assurance we can give of our loyalty and fidelity to that higher, diviner authority emanating from the bosom of nature and of God.
Mr. Pillsbury was followed by H. Ford Douglass, in a very eloquent address of an hour. Mr. Sanborn, of Concord, explained the object of the meeting, and recommended the dissolution of the Society as an inefficient organization, and one which ought to be superseded by some more active association, and gave notice that he should no longer act as Secretary of the Society. He was very strongly opposed by Mr. Pillsbury, who thought such organization very essential. He considered the anti-slavery people dead enough now, and referred to the case of S. M. Booth, who is now lying in jail, contrary to the laws of his State, and to the decision of all the Judges. He felt if there was any life in the people, they would go and take him out. [They have since done so.]
In the evening, Col. Whiting, the President, declined a reelection ; and Samuel Barrett, of Concord, was chosen President; J. G. Dodge of West Cambridge, and Reuben Locke of South Rending, Vice Presidents ; and Andrew Wellington, Secretary. Addresses were made by H. F. Douglass, Parker Pillsbury, A. Bronson Alcott, Henry D. Thoreau and others, when the resolutions were unanimously adopted. ANDREW WELLINGTON, Sec'y.

MEETING AT WORCESTER.
A quarterly meeting of the Worcester County. (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held at Wash burn Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday, August 12th, commencing at 101/2 o'clock, A. M. In the absence of the President, Abby Kelley Foster was called to the chair.
The following Committees were chosen, viz.:—
Business Committee—Parker Pillsbury, E. H. Hey-wood, H. Ford Douglass, Joshua Spooner, Stephen S. Foster.
Finance Committee—W.A. Wilson, Sarah F. Earle, Sarah A. Henshaw, Charles D. Marcy.
E. H. Heywood, in behalf of the Business Committee, offered the following resolutions :— 
Resolved, That slaveholding is a heinous crime against God, and a flagrant wrong to man, and that now, as heretofore, we rely with confidence, for its removal, solely upon the application of God's truth to the hearts and consciences of the American people. 
Resolved, That if slaveholding is a crime, then all slaveholders and their abettors are criminals; and that personal honor, alike with every instinct of justice, humanity, and religion, demands the immediate renunciation of all compacts and compromises with them as utterly immoral and vicious ; and hence, that the leading churches of the North, in fellowshipping slaveholders, their apologists, and the supporters of a slaveholding government, are recreant to their high trust, and wholly unworthy the support of religious people; and that the American Union, in its inception, its growth, and its present form, is a remorseless sacrifice of the rights and liberties of the black man, a gigantic conspiracy against justice and God, a covenant with death and an agreement with hell, to be at once and forever annulled.
Resolved, That since the Republican party claims to share, and aspires to control a government, of which John Quincy Adams said, ' the preservation, propagation, and perpetuation of slavery is the vital and animating spirit;' since it recognizes and is pledged to enforce all the bloody compromises of the Constitution, the immunity and protection of slavery as a State institution, the suppression of all slave insurrections, and the recapture of fugitive slaves; since Abraham Lincoln is the author of a fugitive slave bill whose unprovoked and unconstitutional atrocity even Senator Mason was not base and heartless enough to copy; and since, if not the open defender, certainly he is the persistent apologist of slavery in the District of Columbia, the interstate slave trade, the admission of more slave States, and the disfranchisement of the black man under State legislation,—the cause of impartial freedom has little to hope, and much to fear from the triumph of that party. 
Resolved, That the recent signal failure of the Methodist General Conference, at Buffalo, to apply the Gospel of Jesus to slaveholders, trampling under 
<c03>

foot the ' suffering and dumb' bondmen, while receiving, with distinguished honors, Millard Fillmore, who signed the horrible Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850, fully justifies the charge of the Abolitionists, that the Methodist Church North is pro-slavery, and proves that, so far from being a Christian church, it has not vitality enough, is too morally corrupt and imbecile, to purge even itself of the foulest abomination of the age.
 These he followed with remarks upon the duties of the hour, socially, religiously, and politically. 
Parker Pillsbury, in behalf of the Business Committee, offered the following resolutions :—
 Resolved, That the government of these States is in itself a bloody and unmitigated despotism, and must be so, as well under a Republican administration, based on the Chicago platform, and the doctrines and declarations of Abraham Lincoln, as under the execution of the Democracy of the present, or the Whig Federal parties of the past; but we hereby solemnly affirm that no Fugitive Slave Law shall ever be executed, where we can aid in trampling it down, no matter who is President, or what party is in power. Nor shall any sable Washington or black Garibaldi fail in an insurrectionary attempt to deliver himself and his fellow victims from slavery, for want of our sympathy, or any aid which we can conscientiously render. And, by all the hallowed memories of Lafayette, should more John Browns be sacrificed, in heroic efforts for their deliverance, their well-merited praises shall be sung among the nations; and out of grateful hearts, we will rear them monuments, that shall stand and shine amid the generations, when old Time shall have mown down the proudest marble, and trampled out the most enduring brass.
Resolved, That the hypocritical pretensions of some of the religious bodies and journals to anti-slavery— such as the Methodist Episcopal Church, the so-called Church Anti-Slavery Society, the American Missionary Association, the Boston American Tract Society, and the New York Independent—are even more to be dreaded than the open spite of the older but scarcely more guilty ecclesiastical organizations; and we would exhort all truly anti-slavery men and women, who have been beguiled by or into them, to abandon such connections, as among the last strongholds and bulwarks of slavery.
Resolved, That in the two recently published speeches of Charles Sumner, we see the blinding, bewildering and depraving effect of American politics, and of contact with slaveholders—the former, made in the U. S. Senate, being a four hours' argument against the 'five-headed barbarism of slavery,' and repudiated by many of the leaders of Republicanism ; and the latter a full admission of the constitutionality of slaveholding, and an eloquent argument in favor of the election of Lincoln and Hamlin, both of whom believe in slave-hunting as well as slave-holding, and who virtually declare in their platform that the noble John Brown was one of the gravest criminals who ever died by the halter.
These he discussed at some length, and with such force as to bring Dr. O. Martin to his feet in a very earnest and excited speech, in support of action with he Republican party.
Mr. Pillsbury answered briefly some of Dr. Martin's positions, when S. S. Foster made an eloquent and able speech, in review of the subject as presented by Dr. Martin. In closing, Mr. Foster offered for the consideration of the meeting the following resolution, is reflecting his views in the premises;—
Resolved, That it is morally inconsistent, and philosophically absurd, for a people who depend upon government for the protection of their own liberty and right, to attempt to abolish the institution of slavery, and protect the liberty and rights of its victims, by any other instrumentality. Hence, any scheme of emancipation which ignores political action is radically defective in principle, and, if persisted in, must end in failure and bitter disappointment.
The afternoon session was occupied with addresses by Mr. Douglass-and Mr. Pillsbury.
The evening session was fully attended by an interested audience, who listened to the addresses of Messrs. Douglass and Heywood till a late hour with attention. The resolutions offered by Mr. Heywood and Mr. Pillsbury were adopted, and the meeting adjourned.
Altogether, it was as promising a meeting as has been held in Worcester for some time. JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.

COMPLEXIONAL DISFRANCHISEMENT.
The State of New York requires a property qualification of $'250 of every colored man, before he can exercise the elective franchise. This odious restriction is to be passed upon by all the voters at the approaching November election. The New York Tribune, of the 7th inst., denounces the clause referred to as atrocious, and demands its abolition.
By way of promoting this long-sought and much-desired reform, William C. Nell has just compiled a cheap campaign pamphlet, containing facts from the record of patriotic services of the colored men of New York, during the wars of 1776 and 1812, with a compendium of their present business and property statistics. There are thousands of voters in that State to whom these facts will be new and instructive, and will no doubt, if widely circulated, do much to augment the vote in favor of ' No Property Qualification.'
They can be obtained for 5 cents each, or $3 a hundred, of Thomas Hamilton, 48 Beekman street, Wm. H. Leonard, 5 Beekman street, New York; also at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, Boston. 
A CASE OF CHARITY.
A very intelligent colored man, called Paul Philibert, a respectable Haytian trader, who has a commercial establishment in Gonaives, (Hayti,) was lately arrested at Port au Prince by the Haytian Government, as he was just returning from St. Thomas, where he had been speculating. He was thrown into a prison, and afterwards embarked, in the night, on board the American schooner Monticello, bound to Boston, where he arrived on the 28th of last July, without money, and with no other clothes than those he had on when arrested. The only reason the Haytian officials gave for such inhuman treatment was that Philibert had private interviews, at St. Thomas, with a certain Salomon, one of the ministers of Faustin I., the ex-Emperor of Hayti. No proof whatever could be produced to sustain such a charge against him, and it was merely on suspicion that he was arrested, incarcerated, and banished from his country, without a trial, or even a warning.
Philibert, as we have said, is an intelligent, industrious, and polite colored man ; he speaks and writes French correctly; but, as he does not understand English, he cannot expect to find, employment in this city. He has no means of support in Boston, but he has friends and fellow-traders in St. Thomas; and if the benevolent of this community could procure him a free passage for that Danish island, he would find there many friends to welcome and help him in his mercantile pursuits.
Any benevolent person wishing to relieve Paul Philibert in his present distress, can find him at his boarding-house, No. 423. Commercial street, Boston. 
In Mr. Douglass's admirable and eloquent  speech, which we give on our first page, and which we were obliged to print before it was revised by the author, (it being prepared for the press by one inexperienced in that line,) the following corrections should be made:—At the close of the first paragraph in the third column, instead of whose cowardly skulls in human shape,' read, who are made to dream in their midnight slumbers of God's avenging angel of insurrection hovering about them.' In the last paragraph of the same column, read Judea' for 'India'—also, 'decay' for 'diary.' 
<c04>

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
RECEIPTS.  
Collections by Parker Pillsbury.
In Hyannis, Mass. $7 70 
Centreville, 1 70 
Framingham, 3 00 
Concord, " 2 70 
Essex, " 8 50 
Manchester, " 1 32 
By H. Ford Douglass. 
In Milford, N. H., 13 20 
S. Newmarket, N. H 3 00 
Rochester, N. H 2 00
Dover, N. H 2 00 
Milford, Mass., 12 00 
By Miss Caroline F. Putnam, for the Tract Fund.
In Newport, R. I., 
Mrs. Henry Jackson, 1 00 
In Sterling, Mass., C. H. Loring, 1 00 
Other friends, 1 74 
In Oakdale. Mass. 0 82 
Paxton, Mass 1 35 
Barre, 5 61 
Gardner, C. W. Carter, 1 00 
Friends, 9 47 
Westminster, John Heywood, 1 00 
Mrs. Abby P. Forbush, 1 00 
Friends, 4 95 
Hubbardston, Mass., Friends, 2 00 
Templeton, " Mrs. Ripley, 1 00 
Fred. Parker, 1 00 
Others, 4 84 
Millbury, Mass., 0 80 
Andover, Mass John Dove, 5 00 
John Smith, 1 00 
Mrs. R. H. Foster, 1 00 
S. Cogswell, 1 00 
Mrs. L. S. Gray, 1 00 
George Damon, 1 00 
Others, 2 63 
Fitzwilliam, N. H., Mrs. S. Kendall, 1 00 
Others, 1 25 
Marlboro', 1 40 
Keene, 1 05 
Peterboro', " Misses Payson, 2 00 
Eliza Morrison, 1 00 
Dr. Badger, 1 00 
Others, 3 06
Milford, N. H. Dr. Daracott, 1 00 
Mrs. Geo. Burns, 1 00 
MissE. A. Livermore.l 00 
Mrs. Daniels, 0 50 
Amherst, N. H. 3 00 
North Weare, N. H., 2 89
Manchester, N. H. 2 00 
Henniker, N. H. 0 70 
Bradford, N. H. 0 50 
Concord, " Mrs. Dr Morrill, 3 00 
l Mrs.J.A.Gilmore,l 00
Rev. J. H. Moore, 1 00 
Mrs. Dumas, 1 00 
Mrs. Chas. Smart, 1 00 
Mrs. N. White, 1 00
Mrs. Greenleaf, 1 00
W.L. Foster, Esq., 1 00 
Others, 2 16 
Valley Falls, R. I., Samuel Chase, 5 00 
Mrs. A. E. Chase, 5 00 
Benj. Fessenden, 1 00 
Others, 2 62 
Providence, R. I., Geo. A. Snow, 1 00 
Others, 1 00 
Pawtucket, R. I., J. M. Rvder, 5 00 
Wm. T. Adams, 2 00 
James Davis, 2 00 
E. Despau, 1 00 
W. Higginson, 1 00 
S. Thornton, 1 00 
James Dennis, 1 00 
Mrs. G. C. Smith, 1 00 
R. J. Stafford, 1 00 
C. P. Adams, 0 50 
G. Mason, 0 50 
R. Bliss, 0 50 
Mrs. Claflin, 0 50 
Charles Noyes, 0 50
 Zelotes Wetherell, 0 25 
Diamond Plain.R. I., Mary Metcalt'. 2 00 
Sarah Metcalf, 2 00 
Celinda Metcalf, 2 00
Eunice Metcalf, 1 00 
Joanna Pierce, 1 00 
R. M. Wallcot, 1 00 
By R. F. Wallcut. 
In Cambridge, Mass., Miss Francis, 0 50 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer. 

CONTRIBUTIONS
To the Anti-Slavery Cause, at Abington, Aug. 1, 1860.
T. H. Stoddard $1 00 Adeline May 1 00
F. H. Cowing 1 00 Mrs. Mary Crocker 0 25
J. Harding 0 50 Mrs.Chas. Meserve 0 50
L Leach 1 00 Geo. J. Peterson 0 50
D. Holbrook 1 00 Edward Bennett 1 00
R. Loud 0 50 T. B. Drew 1 00
Wm. C. Haskeil 1 00 Alden Sampson 1 00
M. R. Buswell 1 00 E. Joslin 0 50
Seth Jones 1 00 M. Perry 0 25
Francis Jackson 3 00 Betsey Thomas 1 00
L. H. Noyes 0 25 Samuel Barrett 1 00
Thos. J. Hunt 1 00 Mr. Cowing 1 00
E. Quincy 1 00 C, K. Whipple 0 50
F. W. Bird 1 00 E. H. Heywood 0 50
D. B. Morey 1 00 E. H. Bradford 1 00 
A. J. H. 0 25 C. Bradford 0 50
E. Young 1 00 S. L. Harris 0 50 
Elijah Hobart 0 50 Lewis McLauthlin 0 50 
B. Arnold 0 25 C. M. Leonard 1 00
Gridley Beal 1 00 Russell D. Gardner 0 67 
R. W. Henshaw 1 00 S. C. Beal 0 50 
Perlev King 1 00 Charles Meserve 0 50
S. Dyer 0 50 H. W. Blanchard. 0 50 
T. S. Drowne 0 50 John Wright 0 2
J. C. Lindsey 1 00 Mary L. Richmond 0 50 
Bourne Spooner 1 00 M. W. Stetson 1 00
William Lewis 0 25 P. B. Coggswell 1 00
Jacob Leonard 0 50 John Jones 1 00
Asa Brett 0 50 H. J. Prentiss 1 00 
E. Hewitt 0 60 R. R. Crosby 0 50 
Wm. Ashby 1 00 Mrs. Stetson 0 25 
Branch B. 0 25 C Ross o 25 
Rufus 0 50 Miss Putnam 0 50 
E. Richards 1 00 J. B. Yerrinton 1 00
Susan C. Cabot 5 00 James Seymour, 0 25 
Charles Follen 6 00 George W. Gilmore 0 50
Anna Gardner 1 00 Cash in various sums
Mary May 2 00 from other friends 25 38 
Pledge.
D. F. Goddard, Weymouth, $1 00
Whole amount contributed, including
pledge, $90 30 
DEATH OF J. S. ROUNDS. It is with the deepest feelings of sympathy with his afflicted relatives, and the profoundest sense of the loss which society has sustained, that we record the death of Jabez S. Rounds; which event occurred at his place of residence on Summer street in this town, this morning, at about 11 o'clock, at the age of 44 years.
It may not be in accordance with the wishes of his friends, as it certainly would not have been with his own, to see a long paragraph, reciting the virtues and graces which will long endear the memory of this esteemed man to so many hearts ; but it is right that the occasion of such a death should not be lost upon those who survive, and that a bright example for purity of character, benevolence, unselfishness, and for the practice of those virtues which alone truly exalt any one above his fellows, should be urged upon all, especially the young, as worthy of imitation. 
We are informed that our friend passed away without trepidation, and in the full confidence which his broad and generous ideas of Christianity will always inspire, of a better and eternal state of existence and progress in the spiritual world.— Taunton Democrat, Aug. 10. 
MICHIGAN YEARLY MEETING OF ' FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.'—At Sturgis, (Mich.) Saturday and Sunday, August 25th and 26th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. 
A meeting to strengthen free thought, to encourage true and free speech, to awaken and increase active interest in reforms, freedom, and spiritual life. 
Come ! men and women who would examine the great living questions of to-day. 
S. J. Finney of Ohio, J.M. Prebles of Battle Creek, T. L. H. Willis of Coldwater, G. B. Stebbins of Ann Arbor, and other speakers, will he present to take part. The people of Sturgis will hold open doors for strangers. 
CUMMINGTON CONVENTION.—The annual Convention of the friends of impartial liberty in Cummington and vicinity will be held in the Free Church, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 1st and 2d, opening at 10 o'clock, A. M., Saturday, and continuing day and evening, six sessions. C C. BURLBIGH, PARKER PILLSBURY and U. FORD DOUGLASS will be present as speakers. All friends of the cause and the public generally are cordially invited. Per order. 
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.—A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker's sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence. No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
<c05>

THE TWENTY-SEVENTH 
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary. 
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the sufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress. 
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready. 
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and ' ore generously than ever to meet the demands of period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our , country—new, indeed, in the history of the world. ' Dr when before has it ever happened that Freedom ' is been sought from among a dominant people for a >down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this ? *e ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in ex-t proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. we ask aid of Americans; for where is the American  to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope Futurity ? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress, And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to compromise 
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without.
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING , L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
SARAH P. REMOND,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS. 
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.—
The next quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at NEWBURY-.'PORT, Sunday, August 26, day and evening.
CHAS. L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS and others will address the meeting.
CHAS. LENOX REMOND, President.

LYDIA M. TENNEY, Sec'y.
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.—
The next quarterly meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society will be held at LEOMINSTER, Sunday, August 19, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLAS will speak.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President.
MOSES H. MIRICK, Sec'y. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Burlington, Vt., the second and third Sundays in August, 12th and 19th; and, August 24th, 25th and 26th, will attend a Convention in South Royalton, Vt. 
WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture at Mc-Indoes Falls, Vt., on Friday, Aug. 17. 
MISS HOLLEY, Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture on Sunday afternoon, Aug. 19, at half-past 1 o'clock, in West Wrentham. 
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.—The annual Anti-Slaverv Convention for Barnstable County will be held at Harwich, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 22d and 23d, commencing on Saturday, at 2, P. M. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES L. REMOND, E. H. HEYWOOD and other speakers will be present. The friends of impartial liberty and the public generally are cordially invited to attend.
Z. II. SMALL, 

1 Committee 
J. H. ROBBINS,
of ELKANAH NICKERSON,
 Arrangements. 
DIED—In North Bridgewater, July 21, Mrs. LOUISA, wife of Charles Gurney, and daughter of the late Perez Crocker, Esq., aged 58. 
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School. 
THE Fall Term will begin Wednesday, September 5th.
 It is intended that, in this School, youth of both sexes shall be, not only well instructed in the branches usually taught in our best schools and academies, but they shall be trained both in the school-room and in the family, on principles strictly Physiological and Moral, where the formation of character, of habits and manners, will have equal consideration with the acquisition of literature and science. Teachers of the highest reputation are employed.
The Principal and associate teachers receive pupils into their families at $250 per annum, including board and tuition in the common branches ; for those over fifteen yean of age, $300.
The location is healthful and pleasant, and easy of access, on the Worcester railroad, nine miles from Boston. References—Wm. L. Garrison; John Ayres, Esq., West Newton; Rev. George Ellis, D. D.. Charles-town ; Wm. Brigham, Esq., Boston; Rev. S. J. May, Syracuse, N. Y.; Rev. James Walker, D. D., Cambridge; Mr. Richard Edwards, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. John Prentiss, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. Louis Agassiz. Cambridge.
For further particulars, address N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass. Aug. 17. 4w. 
New York Central College; 
THE Fall Term of this Institution will commence 1 on Wednesday. August 22. Circulars will be forwarded on application.
By order of the Trustees, 
N. H. OSBORNE, Secretary. 
Mc Grawville, July, 1860. 
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was vary gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of Match, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's ' Restorer," No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a alight dressing of the same once in tree or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to in original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER, 
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22,1855
President J. I. BATON. LL. D., Union Union University,Murfreesboro', Tennessee. 
'MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring found MY HAIR FALLING OFF.I concluded to purchase a bottle of ' Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c, and give it a trial. I commenced using it ,but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING oft OF HAIR CEASED, and say locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have gives it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects is say ease, I have reason to believe that it is capable >f accomplishing what it purports to do, via., PREVENT THE HAIR, FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR'
'Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor ' Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives he hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in my position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor Christian advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y. 
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum ia the beet ! have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, X. Y. City. 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial affects ; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ' Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobal-samum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.
'Rev. H. Y. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston. 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church. Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ' crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as at invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middlletown, Orange Co. ,N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my bead, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE ; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England. 
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any yon may refer to me.' 
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI. 
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y. 
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed  island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealth y condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allan's, she writes to the ' American Baptist,'—'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum ; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) 
Brooklyn. 
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.
'Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. ' Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio. 
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity an being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A, Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c, for the use of a relative ; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania. 
It has stopped the Calling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend (o it as your directions require.' 
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD. Meriden, N. H. 
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on them ; always INSIST on hawing these.
These are the only preparations exported is say quantity to Europe. 
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest price.. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Worlds Hair Restorer Depot. No. 366 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. & A. Allen,' signed is Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions-pasted on bottle-none other is genuine, Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as criminai offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
Oct lyeop 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THEODORE PARKER VERSUS THE CLERGY.
Come on, ye hireling priesthood-
Each canting, fawning slave-
And cast your barbed arrows
Of slander on his grave!
Vainly ‘gainst him who sleeps beneath,
Your puny hosts enrol;
His memory is engraven deep
On many a loyal soul.
Thousands who never heard his voice, 
Yet glory in his fame;
And the heart's pulses quicken
At the echo of his name.
Where'er the soul of honor
And manliness is known,
Where Freedom's hosts are rallying,
There shall he hold his throne.
When crime o'erehadow'd all the land,
And few the truth would hear,
His voice rang like a trumpet blast,
And tyrants paled with fear.
Where were ye then, ye dastard throng,
Who dare malign his name?
Mid the spoilers of the weak ye dwelt, 
And spake no word of blame!
His brave words and heroic deeds,
Spoken and acted here,
Rise up a giant monument
To mock your craven fear.
They laugh to scorn your faltering praise,
Or bolder words of blame;
And down the rushing tide of time
Shall waft his deathless name.
Ye may grasp the fleeting honors
Of your own age and clime;
He chose free thoughts, and world-wide aims,
And utterances sublime.
Posterity shall honor him,
And crown his radiant brow;
While ye sink beneath the turbid stream,
Before whose waves ye bow.
His mantle, held by unseen hands,
Yet waits a fit successor;
Th' expectant host of Freedom stands
To hail the new possessor.
Lowell, Aug. 5, 1860. AMELIA.
For the Liberator.
THE GATHERING STORM.
'And the rod of the oppressor shall be broken, and the oppressed go free.'
A storm is gathering o'er the land- 
Hark! hear the thunder roar!
Soon shall the clash of arms be heard 
Upon Columbia's shore!
Soon, hand in hand, shall foemen meet,
In Freedom's last dread fight:
‘Fear not!’ Jehovah guards the just-
He will defend the right.
Th' oppressed to heaven for vengeance cry-
They shall not cry in vain:
Tyrant, thou yet shalt see the hour,
And own Messiah's reign!
Up, freemen, up! Jehovah cries;
Men shall my will perform;
By them the powers of hell shall fall,
But I will guide the storm.
Up, freemen, up! your Master cries-
Fear not the powers of hell;
The God of heaven shall guard the just-
'He doeth all things well.'
Up, freemen, up! 'tis justice calls-
Up in your power and might;
And may this prayer to Heaven be raised-
'Great God, defend the right!'
Up, freemen, up! a storm is nigh!
Soon shall the tempest pour!
Soon shall the clash of arms be heard
Upon Columbia's shore!
MOSES H. GALE.
Bedford, July 23, 1860.

For the Liberator. 
THE FRIENDS OF FREEDOM.
When, in the future, one shall ask of men,
'Where are their names who shrank in silence when
A man was made a slave, and Church and State
Joined hands to bar more close his prison gate?'
Echo shall answer, ‘Where?'-but if he ask,
'Where are their names to whom the hardest task,
And loss, and e'en a death of obloquy
Were welcome, so that all men might be free?'
Each child of God, with grateful starting tear,
And hand upon his heart, shall answer,’ Here!'
M. A. T.

From the New York Independent.
A SALE! HO, A SALE!
BY C. H. WEBB.
FIFTY NEGROES.-This day, at 10 o'clock, will be sold 50 likely, Negroes, consisting of Men, Boys and Girls, and Women and Children.
DICKINSON, HILL & CO., Auctioneers.
Richmond Enquirer.
It may be, my friend, you have been on the deep,
And this cry from the mast-head has broken your sleep,
When a distant ship's trucks, as first traced on the sky,
Seemed the pendants of clouds that swept hurrying by,
And the look-out aloft to the deck sent his hail,
'Here, broad on the quarter, A sail! Ho, a sail!'
But I question if you at the first understand
This cry from the depths of our granite-ribbed land:
'A sale! Ho, a sale!’ and due south it would seem-
Off WASHINGTON'S grave, of Mount Vernon abeam;
Half a hundred of slaves, ‘neath our starry flag's fold,
With the sanction of law and of priests to be sold!
A sale of our honor! A sale of our name!
Brothers' blood for red gold; oh, bargain of shame!
Yes, there where each valley, each hill that we tread,
Is yet big with the bones of the patriot dead;
Where our fathers poured out the best blood of their veins,
To wash from the soil the corrosion of chains;
While their ashes yet beat, lo! above their green graves
You are holding an auction of manacled slaves!
Alas! for the nation, oh weep for its shame-
Whose flag is a falsehood, whose freedom a name;
Alas! for the banner that vauntingly waves,
Its stars for the masters, its stripes for the slaves!
Down, down with its folds-until such scenes are past,
Let the flag-misnamed free-be displayed at half-mast;
From its field pluck the stars, and place fetters and chains,
Fitter emblems to float over slave-tainted plains!
Hark! from Europe's far shore comes the loud mocking hail,
‘You boast of your freedom-A sale! Ho, a sale!’

HOME.
Make home a hive, where all beautiful feelings
Cluster like beeves, and their honey-dew bring;
Make it a temple of holy revealings,
And love its bright angel with shadowing wing.
<c02>
CONVENTIONS IN ILLINOIS AND IOWA.
CLINTON, (Iowa,) July, 1860.
FRIEND PILLSBURY: We have had, of late, several Progressive, or Free Conventions, in this pretty ‘far West,' wherein the claims of the slave, Garrisonian Abolition, the Rights of Woman, and Spiritualism, have been freely discussed. The right of each individual soul, also, to judge for itself in matters of religion, was thoroughly considered. These Conventions have sprung up, not so much by an elaborate ‘Call,' signed by our noted ones, as by the spontaneous upheaval of what of manly liberality remains in the popular heart. As by some sort of magic, here and there an obscure soul has felt the necessity of a Convention of free minds, and made its move accordingly. No previous consultation was had by the movers of these different Conventions-and yet, from their simultaneous efforts, and from the miraculous gathering together, in this busiest season of the year, of Spiritualists, Abolitionists and 'Infidels,'-of Liberator readers, Banner of Light and Investigator men, in large numbers-can it be a great sin for one, not technically a Spiritualist, to suspect that some great-hearted and powerful spirit from the upper regions (let it be that of your good and noble Hovey!) has been looking after the higher interests of the West and North West?
First came the Convention at Dewitt, Iowa,-of which an account has been printed in a late Liberator. I will only add, that, at that meeting, was a venerable old gentleman, (Mr. Church,) who was formerly a clergyman, or, (as he had it,) a ‘Reverend damner of all who did not believe his creed.' He has been for: years, and is now, a reader and correspondent of the Boston Investigator. He discussed the true merits of the Bible with great clearness for one so old, and pronounced our meeting the best he had ever attended. He should go home thinking better of human nature. I shall send you a full sketch of the proceedings of that Convention.
Next came a Convention at Cambridge, Henry Co., Ill.-held on the 23d and 24th of June last. One of its objects was to effect some sort of a permanent organization among progressive minds-whereby money could be raised to sustain a. system of Liberal Lecturing among us. No creed was to be adopted-still, members might be received and dropped. Nothing was done, however, in the way of: such organization. It was generally deemed that the time was not come for any such movement, and that any association among reformers more stringent than free and popular Conventions would soon generate sectarianism, and degenerate into mere bigotry and intolerance. A chief speaker in this Convention was W. T. ALLEN, of Geneseo, Ill. Mr. A. spoke with great effect on Plenary Inspiration, and showed the folly of popular beliefs in that doctrine. He is a native of the South, (Alabama,) son of a Presbyterian clergyman of the straitest kind, who inflicted on young W. T., at an early age, the awful horrors of a belief in a future hell. The son, however, found his way to Oberlin Theology, and added Lane Seminary's course, became acquainted with Theodore Parker's works, and, ‘through much tribulation,' preached Orthodoxy a spell, but finally landed, with the rest of us, on a Free Platform, to preach the Gospel of Humanity, and pay our own salary. Mr. A. has labored for years for the poor slave,-has long read the Liberator, and I wish he might be better known to our liberal friends East.
The Convention was addressed by numerous others, in short speeches, all indicating a tolerant spirit, and the want of a more general acquaintance among Western reformers, and the certainty of a future rally among them to break in upon, and break up, the surrounding intolerance and bigotry. Mr. Foss and your humble servant were present, and were freely heard. We found many liberal minds, and some new subscribers for the Liberator.
The next Convention was held at Independence, a town of some 1800 people, eighty miles west of Dubuque. It is the county seat, and as much blessed with Spiritualists and other free minds as it is cursed by a narrow-minded Orthodoxy, that used what power it had to prevent our use of the Court-House, and otherwise discommode the Convention. The Call for this meeting was addressed, specially, to 'Spiritualists,’ and generally, to 'all friends of Progress.’ Wm. Chandler and other Spiritualists of Independence were active in getting up the Convention. It commenced on July 12th, inst., and held over three days, with increasing interest. Warren Chase, of Michigan, addressed the Convention, on ‘Revelation, Inspiration and Religion,’ in his usually lucid and logical way, and endorsed the most liberal ideas on those subjects. As a citizen of Wisconsin, and a member of her Constitutional Convention, Mr. Chase formerly did the cause of civil freedom some service by preventing the adoption of any religious test of citizenship in that State,-and Iowa followed suit. Mr. C. also moved (though unsuccessfully) to strike out the words 'white' and 'male' in the Constitution of Wisconsin, so that color and sex should be no test of citizenship. How our friend C. with such liberal views, can be accepted South as a lecturer, is past solution, except on the hypothesis that he is careful to conceal his Anti-Slavery views South, or has a special cortege of spirits about him for special protection against Southern tyranny. Mr. Chase expressed the most radical views in the Convention, and did it great service.
Mrs. Brown, of Cleveland, Ohio, was also present. She is known, I believe, as editor of the Agitator- has published something on woman's wrongs, etc. She addressed the Convention most acceptably on ‘Objections to Spiritualism,' on ‘Woman's Position in Society,' and on the ‘Progress of the Past.' It is impossible to convey any just idea of the benign influence such a woman has on such a Convention. Though a Spiritualist, she presents in her public effort nothing of the sublime nonentities of Spiritualism. She paid a most happy tribute to John Brown, and spoke of woman's false position as only woman can. With all due respect to all reporters who lay 'just commendation' on 'thick' betimes, I have a right to say the presence of Mrs. Brown so far West was a God-send, at least the people so regarded it.
The Convention was greatly indebted to the Chairman, Judge Taber, who presided with unusual ability and gentlemanly treatment of all who participated. The Judge was formerly connected with the Press in New York, I believe, and has written for the Investigator. He avowed himself not of the Spiritualists, which fact redounds greatly to their credit in selecting him as their Chairman. He spoke most eloquently several times on topics before the Convention, expressing the heartiest welcome to all Reformers. He was exceedingly ready on any subject up, and no marvel. He has found his way into one of Iowa's favorite spots, with a fine library of 3000 volumes-many of them of the rarest kind. I shall think better of our State as I think of this library.
Our mutual friend, A. T. Foss, has attended all these Conventions, and in each, has been cordially invited to speak. He has done so freely, on Garrisonian Abolition, on Authority, and the Blighting Effects of American Theology. Mr. Foss has done for us a noble work-has helped us all to a better knowledge of the position of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and has surprised me with the toleration with which his views have been heard. The people hear him gladly. He has helped us to a complete demonstration of the fact, that Reformers of exceedingly different types may hold, together, harmonious and profitable Conventions.
Besides these Conventions, Mr. Foss and myself have held incidental meetings in places on our route, and with good attendance and attention. Our next Convention is at Sterling, Illinois, when I expect to part with our friend Foss, but not with the good work in which he is engaged.
Yours, &c., C. B. CAMPBELL.
<c03>
TOBACCO, PAUPERISM, CRIME!
AN APPEAL TO GOVERNOR BANKS,
On the Use of Tobacco in the State's Prison and the State Pauper-Houses of Massachusetts. 
I address your EXCELLENCY from a sense of duty; and the fact that you have my uniform respect and suffrage is a guaranty that I address you with kindness and becoming deference. 
For ten years and more, I have labored to arouse public attention to the evils of Tobacco. During this period, I have occasionally called on the Institutions above named, and, with a genial welcome from the officers, have addressed their inmates. In a recent visit of this sort, however, I learned that I could not as aforetime address the prisoners, because tobacco was no longer a forbidden article-that the Governor and those having the immediate control of the Institution had sanctioned its use.
It seems that gentlemen outside the prison, of a speculative turn, enter it, and hire squads of hands to hew stone, manufacture furniture, brushes and the like, and, in order to secure a larger amount of work, they are allowed to pander to a vicious and slumbering appetite, by doling out tobacco to convicts. Horses’ flanks are lashed for the race-bull dogs and boxers are flesh-fed for the ring-but the muscles of the convicts at Charlestown are maddened by tobacco to gratify the cupidity of men who make haste to be rich.
It seems this Narcotic is beginning to have free course in our State Pauper Houses. Our ‘goodly’ Commonwealth is saddled with a bill for tobacco, snuff, and pipes, by the Bridgewater establishment, to the amount of two hundred and nineteen dollars. Our establishments at Tewksbury, Monson, and elsewhere, tax us with a bill of the same sort, to the amount of seven hundred and forty-one dollars. This bill is not frightful in magnitude, but as it bids fair to become ten times greater, we think it deserves some notice: and, as we claim for the management of these Institutions, under your administration, the virtue of unrivalled economy, we mistake your good sense, sir, if, on reflection, you do not think the same.
I object, sir, to this pandering to paupers and criminals,
1. Because tobacco is a mighty cause of pauperism and crime.
It is as plain as day that it wastes time, money, and strength, and by its soporific power tends to render paupers satisfied with pauperism, and to extinguish every noble desire for competency and independence. It is identified with poverty in the Indian wigwam, in the Irish mud-hole, and whereever gaunt famine and rags have ascendency.
Many paupers were made such by this very drug. They smoked and chewed-their fathers before them smoked and chewed; they lost their health, ambition, and money, and gravitated towards the poor-house as naturally as a rock falls to the earth.
Dr. Alcott tells us of dependent families whose expenditures for this article fairly computed during forty years exceeded two thousand dollars. I have seen families of the same order who have consumed enough in this way to buy a clever farm, and stock it into the bargain.
Why, sir, should we transmit paupers, and stereotype famine? Why should laborious yeomanry from Berkshire to Cape Cod be taxed for tobacco to feed foreign paupers, with this fact staring them in the face, that tobacco multiplies paupers, and that foreign pauperism already hangs like a millstone on the neck of State?
Vices, sir, range under certain laws of affinity: they are gregarious-Tobacco, blasphemy, cards, rum, whoredom, and state prison offence. Tobacco here and everywhere commonly heads this infernal gang. It is Satan's seed-corn-it is Satan's master-piece-with this he begins to discipline millions of boys for misery here and hereafter. Hence, to sanction its use is to augment the source of evil and its consequences.
Strong drink is usually the immediate cause of crime, but the artificial thirst for this liquid death is usually generated by tobacco. I might inundate you with medical testimony from physicians both here and in Europe to prove that this drug is the vestibule to the temple of Bacchus-the drunkard's Pandemonium!
Ten years ago, there was but one convict at Charlestown who was not a victim of tobacco before commitment.
I have examined prisons where there was not one exception to this rule. Moses Grant, Esq., says: 'For over thirty years I have visited jails and houses of correction all over the United States, and there I find smokers and chewer of the dirty weed. Is it not plain that tobacco as well as rum has much to do with crime?'
The chaplain of the Reform School at Westboro' states, that nearly seven-eighths of the inmates of that establishment were addicted to tobacco before they came there. Rev. Mr. Spear, the prisoners' friend, says this corresponds with all his observations.
Convicts, sir, understand the affinities of vice, and, hence, never, in addressing them on the drug, dram, and crime-never, when portraying the ways to death, and the steps which take hold on hell, do they fail, by looks more expressive than words, to say, ‘He is right, tobacco led to the bottle, the bottle to crime-and we are here.'
Such, sir, being the effects of this destructive drug, why should we give it to convicts and paupers, and swell the very sources of poverty and crime? Is this wise? Is this statesmanlike.?
2. I object, sir, to pandering to paupers and culprits in this respect, because, in reality, it ministers to their misery, and not to their happiness. True, it gratifies a vicious appetite for the time; so does rum, so does opium, so does an explosion of malignant passion; but who vindicates villainy and the outrage of law on the score of momentary gratification?
The convict, sir, is usually better off for the time than if he were at large. Prison-life withdraws him from dens of infamy, cools his blood, calms his passions, and, coming in contact with Christian power and love, we hope, in his case, for better things.
But here is a drawback-we give him a rank poison in this Narcotic, and what are its effects? It deranges his whole system; it coats his stomach and tongue, it gives him a diseased and capricious appetite; and every crust of bread, and every plate of soup, he receives with diminished enjoyment, because the sensation of taste is absorbed and perverted by this acrid and abominable poison.
The rich glutton can afford to sacrifice one-half his luxuries on this filthy altar; but the pauper or the convict needs the full enjoyment of all which is nutritious and grateful in his meagre fare; and precisely in proportion as he obeys the laws of God in his physical nature, he will be the happier man.
We can name alms-houses, where every inmate was induced to drop tobacco who used it, and so much better did they enjoy food and sleep that they rejoiced and blessed God that they were required to do it.
Tobacco mainly addresses the nerve power, and though it may soothe, excite, and please at first, it, ultimately maddens the sensibilities, and tends to turn its victims into hypochondriacs, misanthropes, and insane beings. It multiplies haggard and gloomy creatures on our streets by scores, and why should it not do the same in jails and alms-houses? The idea that an article which science the world over brands as poison-an article to which medical authority ascribes fifty or more diseases, should be given to paupers and convicts for their well-being, would be ridiculous, were it not pitiable. Were it our object to array the felon's cell in deeper gloom, to stamp disease with a more hideous type, or to kill off these poor creatures by a poison the most insidious and deceptive that God permits to afflict our race, what could be more effectual than tobacco?
Those gentlemen, sir, who give convicts tobacco to keep them good-natured, and to coin more money from their sinews and bones, might extend their scheme of legerdemain. One convict is a drunkard, and he will turn off more work should they lodge a bottle of whiskey in his cell! Another is a gambler, and he will do more work should they give him a pack of cards to enjoy with his comrades. Another is a debauchee-ah! gentlemen, carry out your philosophy; don't flinch, and see that in this particular your morals are the morals of a dram-shop or a bawd-house. They are for filthy lucre-so are you.
3. 1 object, please your Excellency, to this drug in our State Institutions, because it stands directly in the way of reform and Christianity. It is a demoralizer. It is allies its victim to vice, and makes him a slave. Where is there a dog in our streets that we should not think the worse of for using a thing so vile?
In addressing prisons in other States, I have felt a manly pride when pride when I could say, Massachusetts proscribes tobacco in these Institutions. Hence, I am
<c04>
sorry for this retrogressive action-that the hand on the dial-plate of our Commonwealth is turned back-ward.
I never supposed these establishments were paradises; but I supposed their inmates, withdrawn from the songs of the drunkard and the vices of the gutter-subjected to wholesome, dietetic regimen, and blessed with the Gospel of Christ, were many of them in a fair way of becoming confirmed in habits of virtue, and of becoming better men. Thank God, many of them have become better men.
But, sir, if our paupers and criminals are to be systematically drugged, or pampered with a drug which keeps the thirst for rum eternally alive-a drug which debases every noble passion and inflames every vile one, then adieu to reform, name and thing.
I shall have, sir, few thanks, and many jeers and frowns, for thus addressing you. The devotees of smoke will laugh at this appeal, and think it too unimportant for your notice. Stupefied by this soporific, they are unable to perceive that it is ‘a great power on earth,'-that mighty men and mighty nations bow before it. It is no exaggeration to say that if any man had the entire control of the tobacco crop, it might give him a power greater than a monarch's. He might effect extraordinary changes about us. He might change Republicans into Democrats and Democrats into Republicans, bid tobacco victims do his behests at the ballot-box, and choose our President; for, make light of it as we may, the herd of voters care more about this nauseous, noxious drug than they care about any candidate, any platform, or politics of any ‘stripe'.
It requires, sir, gigantic talents, or adventitious advantages of an extraordinary kind, to raise a tobacco victim superior to smoke. Had a half dozen self-made men about us begun life as smokers, our State affairs had now been in different hand; the culture, wealth, pomp, and pride of Boston had still reigned over us. Henry Wilson had still been at his lap-stone-George S. Boutwell had still been a salesman at the counter, and your Excellency, 'whom we delight to honor,' once the bobbin-boy, had been the bobbin-boy still in all essential respects. A devotee to smoke, you would have spent your time, your ambition, and money, in luxuriating in this fashionable indulgence; you would not have been well-informed, for you would not have bought or read books, and, if not well-informed, your constituents would not have given you their suffrage, and hence you never could have reached the pinnacle you now occupy, but, beginning your carter in smoke, you would have ended it in smoke.
You love ‘self-made men,' and furnish us with a happy specimen. You love to see convicts and paupers rise in virtue, and became happy citizens; but how can they rise whilst debased by this debasing drug, which seizes on their sensibilities like the nightmare?
Sir, I respectfully ask you to remove this nuisance from our State Institutions. I make no appeal to Senates or Legislatures-this would be superfluous. I know my ground. I labor under no misapprehension touching your influence in the introduction of this Narcotic. I appeal to you. If your Excellency will use the same influence in banishing this evil which was used in its introduction, it will soon he accomplished. I have somewhere read that a Pope was once in jail, and an Emperor, who was a stupendous hypocrite, with solemn pomp ordered all the churches of God to pray for his deliverance, when one storke from the Emperor's pen would have set his Holiness free. Sir, you are above such subterfuges. God and the State have invested you with power to retrieve this mistake in the management of our State Institutions, and to banish this poisonous nuisance. Therefore, I trust that your Excellency will see it done.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEORGE TRASK.
FITCHBURG, Mass., 1860.
[This Appeal has no limited application; it is wide as the nation.]
From the Herald of Progress.
THE CHICAGO ZOUAVES.
The thanks of all lovers of good morals and friends of temperance are due to the people of Chicago, who have been instrumental in sending out this band of 'missionaries,' inculcating the simple lesson of the possibility of a company of fifty or sixty young men, upon a festive excursion, abstaining totally from intoxicating liquors or immoral excesses. Humiliating as the confession may be, we are forced to admit that the spectacle is exceedingly rare. Even high officials, State Legislative bodies, Congressmen, and Editors, when on excursions, whether of business or pleasure, rarely have furnished such an example. Indeed, the reverse-a career of dissipation and folly-has been the almost universal experience.
All thanks, then, to this proud company of Western youth for such a noble example. If, indeed, the Chicago Zouaves have been as faithful to their excellent code of regulations as current report concedes they are-notwithstanding their warlike mission and character-deserving a place among the world's Moral Police! And to the credit of humanity, we venture the opinion, that this feature of their code and practice has nearly as much to do with their enthusiastic reception everywhere, as their gay dress and brilliant evolutions.
We have thus far taken the bright, cheerful view of this company and their operations. We are sorry to confess that there is another side to the picture-reflections in looking upon them irresistibly saddening.
It is the thought that, with all the beauty and gracefulness of motion, gayety of dress, and high moral character of these United States Cadets, they are still a military company, armed with deadly weapons, and drilled with special reference to skill in the work of slaying human beings! Disciplined to fight! Exercised in handling the sword, rifle, and bayonet!
Probably not one in ten of the members of this company has had a serious thought of applying their lessons to actual use (?) in the regular service. Few among them anticipate being called upon to do what they are learning to do so efficiently. They perhaps have never contemplated exchanging the happy, cheerful, and attractive surroundings of their peaceful drills, for the dread realities of mortal combat on the field of battle. Our word for it, were the actual horrors of war before the minds of these young men, as the necessary consequence of their present training, few would be found remaining in the company. Yet no other conclusion can be reached than that, if for any reason the few responsible parties at the head of this and any other government, were to declare war, these Chicago Zouaves would be among the first to volunteer for active service.
And have we in this nineteenth century reached this hight, and no more: that our government pays millions of dollars annually to support an army and navy; our children are taught to burn gunpowder, and train their ears to hear unmoved the booming of cannon on ‘Independence Day;' our manufactories turn out thousands of deadly weapons; and our best young men in times of peace prepare themselves for success in war?
Truly there is here great occasion for self-abasement and shame. Ours, a so-called Christian land, with a government declared by religious papers to rest upon the basis of the religion of Jesus of Nazareth-a man of peace, who would suffer wrong rather than resist evil by violence-who prayed for his enemies and murderers, but would not deliver himself from their hands! And yet war, armies and navies, military schools, and militia companies, gunpowder and pistols, are popularized-we might almost say Christianized-by at least a studied silence on the part of the thousands of pulpits, and the hundreds of religious presses over the land.
While Garibaldi and his liberty-loving followers are forced, with their circumstances and views of right, to resist wrong at the point of the bayonet, and to' conquer peace,' cannot we in this Western Republic, with a prosperous career of more than half a century, and a people marked for intelligence and progressive principles, show a 'better way'? Can we not test among the nations of the earth the power of moral weapons, the force of an example of love and good will?
Is it not time for the organization of a peace party, for a practical application of the essential truth of Christianity, for a hearty recognition of the: blessed gospel of a harmonial religion, for the discountenance of all warlike manifestations and semblances, and a practice of the arts of peace?
We desire, after our words of hearty commendation of the deportment of the Chicago Cadets, to utter an earnest protest against the combative character of their organization; and to cordially invite them to the broad platform of Universal Brotherhood, to spend their money and their strength in promoting peace on earth, and good will among men.
<c05>
From the Cincinnati Dial.
RUFUS CHOATE.
In summing up the career of a man of real genius and power, it is a sorrowful thing to find that it has been chiefly productive of evil; that this and coming generations must reap the ill which he has sown. Rufus Choate was a man of uncommon gifts, of rare powers, and with rare opportunities for beneficent work; but after his sixty years of active, toilsome living, we find no good thing done, and weep over the sad wreck of his life. The claim that he was a great man has been almost universally made. We will dispute this at the outset by asking what constitutes true greatness. Does it consist in wealth, power, influence? This is certainly the 'dog-estimate' of greatness. There is also a certain educated canine instinct with which intellect is the signum verum; but will not those to whom the dog-estimate is not the highest, the ultimate estimate, say rather that one must be morally and spiritually above his fellows, in order to be truly great? Let us reflect, too, that morality and spirituality, possessed in an eminent degree, must result in holy living; that whatever comes short of this is incompatible with true greatness-nay. subversive of all greatness; and that holy living is made up of personal purity, of high, abstract ethics reduced to concrete human life, of supreme devotion to God's higher law, and of constant endeavor to elevate and beautify mankind. Now, to try Mr. Choate by this standard, who will have the audacity to assert that his life was an exemplification of greatness? It is impossible to place a finger upon one moral enterprise in which he ever engaged, or upon one unequivocal sentiment uttered by him in favor of any moral reform whatever. We are sorry to know that his life was not otherwise consistent with the highest standard of morality, and have no hesitation in saying that he was a bad, dishonest man, who, if he had noble and generous instincts, is so much the more to be reprobated for having basely perverted them. Nowhere in his public career do we find a love of truth and justice for their own sake-nowhere that he delighted in the disenthralment and moral elevation of his race. On the contrary, it was, or seemed to be, his office to ridicule, to sneer and scoff at every philanthropic movement, to traduce and belie the advocates of reform, to pervert their language, and to poison the public mind in regard to their objects. Was there an effort to be made on behalf of the slave? Mr. Choate was ready to compass heaven and hell to defeat it. Were new inroads to be made upon the liberties of the people; had the Southern Oligarchy a new triumph in view; were its lash and its chains to sink more deeply into the flesh of the negro, or its bludgeon into the brain of a Massachusetts Senator? Mr. Choate was the grand magician of the Slave Power who invoked the hosts of darkness to help on the work.
For his political career, the country owes him nothing but execration. Everywhere, and on all occasions, his influence was on the side of oppression. There is no national institution not accursed in itself or some of its associations, which owes anything to his genius or industry. Whatever the natural range of his sympathies, all his early culture, all his associations through life, religious, political, and personal, tended to narrow and warp them to sectional uses and ends. With him religion was a seventh-day virtue-a practical, all-embracing righteousness, no virtue at all. He was wholly ignorant of the true Christian life. That piety, that stern morality, which should control every volition, every desire, and pervade every relation in life, he had no conception of whatever. Both his professional and political life were entirely divorced from his religion, nor did he ever seem to desire their reconciliation. He evidently intended to escape that perdition, in which he seemed to believe, by the eleventh-hour-repentance scheme, and by what little negotiation he could make towards that end on the Sabbath day; for 'a layman,' he said, ‘as no chance but on Sunday.' Some of our readers will remember what he said of the ministry of Rev. Southside Adams, and of his own connection with that. He had ‘uniformly reconciled his attendance upon that church’ by the consideration that ‘no manner of politics, State or National, directly or indirectly,' was ever preached from that pulpit! ‘I have uniformly found it to be true,' he said, ‘that I was hurt by nothing, was assailed by nothing, was secularized by nothing, was defended or attacked by nothing which I had done, for which I had voted or acted in the political world without. . . . . I thank my pastor that I am able to say. . . that never in an introductory prayer, never in a hymn, occasionally or in the ordinary course of public worship selected, never by any illustration in any sermon, by any train of association, right or wrong, [have I been] carried back into the world that I had left.’
What a shameful estimate did Mr. Choate put upon the office of a teacher of religion -an office which we at one time find him professing to reverence with all his soul, and at another ransacking his whole vocabulary for epithets of derision and contempt in which to clothe it. He once professed; to have found a philanthropy (it called itself such-‘pedantry, arrogance, folly, cruelty, impiousness,' he called it,) which was 'fit enough for a pulpit, TOTALLY UNFIT FOR A PEOPLE; fit enough for a preacher, totally unfit for a statesman! a preacher, TOTALLY FOR A STATESMAN!’ As a moralist, he was the embodiment of the most truckling expediency. All his ethics ignore the Absolute -they ignore the resident, essential nature of Right and Wrong-they elevate Circumstance above Principle, and deny Conscience its proper authority. 'Of religion, and a correct moral and personal life, he went to church to hear; there must be no word; in rebuke of great State or National sins-sins which are the culmination of individual, personal wickedness. 'As an educated man, as a religious man, as a student of morals,' the minister, he said, ‘will know all about the obligations, origin, and general direction of the conscience. He will have learned from his Bible that the race of man is of kindred blood, all of it, and he will have learned from his Bible, or from Nature, that all men stand on an equality of right, and responsibility, and duty, before God. But how far these glorious generalities, are modified and controlled by civil society, of any description, . . . . .does he know aught of this?' It is easily seen what Rufus Choate required at a pastor's hands: he must be able to make broad generalizations on the obligations of conscience, the equality of man, duty to God, and the penalties of violation-very broad generalizations, perhaps on the depravity of human nature, but so as to apply to nobody within earshot; for it would be 'cruel and cowardly to catch a parishioner in his pew, silent and still, by custom, decorum, and the manners of New England, and turn upon him every eye in the congregation."
'Where, where, for shelter, shall the guilty flee?'
We find no enduring basis of Principle underlying the life of Mr. Choate; nor does he anywhere in his philosophy betray that he honored such a basis, or thought it necessary. He laid his foundation upon the quicksand’s of Expediency; and everywhere, in theory and practice, in word and deed, openly and in secret, lauded the spot on which his house was built. He was wholly given over to the devil of ambition, and thus to party, to whatever would serve his ends. He who declaimed most loudly against sectionalism was the most sectional; for it was in sectionalism that he found his encouragement and his remuneration. He early committed himself to that class which thinks itself bound by every dollar it owns-it knows no higher obligation-to perpetuate American slavery. He sold himself to the wealthy party, the mercantile interest, and he never forsook it. He sought to make everything else subservient to that. He was far-sighted in that direction, and knew the interests of the merchants! better than they did themselves. Poor souls! once they were subject to fits of independence, indignation, at the encroachments of the South: they have gotten over that now. It was one of the diseases of mercantile infancy, in which the wise physician saw that the patient only needed to be kept quiet, in order to get well of himself, and to which at a more mature age he would not be subject. In illustration of this, we remember that, when South Carolina, having seized and imprisoned Massachusetts seamen for no crime save that of color, obliged Mr. Hoar, who was sent by that State to secure the legal rights of her citizens-obliged him to flee for his life, Boston merchants, of ‘respectability and standing,' placed in the hands of Senator Choate a petition to Congress, asking that Massachusetts men might be protected in the exercise of their constitutional rights. But Mr. Choate, who, in the language of eloquent eulogy, ‘’never failed to do justice to his client, himself, and the occasion,' and who was never found even partially unprepared’ for any emergency, was fully prepared to lose this petition; he' put it into his hat, and, some way or other, it fell out.' Nay, even a well-attested copy of the same, afterwards sent him, managed in the
<c06>
same mysterious way to 'fall out'-or, at least, never to get presented.
Another circumstance we remember: Charles Sumner had been struck down and brutally beaten in the Senate Chamber; good citizens of Massachusetts were all in a flame about it. ‘Would Mr. Choate go to Faneuil Hall, and help express their indignation?' Oh, no! although possessed of that spirit which ‘made him true to all time and place, he would not go. But still 'humane and true to humanity in the broadest acceptation of the word,’ he is said, with 'that amenity and unforced courtesy, so graceful and so uniform,’ to have asked the committee which waited upon him.' if blows on the head with a gutta percha stick would hurt a man much?' Ah, yes! was he not far-sighted? Has he not his reward? Was it not yesterday that Massachusetts-shame on her!-was it not yesterday, when told she had looked for the last time on all that was mortal of him, that she lifted up her eyes in sad affliction, bathed herself with hot tears, and, like a bereaved mother. consoled herself by recounting and ascribing to him in extravagant language the virtues he never had?

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels. Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING,
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 5, and continue <illegible> WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Prinicipals.
WM. S.HAYOOD, Principals
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals
WANTED.
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to have the superintendence of the Domestic Department. An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or

J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass. July 23, 1860.

A Military Catechism.
QUESTION 1ST.-Who among all the great Generals of the World has caused the greatest destruction of human life?
ANSWER.-GENERAL DEBILITY.
QUESTION 2D.-Please name the principal officers in the General’s Staff.
ANSWER.-Gens. DYSPEPSIA, DROPSY, PILES, LIVER COMPLAINT, &C., and
Cols. BRONCHITIS, NEURALGIA, NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, BOILS, &C.
QUESTION 3D.-Who is destined to become his most formidable antagonist?
ANSWER.-IRON, as developed in the famous

PERUVIAN SYRUP.
The Hosts are Marshalling for the Conflict.
Aug. 3. 3t

WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A. TUELON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, ‘At Home,’ &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES.
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18 eop6m.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.: where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town. Boston, May 1, 1860.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16 tf BOSTON. MASS.
TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100 pp. large <illegible>. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E.CADY STANTON, Mrs. E.L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS. Esq., Rev. SAMURL LONG-FELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. 'A word to the wise,’ &c.
Price, 25 cents: by mail, 30cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET.
BROOKLYN, L. L.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ‘Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements. as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
