THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1706. 
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
SPEECH OF HON. MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
Extracts from a characteristic speech delivered by Hon. Montgomery Blair, U. S. Postmaster General, made at a Union meeting held at Montgomery county, Md., on Saturday, the 3d instant:-
FELLOW CITIZENS:- I congratulate you on the hopes justly inspired by the circumstances under which we meet to-day. The progress of our arms gives us good reason for believing that peace will soon be restored to our country, and that when it comes, it will be an enduring peace, because obtained by preserving the integrity of the government, and because it will be followed by the early suppression from our system of the institution of domestic slavery, which occasioned most of the difficulty in the founding of the government, and has been the only cause which ever seriously endangered its existence.
But even whilst we are indulging these well-founded hopes that our country is saved from destruction by the rebellion, we are menaced by the ambition of the ultra-abolitionists, which is equally despotic in its tendencies, and which, if successful, could not fail to be alike fatal to republican institutions. The slaveocrats of the South would found an oligarchy-a sort of feudal power imposing its yoke over all who tilled the earth over which they reigned as masters. The abolition party, whilst pronouncing philippics against slavery, seek to make a caste of another color by amalgamating the black element with the free white labor of our land, and so to expand far beyond the present confines of slavery the evil which makes it obnoxious to republican statesmen; and now, when the strength of the traitors who attempted to embody a power out of the interests of slavery to overthrow the government is seen to fail, they would make the manumission of the slaves the means of infusing their blood into our whole system by blending with it "amalgamation, equality and fraternity."
The cultivators of the soil must then become a hybrid race, and our government a hybrid government ending, as all such unnatural combinations have ever done, in degraded, if not abortive, generations, and making serfdom for the inferior caste-the unmixed blood of the conqueror race inevitably asserting a despotism over it. To facilitate this purpose, a concerted appeal is now made to the people of the free States through the press, to open the way to this daring innovation, beginning in the Southern States, unhappily now brought under the ban of the Calhounite conspirators. With this view it is proposed to declare the State Governments vacated in that section when they are restored to the Union, and all the loyal men of the South, whom the treason of Presidents Pierce and Buchanan, in complicity with Southern traitors, has subjugated, are to come under absolute submission to the representatives of the Northern States in Congress, without the vestige of a State right, a State law or Constitution to protect them. Nay, not even the franchise of a vote to send a solitary representative to the legislative body to which their destiny is to be committed. 
Simultaneously, three leading organs-the Chronicle at Washington, boasting a sort of official sanction; the Missouri Democrat, the ultra abolisher, of Fremont graft, at St. Louis; the Atlantic Monthly, which lends to the parent stock at Boston all it can boast of literary strength and elegance, have struck the key note of revolution, the sheer abolition of State constitutions in the region suffering under the rod of the rebellion.
The article in the Atlantic Monthly may justly be quoted as the programme of the movement. It presents the issue on which the abolition party has resolved to rest its hopes of setting up its domination in this country. The boldness that marks the announcement of its design to assume for Congress absolute power over the States recovered to the Union, without allowing representation for them in the body, argues much for the confidence of those who never attained an ounce of political weight, until they threw themselves into the scale of the Republican party adjusted at Chicago, wherein State rights, even the most doubtful one asserting exclusive power over the subject of slavery, were solemnly recognized.
"And now in this discussion," says the new ukase, "we are brought to the practical question which is destined to occupy so much of public attention. 
It is proposed to bring the action of Congress to bear directly upon the rebel States. This may be by the establishment of provisional governments under the authority of Congress, or simply by making the admission or recognition of the States depend upon the action of Congress. The essential features of the proposition is, that Congress shall assume jurisdiction of the rebel States."-One would suppose that "the action of Congress" had been already brought to bear "directly on the rebel States" by the armies which Congress has raised and sent against the rebel States; or, to use exact language, the States in which the rebels enforce an usurpation over the loyal people.
But it is not the States in the hands of rebels over which the abolition programme proposes to assume jurisdiction, but over the States when wrested from the usurpation of the rebels, and in condition to be restored to the control of the loyal people against the politico-military bodies now exerting the forces of government in that portion of the United States in which the rebellion reigns for the time triumphant. The Union wages war, but it does not wage war upon the loyal people, upon the Constitution they recognize, or the true Constitution, upon the spirits and forms of their government, upon its archives or property. On the contrary, the whole system, as part of the Union, subsists and is respected by the nation, and only remains in abeyance where the rebels hold sway by force of arms. It is against this rebel organization, against the persons and property, the means and instrumentalities of the rebels, that the United States makes war in defence of the loyal men and loyal governments.
The assumption that certain States of the South are extinct-annihilated by the rebellion-and that a Congress, composed of representatives from the States in which the rebellion does not exist, has the right to consider the sister republics where the insurrection for the moment prevails as dead bodies, to be disposed of as they please when they get possession, is abhorrent to every principle on which the Union was founded. No member of the Union, nor the government of the whole, can act upon any of the States but in the mode prescribed by the Constitution. They are all bound to guarantee to each a republican form of government, and that is a government adopted by the people; for it is the essence of republican government that it shall emanate from the people of the State.
The Federal Government derives its power from the same source, and it is on the people and through the people that it must act as a nationality, and not 
<c02>
upon the States, blotting them out of existence by supposition, while their constitutions, laws, archives, property, all survive-and a loyal people to give them activity the moment that constraint is thrown off. The abolition programme assumes, on the contrary, that because violence has trodden down State governments and State rights, they have ceased to exist; that a loyal people in whom they still survive and have being; and to whom the United States stands pledged to guarantee them forever, must also have perished; and that a Congress of the other States may step in and take absolute authority over the whole region as vacated States and Territories, and legislate for it, founding this new usurpation upon fictions as absurd as those on which the rebellion founds itself. 
 In concert with the elaborate article in the Atlantic Monthly, a department organ, the Chronicle, at Washington, strikes the key-note of State annihilation in a leading editorial. "There is," says the print, "a conflict of authorities-of State and Federal authorities-and it is clear that one or the other must be annihilated. If the State succeeds, the Federal authority is gone forever; nothing can restore it, not even the State itself which destroyed it; for in this case the Federal authority would become subordinate to the State authority, and be no government at all. For the same reason, if the Federal authority prevails, and succeeds in putting down the rebellious States, must the State authority be destroyed." And then the case is put of the present conflict, "in which several States combine against their common Federal Government. Here the power to be overcome is not only greater, but, in a moral point of view, far more dangerous to the Federal Government. Hence, when such a rebellion is subdued, it is not only necessary to destroy the treasonable element in such rebellious States, but also the power which these States had to combine against the Federal authority," &c.
In conjunction with these movements at Washington and Boston to annihilate the State governments which preceded and helped to create that of the nation itself, the coadjutors of Presidential schemes in St. Louis and throughout Missouri are endeavoring to throw that State into the cauldron of revolution, that it, too, may be annihilated or declared vacated on one or the other counts of "State suicide," "State forfeiture," "State abdication," or "State vacation," the "tabula rasa" or clear slate on which Congress may write the laws it pleases. Does not the extreme anxiety evinced in certain quarters in these forced efforts to prevent the States dropped out of the Union by conspirators from returning under the auspices of the President, the patriotic army of the republic, and the loyal citizens who would, through them, maintain their own and the rights of the States in question, indicate something of a design to command a great event in prospect by revolutionary means?
Is a ban upon one-third of the States, marking them for exclusion from the Union, when treason is defeated and the traitors expelled, as just, as wise, as constitutional, as likely to end the troubles of the country, as that marked out and pursued by the President? It is manifest now that the President must steer his course through the strong, conflicting tides of two revolutionary movements-that of the nullifiers, to destroy the Union and set up a Southern Confederacy, and that of the ultra-abolitionists, which has set in to disfranchise the South on the pretext of making secure the emancipation of the slaves. 
The attempt of the nullifiers is rebuked from the cannon’s mouth, and the proposal of France to secure their object by her friendly mediation is put aside by the President telling the Emperor that he will confer with the rebels through no indirect medium-the Senators and Representatives in Congress, coming from the Southern States, and bringing with them an earnest of returning loyalty, will be met as equals, and admitted to the councils that are to dispose of the destiny of the nation. Alterations in its laws must be made by Congress; changes in the Constitution, by delegations in convention from all the States, according to the term, of that instrument.
This is the final response of the President to the rebels and the French Emperor. To the revolutionary demand for the disfranchisement of the Southern States, the President’s reply, from his first message to the last, and in all his published letters, has been uniform. It is couched in the words I read from his proclamation:-"Hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the constitutional relation between the United States and each of the States and the people thereof, in which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed."
The proclamation also answers the demands for the enfranchisement of the slaves. It is conceded from the necessity growing out of the rebellion and to quell it. But it closes with this salvo for the loyal sufferers under this decisive measure: "The Executive will in due time recommend that all citizens of the United States, who have remained loyal thereto throughout the rebellion, shall, upon the restoration of relations between the United States and the people, if that relation shall have been suspended or disturbed, be compensated for all losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves." 
The issues are thus made up between the President and the rebels and their foreign sympathizers, who would revolutionize our government to create a separate government in the South, on the one hand; and on the other hand, between the President and the ultra abolitionists, who would disfranchise the Southern section of the country. It is not improbable that the latter, though aiming at a different result, will be found co-operating in the end with the conspirators of the South and their foreign allies. They may prefer parting with the South to partnership and equality under the Constitution.
MR. BLAIR’S SPEECH. This speech is significant, and must be read as one of the signs of the times. Mr. Blair seems to be disposed to take the bull by the horns. Men are beginning to see, Mr. Blair, that the treason of your allies and friends, the Abolitionists, bold, open traitors that they were, is what led us into the civil war, and all the abuse that can be bestowed on Pierce and Buchanan will not avail to avert the unerring, judgment and condemnation which history, in this case more swift to justice than usual, will award them.
Let us be thankful to Mr. Blair for giving the abolitionists their just dues in the way of words. It is not often that one of their allies thus turns against them. Last week the New York Postmaster was vice-president of a meeting which pronounced the President guilty of a disloyal policy, ruinous to the Union cause; this week the Postmaster General is making a speech to show that the men who held the last week meeting are traitors and enemies, and that the President is saving the Union in spite of them. It is a happy family! If the Union cause ever gets into other hands, we have no doubt that the Union can be saved, and in that way we believe it will. In present hands we have no idea that anything but rampant abolitionism will prevail-and that is ruin. N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
<c03>
Selections.
THE WAR OF THE CABINET-CONSERVATIVE MANIFESTO ISSUED THROUGH THE POSTMASTER GENERAL. 
Some months ago, Wendell Phillips announced that he had made the discovery that Mr. Lincoln and his Cabinet had resolved themselves into a committee to manage the next Presidential election, and he at the same time dealt most unmercifully with the bland but not brilliant Postmaster General, who was engaged just then in stumping one of the New England States, in support of the conservative policy of the Administration. The silver-tongued abolitionist was not mistaken, as the course of events since then abundantly proves.
The war against the armies of Lee, or Bragg, or Magruder may relax; the anglo-rebel pirate vessels may with impunity make the sea their heritage; our financial system may be sinking us into more irretrievable ruin, and our foreign affairs may be getting more and more muddled; but not for all or any of these causes can there be, or has there, been any slackening of efforts, any mitigation of antagonism on the part of Mr. Lincoln’s Secretaries against each other and all others on the subject of the next Presidency.
The other day, the Tribune published the programme of Chase, Stanton and the unmanageable of the abolition party, and we gave to it, as a political document, the benefit of our circulation, so that all might know what the ultras are driving at. To-day we publish the responsive manifesto of the conservative elements of the Cabinet, comprising Lincoln, Seward, Bates and Blair, issued in the shape of a speech delivered by the last named gentleman, at a political meeting held in Rockville, Maryland, on the 3d inst.-the first appearance of the Postmaster General, we believe, since the ruthless assault made upon him by Wendell Phillips. 
We are delighted to be assured in the very opening of this address, that "there is good reason for believing that peace will soon be restored to our country." In that assurance we recognize the mind and thought of our prophetic Premier, and we swallow it with as much faith as zealot ever embraced a dogma. Soon! Certainly; but is it to be in sixty days, Mr. Seward? Or must we contain our souls in patience until after the far more important question of the succession is decided? We very much fear so. In the next sentence we are told by this most conservative, but most illogical of Cabinet officers, that peace is to be "followed by the early suppression from our system of the institution of domestic slavery." And here we pause, lost in wonder and amaze, and we ask ourselves, can it be possible that the anti-abolitionist and the Anti-amalgamationist Postmaster General can have uttered this rather decidedly abolitionist doctrine? Well, perhaps Mr. Seward’s finger was in the pie to that extent, and so we pass on to its more delicious ingredients. We soon come upon them. In the very next paragraph we find that "Richard’s himself again;" and, as we read on, we realize that the whole abolition cohort is routed, horse, foot and dragoon, before the trenchant cimetar of the apostolic knight of conservatism. Hark! how heavily fall his blows upon the strongholds of "amalgamation, equality and fraternity," heavily as did the battle-axe of Coeur de Lion on the heavily-knobbed castle gate of Torquilstone. The Washington Chronicle, led on by the truckling Forney, and displaying the banners of Chase and Stanton-the man of money and the man of war-goes down before him; the Missouri Democrat, representing the Fremont graft of abolitionism, and backed by the whole Teutonic element of the Southwest, is sought out as a personal enemy in the melee of opposing forces, and crushed to earth, though perhaps to rise again; and, finally, that heaviest of the heavies, the Atlantic Monthly, is encountered by this young David, and, like Goliath of old, is soon writhing under the well-directed missile from his sling. Thus on the field of Rockville have the triple factions that are arrayed against President Lincoln and his conservative policy-the factions of Chase and Stanton, of Fremont and zwei lager, of Sumner and abolition New England-been encountered and discomfited by the postal paladin sent out from Washington, and commissioned by Mr. Lincoln to charge the abolitionists, as David was commissioned by King Saul to overthrow the Philistines.
And yet, amid the hosannahs of victory and the shouts of triumph over a routed enemy, we are haunted with the dread suspicion that, after all, there was very little principle involved in the contest. The battle-cry of the abolition hordes was "negro emancipation, and the wiping out of rebel State organizations." Against these destructive doctrines Mr. Blair was sent to do battle, and did it well. But at the going down of the sun, as he is returning the victor from this well-fought field, what strange song does he sing? Is it possible, that in overthrowing the abolitionists, he has adopted their worst heresies? Forefend if, Heaven, and all the saints and martyrs! And yet hearken unto the words of his month-"Slavery in the territories is unconstitutional; but if the rebel territory falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of the national government, then slavery will be impossible there. In a legal and constitutional sense, it will die at once. The air will be too pure for a slave. I cannot doubt but that this great triumph has been already won." Is it Mr. Montgomery Blair who uses this language? or is it Wendell Phillips, or Charles Sumner, or Chase, or Stanton? In vain we refer to the manuscript of the speech for an inkling of light. Not a ray is there. The context affords no material for groping one’s way out of the labyrinth. There are quotation marks covering a preceding sentence, which reads:-"Slavery, says the programme, is impossible within the exclusive jurisdiction of the national government." But the quotation marks end with that sentence, and it is followed by something which can have reference to none but the speaker himself; as, for instance:-"For many years I have had this conviction, and have constantly maintained it. I am glad to believe that it is impossible, if not expressed in the Chicago platform." The exact meaning of this latter sentence is not very palpable. In fact, it is rather a muddle; but we cannot possibly set it right. Then comes this:-" Mr. Chase among our public men is known to accept it sincerely. Thus slavery in the territories is unconstitutional." And so on to the end of our first extract. The personal pronoun "I" has no reference, from anything we can find in the context, to anybody but Mr. Blair himself; and we must, therefore, in equal surprise and sadness, confess that the Postmaster General, who starts out the most cautious of conservatives, winds up the most absurd enthusiast of abolitionism. We can only account for this on the theory that Mr. Blair has belonged to so many parties, has so thoroughly imitated St. Paul in being "all things to all men," that before he came to the end of his long speech he became bewildered and "flustrified," and, not knowing exactly which side of the question he was on,
<c04>
burst<illegible> out a full-blown; Garrisonian. So much for the frailty of poor human nature, even when moulded into the person of a Cabinet officer. This only proves that Mr. Lincoln should not have entrusted the championship of the conservative cause to such a frail vessel as Montgomery Blair, but should have rather selected the wily, artful and passably consistent Secretary of State for that duty. Even Mr. Usher would have been a much better selection. 
But for all that, and abating this remarkable incongruity near the close of the speech, which may be, after all, only a blunder on the part of the speaker, the reporter or the copyist, we commend this conservative manifesto to public attention; and we demand of the Tribune that, as it has published the pronunciamento of the radicals on the Presidential election, it will have the fairness also to publish the response of the conservatives. The war of the Cabinet is intensely interesting, and the public is entitled to full accounts of all the battles, sieges, and skirmishes.-N. Y. Herald. 

TREASON AGAINST REPUBLIOANISM.
When Vice President Stephens declared that Slavery was to be the corner-stone of the now Confederacy; when the South Carolina slave-mongers expressed to Mr. Times-Correspondent Russell their desire for an aristocracy, and their preference for a Royal scion of one of the European monarchies to rule over them; when the Richmond Whig 
asserted that "the right of voting should be a high privilege, to be enjoyed only by those who are worthy to exercise it-in a word, the whole white population of the South should be wrought into a high-toned aristocracy, duly impressed with a sense of its superiority to Yankee trickery, and of its own functions, and its obligations to freedom and civilization"-they one and all but expressed their repudiation of the dignity of labor, their contempt, socially, for every class of men engaged in useful industry, and their hatred of a Republican form of government. The doctrine they now proclaim is only the culmination of the teachings which have been for years scattered broadcast by Southern politicians and the Southern press. Years ago the Richmond Examiner said: "The South now maintains that Slavery is right, natural and necessary, and does not depend upon complexion;" and a leading South Carolina paper declared that "Slavery is the natural and normal condition of the laboring man, whether white or black." F. W. Pickens of South Carolina said, in a speech in Congress, "If laborers ever obtain the political power of a country, it is, in fact, in a state of revolution." John C. Breckinridge pronounced the Declaration of Independence to be "an abstraction," and declared "if it had been embodied in the Government of the country, the Union would have been dissolved long ago, and the Government would have been hateful."
Let the people of this country, who live by their industry and enjoy the rights and privileges of freemen, look to this matter. The rebellion is treason against Republicanism, against the upward and onward progress of humanity, against their own dearest and most cherished rights. The Southern Literary Messenger, one of the leading periodicals of the South, a magazine published in Richmond, says explicitly:-
"The South is now engaged in a death-struggle with a radical democracy, the willing instrument of consolidation in the hands of an abolition oligarchy. That benign institution of slavery which it is now the pride and glory of the South to ascribe to the conception of Divinity, and which this war has proved to be, next to the devotional patriotism and undaunted resolution of her sons, the great element of power in the Confederacy, will prove, in preventing too heavy an influx from foreign shores of that class of population devoted to menial pursuits, another bulwark against the encroachments of those TENDENCIES TO DEMOCRACY which have been the Pandora’s box of disintegration and ruin to all Republics."
And again, after commenting upon the dangers proceeding from the "extreme democratic and popular characteristics which are now stamped upon every feature of our national and social organism," this slave oligarchist says:-
"We have no special objection to royalty when restrained by constitutional barriers. The glorious career of England-illustrating for centuries the beauty and truth of free Government-demonstrates that royalty and liberty are not incompatible. Let us seek at once to eradicate every vestige of radical Democracy, every feature tending to make ours a popular Government, making it subject only to the intelligent and virtuous, and those who are interested in its successful administration."
Fine doctrines these for Republican America, and very palatable for the Freemen of the Loyal States, who are expected by Vallandigham, Wood and the whole copperhead tribe to make an inglorious peace with the traitors, and quietly submit to their infamous schemes!
But what say the Germans, Irish and thousands of other adopted citizens to this new theory of Southern Society? What position is allotted to them in the new Utopia? Listen further to this Southern expositor, whose proposition is as follows:
"But no foreigner who comes among us after the struggle is over should ever enjoy the elective franchise. If we can not check the spread over our territory of that spawn of ignorance and crime, which flows in endless issue from the prisons and dens of corruption in the marts of Europe, we can at least shut out its cankering effects from the vitals of our body politic."
Slavery the corner-stone; a landed aristocracy of slave-mongers; labor and laborers degraded; immigration repressed; Royalty; Monarchy; any thing but a popular form of government and popular rights and privileges! What an attractive entertainment is spread before a free and loyal people! And to secure all these blessings, we are to conciliate and make peace with our "erring Southern brethren" with all possible speed and at any sacrifice! 
But the story is not yet quite told. Mr. George Fitzhugh of Virginia expresses the following sentiments, which are not at all uncommon with the leaders of the rebellion:
"The most perfect system of Government is to be found in armies, because in them there is least of liberty and most of order, subordination and obedience. Men are never efficient in military matters or in industrial pursuits until wholly deprived of their liberty. Loss of liberty is no disgrace. An aristocracy more or less hereditary exists in every civilized country. Changes of manners and customs and human pursuits render this aristocracy somewhat fluctuating.
"In America we have an aristocracy of wealth and talents, and that aristocracy is somewhat hereditary. The landed aristocracy of the South which owns slaves approaches somewhat to the English nobility. Time must determine whether the quasi aristocracy of the South has sufficient power, permanence and privilege to give stability, durability and good order to society." 
The structure is complete-a slave oligarchy, with a landed aristocracy, sustained by a military despotism! Howlers against the suspension of the Habeas
<c05>
Corpus, the suppression of free speech, and illegal arrests in the North, what say you to the Government proposed by rebels and traitors?
And now, if any loyal man is in doubt as to what course duty requires him to pursue, in view of the tendencies of the rebellion as illustrated by the quotations we have made from Representative men and organs of the traitorous crew, we commend to his consideration the following resolution, one of a series adopted by the loyal men of New York at the great Ratification Meeting at the Cooper Institute last week, viz.:-
Resolved, That we concur most heartily in the declaration of Congress and of the Executive, that this war is waged solely for the suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of the Union and the Constitution, and that when these objects shall have been accomplished it ought to cease; and that we approve, as just and necessary means for their accomplishment, of the confiscation act, the act of emancipation, the act authorizing the suspension of the habeas corpus, and the enrollment of the national forces, and in the main, without regard to minute details, of the action of all departments of the government in the measures they have adopted for the prompt and permanent restoration of the authority of the national constitution.
The moral is evident. Let all loyal men manifest "a sincere and patriotic purpose to give all possible support to the national government in its contest with the rebellion."-Salem Register.
THE ENROLMENT ACT.
In a speech at Kennebunk, Maine, on the 7th ult., Senator Wilson gave an exposition of the provisions of the enrolment act, from which we quote the following paragraphs:
SUPERIORITY OF THIS LAW OVER PREVIOUS ACTS.
"The copperhead demagogues, who hiss their poison into the ear of interest, fear, prejudice and passion, who misstate the purpose and pervert the provisions of the Enrolment act, fail to tell the men they mean to mislead that the government had full authority before the passage of that act to draft for nine months every man in the country between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, not exempt by the militia laws of Congress or of the States. In 1795 Congress enacted that any officer of the militia who should fail to obey the call of the President should forfeit a sum not exceeding one year’s pay, and be liable to court-martial, and that every private forfeit a sum not exceeding one year’s pay, and be imprisoned one month for every five dollars of such fine. Every citizen between the ages of eighteen and forty-five not exempt by the militia laws of Congress or of the States is liable to be drafted for nine months, or fined, if failing to obey the call, a sum equal to one year’s pay, and be imprisoned until he pays the fine at the rate of one month for every twenty-five dollars. Under the militia laws of the United States and of the States, government officials, the favored and fortunate, are exempted, not the poor toiling masses. The inequality and injustice of those laws stand confessed. Horatio Seymour, in his inaugural address in January last, pronounces the militia laws of New York ‘unequal and unjust’-‘entirely defective’-‘glaringly unjust’-full of ‘unjust distinctions’ -and he recommends the principles, and some of the very provisions, ‘to mitigate the evils which a forced conscription involves,’ now incorporated into the ‘Act for enrolling and calling out the national forces.’"
THE LAW CAREFUL OF THE POOR.
"Having secured in this act, as compared with the old militia law, uniformity, equality, force, economy, comfort, health and life; having framed the act so as to bear as slightly as possible upon the industries and social life of the people, Congress desired to relieve the toiling dependent poor, and to make national and state officials, and the favored and fortunate, bear their share of the burdens of enforced military service. By the national and state militia laws, state and national officials, members of Congress, Custom House officers, postmasters, clerks, judges, ministers of the Gospel, and the favored and fortunate, were exempted from military duty. The national and state militia laws discriminated against the poor and in favor of the rich. The law, so falsely and fiercely denounced, discriminates against the rich and in favor of the poor. Members of Congress, Custom House officers, postmasters and their clerks, ministers, national and state officials, excepting the Vice-President, the cabinet, Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States, and the Governors of the States, are now enrolled and must fight, or get a substitute, or pay the commutation of three hundred dollars. While this law requires the favored, the fortunate, the rich, to bear its burdens, it tenderly spares the poor. 
"Never was a military law enacted in America so careful of the dependent poor. In this world of inequality, no legislation can lift from the toiling masses the burdens that too often press too heavily upon them; but this law, so bitterly assailed, seeks to relieve the inequalities of life. This denounced enrolment act exempts of the poor the only son of the widow dependent on his labor; the only son of aged or infirm parents dependent on his labor; one of the two or more sons of such parents; the only brother of orphan children not twelve yean old dependent on his labor; the father of motherless children under twelve years of age dependent on his labor. Under these humane provisions tens of thousands of the toiling dependent poor are relieved from the burdens of enforced military duty. Congress wisely exempted, as an act of humanity, young men between eighteen and twenty. Thousands of immature young men have broken down under the severe duties of the service, and sunk into the hospitals or into premature graves. Many of the young men of this tender age are fitted for the army and should enter its service, but as a class it would have been cruel to have forced them into the army, and Congress in this, as in other portions of the law, followed the promptings of humanity."
THE THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS CLAUSE.
"But the commutation provision of $300 is denounced as a discrimination against the poor in favor of the rich. He who utters this sentiment insults reason and outrages decency. The man who believes it is mentally contemptible. The man who utters it in the ear of the people proclaims an illogical absurdity. No man was ever forced into the army by this $300 commutation provision, or ever will be, or ever can be. It has not, it will not, it cannot force one man into the service of the United States. It is a provision of exemption, not of compulsion. No man is held by it, tens of thousands are relieved by it. It was made for the sole benefit of the poor, of the small farmers, mechanics and laboring men. It discriminates in their favor, and will and must do so. The national and state laws required the service of the person drafted or an acceptable substitute. This law, as originally drawn, required the service of the person drafted or an acceptable substitute within ten days. It was believed that the pressure would be so great for substitutes that the price would go up to ten or fifteen hundred
<c06>
dollars, up beyond the ability of small farmers, mechanics and laboring men to pay. To keep the price of substitutes within reasonable limits, to enable men of substitutes within reasonable limits, to enable men of small means to obtain substitutes or relieve themselves from the draft if their circumstances require their release, this commutation provision was put in the act. It has operated precisely as it was expected to operate. It has kept down the prices of substitutes. It holds no man who would not be held were it not in the law. But it has relieved, and will relieve, "thousands who would be held were it not in the law. The practical operation of the law demonstrates, what reason clearly saw before, that the government loses by it and the drafted men gain by it; that it is the poor man’s provision. The demagogue, with deceitful speech, may continue a little longer to misrepresent and malign it, ignorance may continue, with flippant tongue, to denounce it, but no honest and well-informed poor man in America would vote to erase it from the law. No, not one; not one."
MR. SUMNER’S SPEECH.
There are two classes of people in this country who will read with widely different feelings the speech which the Hon Charles Sumner is reported to have delivered at the Cooper Institute, in New York. One of these classes-not, we are glad to believe, the largest and most influential-is composed of those who give their sympathies heartily to the South. They do not like Republicanism. They bear no goodwill to the cause of self-government anywhere. Here, at home, they are doing their best to limit, rather than to extend, the popular franchise, and they are not sorry that events in America seem to lend new arguments to the opponents of democracy. They would have no objection to see the United States permanently sundered into a couple of republics; on the contrary, they are rather desirous of witnessing such a consummation. Hence, they have been moving heaven and earth to prevail upon the British Government to recognize the South. That such a proceeding might be the signal for a war with the North is looked upon by them only as an additional argument in its favor. They would clap their hands with joy if the papers announced to-morrow that one fleet had been sent to relieve Charleston, another to raise the blockade at Savannah, and another to re-establish our trade with New Orleans. Their chief affliction is that the bulk of the people of England are friendly to the North, and that the British Government, whatever may be its shortcomings, is sincerely anxious to avoid a war. To this class of people Mr. Sumner’s speech will be a godsend. It will quicken their languishing faith in an approaching conflict. They will hail it as a new ally in the sacred cause of mutual exasperation and bullying, by which tempers are made hot, and swords are whetted for the fray. 
The other class of people to whom we have referred, comprising nine-tenths of our working men, a large majority of the middle classes, and not a few of the aristocracy, cherish sentiments which are diametrically opposed on all points to those we have been considering. They are friends of the North, and they have no sympathy with the South. Their highest wish is to see the Union restored, and above all, to see it restored on a basis which shall secure liberty to every man, irrespective of color. Throughout this contest they have done their utmost to keep our Government right, and they deprecate a war between ourselves and the United States as the worst of all calamities. On all the moral issues of the war they are kith and kin to Mr. Sumner, and the effect of his speech upon them will be discouragement and grief. There are foes enough to national concord, both in England and America, without the accession of such a man to their ranks. The New York Herald does but little mischief here. We know its character, and take its incendiary talk very coolly. Mr. Sumner does not speak semi-officially, but he is a man of the highest character and the purest aims; besides which, as Chairman of the Committee of Foreign Relations, he stands on the threshold of the executive power. He is incapable of following in the track of the New York Herald, but his refinement, his eloquence, his moral enthusiasm, only lend a greater weight to his opinions, and only make us regret the more acutely when we find them giving countenance to a policy which, if carried out, would be infinitely disastrous to both nations.
There is at present one undoubted and grievous source of misunderstanding between the Governments of England and the United States. The Confederate Government have made use of our dockyards for building ships of war. In so doing they have violated our sovereign rights, and it may be contended, we fear with too much success, that in not putting an earlier stop to these proceedings, we have afforded a just ground of complaint to the North. We need not here repeat the views on this question which have again and again been urged in these columns. We hold that Government should be empowered to lay an embargo on all suspected vessels, and not permit them to go to sea till the lawfulness of their destination is cleared up. The ravages which the Alabama has committed on American merchant ships have naturally produced the utmost excitement and irritation at New York. These feelings have been strengthened by the news that a number of iron-clads were building in Mr. Laird’s yards for the use of the Confederates; and it is only fair to remember that the steps which the Government have taken to prevent the departure of these vessels were not known in New York when Mr. Sumner delivered his address. We admit that the building of vessels like the Alabama in our ports would justify the strongest remonstrances which Mr. Seward could put on paper, nor do we wonder that it should be deemed, by the irritated people of New York a provocation worthy of war. But this does not prevent our regret and disappointment at the tendency of Mr. Sumner’s speech. We look to him as an ally in the task of preserving the concord and the friendship of the two nations. It is a difficult task in such a crisis, and it may be impossible if men of enlightened views do not lend their influence to control and assuage the impulses of the popular mind. If those who are accepted as the guides of public opinion, and who stand close to the helm of public affairs, do not offer sagacious and moderate counsel, if they do not step in to mediate between the fervid and unreckoning promptings of patriotism and the higher teachings of wisdom and morality, then undoubtedly we have but a sorry prospect before us. There are thousands of men in this country whom Mr. Sumner will hail as his political friends. They have shipped themselves in the same boat. They enter as enthusiastically into this contest as he does himself. Every aspiration which can warm his heart has a place in theirs.-They have formed themselves into societies for the two-fold purpose of expressing their sympathy with the North, and of bringing an organized influence to bear upon our Government. Such an alliance is not to be despised, and it merits some return. These 

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
friends of the North pray night and day for the maintenance of peace. They deprecate a war with the United States as fraught with possible ruin to the great cause of union and emancipation which stands first and highest in the estimation of Mr. Sumner. A war with the United States would have as few chances of popularity as any war could have; but who can perfectly trust themselves or their countrymen when war is concerned? Who would like to give bail that, when the sparks of hostility are once kindled, a conflagration will not follow which political principle and humanity would long be unable to extinguish?
As an American and a patriot, we cannot expect Mr. Sumner to remain unmoved or silent when the honor or the interests of his country are imperiled, but as a Christian and a philanthropist—grounds of sentiment and action common to good men of all countries—we have a right to ask him to use his influence for the maintenance of peace. Our sympathy with him as the eloquent advocate of the claims of the negro permits us to ask him whether he can seriously persuade himself that the cause be has at heart will be pushed nearer to a triumphant issue by espousing a policy which it is hard to distinguish from that of the New York Herald? The infamy any cause obtains by being advocated in the columns of that journal is a sufficient bar to its success; but there is no knowing what success it may win when invested with the weight of character and the charms of eloquence which none of his country men can more readily impart to it than Mr. Sumner. The conduct of a foreign government is seldom so bad as to be incapable of being viewed in lights more or less friendly. Our Foreign Enlistment Act is obscure, and not easily applied. This evil may be remedied when Parliament meets, if the judgment in the case of the Alexandra should be confirmed in the Law Courts, but for the present we must battle with it as well as we can. The seizure of the Alexandra, and the stoppage of Mr. Laird's iron-clads, afford at least some proof that Earl Russell is anxious to do his duty. We will not enter upon the old question which Mr. Sumner brings up, for though a good deal might be said on behalf of the expediency and the necessity of recognizing the belligerent rights of the South, it is not easy so to frame arguments as to avoid the semblance of recrimination. It is certain, however, that the policy we have adopted in this respect has prevented a thousand complications which would otherwise have sprung out of the blockade of the Southern ports. Mr. Sumner is led away by oratorical feeling when he declares that our "neutrality" itself is a "betrayal of civilization." Not to have been neutral would have made us judges in a controversy which the Americans have the sole right to determine. It is very likely that Earl Russell has not a perfect diplomatic style; but, whatever the North may think of his conduct, we at least know the opinion of the South, as indicated by the recall of Mr. Mason. There are some matters which it hardly becomes a great nation to elevate into a cause of quarrel. Let us exclude Earl Russell and Mr. Seward. Both are excellent men, yet erring mortals, like the rest of us. On one point at least let us act in concert. Let us strive by all means in our power to maintain peace between the two nations till the storm has blown over, and we are again moored securely in a quiet haven.—Manchester Time sand Examiner.

"A FREE UNITED REPUBLIC."
This was the title of an eloquent lecture given in the Corn Exchange, yesterday evening, by the Rev. W. H. Channing, from Washington, and nephew of the famous Doctor Channing. There was a large attendance. Amongst the gentlemen and ladies who crowded the platform were Messrs. Williams, Butterworth, T. R. Wilkinson, S. Watts, Jun., E. O. Greening, J. R. Cooper, J. H. Estcourt, Hugh Warburton, C. Duffield, Craston, Boult, Rev. T. G. Lee, Rev. A. Bertram, J. Morgan, W. Freestun, and Dr. Parkhurst. Mr. F. Taylor, the chairman, introduced the lecturer.
The Rev. W. H. Channing, who was enthusiastically applauded on rising, said, before commencing his lecture, he wished to make a personal allusion. An advertisement had appeared in the local papers asking why the lecturer had foregone his duties as a citizen of a republic; the imputation being that he had shunned those duties in coming to Manchester to advocate the cause of that republic. He should be very glad to see the writer of that advertisement side by side with him on the platform. (Cheers.) To treat a stranger visiting the city by giving utterance to such an insinuation was a mean and contemptible act. (Cheers.) To honest men he begged to explain—(A VOICE: "Oh, never mind that; he is not worthy of notice," and cheers.) Nevertheless, he begged to explain that the law of enrolment made the limitation of age to those who should be enrolled forty years, and he regretted to say he had passed that limit—(loud cheers.) for he should very much rejoice, although a Christian minister, to be so enrolled, and had sought these two years for an opportunity to take that place. (Loud cheers.) When Washington during the last summer was threatened with invasion, it was his privilege to advocate the enrolment of a volunteer regiment, and, for being the first to do this, he was allowed to write his came first on the regimental list. (Loud cheers.) Never would he have come across the water, unless with the full assurance that the crisis of the war was passed. (Enthusiastic cheering.)
A placard had met his eyes on arriving here, issued by the Southern Club, and he would point out to them the sophistries with which its representations sought to stifle the atmosphere of truth to the working men of Manchester. (The lecturer, amidst hisses and derisive laughter, here held up the large sensation placard to which he referred.) He proved that it was a mere fallacy to say that the war resulted from the question of the tariff, and denounced the hypocrisy and insincerity of those who spoke of the atrocities which had been committed by Northern generals, while they ignored those on the other side. In illustration, several instances were given of cold-blooded shooting and whipping to death by the Confederates, showing that they had been maddened by the barbarous influences of slave institutions.
Confederate sympathisers said that they were the friends of a full day's wages for a full day's work, but it could not be understood that men of common sense believed such nonsense, even if they said it. It was well known that this war was originated by the cotton-growing States, for the very end of perpetuating their "peculiar institution," and they held out to France and England, in order that they might be recognised, the threat that the workmen engaged in the cotton trade would starve when the cotton was withheld. The burning of the cotton recently was but a practical proof of the pressure these Southern States wished to put upon the English and French governments, to induce them to recognise the Confederacy. (Cheers.) The honest working men of Manchester and Lancashire should spurn the men who wrote such things as these, and show them that common sense and justice were superior to such shallow sophistries. (Loud cheers.)
The leaders of thought in this country were all with the cause of the Union, among them being that great man, John Bright—(prolonged cheering,) Richard Cobden, and W. E. Forster, of Bradford. (Renewed cheering.)
It had been said that the Southern States had a right to secure their independence, and Earl Russell uttered once that pointed phrase which had run the rounds of the papers, and had been echoed from lip to lip, because it was seemingly brilliant in its antithesis—"The North is fighting for empire, and the South for independence." This sentence was taken up by honest, no doubt, and earnest men and women, who believed it was true; but he felt bound to prove that it was not so, and to show how deep was the "oppression" of these States that were fighting for independence. (Derisive laughter.) For 64 years these oppressed people had held power in the United States against only eight years on the other side. It was an utter farce to say that these" men were struggling for independence. (Loud cheers.) The whole meaning of the war was this: that a slave oligarchy, who had held the power of the United States government in all its different departments almost from the very organization of the republic, saw by the gradual development of the free population, and by the decade of the census of 1850, that the time had come when they had lost their power once and for ever; and simply because of this, they staked their all upon one of two things -either to conquer the republic, and make a universal slave republic, or to break up the republic, and on the ruins rear a slave empire. There was no other meaning in the war. (Cheers.) The slave oligarchy at one time thought they had won the desperate game for which they played; but where was the independence of the country? This war was a plot; a plot in the sense of a mean con-
<c02>
spiracy concocted in the dark; a plot hatched in a cockatrice's den; a plot got up in a place where men came in silence, and whispered plans they, dared not publish abroad; and a plot by the very men who were entrusted under their own solemn oaths to be guardians of the liberty of the republic. ("Hear, hear," and cheers.) And this plot was for the perpetuation and extension of slavery, as acknowledged by the Southern leaders; and if Abraham Lincoln had allowed it to go by in default, he would have been branded in all after ages as an infamous man. (Cheers.) The Northern States attempted for a long time to avert the war, until that fatal shot at Fort Sumter sealed the doom of the slave power.
Thus far, Mr. Lincoln had steadily kept all his constitutional obligations; had not broken a single law, and had been perfectly consistent with himself, and with the advancing liberation of the long-oppressed slave race, which was sternly demanded by Providence, and by events which no human arm could command.
The existing prejudices against the colored race ought to be entirely dispelled, for those who were sing ed out as types of the African race were no types at all. It was not sufficiently known on this side of the Atlantic, that the very first act of the American Government, after the issue of the proclamation of freedom in 1863, was to provide for the organization of the free slaves. The facts were, that a commission was appointed by the President to go through all the districts where those slaves were located, to search out and study their condition, and organize them into bands of workers, and plant them on the estates that were deserted by their refugee masters. General Thomas, the Adjutant-General of the United States, and other officials, were sent last spring through the whole of the Mississippi valley; and when General Thomas made his last report, he testified that there were seventy plantations in the valley, thoroughly organized, and worked by these freed slaves under the guidance of the Government authorities. (Cheers.) He would undertake to promise the cotton merchants of Manchester, as he had done those of Liverpool, that before the year was out, there should be in the market a test sample of Sea Island cotton, produced by free labor—better cotton, and more of it, and (provided the market were undisturbed) at a cheaper rate than any cotton broker had yet sold. (Loud cheers.)
Never was there a grosser delusion than that spread abroad by this slave oligarchy, that it was necessary for men to be driven by the lash, in order to cultivate cotton. Throughout the whole of Texas, were not the Germans and other whites, until the war broke out, raising and sending to the market cotton better and cheaper than the slave-owners in the neighboring plantations? (Cheers.) The most expensive mode of culture was slave labor; emancipate the slaves, and he assured them there would be no more cotton famines in the world. It was often said to the working men of Manchester, "If you want cotton, recognize the Southern Confederacy." He would say, if you want cotton, tell the slave oligarchy that you, as working men, recognizing your own rights, demand that labor be, the world over, free. (Cheers.)
He took this opportunity of expressing to them, on behalf of his nation universally, the admiration with which they had looked upon the sacrifices that they had borne so patiently and so firmly, in spite of all the temptations of those subtle sophists who had attempted to delude them. In spite of these attempts, the cotton operatives had borne, for the sake of freedom, all these privations; and the people on the other side of the Atlantic looked up to God, and thanked him, and then looked across the water, and blessed the people in the cotton districts. In after ages, it would stand upon record, as one of the most magnanimous acts of heroism, that, at such a time as this, the Lancashire people had banded themselves together on the side of freedom, let come what would. They would certainly have their reward; and when the blessed day of liberty came,—as come it swiftly would,—it would be found there was a steadiness in all the influences which now controlled their industry, such as there had never been before, in all these alterations which were regulated by a little clique of men who were studying their own interests, and not the interests of humanity at large. If, in the midst of the civil war, all could be done that had been done, what could they not do in an era of peace?
There had, he believed, been some doubt expressed in this country in regard to the justification of the American government to employ negroes in their armies, and to convert slaves into soldiers. Now, he was not speaking to peace men, or on the ground of peace. He was merely talking to those who looked upon the war as one that had come in the course of Providence as an inevitable event. So far as he understood what was the meaning of the Divine permission for this was, it was to prove the absolute necessity that other nations should recognize the full manhood of those men in bondage. At the outset of the war, men shrank from very shame to acknowledge that negro soldiers could be their peers, and those who were the leaders in this prejudice were at this moment actually enlisting, advocating enlistment, and leading these negro soldiers onward in battle. He could point out several instances, but would only name that of General Logan, who had acknowledged that whereas, at the commencement of the war, he was the loudest in his prejudice, now he testified openly to the heroism and endurance of the negro troops. (Cheers.) Questions were also sometimes heard in England as to the sincerity of the United States in thus enlisting negro soldiers. He wished to tell them one simple fact in regard to the President and the Secretary of War— a fact that should go some way towards removing that delusion forever. A few weeks ago, President Lincoln and the Secretary of War sent to the Northern States to ask for the counsel and aid of a man who was born and bred a slave, and who, as such, escaped to the North, and afterwards came to this country an advocate for freedom; he referred to that eloquent man, Frederick Douglass. The President sent to him to ask his advice and aid in regard to the process of enrolling negro soldiers in the Mississippi valley, and Douglass was not slow to obey the call. He went to the President, and expressed his earnest recognition of the desire of the Government to do full justice to the colored race, and he (Douglass) was at this moment side by side with Adjutant-General Thomas, engaged as an officer of the United States in enlisting negro soldiers for the Federal army. This was one small token that the American Government never desired to take a step backwards in anything they had undertaken. The United States had once and forever declared that these slaves were free, and they would stand to that until throughout the length and breadth of a reunited republic, not a single fetter should clank on the limb of a single slave, and until every yoke should be trampled in the dust. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. S. Watts, Jr. proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer. It was seconded by Mr. J. B. Forster.
The Chairman said that, before the motion was put, he begged personally to thank the lecturer for the able manner in which he had exploded the idea contained in the sentence uttered by Lord Russell, at Newcastle. There was also a short and pithy saying which a would-be authority in this country made at the commencement of the present war. It was a statement which appeared in the Times newspaper. (Hisses.) Occasionally the Times said something that turned out to be true, (laughter and cheers,) and in 1861, in a leading article, that paper said:— "The North is fighting for freedom; the South for slavery." Since then, the Times had said a great many things to the contrary; but that, at any rate, was true. In confirmation, he read the following extract from a letter written by the Rev. Leslie Stephen, Fellow of Trinity Hall, Cambridge. Writing from Missouri, that gentleman said:-
"This is, as I before said, a slave State; but the slave element was never so strong in this (a new border State) as in the planting States. There were only about 110,000 slaves at the last census. This war, however, which, as wise (!) people in England know, had nothing to do with slavery, but was principally a question of free trade and protection, has effectually knocked slavery on the head here. They have passed an emancipation law, to take effect in 1870; but emancipation is already practically carried out, and probably the slaveholders will be obliged, within a year, to propose immediate emancipation themselves, in order to secure some kind of compensation. Slaves are said to be worth only $50 a head, and have generally left their masters and walked off. Nobody will take the trouble, even if they have the will, to prevent the said slaves from going where they choose. These facts I got out of a minister to whom I had an an introduction from some of my Cambridge (Mass.) friends. He stated that he had-been abused as an abolitionist for the last thirty years; but that people had now gone ahead of him here generally, and considered him an old fogy, because he was willing to wait for emancipation in 1870. (Cheers.)
The resolution was carried unanimously.
-Manchester (Eng.) Times and Examiner.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1863.
A VOICE FROM THE SOUTH.
ADDRESS OF JUDGE HIESTAND AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
There was an immense gathering on Monday evening, at Tremont Temple, the occasion being the delivering of an address by Hon. Ezra Hiestand, Justice of the Third District Court of the city of New Orleans, having been invited thereto by many leading citizens in a communication, which, with Judge H's reply, has been previously made public. Every part of the spacious edifice was thronged; and for a considerable time before the hour fixed for the commencement of the exercises, the band of the Second Cavalry regiment, stationed in the northern gallery, played, in a style to elicit the approbation of the audience, some fine music. At half past seven o'clock, Judge Hiestand came upon the platform, accompanied by Thomas A. Dexter, Esq., Hon. Josiah Quincy, Jr., Hon. John G. Palfrey, Dr. Jacob Bigelow, Hon. Alexander H. Rice, Hon. Stephen Fairbanks, and a very large number of other well-known citizens, who occupied the entire platform when seated.
Hon. George B. Upton presided, and after a few introductory remarks presented Judge Hiestand, who, on coming forward, was greeted with a perfect tornado of cheering, which was long protracted.
Judge Hiestand said that to be where he then was would have been, a short time antecedent to the present occasion, one of the most unexpected events of his life. He spoke to-night, after a residence in New Orleans since 1829, (having removed from Indiana at that time,) and after a slaveholding experience dating back to the period when be first became old enough to own property.
He described the origin of American slavery, which he said first began in Louisiana, remarking that in his judgment the system was the purpose of One who is above human comprehension, but expressing his belief that the plans contemplated by Divine Providence in establishing and perpetuating slavery were about to be consummated, and that slavery was soon to perish from off the face of the continent. He cited, as proof of his argument, the history of the Israelites, and compared their servitude, and subsequent progress and exaltation, to what may be considered a parallel in the case of the enslaved Africans. Slavery, he said, was doomed before the war, and in a few years would have fallen to pieces of itself. The slaveholders attempted to check the downfall of the institution in the Kansas struggle of 1856, but not succeeding then, ever afterward sought to inaugurate a war to build up a government for themselves, whereof the chief cornerstone should be slavery—a basis, said the speaker, upon which no government ever did or ever can stand. In 1830, in South Carolina, these attempts began, but the patriotism of the country was too much for them then; but they nevertheless continued, in a Jesuitical manner, their plotting, industriously disseminating the doctrines of secession; carefully, however, like one walking upon ice which he thought might momentarily prove insufficient in strength to sustain him. The progress of this spreading of ultra pro-slavery ideas was materially enhanced by the election, in 1852, of Franklin Pierce, who, said Judge H., "was as well-informed concerning the plans of the rebels as I am."
He described accurately the advantages gained by the Southerners during the administration of Mr. Pierce, and also under the rule of his successor, Mr. Buchanan, whom the speaker denominated "the arch traitor." The Charleston Convention was broken up in accordance with pre-determined plans on the part of the South; and at length, when the telegraph announced the result of the last Presidential contest, the South said, "Now is our time;" and from that day the Southern man who dared to stand up for the Constitution and the Union was denounced as a submissionist, or, worst of all, "an abolitionist"—the latter epithet being considered there as more degrading than that of horse-thief, vagabond or murderer—and the design of immediately seizing upon the property and forts of the United States was thenceforward no longer mentioned in secret.
The secession of Louisiana and the raising of rebel armies in that State were referred to. The Union men of the South adopted the policy of bowing like the reed before the storm, expecting to stand erect again when the calm ensued, rather to resist like the oak, and be torn to pieces by their opponents. The Union men agreed that when the first gun should be fired upon Fort Sumter, from that moment the institution of slavery would begin to go down, and would go down forever. No arguments were listened to, however, and the work went on for the first year of the war.
It is a law equally of nations and of nature, that if an institution exists in any country under the control of a few individuals, to be used detrimentally to the peace of the government, it is the right and the duty of that government to abolish and destroy it. To this idea the United States government seemed to awake at the beginning of the second year of the war; and the proclamation of emancipation was styled by the speaker as being a severer blow to the rebellion than all the Federal victories combined. Since arriving in Boston, he remarked that he had heard the constitutionality of that edict brought into question. Boston is called, par excellence, the Athens of America, and on the present occasion he desired to say, as Paul did to the Athenians of old, "I perceive that you are too superstitious." He then said that he felt just as certain of the constitutionality of the proclamation as he was that the sun would rise to-morrow morning, or that there was a God in heaven.
He referred to the wisdom of those who framed our Constitution, and to the provisions of that instrument conferring upon the President, when acting as military commander, powers almost dictatorial. The experience of nations must be the only guide to the President or military commander of any country during the exigencies of war; and the familiar argument was mentioned, that slavery ought not to form any exception to the causes of trouble which it is in the power of the President, acting in his military capacity, to remove.
To the argument frequently mentioned, that the proclamation cannot be enforced, or, if it can, that the presence of the Federal army will be needed to permit such a result, the speaker said: "Suppose the last battle of the war is fought to-night at Chattanooga, and peace is to be speedily declared. The transition from a state of war to that of peace cannot be effected momentarily, and during the interim military law must govern the entire South, carrying into effect irresistibly the proclamation of the President, and liberating every slave in the country." He observed that recent conversations with President Lincoln might not be made public at the present time, but he felt at liberty to say, that, from intercourse with that gentleman, he was fully persuaded that the proclamation would never be abrogated nor receded from.
He commended the Federal army for their benevolence toward the needy inhabitants of New Orleans, and eulogized Gen. Butler as the man sent of Heaven to restore order to their distracted population and feed the poor. He likewise warmly complimented Gen. Banks, saying it was glory enough for one State to have sent two such men from within its borders. In conclusion, he said that the scenes of the evening would be among the proudest recollections of his lifetime, and be returned to the people of Boston and Massachusetts his warmest thanks for their kindness to him, while he bade them a regretted farewell.
Judge Hiestand spoke for about an hour and a half, and was repeatedly interrupted by enthusiastic and prolonged applause. He has been a resident in New Orleans for upwards of thirty years, and has been during that time a slaveholding Democrat. His address was well delivered, and evidently made a very powerful and pleasing impression.
<c04>
LONDON ON-DITS.
LONDON, Sept. 25th, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON,—Thinking that perhaps another letter might be acceptable to your readers, touching important matters now transpiring in this great metropolis, especially and primarily the transference to a more congenial dime, of that bloated Virginian "flesh-pot," ycleped, Confederate minister, Jeff. Davis's own anointed one, the thick-skulled, oligarchical swell of fugitive slave law notoriety; the insolent, intolerant, overbearing, domineering slaveocrat; the insulter of Northern senators, statesmen, and clergymen; the prince reprobate of Old Dominion Rebeldom, JAMES M. MASON. His exit, and the causes which have led to it, are thus chronicled in the Daily Star of this morning:
"We publish to-day the letter in which Mr. Mason announced to Earl Russell his intention to leave London. Jefferson Davis, it seems, believes that the government of Her Majesty has determined to decline the overtures made through Mr. Mason, for establishing friendly relations with the Confederates, and, therefore, thinks the longer stay of that individual in London would be neither "conducive to the interests nor consistent with the dignity" of the Richmond Government. The Index, the Confederate organ in London, however, hints that there is a further reason than that alleged in the letter for Mr. Mason's withdrawal. France has done, it says, no more than England in the way of recognizing the South; but Mr. Slidell has always been courteously received by the French Government, and had access to the Ministers, while Mr. Mason, after his first and last and only interview with Earl Russell, has had nothing but curt replies to all his communications.
He quits our shores disappointed and despairing. The emissary of rebellions slaveocracy has pleaded in vain for our nation's friendship. He departs—a baffled tempter; the only accusation he can bring against us being the record of our fidelity to a glorious faith, and hatred of a flaunting lie."
Mason's letter reads as follows:—
"24, UPPER SEYMOUR ST., PORTMAN SQUARE, September 21st, 1863. 
The Right Honorable Earl Russell, Her Majesty's Secretary Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.
MY LORD,—In a despatch from the Secretary of State of the Confederate States of America, dated 4th day of August last, and now just received, I am instructed to consider the commission which brought me to England as at an end, and I am directed to withdraw at once from this country.
The reasons for terminating this mission are set forth in an extract from the despatch, which I have the honor to communicate herewith.
‘The President believes that the Government of her Majesty has determined to decline the overtures made through you for establishing, by treaty, friendly relations between the two Governments, and entertains no intention of receiving you as the accredited minister of this Government near the British Court. Under these circumstances, your continued residence in London is neither conducive to the interests nor consistent with the dignity of this Government, and the President, therefore, requests that you consider your mission at an end, and that you withdraw with your secretary from London.'
Having made known to your lordship on my arrival here the character and purposes of the mission entrusted to me by my Government, I have deemed it due to courtesy thus to make known to the Government of Her Majesty its termination, and that I shall, as directed, at once withdraw from England.
I have the honor to be, your lordship's very obedient servant, J. M. MASON."
Jeff. Davis speaks so complacently of the dignity of his government, it is funny enough for Punch. I've heard of honor among thieves, but the idea of there being either dignity or decency among the piratical, slave-driving villains, who form the Richmond Cabal, is ludicrous in the extreme.
I sometimes almost hope that the ancient orthodox doctrine of a literal hell of fire and brimstone may prove true, that those Southern traitors to God and man, who may escape the halter, may have their pinfeathers thoroughly singed in that boiling sulphurous cauldron.
From a long list of grievances as set forth to the world by the secessionists' own organ, the Index, I extract the following, from which you will perceive that those holy men at Richmond, with the eminent saint, Jeff. Davis, at their head, have been sorely tried by the "cold and curt" treatment which their great apostle has received from the English Government. Davis must appoint another day of fasting and prayer, and he had better tell the Reverend Rebel Fathers in God, that their prayers must be more importunate, or the Devil will surely have the whole of them; that up to this time all their pious ejaculations, have failed to move the Established Church of England, notwithstanding such lusty, drunken knaves as the Episcopal Prelate of the Southern Confederate Church, the Right Reverend Father in God, Bishop Leonidas Polk, Major-General of Jeff. Davis's rabble-crew, have undoubtedly "cried aloud and spared not," in response to every pious proclamation of their illustrious master, the saintly, repudiating scoundrel of Mississippi Bonds notoriety. But to the comments of the Index:-
"It will be seen by the extract given in the letter of recal, that it is placed by the Confederate President on the ground of the persistent refusal of England to enter into the relations of amity usual between foreign powers—a condition of things which, in the opinion of the President, would make the continuance of the mission ‘neither conducive to the interests nor consistent with the dignity of the Government of which he is at the head.' Mr. Slidell, we understand, will remain in France as Special Commissioner to that Government, nor is it at all contemplated to terminate that mission; and yet France, equally with England, has so far refrained from entering into international relations with the Confederate States. All England will admit that the Government of those States is in the hands of able, experienced, and judicious statesmen; and we are sufficiently conversant with Southern circles and Southern men to know, that with other marked differences between the sections North and South in America there exists this—that in the South the general feeling to England has been one of goodwill and respect. There must be, then, some overruling cause for the difference thus made between France and England in the termination of the mission to the one, and not to the other. To those at all conversant with what is passing in the Southern States, this is no mystery. Mr. Slidell has been received and has been uniformly treated by the Government of France with every mark of consideration and respect for the Government he represents. There may be grave reasons regarding policy or public law why France, like England, may not deem it incumbent as yet to recognize those States as an independent political power; but their representative has been freely admitted to every form of intercourse with the Government of France, to personal interviews with the Emperor whenever he has asked for them, with immediate access to all or any of the Ministry, at first request. This would seem indeed but an ordinary courtesy to a gentleman in his position; the refusal of it would be more than a discourtesy; it would be an actual indignity to those whose representative he is.
In England, Mr. Mason has been held by the Government in the very opposite position. His correspondence with the Foreign Office, laid before Congress at Richmond, we know from the Southern press produced a feeling of deep and universal indignation. It showed that, with the exception of a single and formal interview with Earl Russell, on his first arrival, appointed at his residence and not at the Foreign Office, he had been admitted to no intercourse whatever with any member of the Government; whilst a second interview with Earl Russell, asked for some months after the first, was by that Minister curtly refused. It showed further that, to all outward or other manifestation, the presence of a Confederate Commissioner in London was no further recognized than by brief replies to such communications as he was from time to time instructed to make to the Minister of this Government.
Whilst we sincerely regret, therefore, the necessity which has imposed on President Davis the duty of terminating the Confederate Commission to England, we are bound to admit that his forbearance has been tested to the utmost."
So you see that, with a heavy heart, sad, solitary and alone, save with the accompanying footsteps of his Secretary, he, departs to join his more vivacious and less afflicted rebel brother, the insinuating Slidell, under the shadow of the Tuileries, hoping that Napoleon the Third, that eminent moralist, will be less "cold and curt" than Earl Russell.
Senator Sumner's last great speech at the Cooper Institute in New York reached us by the last mail. The Star of to-day contains copious extracts from it, amounting in all to about four columns, together with a leading editorial of a column and a half, very ably written, and highly eulogistic. The following extract will convey a good idea of the editor's views:-
<c05>
"There rune through the whole of Mr. Sumner's gigantic oration-far too long to have been spoken as printed, but yet without a word of superfluous argument or declamation-an idea on which we can now only touch. From the first sentence to the last, slavery is present to his mind. It colors all his reasoning. It inspires him to prodigious eloquence. Not merely as the Senator for Massachusetts, the honored chieftain of the political abolitionists, but as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, he sees everywhere the presence of the Slave Power. Against it he invokes, in periods of classic beauty and of fervid strength, all the moral forces of the mother country. To England he makes a passionate and pathetic appeal-more for her own sake than that of the slave—more for the sake of future than of present effects-that she withdraw all favor and succor from rebel slave-owners. Happily, we can answer his appeal with facts as well as words. Our country is justified even by the man who sought to seduce her into degradation. On the same day that we print Mr. Sumner's heart-moving reproaches, we print also Mr. Mason's accusing farewell."
President Lincoln's letter to the Springfield Convention has filled the hearts of all loyal Americans on this side the water, and all sympathizing Englishmen, with joy. There has been much fear and trembling here, lest the step so nobly taken by him of emancipation to the slave might be either abandoned, or so far modified as to render it nugatory. But the flat has gone forth in reaffirmation of the first, in the terse language of the President:— "The word has become flesh, and dwells among us, therefore my proclamation cannot be annulled. "So mote it be!

PARROTT TICKLERS.
If the President's letter has given great satisfaction and inspired confidence, the thunderings of Gen. Gillmore's Parrott guns have carried consternation of thousands of rebel sympathizers, and naval and military boasters in this country are paralyzed in view of such, stupendous and before unheard-of achievements. The tone of public speech and the voice of the press have undergone an entire change since the accounts reached us of Gen. Gillmore's brilliant practice. The abusers and contemners of the Yankees, as they call us in derision, the fossilized old fogies of the old world, are beginning to rub open their Rip Van Winkle closed eyes, and confess that the light which streams in upon them from across three thousand miles of ocean is dazzling almost to blindness. Parrott and Gillmore have done more than all the politicians or diplomats to save us from foreign intervention.
Guns that will destroy a fort like Sumter at a distance of 3 miles, and can shell a city at a distance of 5 miles, speak with a voice so loud that the world must listen and pause.
I have learned that Washington Wilkes, Esq., the Editor of the Morning Star, whose able contributions for the past two years, in favor of the Northern cause, have given such zest to the paper, and have been so instrumental in creating and sustaining correct views on American affairs, is about to visit Boston. I bespeak for him the heartiest welcome. He has richly earned it by his fearless devotion to truth.
That indefatigable and tireless laborer, our noble friend, George Thompson, Esq., still works on, early and late, day and night, week after week and month after month; he works on, never faltering, never fearing, believing that in the end truth and righteousness will prevail over falsehood and vice. For thirty years has he thus worked and labored for humanity. He is as thoroughly American in his feelings and sympathies as if born upon her soil, and reared among her institutions. America, when purged of her plague-spot, should remember his self-sacrificing labors in her behalf. She can never repay him. You may have seen a letter which I wrote some weeks since to our friend Johnson of the Standard, protesting against the constant impositions practised upon Mr. Thompson by mistaken friends, in sending colored persons to him from America for protection and employment. It has made fearful inroads upon his scanty means, and is a practice so reprehensible that it should be stopped at once.
In the Standard which came to hand this week, I notice a letter from our old friend, Richard D.Webb of Dublin, in which he refers to my letter, and endorses its sentiments as follows:- "I was glad to see the letter of Mr. Jewett from London, in a late number of the Standard, remonstrating against the way in which George Thompson is overwhelmed by applications from colored paupers, who bring introductions from America. Mr. Thompson is the man who should be most carefully protected from all such intrusion. He is far from being a rich man; his heart is infinitely larger than his purse; and in common justice to his family and himself, he should not be sponged in this way. Within the last three years, some Englishmen have written powerful articles, admirable books, potent and convincing essays; but for the last thirty years, no man has laid his time, his talents, his means, his chances for promotion and pecuniary independence, or has opened his doors, or spread his table so unreservedly for the slave and his advocates as George Thompson."
My paper is filled, and I must close.
Yours, for humanity,
JOHN P. JEWETT.

MATTERS AND THINGS IN ENGLAND.
LONDON, Sept 23, 1863—3, P. M.,
Something of a sensation is derived from the news that the Kearsage has also entered Brest, and is sharing with the Florida French hospitality. The stars and stripes, and stars and bars, are quietly waving in the same breeze. It is announced also in the papers, that the Kearsage was attended as near as off Lisbon by another American corvette; and the popular idea is, that there is soon to be a pitched battle between the latter and the Florida. There are even bets making up. But this is all very doubtful. Those here who have the best right to know doubt much whether there is any such ship near Lisbon. Unless the Kearsage was in pressing need of repairs, it seems a pity that she should have put in at Brest, when the rule must detain her twenty-four hours after the Florida has gone. Unless she can get out first, it will simply result in the escape of the privateer, which is the swifter of the two, and means certainly to run away.
Mr. Mason has shaken English dust from his feet, and repaired to the more congenial atmosphere of Paris. He informs Lord Russell in a note, that he is instructed by his government so to do. I have seen no crape festooning the streets. The Times even says it is a "great relief." Think of that for a parting between friends! The Confederate Loan seems to be in as low spirits as the Commissioner, having fallen to 31. Alas, Mason, these English will worship success, and all the glories of Slavery fade before the occupation of the whole Southwest! There is no doubt now of the reaction in favor of the North. Mr. Adams told me to-day, that there, were evidences of it everywhere. Mr. Solicitor Whiting is yet sojourning amongst the Scotch lakes, there being no Courts at this season, when no convulsion of empires could induce an aristocrat to be detected in his London residence. It is probable that the pleadings and affidavits made at Knoxville and Chattanooga, and making at Charleston, may supersede the necessity of his learning and acumen. That Greek fire, rascally as it is, is bearing a vast deal of illumination to the judicial minds of England.
There is a preparation for parliamentary elections going on throughout England, which indicates a feeling in the country that the present Parliament may be ere long dissolved. The legal limit of life would bear this Parliament to 1866, but it is rare for a Parliament to fill out its measure of legal existence. Of course, if the majority should be with the opposition, and press its position, Palmerston would have it dissolved, and appeal to the people. This may happen in the present excitement concerning the foreign relations of the Government, especially toward Russia. But however this may be, the political drumbeat is heard throughout the kingdom. The best indication is, that Mr. Roebuck's continuance for the representation of Sheffield is to be hotly contested,—the opposition resting almost entirely upon his course on
<c06>
American affairs. It is thought he can hardly stand the opposition of the 2500 electors, (a vast number in England,) who have declared against him. His opponent is the present Mayor of Sheffield, a true liberal, who rejoices in the name of John Brown; and here's hoping that his soul may go marching on!
L'Europe, the best informed paper in Germany, announces definitely that Maximilian has accepted the Mexican crown, even with the required stipulation of abandoning the possibility allowed him by the Austrian law of an intervening regency over the Austrian kingdom. This shows that he was more eager after the trans-atlantic bauble (or bubble) than was generally supposed. The British Cabinent probably settled this matter by the promise of material aid, (not military, England being resolved not to fight.) The authentic announcement of England's concurrence in the French plans for Mexico came out, by a comical coincidence, at the very time of the intelligence that Miramon had been appointed by Napoleon Commander-in-Chief of the Mexican forces. Miramon was perhaps the only Mexican whose name and character were familiar to the English. When, in the outset of the expedition against Mexico, England agreed to unite with it, the chief ground upon which that policy was justified by the Government was the bold robberies which had been committed upon English subjects. Nay, it was said, had not Miramon robbed the very agents of the English Government! And now this robber-in-chief is made Commander-in-Chief under the new Government which English gold goes to establish in Mexico! This is the coolest thing of the season. It is a case of French Gortchakoffing-to use a new word. It is as icy as a note from the steppes of Russia. But Albion must remember that Louis Napoleon has a weakness for brigands and brigandage, well known in Italy, and destined to be as well known in Mexico. Indeed, he did not do by all Mexico what Miramon did by English subjects there. Surely, no appointment could have been more on <illegible>
The English and French journals are having some talk sharp enough to disturb diplomatic nerves. Each is trying to make it out that the other has suffered most in the late encounter with Gortchakoff. The note to France, says the Times, "is a slap in the face, and nothing else." L'Opinion returns, "British pride was once proverbial. If the British Cabinet declares itself satisfied with the reply of the Russian Chancellor, one must henceforward speak of British humility." Gentlemen, you have both been kicked, and are both taking it meekly enough: the less said the better, as neither of you mean to do anything!
The American Consul at Leeds, J. W. Marshall, Esq., is now on a visit to his half-brother, the Rev. Dr. MCChutack of Paris. Mr. M. is an indefatigable worker, and able to meet the immense demands made upon a Consul at Leeds, whose trade with the United States, during the past year, amounted to nearly $25,000,000. He is a Virginian, and an earnest emancipationist. He sees signs of a strong reaction in that neighborhood in favor of the Northern cause. An immense public meeting on the American question, by the way, occurred at Leeds on Monday evening, presided over by the Hon. Mr. Foster, who made a very eloquent opening speech. The meeting was convened to hear an address from the Rev. Wm. H. Channing, who spoke with surpassing eloquence and cogency. The presence of Mr. Channing on a visit of a few weeks to England has been the occasion for several very important meetings. One of these took place at Liverpool, the scene of his former pastoral labors. He spoke there to a vast crowd with great effect. Mr. C. has been in the country a month, and will leave in a few weeks for his devoted labor amongst our soldiers at Washington.
The Social Science Convention, which lately met at Ghent, was one composed of men of the most eminent character and ability, and its discussion, and will do votes have called out much discussion, and will do much toward shaping public opinion. Among other things, the right of the Confederate States to adoption in the family of nations was thoroughly discussed; it was affirmed, that if successful, that government would be an organized barbarism, and should in no event be recognised. An overwhelming vote in favor of this position was carried. The Convention also discussed at length the topic of Capital of Punishment. A list was read of 167 criminals executed, of whom 161 had witnessed executions, as showing the little advantage gained by such scenes in preventing crime. The discussion of the Death Penalty has been revived in this country by the terrible scene at Liverpool, the other day, of the execution at once of four murderers, and the disgusting behavior of the crowds which flocked by excursion trains to witness it.
A man has just been found starved to death in this richest of all cities. His wife, when brought in to give evidence, was found reduced to a skeleton by hunger. They had been refused admission to the work-house. The jury returned a verdict in accordance with the facts. A subscription was raised in Court for the woman. There has scarcely been one day in this month in which cases of suicide or attempted suicide have not come before the authorities, in every case the result of desperate poverty.
Walking near Haymarket, the other day, I paused with a crowd at the window of a shoe-shop, and saw the separate pieces of a Congress boot put together, uppers screwed to sole, and all polished and put in the window on sale, -all in the space of fifteen minutes, exactly. The new machine by which this is done is of Parisian patent. It claims to do what has hitherto been done by twenty-six various workers. The work was certainly very elegantly and swiftly done.
A far greater discovery, however, is just now engaging the attention of the scientific and medical world. Few English names are more familiar to Americans than that of Dr. John Chapman, once the leading publisher of heretical books, now editor of the Westminster, and always a devotee of science and medicine. He is well acquainted with many scientific and literary Americans; and many of them, amongst others Mr. Emerson, have resided in his house when in England. This Dr. Chapman has been for years engaged in studies and experiments connected with the nervous system alone, with such men as Dr. Brown Sequard and Claude Bernard of Paris. For the past year he has been proving a tremendous discovery- namely, the cure of epilepsy, and many diseases hitherto deemed incurable, by means, of the external application of ice and hot water, in India-rubber bags, at various parts of the spinal cord, acting thus upon the sympathetic nerve, and through it upon the most important and vital regions of the body. Many eminent physicians have accompanied Dr. C. to see the marvels which he had wrought upon patients who had long ago despaired of health. Some physicians, amongst others Dr. Wilkinson, (though a homoeopathist,) have so recognized the importance of the discovery as to commit to Dr. Chapman's care some of their patients. Cases are attested where a man for six years had three fits (on an average) daily-a girl who had two from the ages of 13 to 17, had been entirely cured by ice. Just as wonderful have been the cures of paralysis. Many of the worst and most inveterate female diseases have yielded to the new cure. The treatment is as simple as it is grand. Any one who is troubled by the pressure of blood on the brain will find that, by holding a bag of ice on the nape of the neck ten minutes, an equable flow of blood can be secured. Those who are troubled with habitual cold feet may find relief by applying ice to the small of the back in the lumbar region. It is hard to estimate the importance of this discovery, which will ere long be ranked by the side of that of Jenner. Several hospitals are already under Dr. C's practice, and, as yet, no one can bring forward an instance of failure. LANSDALE.
We copy from the Boston Journal the report of the emphatic and eloquent speech of Judge Hiestand, of Louisiana, delivered before an immense audience at the Tremont Temple on Monday evening. How it should cause every copperhead to blush!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A LETTER FROM HON. JOSIAH QUINOY.
The New York Evening Post publishes the following letter, addressed by the venerable Josiah Quincy to President Lincoln. It will be read with much interest:

HON. ABRAHAM LINCOLN:
SIR: Old age has its privileges which I hope this letter will not exceed. But I cannot refrain from expressing to you my gratification and my gratitude for pressing to you my gratification and my gratitude for your letter to the Illinois Convention; happy, timely, your letter to the Illinois Convention; happy, timely, conclusive, and effective. What you say concerning emancipation, your proclamation, and your course of proceedings in relation to it, was due to truth and your own character—shamefully assailed as it has been. The development is an imperishable monument of wisdom and virtue.
Negro slavery and the possibility of emancipation have been subjects of my thought for more than seventy years; being first introduced to it by the debates in the convention of Massachusetts for adopting the Constitution, in 1788, which I attended. I had subsequently opportunities of knowing the views on that subject, not only of such men as Hamilton, King, Jay and Pickering, but also of distinguished slaveholders—of both the Pinckneys, of William Smith of South Carolina, and of many others. With the first of these, I had personal intercourse and acquaintance. I can truly say that I never knew the individual, slaveholder or non-slaveholder, who did not express a detestation of it, and the desire and disposition to get rid of it. The only difficulty, in case of emancipation, was What shall we do for the master, and what shall we do with the slave? A satisfactory answer to both these questions has been, until now, beyond the reach and the grasp of human wisdom and power.
Through the direct influence of a good and gracious God, the people of the United States have been invested with the power of answering satisfactorily both these questions, and also providing for the difficulties incident to both, of which, if they fail to avail themselves, thoroughly and conclusively, they will entail shame on themselves, and sorrow and misery on many generations.
It is impossible for me to regard the power thus granted to this people otherwise than as proceeding from the direct influence of a superintending Providence, whoever makes those mad whom he intends to destroy.
The only posssible way in which slavery, after it had grown to such height, could have been abolished, is that which Heaven has adopted. 
Your instrumentality in the work is to you a subject of special glory, favor and felicity. The madness of secession and its inevitable consequence, civil war, will, in their result, give the right and the power of universal emancipation sooner or later. If the United States do not understand and fully appreciate the boon thus bestowed on them, and fail to improve it to the uttermost extent of the power granted, they will prove recreant to themselves and posterity.
I write upon the impression that the victory of the United States in this war is inevitable. 
Compromise is impossible. Peace on any other basis would be the establishment of two nations, each hating the other, both military, both necessarily hostile, their territories interlocked, with a tendency to never-ceasing hostility. Can we leave to posterity a more cruel inheritance, or one more hopeless of happiness and prosperity?
Pardon the liberty, I have taken in this letter, and do not feel obliged in any way to take notice of it: and believe me,
Ever your grateful and obliged servant,
JOSIAH QUINCY.
Quincy, September 7, 1863.
In publishing this admirably characteristic letter of the venerable Quincy, the Evening Post says:—
"This letter, a copy of which, in the firm and clear handwriting of its author, we have seen, was not in-tended for the public eye, and it has been acknowledged, as we are told, by Mr. Lincoln in terms of the most frank and cordial nature. We believe that we violate no rule of propriety in laying it before the pubic, which we have done after consultation with some of Mr. Quincy’s friends. There is nothing in it which is otherwise than highly honorable to both him and the eminent personage to whom it is addressed, and the subject is of such universal interest and is treated in such a manner, that few will dissent from the judgment which we have formed, that the public have a right to read it now, instead of waiting for its future appearance in historic form. One of its remarkable characteristics is the hopeful and confident tone in which it speaks of the eventful victory of the cause of the United States Government. Age is ordinarily timid and desponding, but the age of Mr. Quincy has all the desponding, but the age of Mr. Quincy has all the cheerful courage of a vigorous manhood.”
AGREATER THAN EVERETT. The flashes of the rebel musketry and cannon at Gettysburg seem to have illuminated the minds of the dwellers in that part of the State—so long a "region of darkness and night.”." The Carlisle Herald has discovered that Mr. Phillips, despite his devotion to the slave and the truth, is entitled to rank as an orator with Mr. Everett, and even warms into an eulogium but slightly qualified. It says:—
" We received, by mail, a copy of Wendell Phillips’s Speeches and Lectures. While we would by no means be understood as endorsing many of his sentiments, we feel thankful to Mr. Redpath for furnishing to us so fine an edition of the Speeches and Lectures of the ablest and most eloquent orator of modern times. We are all proud of Edward Everett; but any one who bears Phillips feels that we have a greater master of eloquence and persuasion than even he. Mr. Phillips is decidedly radical; yet, if we examine the world’s history, we will find that every great stride in its progress and civilization received its first impulse from some great man, who was far in advance of his age; who was then hated, and slandered, and called a mad fanatic; but who, in after years, came to be the idol of humanity. And just as this is true of Luther and his compeers, so we believe it will be true of Phillips. But it is rather as a work of art and eloquence that we would commend this book to the reader of to-day. (!) Surely, the student can find no better manual of instruction.”

"OUR FOREIGN RELATIONS: A Speech by Hon. CHARLES SUMNER,” at Cooper Institute, New York, September 10, 1863, has been printed in a handsome octavo pamphlet of eighty pages, by the Young Men’s Republican Union. Price twenty-five cents. Copies may be obtained at the office of the New York Tribune. Also copies of Mr. Sumner’s Speech on 
THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY: Same style and price.
Mr. Sumner’s Speech on Our Foreign Relations is undoubtedly the ablest and fullest presentment of that subject that has yet been made.
MESSAGE OF GOV. SMITH. The message of Gov. Smith of Vermont, delivered to the Legislature of that State last Friday, concludes as follows:—
" "In no doubtful sense is Vermont the uncompromissing foe of tyranny and oppression, in whatever form or wherever it exists. Free as the air of her native hills in all her own institutions and policies, she has ever advocated the great principles of Constitutions and policies, she has ever advocated the great principles of Constitutional liberty, in their broadest sense, and maintained them with unwavering fidelity, yet adhering steadfastly to the Union in all its integrity. It was this that actuated her, when at the outbreak of the war, the first of all the States, she threw off the shackles of party, and declared herself unqualifiedly for the Constitution and the Union, and for sustaining the Administration in all its efforts to suppress the rebellion, applying no test of political faith but loyalty to the government; and yet, in all this yielding up none of the great cardinal principles for which she has for years so faithfully contended.
Hence it was, that when the proclamation for the emancipation of the slaves was promulgated, she hailed the measure with extreme satisfaction, not only as a military necessity, but as a harbinger of ultimate destruction to that institution, which has been the origin and cause of our national troubles.”
This eulogy bestowed upon Vermont is justly mertred. She is "the star that never sets."
The State election in Pennsylvania, on Tuesday last, gives Gov. Curtin a majority of not less than twenty thousand over Judge Woodward, Democratic. In Is Ohio, Brough’s (Union) majority over Vallandigham (Copperhead Outlaw) is said to be not less than ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND!! Nobly done!
<c02>
A NOBLE ENTERPRISE.
We have been remiss in not earlier calling the attention of our readers to the great work undertaken by the Women’s Loyal League of New York, at their meeting last May. They then formed an organization, of which Mrs. E. C. Stanton is President, and Miss Susan B. Anthony Secretary, for the purpose, first, of procuring a. million signatures to a petition to Congress, for the emancipation by law of all the slaves in the country. This petition; drawn up by Hon. Robert Dale Owen, and already signed by thousands of men and women in all parts of the land, is printed to-day at the head of our columns, and will remain there until the meeting of Congress, for the convenience of our readers who may wish, to sign or circulate .It is a petition that few of the loyal people of the North can refuse to sign; for if it be objected that Congress has no power to pass such an act, and if this objection be well founded (which we deny,) then of course " the earliest practicable day”" will be after such changes have been made in the Constitution as will allow such a law to be passed.
Certainly, there can be few loyal men in the North, who do not earnestly pray for the emancipation of the slaves at the " earliest practicable day,”," since Reverdy Johnson, the Maryland lawyer, has just declared that to be his prayer. This petition then, if Congress decide the matter to be out of its jurisdiction, will serve as an indication of the popular wish for such action in other ways as shall bring about the same result. Therefore all who honestly prefer Freedom to Slavery can and ought to sign it.
Miss Anthony, the efficient Secretary of the League, which is extending itself over the whole North and West, is now in Boston, making arrangements for the circulation of the petition throughout New England, where, as yet, few signatures have been procured. We her and her enterprise to the assistance of our readers, and of all friends of the Union and of Freedom. It will be seen by the following pledge, adopted by the League last May, how broad is the basis of principles on which it is proposed to operate:—
We, the Undersigned, Women of the United States, agree to become members of the Women’s Loyal National League; hereby pledging our most earnest influence in support of the Government, in its prosecution of the War for Freedom, and for the restoration of the National Unity.
God speed these patriotic women in their labor of love!—Commonwealth.
THE LOYAL WOMEN’S PET1TION.
Subscription papers were some time since sent to several ladies in this city, with the request that they would interest themselves in procuring signatures. We do not know what has been done in the matter, but presume not much, as we have heard of no plan of systematic action being adopted; and without some systematic method, such a work cannot be properly accomplished.
Mr. Willits, of Mercer County, has lately under-taken to set the ball in motion in this and adjoining counties, and is devoting himself to the cause. In some places, he calls public meetings, at which the people are stirred up to the importance of the subject, and committees appointed to canvass towns and neigh-borhoods for the signatures of all women who wish to hasten the day of universal emancipation for our slavery-cursed country—and there are few women who do not. In other places, he finds individuals who volunteer to go out independently, and canvass for signatures.
There is another petition, similar to the foregoing, for subscription by men. They will generally be circulated together, and it is hoped the men will not fall behind the women in the number of their signatures, but that a full million at least of them will be sent into Congress, to plead for the regeneration of our country.
This is the most important petition that was ever circulated for signatures, and we hope the means will be adopted to insure its presentation to every woman in the North. We have no doubt but a million of names, and more, will be obtained if proper exertions are made; and we have very little doubt but Congress will pass the act thus petitioned for before its adjournment next summer. We hope Mr. Willits will find ready co-operators here, and wherever he goes in the good work of making arrangements for the circulation of the petition.—Galesburg Free Democrat.

TRAGIC DEATH OF FRANSI J. GRUND. 
On Monday night of last week, Mr. Grund made a thrilling Union speech at the Union League House in Philadelphia, an extract from which appeared in the Press of Saturday morning. This was his first public avowal that he should oppose the democratic party and support the administration. After leaving the League Room, he went to his house in Spruce street, not knowing that anything unusual was transpiring in the city.
Soon after he arrived home, it seems a serenade to Gen. McClellan—who had arrived in the evening, and taken lodgings at his mother’s in Spruce street—was improvised, and about a thousand people with a band, started in procession for that locality. In advance of the procession, says one of the city papers—
There was a crowd of from two to three hundred, who moved along in mob form, crowing, and making night hideous with their caterwaulings. One could very well suppose that " hell had broken loose, and all the fiends were here.." This crowd, on reaching Spruce street, suddenly gave many yells, and made a grand rush to the doorsteps of the houses, got on them, while others stood scattering over the street in front thereof. Quite a number of them struck matches, and , by the light thereof examined door-plates and bell-knobs, to ascertain who lived in the houses. We infer this from the fact that the crowd seemed to be anxious or uneasy, and several exclaimed, " Where does he live in?”
It seems that this disorderly crowd, wishing to be ahead of the serenading party, were looking for the house at which Gen. McClellan was lodged—in order, probably, to secure good positions—but by mistake they had stopped in the immediate neighborhood of Mr. Grund’s house, and hearing the unearthly noises, he looked out, and seeing the motley crew, observing their search for door-plates, and hearing their questions, he naturally thought he was himself the object of their pursuit. It seems that he dressed and left the house, and made for the nearest police station, and reaching a seat, in an excited tone exclaimed, " "I am sick; they are mobbing my house!" The police officer who had charge of the station tells the rest:
Mr. Miller, the night telegraphic operator, was pre-sent. We removed the vest of the stranger, and partly unbuttoned his pantaloons. I asked him if he was subject to heart disease, and he replied, " No; I have a very bad cold; won’t you send for a surgeon? I must be bled; I am dying.” ." I immediately hastened to Dr. Hewston, at the corner of Fifteenth and Walnut streets; he had just entered his house. I told him that a man was dying at the station house, and wanted to be bled. As I was returning to the station house, I met Mr. Miller, who told me the stranger was bleeding from the mouth; while I was absent, he had rolled over on the floor. We picked him up, and laying him on the settee, he kind of gurgled out that his name was Grundy, or some such a name as that. We asked him where he lived, and he replied, 1709 Spruce. street. This was as near as we could make out. I immediately dispatched officer McIntyre to hunt the residence; he found it; he saw the son of the stranger, and telling him of the circumstances, he came at once with the officer to the .station house. I took the watch, eye-glass and purse—containing some-thing over $13—from his pockets just as the doctor arrived; I placed them on the desk; the next moment I asked the doctor to examine the things, so as to see they would be all right when the man should recover. He replied, " "Give yourself no uneasiness; he isit dead.”." The son, in company with officer McIntyre, was nearing the station-house; it was announced by another officer that the " man was dead;" the son fell instantly to the pavement; we helped him to the station-house, and took him into the telegraph room, and tried to pacify him as much as we could. He said that his father was alarmed at a mob coming up the street; he saw them from the window striking matches against the front of the house; he told Mrs. Grund that the crowd had come to mob him and burn him out; she told him to get out of the back part of the house; she would remain, as they certainly would not harm her. Mr. Grund dressed himself, and left the house; he knew nothing about any serenade to Gen. McClellan. 

The following letter is published in the London papers:
" LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES, LONDON.:
Sir: I have the honor to inform you that the President of the United States has received the resolutions of the Trades Unionists, adopted at their meeting held at St. James’-hall, London, the 26th of March last, and heretofore transmitted to him through the medium of this Legation. I am directed to request you to say to them on his behalf, that he is profoundly impressed by the liberal sentiments which they have expressed in regard to the United States, as well as by their good wishes for the restoration of their internal peace upon the only sure foundation of national integrity and union. The President, moreover, appreciates earnest desire which pervades the ad-dress of the Trades Unionists for the preservation of peace and harmony and mutual affection between Great Britain and the United States. That desire is viewed by him as just, natural, wise, and humane; while it is in exact accordance with the earnest wishes of the American people. The President willingly believes that in these respects the Trades Unionists have spoke the voice of the people of Great Britain, and in the same sense he responds to it on the part of the people of the United States, with equal directness and not less eartnestness.
I have the honor to be., Sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.
JOHN BRIGHT, Esq., M.P.”
<c03>
PRESENTATION OF FLAG’S TO THE SECOND LOUISIANA COLORED REGIMENT.
There was a large and enthusiastic gathering of patriotic men and women at the Church of the Puritans, last evening, to witness the presentation of a set of colors to the Second Louisiana Colored regiment, whose courage, and soldierly bearing was conspicuous in its daring charge at Port Hudson, in which attack it lost 300 men. Colored soldiers, owing to their powers of imitation and habits of obedience, are easy disciplined into good fighting material. They are as eager as the whites to front the enemy. They go as near to the opposing batteries as the whites do. They know that they are fighting the battle of freedom, and that they are fighting against oppression. After the usual devotional exercises., Dr. Cheever said it was his intention to have continued his discourses on the claims of the colored race, but he would cheerfully give way to the gentlemen present. He read an extract from a paper showing that colored soldiers received only $10 per month, and of that amount $3 per month is withheld to be appropriated for their military clothing. The soldiers of the Fifty-fourth regiment are disinclined to accept such pay, and their officers could not prevail upon, them to accept it.
The Rev. Mr. Bradford, of the 12th Connecticut, being introduced, said his was the fifth regiment on Ship Island. It afterwards went to New Orleans; remained in camp six months, about ten miles from the city, under Gen. Phelps; afterward went to Port Hudson. Thus he had opportunities to study the character of the negro. He had every reason to believe that negroes make good soldiers. He spoke of the cruel treatment of the negroes at the South. He exhibited an iron collar which he had taken from the neck of a negro. He related a number of cases of cruelty to the blacks, and then proceeded at great length to speak of the peculiar characteristics of the black soldiers.
The Rev. Mr. Conway followed. He stated that he was a member of the colored corps. He had good opportunities for studying the character and peculiarities of colored men. He knew what constituted a good regiment, having been with one of the best white regiments (the Fire Zouaves) in the service. He did not think they were superior to white soldiers, but he thought they were equal to them in valor and endurance. He never saw a colored soldier put in the guard-house; never heard of a single case of drunkenness in his regiment; he never saw a colored soldier court-martialed. We wanted soldiers, and he was glad to see hundreds of them go down into Berwick Bay, their rags taken from them, their persons washed with soap and water, and Uncle Sam’s uniform put upon them. Then they stood up erect and proud, and felt their manhood. If at first they are awkward in going through the manual of arms, they soon get over that awkwardness, for they drill for amusement after going through the regular drill. After a little practice they go through the evolutions just as well as white men do. The injustice of not paying them as much as white soldiers receive for the same service is a source of annoyance. They are not only useful as soldiers, but they are useful as laborers, working faithfully every where—cutting new roads, bridging gulfs, digging dykes, raising sunken vessels, loading and unloading vessels, &c. They endure hardships patiently —they face danger bravely.
E. Ketchum, Esq., alluded to the strangeness of the fact, that a stand of colors should be presented to black soldiers, many of them formerly slaves. He alluded to the courage and loyalty of the colored troops, and at the, close of his remarks presented the colors.
A collection was taken up to aid a school to be organized for the benefit of the members of this regiment.
The colors were of the usual size, and richly ornamented. In a scroll was the name of the Regiment, dates, &c., &c.—Y. N. Tribune.

TRUE UNIONISM IS MARYLAND. The Union party in Maryland manifests its loyalty by the expression of opinions which are far from pleasant to the parties opposing the Administration in the most populous States. The following resolution was passed at an immense meeting held at Elkton a few days since:
Resolved, That the present contest now going on in the States of Ohio and Pennsylvania, between the friends of the Union and freedom and the supporters of rebellion and slavery, excites our liveliest interest. That to John Brough and Andrew G. Curtin, and the brave men who rally to their standards, we tender our best wishes and prayers for success.
The last Baltimore American discusses the subject of emancipation in the following strain:
Day by day the question of emancipation moves with accelerated speed, with more overwhelming power. Those who cannot or will not keep in the advance, will be run over or left behind; because, as we have said, the people are with the movement, and they will make their influence felt.
 And where will it stop? Not until emancipation in Maryland is a thing entirely accomplished, as it is already in part. And when the fate of slavery is indeed sealed here, when our statutes are made to bear record of the mighty change, let no revolutionist—whether his home be in South Carolina or, here—charge the people of Maryland with a forgetfulness of their obligations. The revolution to strengthen and establish slavery has overthrown slavery. Maryland had slight or no interest in its preservation at any time, when we regard the fact of how it has retarded her progress. Let her accept the change, then, willingly, if not with exultation, when a new career is thus opened to her, when a more splendid prospect beckons her on ward. Temporarily, indeed, it may try to the uttermost her endurance, her patience, as the war inaugurated by slavery has done. Ultimately who shall calculate her<? glorious progress—her resplendent future?

FREE AND SLAVE LABOR. 
Henry Winter Davis, in a recent speech at Philadelphia, had something to say about free and slave labor. Here is an extract right to the point, and refutes the cant of the opposition concerning the outrage committed in attempting to free the negroes. He said:
"Everything that the Apocalypse tells about the last day was predicted of the negroes. They were to rob, ravage and burn. Where have they behaved Otherwise than as soldiers? They marched through the streets of Baltimore, and took the military oath. There is not enough of them. Send them South, with arms in their hands. Without this, the President’s proclamation is not worth the paper on which it is written. The man who is afraid of negro equality is not far from it already. How can they be re-moved? Who would compensate King Cotton for the loss of his subjects? Let the cotton lord know that his crop must be raised by free negro labor, and he will be glad to hire the negro to raise it. Who ever heard of a negro running away from where he was free? Who ever heard of a negro running at all?
In Baltimore we know all about it. Half our negroes are free. The slaves are the laziest of the two. The freemen are industrious. They save money, and educate their children, and give our judges less trouble than some other people. Let the planter choose between no cotton and free labor, and they will take the latter. There is no question about it. Large plantations are now cultivated by free-paid negro labor. And even in Maryland, secessionists have gone to their slaves, and offered them higher wages than they would pay white men, if they would agree not to enlist.”

FROM LAWRENCE, KANSAS. 
A correspondent of the Missouri Democrat, who has lately paid a visit to the ruins of Lawrence, Kansas, says:
"The number of buildings burned on the main street was seventy-three, nearly all of which were stores. The amount of property thus destroyed cannot be placed at a lower estimate than a million dollars. A half million more will barely cover the value of buildings destroyed in other parts of the town. Of the property stolen, the value cannot be less than $ 250,000, and at least one hundred thousand dollars in money. Three banks were robbed, three hotels burn-ed to the ground, nearly one hundred stores plundered, three printing offices, thirty-five to forty workshops, sixty or seventy private residences, a number of barns, stables, and one church were destroyed. The terrible effects of the sacking, burning and murderings cannot be realized, except one is here to witness the almost chaos which prevails, and talk with the people who escaped the assassin’s knife.
The most gratifying feature, in spite of the gloom which hangs over the citizens, is the renewed activity which begins to exhibit itself in various ways. Contiguous to the main street, where the city ordinances forbid the erection of wooden buildings, a number of shanties and temporary structures have been improvised, and arc being used for stores and workshops. A dozen stores have been opened in different parts of the town. On the main street, two large blocks which were unfinished at the time of the raid are being rapidly completed. Work has been commenced in clearing the site of the Eldridge House preparatory to the erection of a building. Two out of the three presses destroyed will soon be in operation—the State Journal 1and the Tribune. At least a score of the merchants’ who were burned out have recommenced business. A number of private residences are being finished, including that of Gen. Lane’s, which has been built on the site of the one destroyed.”

REBEL SLAVES SENT TO CUBA. 
It is said that many rebels, in order to secure the value of their slave property, have quietly sent their chattels to Cuba. But this dernier resort has failed them, as through the instrumentality of Mr. Savage, our able consul, many of these slaves have been set free. It is a law of Spain that any slave brought from the continent or adjoining isles becomes free the moment he touches the soil of Cuba. It is the same in the case of a slave being taken from Cuba to Spain, notwithstanding the colonial relations.
<c04>
Earl Russell made an important speech on foreign affairs at Blair Gowrie, Scotland, during which he referred at considerable length to the American question. He justified England in recognizing the Con-federates as belligerents, and answered some of the imputations brought by the people of the North, and particularly the recent speech of Mr. Sumner. He also replied to the complaints of the South in regard to the recognition of the blockade, and asserted that although self-interest demanded that England should break it, she prefers the course of honor, as it would be infamous to break it.
He showed that the government had not sufficient evidence against the Alabama to detain her until after she sailed, and explained, the difficulties of interference in such cases. He drew a line between ordinary vessels unequipped for war purposes and steam rams, which are in themselves formed for arts of offence, and might be used without ever touching the Confederate shores. He asserted that the Government was ready to do everything the duties of neutrality required, everything that is just to a friendly nation, and such as they would wish to be done to themselves, but it would not yield one jot of right to the menace of foreign powers. He complimented the Federal Government and Mr. Seward upon the fairness with which they discussed matters of difference. He denounced the efforts of those who sought to create trouble between America and Europe, and with an expression of friendship toward America, asserted that all his efforts would to be to maintain peace.
Speaking of Poland, Earl Russell defended England’s position, and remonstrated against that of Russia, but he did not: think that England should go to war on the subject. As regards Mexico, he thought that if the Mexicans approved of what was being done for them, they should be allowed to do so.

THE BLAIRS RAMPANT. Francis P. Blair, Jr., has made a savage onslaught on the anti-slavery men of Missouri and the nation, in a recent speech at St. Louis. The temper of his speech is very bad, and in a portion of it, referring to Secretary Chase, he uses the language of a blackguard. His style of address does him no honor, and will not advance the ideas of public policy which he advocates.
Montgomery Blair has also made a speech in Mary, land. Its temper is a slight improvement on that of his brother, but in ability it is much beneath it. We presume there are able men in the nation who take the same views as he—-and it is about time some of them took the subject out of his hands. Montgomery Blair has made the weakest speeches which we remember to have emanated from any one in a similar position in public life. He appears to be about a third-rate lawyer, and to set such a man to holding an argument with master minds like those of Brown-son, Owen, Sumner, and Whiting, is a trifle too absurd.
Montgomery Blair, like his brother Frank, was originally a radical Republican. He was put into the Cabinet at the recommendation of Senators Sumner and Wilson. He turned his back on his principles solely from personal animosity towards the supporters of Fremont.—Roxbury Journal.

PRUDENCE OF THE NEGROES. A New Orleans letter writer extols the prudence of the negroes in their difficult situation in the war: " I saw an old ’Uncle Tom,’ sitting on top of a roadside fence, watching with intense interest the first invasion into his neighborhood of the d—d Yankees. I stepped in front of the old man, and very abruptly asked him if he was for the Confederates or for the Yankees. A smile lit up his old weather-beaten countenance, until it looked like illuminated India rubber, then he said in a coy manner that would have done honor to a young girl, ‘ ’ Why, you see, master, taint for an old nigger like me to know anything ‘bout politics.’ Not content to let him off so easily, I queried, rather sternly,’ Well, sir, let me know which side you are on, any way!’ The old darkey kept up his ineffable smile, for a moment, and then assuming a gravity that was ridiculous, remarked, ’I’m on do Lord’s side, and He’ll work out His salvation; bress de Lord.’ No one, not Jeff. Davis himself, or even J. B. Benjamin, on a cross-examination of six hours, could catch that old darkey.”
ATTACK UPON A NEGRO SOLDIER. 
There was considerable excitement created in and around Water street, in Charlestown, Sunday afternoon, by an assault upon a negro soldier, committed by a crowd of Irishmen, women and children. It appears the soldier was passing quietly through the street, and was first set upon by some children. He unfortunately resented their abuse, and was immediately attacked by nearly a hundred men and women, who beat him with clubs, brooms, &c., the entire length of the street. He finally escaped, but not until after considerable bruising. None of the assailants have yet been arrested.

CAPACITY OF THE NEGRO. The Nashville Union, in an article respecting the declaration of the opposition that the emancipated slaves cannot take care of themselves, says that amid all the excitement and extraordinary troubles of civil war, the black people of that city have been carrying on no less than eight highly respectable schools’, which are attended regularly by some six hundred pupils. The trustees and teachers are all " American citizens of African descent;" no white person interfering in any way. The Government has nothing to do with them.

VOLUNTARY EMANCIPATION. The work of immediate emancipation, by owners voluntarily setting their slaves free, is going forward quite extensively in Platte county. Yesterday, N. J. Alexander, Esq., residing near Weston, liberated eight of his negroes. His wife had all their clothing washed and put in order. Mr. A. furnished them with transportation and funds to meet incidental expenses, and provisions to last them until next spring. We fear that these negroes will never find a home such as they had in the family of their late master and mistress.
Mr. Joseph Pence informs us that he shall do the same with his slaves as Mr. Alexander has, and they are only waiting to hear from Kansas, before taking up their line of march.
Large numbers of slaves, we learn, have been liberated in this manner in different parts of the county. A gentleman informed us that some fifty had been set free and started for Kansas, in one day, in his neighborhood—Platte County (Mo.) Sentinel.
COLORED BAPTISTS. Our colored Baptist brethren, says the Philadelphia Chronicle, have been holding at Washington, D. C., the twenty-third anniversary of their Missionary Convention. They appointed a committee of twelve of their ministers to call upon President Lincoln, to ask what protection their missionaries might expect, should they visit the colored people within our military lines for the purpose of preaching the gospel to them. The President gave them a very respectful hearing, and then gave them the following document:—

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, D.C., August 21st, 1863.
To whom it may concern—
To-day I am called upon by a committee of colored ministers of the gospel, who express a wish to go within our military lines, and minister to their brethren there. The object is a worthy one, and I shall be glad for all facilities to be afforded them which may not be inconsistent with, or a hindrance to our military operations. A. LINCOLN.

AN ALLEGED SPY. The Utica Herald says that Spencer Kellogg, who was hung in Richmond as a spy recently, was Spencer Kellogg Brown, son of O. C. Brown, Esq., and grandson of Levi Cozzens, Esq., of that city. He was a scout under Fremont in Missouri, and subsequently connected with Commodore Porter, who had him promoted to the rank of fourth master on the gunboat Essex. It was while attempting to cut out and destroy a rebel boat on the Mississippi, under, orders from Commodore Porter, that young Brown was captured, his escort of a boat’s crew abandoning him to the rebels. He has lain for many months in rebel prisons. He had been more than once among the rebel hordes, and had preceded the Union advance, down the Mississippi, in all its stages to Vicksburg. Commodore Porter declared he had been of more service to the Union cause than any general officer in the army. Captured as he was in a legitimate enterprise of war, Commodore Porter insists that the rebels had. no right to try him as a spy, and he made every effort to save him.

SUDDEN DEATH OF AN EMINENT SURGEON. Dr. George Hayward died instantly of apoplexy, on Wednesday of last week, at his residence in Pemberton Square, in this city, at the age of 73 years. He was widely known, not only in professional circles, but also as a prominent citizen of Boston. He enjoyed a foreign reputation second to no other American surgeon. In regard to some of his operations, he was a pioneer, introducing them by his boldness and success into the range of surgical practice. He was for many years a Professor in the Medical School at Harvard University, and at the time of his death held the position of a Fellow of the College, to which office he was elected in 1852. He graduated at Cambridge in the Class of 1808.

OUR LOSSES AT CHATTANOOGA. The 101st Ohio went into the battle 400 strong, and came out with but 80; one company had but two men left. The 35th Ohio went in with nearly 700, and came out with less than 200. The proportion of killed to wounded is smaller than usual, partly because buckshot were used by the rebels. The 89th Illinois lost 250 in killed, wounded and missing, out of 430 who went into the battle. The 1st Ohio went into the battle with 470 men, and came outoat with 161. The 14th went in with 441, and came out with 267.
<c05>
One of the effects of a rebel victory at Chattanooga, the rebels claim, would be to help their allies, the Northern Copperheads, in the coming elections. The Richmond Enquirer of the 22nd distinctly says: "Defeated at Chattanooga, and driven back upon Nashville, the Vallandigham men in Ohio would carry the election next month with little difficulty; the peace men in the United States would once more assert their manhood (!) and speak out as they did before the late disaster had choked their utterance.” How well these traitors know and appreciate their friends in the North who rejoice at rebel victories!
The Rebel thinks the prospects were never better for the consummation of these legitimate and possible contingencies, and says:—"As we advance into the North, the troubled spirits of Democracy must be told that our object is peace, and that when our independence is recognized, we will lay down our arms. Mr. Vallandigham will tell them so; but let our government and our generals, when we march over the border, proclaim that it is recorded that Eneas on his way to hell threw a sop to Cesberus. Let us not disdain to throw a little sop to the restless ghost of Democracy." 
In another part of the Rebel is a proclamation from Isham G. Harris, in which he calls for 6000 troops for six months from Tennessee, under the provisions of the Act of the rebel Congress to provide for local and special service. The force is to be composed of men over forty years of age, or such as are not liable to conscription.
The Augusta (Ga.) Constitutionalist thus rejoices over the results of the recent battles:—
The dark night is past, and the rosy morning purples the east again. After months of reverses, once more the jubilant notes of the victorious Confederates sound clear and full throughout the land. Honor and glory to the heroes of Chickamauga, living and dead!! The dead are martyrs to liberty and the new Republic—the living are the champions of the one and the pillars of the other. The blood of our slain shall cement the foundations of the Confederacy, and drown the voices of the living who might clamor for reunion with the foe.
It appears there were but three buildings burned by the Rebels at Shelby ville—the Court-House and two other houses. The residents were plundered, and it is said 1,500 prisoners were taken, but this is doubted. At Waldron’s Ridge the Rebels captured Capt. Smith of Gen. Sheridan’s staff, a number of army and sutlers’ wagons, and 487 men. At McMinnville they captured 587 men.
Gen. Magruder’s official report of the affair at Sabine Pass makes out a brilliant victory for the rebels. He says the fort mounted but three guns of small caliber, resisted the fire of five gunboats, and forced the surrender of two of the vessels, with fifteen heavy guns, 200 men, among them the Commodore, of the fleet, and killed and wounded over fifty more, while not a man was lost on the rebel side, nor a gun injured.
We have some particulars of Gen. Sally’s expedition up the Missouri, against the Indians, and the fight at White Stone Hills. After three days’ fighting, three hundred Indians were killed, and a large number wounded, when the remainder fled, leaving everything they possessed behind, even their squaws and children. The Indians fought .like demons, but the steady fire of our troops was too much for them.
HAVOC. The St. Louis Democrat of Wednesday gives nearly a solid column and a half of names of Illinois soldiers killed and wounded in the battle of Chick-amauga; and the Cincinnati Gazette of Thursday, has more than a column of names, mostly of soldiers from Ohio and Indiana.
The evil of "press gangs" visiting the plantations to force the negroes into the army is about to be done away with.
An important order, issued by General Saxton, is making a sensation amongst the cotton speculators. It affixes a lien on every pound of cotton raised in the Department of the South, in favor of the laborers upon said cotton, for the full amount of their wages, and he will not permit any cotton to be sent out of the Department until he is satisfied that the laborers upon it have received what is due them. In case the laborers on any plantations shall not be fully paid, he will seize the crop upon the plantation, and sell enough to satisfy their demands.
GREAT FALLS, N.H., Oct. 10,1863.
ATTEMPT TO BURN A DRAFT OFFICER. A mob at Jackson, in this State, on Thursday night, burned the hotel where the Deputy Provost Marshal was stopping while serving notices on drafted men. He narrowly escaped with his life. He has just passed through the place en route for Portsmouth, to obtain necessary assistance.
PORTLAND, Me., Oct. 10. Hon. J. Jewett, Collector of Portland, died this afternoon of diptheria, after a brief illness, aged 56 years. He was Mayor of Portland in 1858-9, and is well known to the public in connection with the capture of the Tacony pirates.
FREEDOM IN LOUISIANA. Gentlemen recently from New Orleans predict that Loyal Louisiana will meet in convention next December, and adopt a Free State Constitution, under which to resume her relations with the Union.
One of the fifteen historic shells recently thrown into Charleston city by General Gillmore shivered the statue erected some years since in front of the Court House, of the doomed municipality, in commemoration of the late John C. Calhoun.
The father of Spencer Kellogg Brown, the young man who was hanged at Richmond on the 26th of September, went into the Fulton street prayer meeting, New York, the other day, and requested prayers that the death of his son, who was " murdered " in Richmond, might be sanctified to him and his surviving family. The request produced a thrill and sensation through the audience.
BRUTAL MURDER OF A FEDERAL OFFICER. Major Wileman, of the 18th Kentucky Regiment, who was wounded in the battle of Chickamauga, and who lately returned home, was taken from his house in Pendleton county, Kentucky, on Monday, by a gang of guerillas, stripped of his clothing, tied to a tree and shot. Five of the murderers were caught, and brought to Cincinnati.
A native of Connecticut, who escaped from the "hotbed" of rebellion a week or ten days ago, says that the inhabitants of Charleston are fast leaving the city, in apprehension of its bombardment. His description of the obstructions makes them out to be even more formidable than had been supposed. According to his account, four lines of piles stretch across the harbor, one of which is twenty-five feet wide. Between these rows of piles are masses of stone.
The victims of the Lawrence massacre number one hundred and forty-one. It is gratifying to know that substantial relief is being given to the widows and orphans. Rev. R Collyer, agent for the distribution of the fund raised in Chicago, disbursed $4,000, and speaks of $10,000 expected from St. Louis, to be lent at very low interest, and which, when repaid, will be used to endow a college for the fatherless children and orphans. These amounts are exclusive of the stores of clothing and provisions previously sent in, and $2000 in money.
The Manchester Southern Club, having memorialized Earl Russell to make representations at Washington against the unrelenting and exterminating character of the war, had received the following reply from the Secretary of the Foreign Office:—
"I am to state to you that Lord John Russell fears no representations of Her Majesty’s government will do good, but that his Lordship will instruct Her Majesty’s Minister at Washington to report on the statements made in your memorial.."
The Mississippi Clarion publishes an advertisement of a pack of splendid bloodhounds for hunting negroes and conscripts, giving the price, and address of the owner—a thing that could not be published anywhere else in Christendom but in Secessia.
 Martin H. Freeman, (colored,) a graduate of Middlebury College, Vt., and for eight years Principal of A very College, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, has been appointed Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in Liberia College, and goes, out in November.
A regiment of colored soldiers paraded in Nashville, Tennessee, a few days ago.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 8. Another party of contrabands have arrived at Alexandria. They represent that they were told to leave by their owners, because they had nothing to help support them with during the winter.
REV. O. B. FROTHINGHAM. A half size bust of this gentleman, admirably executed by a young New York artist, is now on view at Walker, Wise & Co’s, 245 Washington street. We understand that a limited number of orders will be taken for copies in plaster, at $5 each, a fact which the numerous friends of Mr. Frothingham will be glad to know.—Transccript.
A GREAT UNDERTAKING The Directors of the Boston Music Hall have very generously offered the ladies who are engaged and very busily at work getting up the Fair in aid of the Sanitary Commission, the free use of that splendid establishment. The Fair will commence on Monday, the 14th day of December, and will continue one week. If one half we hear is realized, it will be the most successful enterprise ever undertaken in this city.
A Nashville paper says free negroes voted in Tennessee until 1836, when the excitement against Northern anti-slavery men led to the prohibition of the privilege, but the free school privileges of the blacks were not, taken away till 1856.
<c06>
ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:—
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition—a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing— the object is godlike—the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.

COLLECTIONS BY PARKER PILLSBURY.
Farmersville, N. Y., $12 80; Feltonville, Mass., 8 43; Marlboro’, 6 00.
COLLECTIONS BY AARON M. POWELL.
Hopedale, (by E. D. Draper,) $6 00
Kingston,,. 2 25
Mr. and Mrs. E. Thatcher, Yarmouth, 7 00
Hyannis, 15 00
Thatcher Hinckley, Hyannis, 1 00 
Nathaniel Barney, Nantucket, 5 00
 East Dennis, 5 46
Harwich, 1 26
Dennis, 4 00
North Bridgewater, 2 15
Mrs. Mary Anthony, Providence, 1 00
 Henry A. Howland, 2 00
Almond Wade, 0 50
Manville, 1 20
Pawtucket, 13 05
 Fall River Ladies’ A. S. Sewing Society, 5 00
Mrs. N. B. Borden, Fall River, 1 00
Dr. J. L. Clark, 2 00
Robert Adams, 1 00

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SIXTH SERIES.
AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
OPENING ADDRESS BY
HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL,
On TUESDAY EVENING, October 27, 1863.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by
Nov. 3—OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
" 10—BENJ. F. BUTLER,
(subject to the contingencies of the public service.)
" 17—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
" 24—CHARLES SUMNER.
Dec. 1—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
” 8—-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
" 15—OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM.
" 22—GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
" 29—WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Jan. 5—JACOB M. MANNING.
B. J. Lang, Organist for the course.
Tickets (admitting the Bearer and Lady) to the Course,
 $2 each, may be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.’s, 277 Washington street; Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co.’s, 33 Court street; John S. Rogers & Co.’s, 1077 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.

HAYTI AND THE MARTYRS OF HARPER’S FERRY.—A CARD.—I have to-day sent to the last addresses of the following parties authority to draw on me at sight for a specified sum, out of a fund contributed at Cayes, Hayti, for the families of the martyrs of Harper’s Ferry:—
To Mrs. Mary Thompson, Mrs. Jemima Cook, Mrs. Leary, widows of John Brown’s men of those names; and to the parents of Kagi, Hazlitt, Stevens, the Coppoes, Anderson, Tidd and Copeland.
If my letters do not reach these parties, I ask their friends to notify them, or to send me their present address.
Anti-Slavery papers, please copy.
Boston, Oct.5. . JAMES REDPATH.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COL-LEGE.—The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D. Sec'y.

MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M.D Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.

WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.— A meeting of this Society will be held at Milford, on Sunday, Oct. 18, forenoon, afternoon and evening, at the usual hours, at the Town Hall.
PARKER PILLSBURY, ADIN BALLOU, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., S.S. FOSTER, GEORGE W. STACY, E. H. HEYWOOD and others are expected to attend.
There will also be a meeting at the same place on the evening previous, Oct. 17.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Fitchburg, on Sunday, Oct. 25th, forenoon, afternoon and evening, at the usual hours.

BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE.
A New Book of Thrilling Interest.
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER,
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen,. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor.
THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the war has produced. Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom were Hardee, Bragg, and Beauregard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and travelled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night, 250 miles; was fed by negroes in part, and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when Within thirty-five miles of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a obtained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illustrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist—-every lover of his country—-every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts as they actually occured.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 285 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered. 
Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1, postpaid, with particulars to Agents.
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
Sept. 11—1t
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10. Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro’ Sts., BOSTON’
Sept 23.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
TELL ME THAT SHE’S NOT DEAD!
Tell me that she’s not dead! It is too soon; 
As well the sun might set before his noon! 
Tell me that she’s not dead!
Her face is cold and pale her eyelids closed; 
On pallid lips a shadowy mystery lies:
Tell me that she’s not dead!
Should I be thus, and could my heart beat on, 
If she who is its hope, its life, were gone? 
Soul of my soul, reply!
Dead in the strength and blossom of her prime! 
No, no! O, Heaven! O, God! It was not time-
No, no! not time for her to die!
Speak to her, friend! She may perchance awake; 
But do not, I entreat, for Christ’s dear sake, 
Tell me that she is dead!
Her lips move not! No, no, she cannot speak; 
And yet the shadow lies on brow and cheek. 
Tell me that she’s not dead!
Dead, dead! And the sun shines, and the stars glisten, 
And men speak calmly! Sure, I but fancy-listen! 
Alas! I do not dream, or sleep!
The world moves on; I hear its even tread; 
It thinks, cares, toils and hopes, though she be dead, 
And gone beyond recall.
Yet it will mention and recall her name: 
This is the price it pays-the breath of fame, 
For love, hope, life-all, all.
Dead in this hour of danger to the land
She perilled life to save! Oh, Death! thy arrowy hand
A shining mark hath found!
-Pacific Appeal. A. E. V.

APOLLYON SUPPLIANT.
“Uncle Jeff. is very miserable!”-Richmond Letter.
Ay so, no doubt-why, look you, if Macbeth,
With only one foul murder on his soul,
Could “sleep no more,” though lapped in softest down,
Nor ever smile again but just such smiles
As pain enforces, or galvanic art
Wrings from the ghastly pallor of the dead;
 How should this wretch, whose gory victims far
Outnumber all the breaths he ever drew
From his first birth-gasp, hope to close his eyes
 For one brief moment’s slumber, or cajole
His cheek with other than sardonic joy?
Turn where he may, his nostril cannot shun
The taint of blood in all the general air;
And not a wind that visits him but wreaks
On his quick ear a hell of human groans.
For him whose hand first stained the shuddering earth 
With life’s most sacred crimson, never more 
Was there to be or peace with outward foes, 
Or amnesty of conscience from within. 
Most meet it is, then, that this Cain of Cains, 
Whose crimes have drenched a continent in gore, 
Sluiced from innumerable fraternal hearts, 
Should see a foe in every human face, 
In every hand a scourge, in death itself 
No refuge from the Nemesis that haunts 
The guilty soul through aeons of despair. 
While stands he lifting his red hands in prayer 
For strength to consummate his awful will 
On her who bore him-crowned his petted youth 
And faithless manhood with her richest gifts-
(To find, at last, as Agrippina found 
Herself the mother of her deadliest foe)-
Athwart the whole broad land, from sea to sea, 
And upward from the dwelling of the palm 
By sunny shores and islands ever green, 
To the bleak mountains, at whose snowy paps 
Are nursed the infant rivers that amaze 
Ocean herself with their majestic port-
From every city, village, hamlet, grange, 
The voice of lamentation, day and night, 
For loved and lost ones, lifts its hopeless wail. 
And, hark! from Europe’s overcrowded realms 
The cry of famished millions, from whose hands 
The iron will of this grim suppliant 
Withholds the means whereby, in squalid dens, 
By patient toil the meagre crust was won! 
And, hark again! the burden of that cry 
His own gaunt slaves, in awful earnestness,
Press on his helpless horror, Give us Bread! 
Oh man of blood! Oh thruster of the sword 
Into the grasp of frenzy! God forbid 
That we should curse thee for its bitter wounds;
Remembering Whose is vengeance, and, withal, 
That they who take “shall perish with the sword!”
-N. Y. Evening Post. W. P. P.

“PETER” AND “PAUL.”
Lines respectfully addressed to Thomas Carlyle, Esq., the author of ”The American Iliad in a Nutshell,” who has lately attempted to show that slavery is merely the hiring of a human being for life, instead of for the month or year.
“You hire your servants for life, not by the month or year as I do.”-Macmillan’s Magazine.
Out on your “Peter” and your “Paul,”
Philosopher of Chainy-row, 
And learn that only half a truth
Is a whole lie, as we well know.
Who wants these crambo German saws,
But one-third sense and two-thirds fog, 
Or paradoxes sought and found
‘Mid darkness in Cimmerian bog?
No difference, sir, between the slave
And servant, life-time and a year? 
Try it! thou great philosopher;
Of whips and gyves thou bast no fear! 
“No difference,” from his padded chair
The tolerant sage, with bated breath, 
Dogmatic cries: “The difference, man,
That there is between LIFE and DEATH.”
God made no slaves; the Heaven above
Is free to all men, king and boor; 
There is no special Paradise
To part the rich man from the poor.
All men are free, we English say,
Yet you would break our law divine, 
And plead for chaining human souls
Over your walnuts and your wine.
Go to-this is an evil end
Of a wise life-to forge fresh chains 
For the poor slave, to make fresh whips
To aggravate a wretch’s pains. 
Let’s hear no more these sophistries,
Or men will cry, and very soon-
“This sage’s pedantry grows stale,
And savors of the Pantaloon.” 
-Comic News. THE GHOST OF WILBERFORCE.

THE CHALLENGE.
IN HONOR OF CHARLES SUMNER.
Listen, world, and you, pale tyrants, tremble!
Far beyond the ocean be it heard!
The wise patriots of our land resemble
Hero-saints of old; their weighty word,
Like the thrilling bugle, or like bells 
Solemnly from the cathedral pealing,
Wakes the drowsy universe, and tells 
Truths that must be told to hearts unfeeling.
“Sad may on the scaffold be the queen;
She may perish, nor the world be bettered; 
Sadder sights within our land are seen-
Helpless women to the sale’s-block fettered.”
Hear it, weigh it, and then cast a stone
On the pure apostle; aye, thou shrinkest! 
Listening to the cracking of thy throne,
Thou art dumb-struck, and to dust thou sinkest. 
Brooklyn, Sept. 14, 1863. MARIE BLOEDE.
-N. Y. Evening Post.

SLAVERY.
O, Slavery! thou art a bitter draught! 
And twice accursed is thy poisoned bowl, 
Which taints with leprosy the white man’s soul, 
Not less than his by whom its dregs are quaffed.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE BOOK OF DANIEL.
BY REV. LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
Importance of interpreting Daniel correctly; Dark sayings of the Ancients; Methods of Interpreters and dissent of the Rationalists. 
1.Daniel is one of the standards of religious faith, and an incorrect interpretation of it tends to the corruption of religion; it is a monument of the past, and an incorrect interpretation of it makes it misrepresent the past; it is a notation and illustration of the laws and methods of God’s government, and an incorrect interpretation of it makes it impute to God laws and methods which are not his.
2. The ancients were fond of riddles and allegories, and ancient literature abounds in them. Riddles were a constant diversion at feasts, and the celebrated oracles of Egypt and Greece were chiefly allegoric and enigmatic sayings. These were long regarded with reverence, and studied with attention, but the last century has consigned them to neglect, and most of them are fast passing into oblivion.
3. Sometimes the ancients proposed riddles and dark sayings, to be guessed and interpreted as simple trials of skill without any accompanying considerations. At other times they were accompanied with stakes, penal conditions, and forfeitures, and their correct solution was made a matter of the greatest importance.
4. We have an example of this in the riddle proposed by Samson to his wedding guests, the Philistines of Timnah. The stakes were thirty sheets, and thirty changes of garments, to be given by Samson to the guests, if they guessed his riddle, but to be paid by them to him, if they failed. Proving incompetent to the task, the Philistines would have lost the stake, if they had not obtained the help of Samson’s wife by intimidation. By this means, they gained the stake, to incur still heavier losses by their dishonesty.
5. The riddle of the Sphynx in Greece is an instance of a similar usage among the ancient Greeks. All who attempted to solve the riddle, and failed, were killed; CEdipus solved it, and killed the Sphynx. The story is mythic, and it is not easy to say with certainty what it means, but it refers unmistakably to; usages and customs which were real.
6. Had the stories of Daniel been proposed on the same hard conditions as the mythic riddle of the Sphynx, the slaughter of unsuccessful interpreters would have been dreadful; as it is, incorrect solutions have not been harmless, but the riddle of the Sphynx has almost found an antitype in this book.
7. The stories of Daniel far transcend the Grecian oracles and the most celebrated riddles of antiquity, in the difficulty of their solution, and in the injurious effects of the delusions to which they have ministered. They have withstood the ingenuity and diligence of 1800 years and 64 generations, and maintained their credit with the masses of Christendom, as genuine oracles. They have been resolved by a direct reference to God, and to supernatural illuminations and communications from him, and have thereby taught a system of divine procedure in dealing with men, which is not conformable to experience, or to fact. Thus interpreted, the past is misrepresented, and men are proportionably misled in their estimates of the present and future.
8. The early Church Fathers received the oracles of Daniel as they did those of the priests of Delphi, or Ammon, with unquestioning faith in their divine character, and commended them as such to after ages. The Roman Catholic Church Fathers followed the lead of the Fathers of more primitive Christianity, in giving credence both to the oracles of Judea and of Greece. Luther, Calvin, and the other Protestant Reformers followed in this respect the lead of the Roman Catholics. Recent commentators and critics have generally adopted and passed along the opinions of their predecessors, as if they were an end of controversy; and many have contributed to their support whatever considerations the superior learning and logical acumen of modern times could afford.
9. Sir Isaac Newton, after reading the heavens, and interpreting the revolutions of the planets around the sun, and the secondaries around their primaries, applied his genius and art to the book of Daniel, and failed. In the kingdom of materialism he accomplished much-in solving the book of Daniel he accomplished nothing; but added plausibility and factitious dignity to old errors, and extended and strengthened their dominion.
10. The great English commentators, Matthew Henry, Thomas Scott, Adam Clarke, and others, adopt the views of their predecessors in regard to the Hebrew and Christian oracles, and lend the influence of their great works to extend the empire of delusion and superstition in connection with religion, and fasten their cords on all Bible readers. This has been the general course of thought and labor, but there has been some dissent. The Rationalists in Germany, and a few who have concurred with them in England, America, and other countries, find no essential difference between the oracles of Shushan and Babylon, and those of Delphi and Ammon, and reject both on the same grounds, receiving them only for what they are, and allowing them their legitimate uses. They have boldly denounced the common views of this book, and other sacred Scriptures, as unsupported by evidence, inconsistent with facts, and productive of infinite evil. They demand a reconsideration of questions that have heretofore been settled on superficial grounds, and a rejection of all unwarrantable assumptions from human creeds. They make no war with faith, but only with fallacy; and this they fight to the death. Their suggestions have received hitherto but little attention, not enough to be generally understood. The principal information which the public have concerning them is derived from the denunciations of ignorant and conceited libellers, who regard them as among the most dangerous deceivers.
11. Truths declared and proved are Titans unbound, and are not easily suppressed; they domicile themselves in the high places of the earth, and assail the abodes of the celestials. The Christian Rationalists are supposed by many to have been vanquished and driven from the field. There cannot be a greater mistake; they have taken new positions of the utmost importance in religious science, from which they have not been driven, and never can be; and have driven the supporters of old delusions from positions of equal importance, which they can never regain, and ground is broken for the precious sowings of truth, which years to come will cultivate, and the harvests of which will minister to the wealth, and enlarge the stores, of all coming ages.
12.The Rationalists are not beaten, nor silenced, and the world has not seen the end of them. The little which they have hitherto done is the preliminary skirmish to their great battle and world-wide victory. They have demonstrated the shallowness of common sophistries, and the unsatisfactory character of common traditionary opinions, and have begun to hold sacred history amenable to the laws of all history; it is pitiful, indeed, if that which is supposed to be divine cannot stand the tests of the human; it ought to be stronger in all the tests and evidences of truth than the productions of man; it cannot be found weaker, and acknowledged divine.
13. The Rationalists have in some cases made the wisdom of conventions foolishness, and exposed their cherished principles and valued results to contempt and scorn, but they have impaired the dignity and authority of no truth, and sapped the foundation of no virtue. They have called attention to principles and facts, and endeavored to inculcate the Christian lesson of building our faith on the rock, and not on the shifting sands of uncertain opinion. They have shown the difference between knowledge and opinion, and given the world salutary cautions not to confound them.
14. Prof. Stuart and Rev. Albert Barnes have replied to the Rationalists in this country, and others in
<c03>
England, Germany, and elsewhere, all in the same impotent methods, and as yet all are generally accepted by the adherents of old fallacies as satisfactory. Future ages will admire the simplicity of implicit, unquestioning faith, and the power of prejudice, which could blind the minds of these eminent scholars to a perception of new truths when fully and finally demonstrated, and induce the deluded masses to follow them. 
15. The difficulty of following discoverers and other teachers in the demonstration of new truths is well known to every learner and every teacher. It is not enough for the learner to hear the points of evidence stated, and to have the steps of the argument traced and placed before his eye; he must hear and consider, he must read and re-read, he must observe, and look long and carefully, before the new light breaks on his mind. This is the price of knowledge, and the man who will not pay cannot have the commodity. But though hard to discover, truth is sure to win the field, and hold it against the skepticism of ignorance and prejudice. The ages are sown thick with examples of human weakness and subjections to temporary delusions; arguments that prove nothing, satisfy prejudiced and interested reasoners, and easily suffice for the support of traditionary opinions, while irresistible evidence of new truth is for a time ignored and discredited. The religious works against the Rationalists, with Barnes, Stuart, Home, Tregelles, and even Davidson, who endeavors in vain to take middle ground between them and the defenders of the old views, are affecting examples both of the weakness of human reason under the blinding and enfeebling influence of popular prejudices, and of the ability of learned and acute men to resist advancing light, and disparage and discredit new truth, after it has been fully demonstrated.
16. The common interpretations of Daniel are all liable to the fatal objection, that they either beg their main positions, or else support them by evidences that are inconclusive. Such judgments cannot be final; no judgment can be final, the evidence for which is not irresistible. The sciences are all based on irresistible evidence, and admit no other. The Rationalists demand the same in all the fields of religious inquiry, and the demand is legitimate, and must be conceded. The sooner it is conceded the better, but the concession cannot be long withheld.
17. On such evidence the author relies for the reconstruction of Biblical Theories in this work, and elsewhere, and depends confidently on it for ultimate and complete success. There is no evidence which may not be ignored, and thereby fail of its true effect, and there is none which, on due consideration, can be permanently resisted. Evidence is born to rule, and its rule is the rule of reason and of God.
18. Till problems are solved, they are matters of debate and controversy; contradictory opinions may be held and maintained about the unknown, and be persisted in for ages; but when correct solutions are attained, debate and controversy cease. The book of Daniel has been the subject of infinite debate, and the most absurd hypotheses have been accepted and maintained by many in regard to it, because it has not been fully resolved; when its solution is fully attained, these delusions and debates will cease, and the truth alone prevail. The experiment has been often tried. Who questions now the Copernican Astronomy, or the Newtonian Philosophy? In elder time, the subjects to which they relate were deemed incapable of ever being fully resolved, and the world debated over them for thousands of years. Who proposes now to return to astrology, necromancy, and magic, those great boasts of the ancients? Their very names nave become odious. Just as little will the more enlightened Christians of future ages return to delusions which are now prevalent, and which are combatted with difficulty. The cherished and venerated errors of ages have in many cases been abandoned for certain and salutary truth, and the good work of reforming human faith will go on till all errors are rejected, and all discoverable truth is attained.
19. The author’s method may be pursued to more remote and higher results not yet thought of, but invaluable results are already reached which will never be abandoned. Truth once demonstrated is master of its position, and holds it forever.

HORACE GREELEY ON THE ABOLITIONISTS.
EDITOR LIBERATOR—I have read the tirade (for I can call it nothing else) of Mr. Greeley, on the first page of the Independent of the 27th of August, with mingled emotions of regret and indignation. His first attempt is to raise Messrs. Garrison and Phillips on the highest pinnacle of fame, manifestly with the intention that their fall shall be the more signal, and finally leaves them both in the ditch. “I readily admit that there was a work for this school, and that they have done it at least faithfully. But it is not true—it is very far otherwise—though Mr. Phillips constantly assumes its self-evident verity, that the great anti-slavery revolution of our age and clime owes its existence mainly or wholly to Mr. Garrison and his school.” Here he admits that there was a work for this school, and that they have done it faithfully. But he does not, for he could not, tell us of any other school or party that had “ labored faithfully,” or labored at all, in this great cause that has rocked the nation like the upheaving of an earthquake for a: quarter of a century. “But it is not true,” he says that “the great Anti-Slavery revolution owes its existence wholly or mainly to his school.” Marvellous, truly. But to whom do we owe “wholly or mainly” the honor or dishonor of commencing this revolution? Certainly not to the man that admitted, not long since, that a State would have a right to re-establish slavery where the Proclamation has set the slaves free. Mr. Garrison and his coadjutors took the nation, dead in trespasses and sins—the Church, the State, and the rabble hitched to the car of slavery, each and all pulling with might and main in one direction, down to destruction and ruin—and proclaimed, with trumpet-tongue, the danger ahead, and for a third of a century have ceased not to urge the justice and duty of immediate and unconditional emancipation, with a vehemence and perseverance unequalled by any other men in any other cause. And now, as daylight seems to glimmer in the distant horizon, harbinger of approaching day, the discovery is made that Mr. Garrison has had little or nothing to do in bringing about this great revolution; for Mr. Greeley tells us, “the revolution would have occurred without them,” meaning Messrs. Garrison and Phillips. If this be true, the world is indebted to Mr. Greeley for the discovery, and it would be no great marvel if he should make the further discovery that the Gospel would have been preached if Jesus Christ and his followers had not commenced it—that the Reformation would have been commenced and carried through if Martin Luther had never been born—or that the American Revolution would have commenced and been carried through if there had been no Adamses and Hancocks, nor Warrens nor Jeffersons; nor Henrys, to set the machine in motion. But enough. If Mr. Garrison or Mr. Phillips needed any defence, it would be from a more able pen than mine. That posterity will do them justice, there is little to fear. That they will be ranked among the greatest benefactors of our race, there is just as little to fear. 
Mr. Greeley’s pitiful charge of Phariseeism, coming from any other quarter, would not be worth noticing, and is about as appropriate and about as false as the Jews’ accusation against the Savior: “Said we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?”  If the Administration, or Mr. Greeley and his compeers had done anything in the cause of human liberty—anything that has hastened the overthrow of slavery—God forbid that we should withhold the need of praise! And I am not without my fears, that when the future historian has placed to the credit of the State and the Church all they have done in the great cause of emancipation, from principle, against what they have not done when they might, and thus have saved half a million of lives and two thousand millions of money, the credit will appear very small. But I would welcome emancipation from any motive, and at any
<c04>
cost. The pioneers of this great cause have not labored for the honors of the world or the emoluments of office, and whatever their sufferings or persecutions in the past, in the hearts of the good of every land they will live forever.
Springfield, Vt. JESSE STEDMAN.

ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.
A meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society was held in Danvers, at the Town Hall, on Sunday, day and evening, 4th inst. The meetings were addressed by Parker Pillsbury, E. H. Heywood, John Cutter, Thomas Haskell, and others
On motion, it was voted to choose a Board of Officers for the ensuing year. Chose Joseph Merrill, Caroline Putnam and Isaac W. Roberts a Committee to nominate a list of officers.
On motion, it was voted, that Parker Pillsbury, C. L. Remond and E. H. Heywood act as a Business Committee. 
Chose Joseph Merrill Secretary pro tem. 
The Committee on Nominations presented the name of James N. Buffum of Lynn as President, and the balance of the officers of the past year. 
The following resolutions, presented by the Committee, were adopted:-
1.Resolved, That slavery, and its grim shadow, prejudice against color, were the causes of the present wasting war; and were no less the sin of one of the contending parties than of the other. 
2.Resolved, That under the Divine jurisdiction, penalty for sin is never suspended while the commission of the sin lasts; and so we have no right to hope or pray for the end of our terrible calamity, until we have wholly repented of and put away the sin and crime for which it is the natural and just retribution. 
3. Resolved, That the Southern barbarisms and brutalities, so fearfully poured out on the Northern soldiers, by both men and women, (especially women,)are but the legitimate result of Northern teaching and association—inasmuch as the schoolmistress and schoolmaster, the missionary and the minister, have been furnished by Northern schools, colleges, theological seminaries and churches. 
4. Resolved, That the boasted Pharisaic superiority, so manifest everywhere in the North towards the South, while both are reeling under the divine judgments together, and the cruel and prescriptive spirit still cherished towards the colored man, in excluding him almost universally from equal participation in the privileges of acquisition, as well of education and culture, as of wealth, not even permitting him to bleed and die in the war on any terms of equality with his white fellow-soldier, are indications most unmistakable that, as a people, we are not yet in the path of safety and salvation. 
5. Resolved, That it is the solemn duty of the people and the government to provide and enact that immediate and untrammelled freedom be proclaimed to every slave in every State and Territory of the nation; not as a “military necessity,” or political expedient, but as an act of penitence and righteousness on their part, and of humanity and justice to the longenchained victims of our cruelty and crime. 
The meeting in the evening was unusually small, in consequence of the inclemency of the weather. Many were disappointed in not hearing Miss Anthony, but the storm prevented her presence in the evening. 
Those who had the good fortune to be present were richly paid in listening to Mr. Pillsbury on “The Cause of the War.” It was one of his happiest efforts. We only regret so few heard it. The meeting adjourned to the call of the President. 
JOSEPH MERRILL, Sec’y pro tem.

MRS. GAGE’S LETTERS FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.
(Correspondence of the New York Tribune.)
PARIS ISLAND, Aug. 29, 1863.
The cotton crop (by the negroes) is said to be doing well, the bolls near the ground opening, and in a  few sunny spots picking has already commenced. Two heavy rains this week have put it back, and made the snowy rolls look unpromising. The corn is excellent, and out of the reach of storms or bugs. 
Whenever the negroes do a good deed, it should find a chronicler: not that their good deeds are any marvels in themselves, but because of the opinion “that no good thing can come out of this Nazareth,” and because of those who have hardened their hearts to believe a lie, that they may be obliged to change their opinion.
Two weeks ago, at our old church, I told the people there assembled that I had read in the Northern newspapers that the colored laborers on Lady’s Island, Port Royal, and St. Helena, had contributed of their stores of vegetables and garden products to the hospitals, and suggested that Paris Island should not fall behind in good works and charities, and expressed a hope that they would each contribute their mite to aid the wounded and sick soldiers. I did not urge the matter much; I could not have the heart to do it, for our whole island seemed like a hospital -small-pox, chicken pox; fevers, and all manner of diseases incident to the extreme hot month of August prostrating them.
What do you think these “descendants of babboons and monkeys” did? Before they left the church, they quietly laid their plans, and on the Thursday following, a fair wagon-load of sweet potatoes, pumpkins, tomatoes, chickens, eggs, ochre, green corn, and melons, was sent up on a row-boat to Beaufort, and deposited at the doors of the hospitals. 
It was a small offering, but it was their best, and given with a heartiness and good-will that might put to blush many a laggard movement among the motley and cultivated children of Father Adam.
Put this little item into your pockets, you who apologise for New York mobs; you who help to burn down colored orphan asylums, and murder and hang negroes; you who hate and despise the black man, who slander him and would herd him with the brute, divest him of every right, and make him your dog to follow you, your horse to carry you, your ox to plow your corn; take this item and ponder it, remembering that though you may have all things else which this negro has not, yet “wanting charity” ye are nothing.
The virtues of the emancipated negro are the inherent growth of his humanity; his vices are the teachings of slavery-by both precepts and example from the white man-and nothing astonishes me more, as day by day I read in the lives and characters of these people the records of that accursed institution, than that they have one vestige of virtue left.
Old Flora tottered in to see me last Sabbath, to have me read a “chapter” to her. She says she is eighty years old, and has thirty-seven grand-children.
As we talked, she, as do other old folks, ran on garrulously of old times.
“You knows ole big house, Missus, where’m lib, dat usen to be ole nuss house. Ise been old nuss dis many year. Oh, oh, so long, Missus. You usen to have a pulpit in de nuss-house, and when de Sunday com, him get a preacher from Beaufort or some odder town, and we’d beautiful service.” 
“Did you have many children to nurse?” I asked.
“O o-o-h! Missus, many children; plenty, plenty, much’s a hundred, all one time. Maasa like de children, ’more de merrier’ him usen to say. ‘Can’t hab too many, old Flow, you tell dem wenches; git me de children, and I’ll feed em and cloth him. Hurry’ em up, Flow, can’t get too many childre.’”
Oh God! what revelations these are of human shame and crime! The pulpit on Sunday; the nurse house six days in the week; the nurse house, where the child of three weeks old was thrown, when torn from its mother while she was driven to the cotton field; the nurse house, where these human animals were to be reared for the auction-block, infants to cry themselves into ruptures and deformity, to gulp down sour hominy soup instead of their mothers’ milk, and to suck at a mouldy bacon rind instead of the breast provided by nature. The nurse room, where one half of the stock died and was carried out at night, and buried in the “live oak bush “by the light of the pine knot torch, by those who doubtless uttered a prayer and a thanksgiving to the good God for the deliverance of the little one, with every spade-full of earth thrown over its body.
<c05>
Yes, a pulpit and a minister once a week must have seemed a purifier of this pest-house of his own creating, to Massa Tom. Old Flow was born here, and until too old was a house-servant. Out of twenty-two of her grand-children, said to have been born of one son and daughter in-law, only four live to tell their tale of misery. F. D. G.

CARLYLE ANSWERED. A correspondent of the Tribune has handsomely travestied Carlyle’s Iliad, “Ilia Americana, in Nuce,” as follows:-
Paul of the South (to Peter of the North)—“Peter, you have allowed me to rule you these three score years; let me ask one thing more; to hold and enjoy and buy and sell my concubines, and the children they bear me, as freely at your doorsteps as at my own.” 
Peter —“I acknowledge, Paul, that I have yielded much for the sake of peace these three score years, but this last request-”
Paul—“What! you whining hypocrite! you hesitate! Then I’ll beat your brains out!” (And is trying dreadfully ever since, but cannot yet manage it.)
EMPLOYMENT OF NEGROES IN THE REBEL ARMY. A joint committee of the Alabama Legislature, just adjourned, reported a resolution “in favor of the proposition to employ slaves in the military service of the Confederate States, which proposition, we perceive, is favored by many of the presses of Mississippi and Alabama.” After discussion in the Alabama House, the resolution was adopted by a vote of sixty-eight yeas to twelve nays, after striking out the words “military” before service, and “soldiers” at the end of the resolution. The resolution was amended, and reads as follows:-
That it is the duty of Congress to provide by law for the employment in the service of the Confederate States of America, in such situations and in such numbers as may be found absolutely necessary, the able -bodied slaves of the country, whether as pioneers, sappers and miners, cooks, nurses, or teamsters. 
In this form we can see no objection to the resolution .—Savannah (Ga.) News, Sept. 2.
WHAT IS AN ABOLITIONIST? We find the following definition of the term “abolitionist” quoted from the Southern Literary Messenger, a Richmond publication:-
 “An abolitionist is any man who does not love slavery for its own sake as a Divine institution, who does not worship it as a corner-stone of civil liberty, who does not adore it as the only possible social condition on which a permanent Republican Government can be created, and who does not in his inmost soul desire to see it extended and perpetuated over the whole earth as a means of human reformation second in dignity, importance and sacredness to the Christian religion. He who does not love African slavery with this love is an abolitionist.”
Some of our contemporaries in the loyal States, as for instance the Courier, have adopted this definition for some time past with such marked care and precision, that we might almost suspect them of having been furnished with slips in advance from the Messenger office.—Boston Daily Advertiser.
A COOL MAN. We see that Hon. Emerson Etheridge of Tennessee is trying to press upon the Administration some plan which he favors respecting affairs in his State. He is the same man who, not long ago, having been invited to address a body of Union men at home, replied in a long letter filled with bitter reflections, sarcasms and slurs upon the Administration. He tried to be immensely witty in his back-hand stabs at the President and his advisers, and there was not a Copperhead paper in the Union that failed to copy and commend some part of his letter. And now it appears that Mr. Etheridge goes to Washington as an adviser and suitor of the Government, of which he had so contemptuous an opinion a short time ago. For all that we know, he may be as right now as he was wrong then, and we have no doubt that the cause in which he is enlisted will be impartially heard. But it will certainly be entitled to no claim on his account, while his coolness is something not often witnessed, even among slippery politicians.—Boston Journal.
A VOICE FROM THE ANTIPODES. The following is an extract from the letter of a Melbourne, Australia, correspondent, dated July 19th. The writer is a native of New England:-
“Of course, the Government and people of the United States will succeed if they will, but not otherwise. Divisions, distrust, want of any well settled conviction of the greatness and goodness of the nation’s cause—these are insurmountable. If virtue be wanting, the Republic must die, and out of its ashes arise such new forms of life as may be possible. But we have hoped, have believed, that there was virtue enough in America to save America, and we, spectators from afar, still will believe. But, once in a while, such a thing as a Vallandigham, or a Wood, or a scribbler in the Courier, turns upon our eyes its odious, and base, and malign glance, and we well nigh despair. If such there are, and many such, farewell to the great Republic! It becomes only a fit abode for hawks and buzzards, and the mice they devour.”
WELL PUT. The New York Tribune, at the close of an article on the President’s suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, thus spicily condenses the real aspects of the case:
“Father,” said a restless youngster, who didn’t like his work, and was anxious to exchange it for play, “the fish would bite superbly to-day.”
“Well, let, them alone, sonny, and they will be sure not to bite you.”
The suspension of habeas corpus will harm no one who obeys the laws and loyally upholds the national authority. The other sort must “assume a virtue if they have it not,” and play the part of good citizens till the rebellion is put down. That’s all.
The President’s proclamation, which we publish, nips in the bud a scheme of the copperheads by which the draft was to be embarrassed by pettifogging litigation. Every coward and traitor drafted was to be the subject of a habeas corpus, and it was deemed certain that amid a multitude of cases some collision would take place between the Government and State authorities. Men were enlisted, paid the bounty, and then discharged before some disloyal petty judge; a regular business was made by parents allowing their sons to enlist, receiving the money, and then procuring their discharge as minors. The President’s coup d’etat squelches these sharpers. Of course the “cops” howl over the tyranny of the despot “old Abe,” but loyal men rejoice.—Beaufort Free South.
There is living in Syracuse, N. Y., a veteran, named William Oahle, 103 years of age. He is a French Canadian by birth, and removed to Boston, Mass., before the Revolutionary war. He is a gun-maker, and has worked at his trade until within three or four years. He now declares his ability to repair a broken gun “as well as the next man.” He served in the Revolutionary war, and is a pensioner of the Government. He says that if he didn’t have the rheumatism in his legs, he would go to fight the rebels! Mr. Oahle is still able to read without the aid of glasses, and takes a hearty pride in showing how well he can write his name and otherwise use the pen.
A great novelty was on exhibition at the Vermont State fair, in Rutland, last week. It is the form of a steam pleasure carriage adapted to moving over common roads. This machine is of exquisite workmanship, and when supplied with wood and water for a trip of 77 miles, weighs only 650 pounds. Some four weeks since, this carriage made the run over the public thoroughfare from Lowell to Roxbury, a distance of 27 miles, in 80 minutes. It is claimed that it will move on a common road a mile in two minutes.
When our army entered Jackson, Miss., last June, two daughters of the late Rev. J. H. Ingraham, author of the “Prince of the House of David,” and other works of a popular character, were found dressed in clothing of the meanest description, and subsisting upon corn bread and molasses. The destitution of the rebels in Mississippi was so general that, although they had many friends, none were able to help them.
M. Nadar’s newly invented aerial machine, which is occupying considerable attention in Paris, is already nearly half finished. Its dimensions are so enormous that it will have accommodation, it is declared, for more than a hundred passengers. The first aerial journey is to be to Baden.
Talking about letting the freed negroes vote, a loyal Texan declared himself inflexibly opposed to the measure, “because in six months after you give the negroes the right to vote, half the democratic politicians in the country will go about swearing that they have negro blood in their veins.”
Secretary Chase has just received a queer deposit from the War Department, being $2,000,000 of Confederate money captured on Red river. The great question is, “What will he do it?”
CONSCRIPTED QUAKERS. The Providence Journal says that the Friends who were drafted in Rhode Island, and sent to Fort Columbus, have been paroled and permitted to return home. By the terms of the parole they are to answer the call of the Government whenever made.
The steamer Campbell, burned near Milliken’s Bend a few days ago, was valued at $60,000. She was insured for $25,000.
<c06>
“A book no woman can read without tears.”
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY
MISS L. M. ALCOTT.
SECOND EDITION.
Several of the Sketches in this volume were published serially in The Commonwealth and were widely copied by the press, receiving eulogistic notices from several journals, and calling forth many private letters of thanks from readers. A few extracts must suffice to show what was thought of them: 
Opinions of the Press, & c.
FROM HENRY JAMES.
It would be tedious to you to hear how much pleasure an old man like me had taken in your charming pictures of hospital service, in The Commonwealth; and how refreshing he found the personal revelation there incidentally made of so much that is dearest and most worshipful in woman; so I will not dwell on those particulars, but say all I have to say in this  summary form, to wit: that I am so delighted with your beautiful papers, and the evidence they afford of your exquisite humanity, that I have the greatest desire to enrol myself among your friends. With the liveliest respect and affection. Yours, HENRY JAMES.
Newport, 10 June.
FROM A HOSPITAL SURGEON. 
“To say that I thank you for writing them from the bottom of my heart, would but poorly express the sentiment which dictates to me this minute, and to say that I feel humbled by the lesson which they teach me, is to pay a tribute to them which I fancy will be rather unexpected.
These papers have revealed to me much that is elevated, and pure, and refined in the soldiers’ character which I never before suspected. It is humiliating to me to think that I have been so long among them with such mental or moral obtuseness that I never discovered it for myself, and I thank you for showing me with how different eyes and ears you have striven among ‘the men’ from the organs which I used on the very same cases and at the same time.”
FROM D. A. WASSON. 
“Let me tell you what extreme pleasure I have in reading ‘Hospital Sketches’. Written with extraordinary wit and felicity of style, and showing such power to portray character, surely she has a brilliant literary future before her.”
FROM AN OFFICER OF THE MASS. 54TH.
“Your wonderful little book was received while suffering much from my wounds. Greatly am I indebted to you for it; it has whiled away several otherwise weary hours, and I have enjoyed it exceedingly.”
THE BOSTON TRANSCRIPT. 
“Productions of uncommon merit Fluent and sparkling in style, with touches of quiet humor and lively wit, relieving what would otherwise be a topic too sombre and sad. they are graphic in description and exhibit the healthful sentiments and sympathies of the cheerful heroism that would minister to the sick and suffering. The contrast between the comic incidents and the tragic experience of a single night, given in No. 2 of the series, is portrayed with singular power and effectiveness. ‘The death of John’s is a noble and touching feature.’’
THE WATERBURY AMERICAN. 
“Graphically drawn. Exceedingly well written—and the graver portions of thrilling interest. There is a quiet vein of humor, too, running all through them, so that the reader is alternately moved to laughter and tears.”
THE N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
“These Sketches first appeared in the Commonwealth. Their wealth of curious humor, graphic picturings of hospital life, strong good sense, and thorough good-heartedness, took such entire possession of their readers, that here they are in a little book. Buy it; it is wonderfully enjoyable, and moreover a fair copyright is promised to be devoted to the support of orphans of the war.”
THE LIBERATOR.
“These Sketches, by Miss Alcott, are deservedly and ‘respectfully dedicated to her friend, Miss Hannah Stevenson,’ of Boston—a noble and good woman. They are overflowing wit genius, wit, humor, pathos, and womanly compassion and tenderness. All who read them will greatly relish them.”
THE NEW ENGLAND FARMER.
“Miss Alcott’s Hospital Sketches, which were published in the Commonwealth, newspaper, are now issued by Mr. James Redpath, with additions, in a neat little volume of 102 pages, price 50 cents. These sketches are the best record we have yet seen of hospital experience, for while the author sees and pictures the ludicrous side of every scene, the also shows, with genuine feeling, all a woman’s sympathy for suffering, and all a woman’s tact in relieving it. There are some passages in this little volume which will move the heart to tears as irresistibly as the humor of others will move the voice to laughter.”
THE BANNER OF LIGHT.
“We have read many, if not the most of these very racy sketches, and can testify that they will repay a second reading. They are full of power in their outline drawing; glow with quiet humor, sparkle with genuine wit, flash and cut with deserved satire, and attain to their full proportion by the aid of sane, good, honest and strong declamation. We have met no such sketches from the army hospitals since the war began. The effect of reading these will be to acquaint one with a more intimate knowledge of hospital sickness and suffering, as well as of its matchless heroism, and to quicken all parties to make more eager efforts to alleviate the weary hours which the unhappy soldier has to pass in our behalf.”
THE ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD. 
“Most of these Sketches were first printed in the Boston Commonwealth, where they won praise from literary men and women of the first ability. The publisher, having agreed to pay the author the usual copyright and resolved to devote at least five cents for every copy sold to the support of orphans made fatherless or homeless by the war, will not permit any journal to publish any part of the contents. The writer, who is understood to describe scenes of which she was an eye-witness, is the gifted daughter of the Transcendental Philosopher, A. Bronson Alcott.”
THE ROXBURY JOURNAL.
“These sketches have been widely read and admired in their newspaper form, and we are sure they will be gladly welcomed in the very tasteful volume in which they are now collected. They are from the pen of one of the raciest and most delightful of our young female authors. Miss Alcott has wit, pathos, and power as a writer, and she gives evidence of all these qualities here. Our readers have had a taste of the quality of these sketches in extracts we have previously made, and we heartily commend the book to their perusal.”
THE BOSTON INVESTIGATOR.
“The little book is well written, and gives the interesting experiences of a New England woman who went to the war in the honorable capacity of nurse. She relates with much effect the peculiar scenes through which she passed, and as her book is intended to help the children who are made orphans by the war, it is to be hoped that the publication may have a large sale.”
THE TAUNTON GAZETTE.
“In organizing our army hospitals in such a manner as to draw into them some of the most cultivated, refined and humane of women for nurses we have prepared the way for a new variety of literature which will still further open our sympathies for the sick and wounded soldiers. Of this fresh and deeply interesting kind of reading these Hospital Sketches’ are not only remarkable but memorable. Though the author’s service was brief, because of breaking down under the labor, she so felt and has so described what she saw and did, that a good influence has taken strength if not life from her touch. It is true that her characters are all heroes, and were ready to her hand; yet they were in such disguise as few penetrate, and she has not only reached their hearts but taken all restraint from their deepest and tenderest emotions. It is thus that we have her picture of the Virginia blacksmith-for it is beyond the creative power of genius.”
THE BOSTON CULTIVATOR.
“One of the most brilliant and engaging books of the season is this, issued from the press of James Redpath, of this city, wherein Miss L. M. Alcott has given to the public her experiences and observations connected with hospital and Washington life in this time of rebellion. With all the grace, facility and directness of woman she writes a quantity of humor and strength of phrasing which delights all readers; and while enlivening wit sparkles in almost every sentence, there is also a quiet undertone that often touches the finest chords of pathos in our nature, and we feel that the touching scenes of hospital life fell not upon a cold heart in Miss Alcott’s presence. But the heartrending facts, in finding expression through this noble woman, do not hide nor destroy her natural genius for the bright and re-enlightening lights of life, and in this little volume again we see how a true heart may ever have room for both pity and a cheerful and cheering hope. None who would know the Hospital of today, no sympathizer with his brothers in the field, and no lover of woman, should delay reading this last exemplification of them all.”

IN PRESS:
TOUSSAINT L’OUVERTURE: A Biography and Autobiography. This interesting volume contains two distinct works —the “Life of Toussaint,” by Dr. Beard, revised by an American editor; the “Memoirs of the Life of Gen. Toussaint L’Ouverture,” written by himself in despatches to Napoleon Bonaparte, now first published in English, having been expressly translated for this edition; and a valuable appendix containing important illustrative papers, essays, and poems, by King Christopher, Harriet Martineau, Wordsworth, Whittier, John G. Bigelow, and Wendell Phillips. Pp. 372 Illustrated with a Map of Colonial St. Demingo, and an authentic portrait of Toussaint. Price $1. 25. [Ready Oct. 10.]
THE MORALS OF EPICTRTUS: A Poetical translation. Price 25 cents. [Ready Oct. 10.]
Orders from the trade solicited. 
J. B. Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia; James Millar, D. G. Francis, and Walter Low, of New York, are prepared to supply the trade with these Books.
Any of these books will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, under 3000 miles, on receipt of the price, by
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street.
BOSTON.
