THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1717.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
ONE HONEST ABOLITIONIST.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier.
The Right Rev. John William Colenso, D.D., Bishop of Natal, on the eastern coast of Africa, has just published a book in England, which has just issued from Appleton’s press in New York, which is creating greater excitement than even the famous “Essays and Reviews,” He denies the inspiration of the Pentateuch, and denies that the Mosaic records are historically true.
The original difficulty in Dr. Colenso’s mind, and which gave rise to the stupendous and dreadful results which have followed, was the declaration of God to Moses, in the 21st chapter of Exodus, viz: “For he is his money”; the whole passage being—“If a man smite his servant or his maid with a rod, and he died under his hand, he shall be surely punished. Not withstanding, if he continue a day of two, he shall not be punished, for he is his money.”
The Bishop had evidently made up his mind, as all Abolitionists have done, what the Bible ought to teach; and when he found what it did teach, he saw that, to be consistent, he must throw away his belief, or throw away the Bible; and as his belief was very dear to him, he chose the latter, and away goes the Bible, reluctantly at first, of course, but it must go. He could have made the translation bend, perhaps, and did at first suggest to his intelligent Christian native assistant a method of avoiding the inevitable conclusion. But he says the assistant translator’s whole should revolted against the notion that the great and blessed God should speak of a servant or maid as mere “money,” and “my own heart and conscience sympathized with his,” and “since them, the cord binding me to the ordinary belief in the historical veracity of the Pentateuch has snapped altogether.”
Yes. Such is the spirit of Abolitionism that rather than it should not be true, let the Bible burn. Just reflect, reader! Here is a scientific mind, yea, a mitred head, who says he has no difficulty with “the accounts of the creation and the deluge, though these of themselves are very formidable”; none “with the miracles of the sun and moon standing still.” “with the waters of the Jordan standing in heaps,” “or the ass speaking with a human voice,” none “with the conversion of a rod into a snake,”—no difficulty in receiving all this and much more, but when one man is called another man’s money, by the Supreme Father of all, this cannot be believed. Painful as it is, he launches out upon the open sea of unmitigated infidelity as the lesser evil.
And would it not be well if every Abolition preacher were as honest as Dr. Colenso? But is it so? Take the published declaration of the American commentator, who has been boastingly called “the wedge that split the Presbyterian church.” “There are great principles in our nature,” says he, “as God has made us, which can never be set aside by any authority of a professed revelation. If a book, claiming to be a revelation from God, by any fair interpretation, defends slavery, or places it on the same basis as the relation of husband and wife, parent and child, guardian and ward, such a book would not and could not be received by the mass of mankind as a Divine revelation.” And yet Dr. Barnes claims to stand on the Bible, with all his Abolitionism upon him.
There you have it. Every thing must yield to the terrible power of this deadly pressure, and go into its capacious maw. Practically, the restoration of this Union, as the main object of the war, is a hateful, nauseous idea. Let a million lives go for it, if they must, the slaves must be emancipated without regard to consequences, or nothing is done worth one single penny! This is the doctrine of more than half our pulpits and our presses. What a demand there is for conservative men at this time!

THE TWO PROCLAMATIONS.
Jeff. Davis has rather the advantage of President Lincoln in regard to the negroes; for hanging slaves is certainly more warlike than freeing them. Pens and ink are very cheap, however, and, although paper is extravagantly dear, still the President may obtain any quantity of foolscap by contract at the national expense, and it will be easy for him to hang all the rebel army by a proclamation. In this case nothing would be left to Jeff. Davis but to retort by threatening not only to hang all our soldiers, but to pickle them like port, and eat them, broiled, boiled or roasted, in the true Fejee Island style of cuisine. Even if we adopted the same plan with the rebels, Jess. Davis would still have the advantage; for, whereas our soldiers are fat, plump, and in exquisite condition for a cannibal, the rebel ruffians are all skin and bones, and no more fit for a New Year’s or any other dinner than the immortal turkey of poor job, and we should have to cram them with victuals in Fort Lafayette or Fort Warren before they would be fit for the skewer. But if as the negro-worshippers reason, slavery is the foundation of the rebellion, and we have only to annihilate slavery to annihilate the Southern Confederacy, why cannot President Lincoln launch an emancipation proclamation at the King of Dahomey, and free all the slaves in Africa? Such a proclamation would have just as much effect there as in the rebel States, and would put down slavery with a vengeance. Why, Africa is the land in which negro slavery is born and reared, and if we destroy slavery there, we destroy it in the South also. What is the use of hacking away at a single small branch of a tree, when with the same blow you can cut off the tree at the roots, and bring all the branches to the ground? Africa, not South Carolina, originated our rebellion, according to the negro-worshippers’ argument, and slavery in Africa is therefore the thing to be eradicated before the Union can be restored. Let us have another proclamation, then, by all means. Either African slavery must be proclaimed out of existence or the entire rebel army must be hung and eaten at once. Like the Apostle of the Revelations, all President Lincoln has to do is to write; and be should get to work immediately.
We doubt, however, that the people of either section of the country will much relish this rapid progress towards barbarism. If President Lincoln’ proclamation resembles the paper wars of the foolish Chinese, Jeff. Davi’s retaliatory document savors of the cruelty of the bloody barbarians. Have not our rulers yet degenerated for enough? Have not the measures of this war sufficiently disgraced the country? Is it not time to cease such hideous and revolting fooleries? If this war had been manfully and constitutionally conducted by our administration, the Union would have been restored months ago. Are we not yet ready to return to first principles, and crush out the rebellion by fair fighting? Are not our officials sickened with the blood sacrificed to a sanguinary and satanic pretence of philanthropy? Our country, our just cause, our glorious Constitution, are lost sight of in the incense offered to the negro. The Devil must laugh with infernal glee as he
<c02>
urges on thousands of Americans to cut each others throats in honor of his black earthly representative. Our administration and the rebel leaden alike seem to hare pone Mark mad, and fibber mockingly while the nation dies. Long ago—if our people were not gifted with angelic patience—the crazy rulers of both sections of this unhappy nation would have been shut up in asylums for the insane. The people, thank God! Are still in their right minds, and we see no reason to despair of the country, save in the conduct of those who are at the head of affairs, both North and South, and who act in a manner befitting rather the madhouse which awaits them, than the high places which they now unfortunately occupy.—New York Herald.

PROCLAMATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
According to recent statements, the President's Emancipation Proclamation, should he determine to bring it out, will vindicate for itself a closer relation to a comet than that signified by Mr. Lincoln's comparison. He used this vagrant through unknown space simply by way of illustration, in order to exhibit the fruitlessness of the document, which the crazy people from Chicago and elsewhere were urging him to put forth. A proclamation of emancipation over a territory not in our possession, and which there was no immediate prospect certainly of our getting possession of, he either said of implied, would he like the bull against the comet. But it is now alleged, that, if he fulminates the proclamation at all, be proposes to make certain exceptions, as to its application—for example, Kentucky, Tennessee, Maryland. Missouri, a part of Virginia, North Carolina, Louisiana, and perhaps other localities, are to be exempted from the operation of this fearful shot at vacancy. In this will consist, then, a specific resemblance of the proclamation to the course of the comet. If that is erratic in its peregrinations, the proclamation, in intention at least, is decidedly zigzag. We imagine that the uncommonly apt and happy illustration employed by Mr. Lincoln at first must have been the means of suggesting to his mind, after careful study of the subject, no doubt, the propriety of so molding the proclamation, as to maintain a resemblance between it and the comet, which should be substantial, and not metaphorical merely. 'Hence, the circuitous track of the former, by means of which the President proposes ingeniously to avoid those parts of the country on which we have no actual foothold; and come down with effect upon those parts where no resistance is made to our authority. In fact, it will penetrate without difficulty the States not in rebellion; white not one colored person in a thousand will ever hear of it, in States which call themselves seceded. But we shall trust that better counsels have at length had their due influence in awakening Mr. Lincoln from his extraordinary infatuation on this subject; and that he will finally conclude that a serious error can be better avoided than repaired, and that thus be will defer the proclamation in question until at least the year 1900.—Baton Courier, before the Proclamation.
The character of the transaction is not in the least changed by the lapse of time or by the course of events. The proclamation just issued, apart from its stupendous folly, is an outright invitation to crimes and horrors unexampled in the history of the world. It is of no avail to say that such is not the intention; the real question for a wise and just man is—what is the inevitable effect. Should such consequences come, the moral responsibility will be on Mr. Lincoln, and we regret also to add upon Mr. Seward, who countersigns this atrocious document, which will be reckoned by the candid judgment of the world an .insult to all ordinary perceptions of right and wrong, and an outrage upon every well-founded sentiment of morality and religion.
Mr. Lincoln need not have invoked the considerate judgment of mankind to approve of his wilful act. That judgment has long since been solemnly pronounced, by the repeated expression of wise and considerate men in foreign lands, as well as in our own; and it will be sternly thundered in his ears in tones more emphatic than he ever yet listened to, both at home and abroad. We are amazed that he should venture to invoke the favor of Almighty God upon a proceeding, which, if it have the effect naturally to result from it, if effectual at all, would consign millions of God's accountable creatures to slaughter, and to be the victims of every brutal passion which can infuriate the human breast.—Boston Courier, after the Proclamation.

THE LATE RUPTURE IN THE CABINET.
Has the country reason to rejoice that Mr. Seward and Mr. Chase have returned to their places? At first, the resignations of these gentlemen were accepted: but after a little reflection, the President invited them back again, with the assurance that the public interests required them to remain; and back again they are. Should they have been suffered to withdraw? They are certainly the most able men in the Abolition party. In this view of the case, the Chief Magistrate has done well to keep them. But the father of the "irrepressible doctrine" and his Ohio pupil are main causes in the disasters of this nation. It is a fact, well attested by the pages of the Congressional Globe, that these two men have done more to disturb the South than any other two men in the North. Their abolition speeches—their harangues on the "irrepressible doctrine," prove them to be—to have been, at least—the most persistent and the most able enemies of the South in all the free States. Was it from benevolence for the negro they acted? No one who knows the political ambition by which they have been influenced can say that it was. They took up the Black—who was happy enough without any intervention—from the hope of self-aggrandizement, and it is the Black that has put them in the Cabinet Chamber at Washington. They Bust ever be regarded as principal agents in the rebellion. They have grown some what conservative in office. The vast public harm which their irrepressible did, stared them in the face—struck their conscience, and they have grown moderate. Have we reason for exultation in the retention of such men in power? Much more objectionable men might be put in their places; but there are much less exceptionable men to be found; and, therefore, the President should have suffered them to go home, and have called in less exceptionable men. But Abraham himself was, is, and ever will be, a radical at heart; and we may be thankful for what we have got. May the days of peace and Union be soon restored to us! The treason of Abolitionism has driven the country to the verge of ruin. That vice say be compared to the rabies of the dog: there is no curing it. It was it that occasioned the rupture in the Cabinet—it was it that re-composed the Cabinet—it is it that will guide the Administration to the end of the term. The last rapture in the Cabinet hat not taken place. There will be public failures followed by public indignation that will demand new “privy Councilors" to be called in. Mr. Stanton, at all events, not with standing his abilities, will be called on to resign.—Boston Pilot.
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
"CONCILIATION" IN HORTH CAROLINA.
The so-called" conciliatory “policy of Gov. Stanley has been tried, and proved a comple failure. Men have taken the oath of allegiance as a condition precedent to obtaining permits, to carry salt and other merchandise into their neighborhoods outside our lines; and, strange to say, so far from being molested by the Rebels on that account, have been subsequently found to stand high in their favor, and to be upon terms of intimate and friendly companionship with them. The owners and occupants of houses where Rebel soldiers were found harbored, have exhibited Gov. Stanley's safeguards as a talisman of protection from .arrest or molestation. Guerrillas themselves have been taken with these safeguards upon their persons. Whether to the credit or discredit of our troops, it should be said that they rarely regard these safeguards; and the Governor bitterly complains that our soldiers are not half so mannerly and forbearing as the Rebels. This matter of granting "protections," as they are called, has been most extravagantly abused, and it is no wonder that they are getting to be considered a sham both by our soldiers and the citizens who hold them.
Not one man of any prominence has yet been induced to take any position for the Union: and I understand that, with but one solitary exception, nobody who was a citizen of the State when the rebellion commenced has thus far undertaken to make a Union speech. In Tennessee and Virginia we hear of lawyers, politicians, and others, who have been conspicuous heretofore, coming out earnestly and unconditionally on the Union side. I am sorry to say this is not the case in North Carolina; and there is no probability that it ever will be. 1 do not know of a single slaveholder, a man of large property, who is a Union man, except from very evident considerations of profit or convenience. The non-slaveholders are generally disposed to be loyal, and most of them, who are not unfitted by infirmity or age, enlist quite willingly. These men, however, dislike Gov. Stanley and his policy, and insist upon the harshest measures toward the Rebels and their sympathizers.
These non-slaveholders, or "white trash," as the negro drivers call them, and who compose four-fifths of the population of North Carolina, are easily made into Free-Labor men, one speech being sufficient to convert a whole community. They are generally down on the negro as well at his master, and desire his deportation out of the country; but they heartily wish the slaves were all free as the first necessary step to getting rid of them. They readily appreciate the argument that the unpaid, compulsory labor of negroes keeps the wages of white labor down to a starvation point, and that the evils of this competition could not be increased, but might, and probably would, be diminished by Emancipation. The negroes, if freed, would be no more numerous now, even if they remained here. Slavery keeps them in the Southern country, so that they cannot get away if they would. Then, too, the slave is compelled to do a day's work even' well day he has; if not obliged, he probably would not work half so much, and so the poor white man would have a better chance.
Persons who have been engaged in procuring volunteers for the North Carolina Union companies very soon found that no progress whatever could be made by using the stale, common-place Union talk in their addresses; but Free-Labor harangues, denunciatory of the Slave Oligarchy, and exhibiting the benefits which would result to the masses from its overthrow, have brought in recruits by hundreds. And one reason why these native National soldiers fight so desperately and well, is their intense hatred of the slaveholding aristocracy which they now see has always maltreated and defrauded them.
The attempt to suppress the Free-Labor movement by placing it under the ban of the Administration, and prohibiting the publication of the proceedings of the meetings organized under the auspices of the Free-Labor Association, has created considerable excitement here, and occasioned no small indignation. In this attempt, Gov. Stanley has made one of the greatest mistakes of his life. The leaders in the movement, however, are men of nerve, who know well what they are doing, and who have counted the cost and measured all the difficulties lying in their way. They know the arbitrary and irresponsible power of the Military Governor, but they fear neither expatriation nor the Newbern Bas-tile. They have opposed to them not only the entire Jeff. Davis Confederacy, and all its treacherous and crafty adherents inside our lines, but, in addition to this. President Lincoln's representative, with all his patronage, his steamboats and his railroads; but alt these obstacles do not appall them. Gov. Stanley denounces their sentiments as "wicked," and their followers as "bad men." In an article in the Newbern Progress, severely reprobating the doctrines announced at the Beaufort meeting, which article was written at the instigation of Gov. Stanley, he says: We did not come here to establish Free-Labor in North Carolina; nor is this the avowed policy of the Administration."
The Free-Labor men strongly opposed ordering any election for the remainder of the present Congress, because they feared it would afford the President a pretext to exempt the rich lands and thousands of slaves within the limits of this District from the operation of the Confiscation and Emancipation acts. The petitions which they signed were for the next Congress: and they were told only a few days before the appearance of the Governor's proclamation directing an election for January 1st, that none would be at present ordered.
The condition of the contrabands in this department is most deplorable. They have had no pay for four months, and are destitute of clothing, and have nothing with which to purchase the most trivial necessaries. The women and children especially are in great want, and their unhappy situation calls loudly for relief at the hands of the 'charitable. Six hundred have been added to the number here since the recent movement of Gen. Foster's army inland. Any contributions of clothing or money sent to the Rev. James Means, Superintendent of Contrabands at Newbern, will be thankfully acknowledged and judiciously appropriated. The Rev. Mr. Means is a sympathetic, kind-hearted man, and takes a deep interest in the unfortunate people under his charge.' No man could have been chosen more suitable for the place and great good must result from his labors. Newbern corr. of K. Y Tribune.
The continuance of this Gov. Stanley in his office is among the strange paradoxes and blind fatalities which have characterised the Administration in its treatment of the rebellion. He is wholly untrustworthy-one whose purpose is to prevent any thing effective being done towards reducing his native State to obedience, and to thwart the Emancipation policy of the Government Let him walk the plank!
<c04>
THE HOUR OF DELIVERANOE.
We cannot stop without one word of rejoicing at the approach of the hour of deliverance and exaltation of America. The Proclamation is as life from the dead. It will be known in history without any adjective, as The Declaration and The Constitution are known. To leave America the greatest of slaveholding nations—to find it on our return, after a brief absence, almost universally free, it seems well nigh miraculous. It is miraculous! "It is the Lord's doing, and marvellous in our eyes." How the souls of the martyrs of this faith, from Lovejoy to John Brown, must exult as the tidings go heavenward! How the greater martyrs that have perished by myriads in their Southern dungeons will exalt and magnify Him in whose hand are the hearts of rulers and people, and who turneth them as the rivers of water are turned! For his right hand and mighty arm have gotten him the victory.
Immediate and unconditional emancipation—the first and ceaseless cry of William Lloyd Garrison—emancipation with the inevitable ultimate of arming the liberated slave to preserve his freedom—the doctrine and practice of Capt. Brown—and this by the President, supported by Governors and people! How small and feeble appear the governments of Europe beside such decrees! No nation here has a record a millionth part as grand. Gladstone may flatter the slaveholders, and fool his own people by saying that Jeff. Davis has created a nation. Abraham Lincoln has emancipated a nation. True, the work is not ended. The War of Independence had not ceased when Independence was declared. But it seems impossible now that any other result should happen than toe extinction of the slaveholding class, and the elevation of black and white to one level and one destiny.
Even if compelled to abandon the Southern territory, we shall at least make the United States what it never has been before—everywhere free. But we shall not allow these our fellow-citizens to be reduced again to bondage. The preservation of their liberty and of ours hangs together. The new life will clothe our armies with ideas; make Generals men as well as soldiers, and ensure us ultimate and glorious victory. Here, amid the ruins of the greatest of nations, destroyed because it would not destroy slavery, rejoice in this act by which America secures for herself a grander, longer, and infinitely better dominion than that of Rome.
[REV. G. HAVEN, JR.]
Rome, (Italy,) Oct. 20, 1862.

MR. KIRKLAND'S REPLY TO JUDGE CURTIS.
"A Letter to the Hon. Benjamin R. Curtis, late Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States, in review of his recently published pamphlet on the Emancipation Proclamation ' of the President," is a pamphlet written by Charles P. Kirkland of New York, and published by Latimer Brothers & Seymour, law stationers, 21 Nassau street. Mr. Kirkland wields s vigorous pen, and pierces with few words to the heart of Judge Curtis's fallacies. He points out that while discussing only the Emancipation Proclamation, Judge Curtis, in reality, mixes up in his pamphlet that and the proclamation of martial law, made two days afterwards, in such a manner that, "in many instances, no ingenuity can determine whether your arguments, your illustrations, your deprecatory expressions, apply to the one Proclamation or the other."
And again:
"That throughout your paper you treat the proclamation substantially as if it were a proclamation of absolute emancipation in the rebel States; that is, were it such a proclamation, your argument would be in substance the same that it now is.
Again, in your copy of it you entirely omit the clause in reference to compensation; and it will be found that a portion, and no immaterial portion of your argument is based on the non-existence of the conditional and compensatory parts of the proclamation. It is very clear, that a proper regard to truth and fairness would have required a conspicuous place in your paper for these two distinguishing features
With these omitted or practically concealed, you could by no possibility attain the object you profess, namely, 'the aiding your countrymen in forming right conclusions.'
A fatal error underlying your whole argument is, that in substance and effect you treat and argue this matter precisely as you would have done had there been no rebellion and no war; had the country been at peace; had you prepared and published your views in November, 1859, ( if a similar proclamation had been then issued.) You throw the veil of oblivion over the last two years; you ignore the events that have occurred during that period, and the state of things existing in the country on the 22d of September, 1862."
We recommend Mr. Kirkland's pamphlet as an able contribution to the discussion of this subject, and all the more worthy of attention because the accomplished author is a conservative of the old Whig school. He is of that noble class, however, who prefer patriotism to party.—N. Y. Eve Post.

MALIGNITY AHEAD OF TRUTH AND FACTS.
If ever doubt existed that the leading, controlling, organizing and executive minds within the present democratic organization—not the masses, by any means—were filled with a disloyal spirit, were exercised with deadly hatred of the Administration, and were ready to barter their country's welfare for party advantage, and to appeal to the basest prejudices to create party capital, that doubt must now be removed. Not a success achieved by our arms has called forth their admiration and rejoicing, except it has been accomplished by some commander whose fame they have sought to make tributary to their party aggrandizement; not a defeat has been suffered by other commanders that has not evidently afforded them satisfaction. Think of the all bat demoniac spirit with which they received the news of Pope's repulse at Manassas! It required no far-reaching penetration to discover the satisfaction it afforded them when, as they averred, the Administration was reduced to the necessity of calling upon McClellan to save the capital, and to drive the invaders from Maryland. Not a note of rejoicing was heard from them at any of the victories in the West, the South-west, or along the Atlantic coast; bat every reverse and every successful guerilla raid were magnified into the most convincing proofs of the invincibility of the rebels, the weakness of the Government, and its inability to carry on the war to a successful issue. It has been only the successes j of McClellan that have received from them a warm word of exaltation, and they have not been slow to magnify even his signal defeats and disasters into the most triumphant exhibitions of military skill and strategy.
When Burnside—an able, tried and successful commander took the field at the head of the army Of the Potomac, endless and numberless were their prophecies of evil There was no opportunity lost to assure the people so far as their efforts could as-
<c05>
sure them—that by the substitution of the new for the old commander, a great loss of precious time had been the result; and though it was asserted that McClellan was all ready, and had actually commenced his great march upon Richmond, no sooner did Burnside have charge than allegations became thick, indignant and frequent, that he could not move because of the neglect of Quartermasters and other officials to meet the pressing demands of his army.
But he moved, and this put an extinguisher upon such accusations as those referred to. From War-renton, Burnside moved toward the Rappahannock at Fredericksburg, and there he made a stand. When he deemed it proper to do so, he crossed the river, and the results we need not recapitulate.
But what was the impression sought to be created all over the country? that he was warmly and cordially supported at head-quarters? By no means; but that he was embarrassed, not only by short supplies, and by neglect to supply him with meant to cross the river, but that he was actually forced to cross the river, in the face of an enemy, against his own judgment.' It will be remembered that even the Argus published an extract from a private letter from an officer in Howard's division, that "Burnside is crossing the river contrary to his own judgment.”
Who does not know how often and how persistently it has been assorted that he would have crossed the first day of his arrival opposite Fredericksburg, but for Halleck's neglect to furnish the pontoon bridges? In the Advertiser, yesterday morning, in a villanous article, evidently in type and worked off before the contents of Burnside's official report were known, entitled "The Blunder of the War," the editor indulges in such flings and malignant words as the following:—
"His subsequent necessary delay to crow the river, from the tardy supply of pontoon bridge material—his crossing the river, nevertheless, with a certain knowledge of the enemy's preparation, in the mean time, to receive him in front of their invincible breast-works, with a largely reinforced army to hold them—his abortive attack upon those breast-works, and subsequent necessary retreat across the river, under the stealthy cover of the night."
"Such events, conducted and occurring immediately on the removal of the most popular, and from aught appears to the contrary, the most able General in command—a General who never yet lost a battle—on the score of in competency and over-caution, cannot but be regarded as a blunder that reflects the deepest disgrace upon the Administration at Washington."
"For heroic daring against the dictates of common sense, and against the most skilfully opposed dangers, yet excited in obedience to the orders of superiors.
"That it was the headlong work of mere politicians, blindly plunging the executive and his most incompetent and self-sufficient Secretary of War, whom they most unfortunately control and subjugate to their radical policy, is scarcely a disputable fact."
"The spirit of braggadocio in which it was ordered to be conducted, adds shame and reproach to the whole calamity. It is well ascertained, that it was the sole work of civilians in the Government, influenced by the advice and threats of radical Abolitionists; and that they, and not the Generals in the field, are responsible to the country and to the world for it"
"We cannot but characterize this catastrophe to the army and to our cause as blameworthy in the highest degree, on the part of the Administration at Washington. The nation cannot but be proud of the army of the Potomac, and of all its Generals—save only the General-in-Chief, HALLECK, who was not upon the field."
“We don't say the President ought to replace Gen. McCLELLAN; and yet we do say, in our judgment, such an act would reflect more credit upon the Administration than aught beside the resignation of Mr. Secretary Stanton could. Neither Halleck nor Stanton can easily or soon regain any considerable degree of the national confidence. Call it imbecility, or ill luck, or whatever else you may, each is degraded in the esteem of every sympathizing friend of the army."
"His obvious ignorance or disregard of them all bespeaks his utter in competency to fill longer the position of General-in-Chief of the army of the Union, and next to the President, whatever may have been expected of him heretofore. With such a disaster occurring under his immediate direction, the world might welt demand his prompt surrender of all further command of the national troops."
The malignity of the attempt here made to stimulate indignation against Gen. Halleck, Secretary Stanton, and the Administration generally; to charge them with forcing Burnside into difficulties against his own judgment, and to encourage the demand for a recall of McClellan and the restoration of a do-nothing policy, is too obvious to require a word from us to render it more apparent.
In keeping with all this is the recent movement of the New York City Democracy, beaded by such men as O'Donobue and James Brooks—curious coalition—an Irishman and the high-priest of Know-Nothingism—to take advantage of the disaster to our arms for the basest political effect. Before the groans of the wounded had died upon the ear, they summoned a party tribunal to blow a party blast, and to manufacture party capital out of the groans of the dying, the miseries of the wounded, and the reverses of our army! In our judgment, no traitor, not even Jeff. Davis himself, ever more richly deserved the rope than the creatures who can descend to such means to build up a party organization at the expense of their country's honor.
But upon all such treason-hatching scoundrelism the official report of Gen. Burnside has fallen with the weight of rifle cannon shot, demolishing their infernal schemes at a single dash of his pen. If the reverses at Fredericksburg have served to develop treason at toe North to be so easily counterworked, the terrible sacrifices there bare not been wholly in vain. He says to Gen. Halleck:—
"I have the honor to offer the folio wing reasons for moving the army of the Potomac across the Rappa hannock sooner than was anticipated by the President, Secretary of War, and yourself, and for crossing at a point different from the one indicated to you at our last meeting at the President's."
The pontoons were not ready, then, simply because the commanding General anticipated the time be himself had indicated that he would need them. He gives his reasons for this early movement, and then disposes of the whole brood of rumors about his being forced against his own judgment, and his control by civilians and radicals, as fellows:—
"The Act that I decided to move from Warrenton to this line, rather against the opinion of the President, the Secretary of War, and yourself, and that you left the whole movement in my hands, without giving me orders, makes me responsible."
So, then, Burnside was not under pressure. The whole movement was left in his own hands, and he acted without peremptory orders, and, like a noble, whole-souled, magnanimous chief as he is, he says, I alone am responsible! All honor to AMBROSE EVERETT BURNSIDE! He dares act as be thinks right; he darns take the responsibility of his own mistake; he dares defend and protect the innocent
—Maine Stale Press.
<c06>
From the London Spectator, Dec. 13, 1862.
THE POLICY OF A NEGRO ARMY FOR THE NORTH.
Let us look, for a moment, at the “irrepressible negro” from a military point of view, and see how many problems he might, if steadily regarded in this light, help to solve.
In the first place, the negro would probably supply the North with as good or even a better military materiel than the mean whites supply to the South. They are quite as strong and quite as hardy, apparently quite as courageous, nearly as intelligent, much more faithful if well treated, and much more deeply habituated to that obedient attitude of mind which is the essence of military discipline. The Northern army has always been a free and easy army; fighting bravely, it is said, but also determined to exercise the right of public opinion as to the moment when they have done their share. The notion seizes them in battle that they have accomplished all that ought to be expected of them, and then no officer can force them to do more. This is not business in military affairs. The Southern troops, accustomed to an aristocratic caste, do not judge for themselves in this way. They spend themselves at the command of their officers. And thus, too, it would, in all probability, be with a negro army. Their fidelity and their respect for the white race would alike keep tight the bonds of military authority, now so loose at the North. The negroes would be Sepoys without any disposition to treachery, and with more than the Sepoy physique. Moreover, they would be even less exposed to the malaria and exhaustion of the Southern climate than the Southerners themselves. Again, the negro just released from slavery would thankfully accept low wages in the Northern army, instead of the enormous bounty and pay now claimed by every white volunteer; and they would be as easy to satisfy with wholesome rations of any kind as the present army is hard. Every element of the soldier is to be found in the negro, unless it be natural military tastes, and this the cause now supplies. There is physical strength, and a body used to unlimited hardships. There is the willing hand without the meddling head, and the greatest of all motives for desperate valor.
But, next, a large auxiliary negro army would help to solve a great political problem. Under the President’s emancipation policy, a great number of negroes must be attracted Northwards, and the greatest jealousy is felt by the Northern laborer lest they should reduce his normal wages. By employing them freely in the army, this danger would be partially averted, and a great boon conferred upon the Northern laborer, who dreads the drafting policy of the administration. In this way the half-reluctant. States of the North would be reconciled to the first steps of the emancipation policy,-and if, as we hope, the regiments thus formed should prove the most effective and best disciplined in the army, the military pride of the North would soon convert them to the President’s policy,-for no susceptibility of caste would be hurt by the glory of black regiments with white commissioned officers,-the unjust rule of war being that all display of public gratitude is lavished upon the leader, however much is due to the followers.
But not only would this policy enormously lower the cost of the army, spare the labor of the North, and reconcile the Democrats to emancipation-but it might be made one of the most powerful elements in what we may call the foreign policy of the war; for there would be no better means of avoiding all the dangers of servile insurrection than passing the fugitive slaves through the discipline of a military regime. The least indulgence of private license or vindictiveness might then be punished with instant death, without any undue austerity. In no way emancipation on a large scale. And thus the natural European suspicion of all sudden emancipation would be best removed. Nor would this be all one result of such a measure would be still more important. A negro army once established would probably become the nucleus of the permanent military system of the North,-and so a most important cheek upon the South. Of course, we are assuming what all Englishmen now assume, that absolute subjugation of the South is a dream, that the war is a question of boundaries,-a question, as mathematicians would say, of the maximum or minimum extent of the Slave Power. Now, assuming this, what could be more important, more decisive for the slavery policy of the South, than the existence of a negro army across the border,-capable of large increase, and ready and eager to act in all cases directly involving the extension or limitation of slavery? The knowledge of such a fact would be by far the most effective cheek on slavery of human fear.
In whatever light we contemplate the question, the principles involved in the creation of a negro army seem to us most pregnant of weighty result and gradual political transformations. But if the Northern statesmen will never look beyond the hour, what can save them? Foresight and combination are only less needful than strict justice in dealing with the emancipation of the” irrepressible negro.”

From the London Morning Star of Dec. 13.
FREEDOM FOR THE SLAVES.
GREAT PUBLIC MEETING IN LAMBETH.
A densely crowded and most enthusiastic meeting was held, last evening, in the large building known as Lambeth Baths, Westminster-road, to express sympathy with the Anti-Slavery party in America. At least three thousand persons of all classes of society were present, and the proceedings were characterized by the greatest possible unanimity and earnestness. The chair was occupied by the Rev. NEWMAN HALL, L.L.B. minister of Surry Chapel, and the Rev. J. H. Rylance, A.K.C., minister of St. Paul’s, Westminster road, attended as a deputation from the Emancipation Society, under whose auspices the meeting was convened. The following, among others, were present on the platform:- Mr. George Thompson, Mr. W. Wilks, Mr. C. Wright, Mr. G.M. Murphy, Rev. Mr. Evans, Rev. W. Hawkins, Mr. G. Law, Mr. J. Maxwell, Mr. N. Huntingdon, Mr. J. Govie, Mr. A.H. Dymond , Mr. F.W. Cheason, &c.
Considerable interest was added to the meeting by the Presence of no less a personages than the colored coachman of Mr. Jefferson Davis, the President of the Confederate States. William Andrew Jackson, the individual in question, has only recently arrived in this country, having escaped from slavery.
The Chairman said that the meeting had been summoned for the purpose of eliciting and expressing the popular sentiment in reference to the great question of emancipation. Some persons said that that there was a reaction in England on this subjects
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and that he people of England did not abhor slavery as once they did. He did not believe it (Loud cheers.) Whatever might have been expressed by certain newspapers and by certain public men, he believed that the heart of Old England. Beat now at it ever did—tree to freedom. (Loud applause.) This was a bona fide meeting and every one be at liberty to propose what amendment he liked but while he, as chairman, would act with perfect partiality, he was far from feeling neutral. To say so would be a disgrace and a lie. He loved and honored the cause of labor, and therefore he could not be neutral. (Loud cheers.) He was an Englishman, and could not be neutral. He believed in the rights of man, and could not be neutral. (Renewed cheers.) He was a minister of a religion which taught him to love his neighbor as himself, and therefore be could not be neutral. (Applause.) Man had no more right to rob a working man of his labor than to rob the landowner of his acres or the capitalist of his gold. But slavery degraded the laborer, and thus degrade labor all over the world. Englishmen had equal rights everywhere. Let any one come here with a band of servants, though he might call them slaves, the moment they touched these shores, masters and slaves would both be in subjection to the laws, and all be equally free. It was the inalienable right of every man to seek to promote his own happiness as he thought best, so long as he did not interfere with similar rights of other people. It was impossible morally or rightfully for man to hold property in his fellow-man. The Gospel of Christ was wholly opposed to such a monstrous doctrine, and therefore slavery was opposed to Christianity. If there were a set of people who claimed a right to hold property in man as a fundamental principle of their federation, and to perpetuate and spread slavery all over the world, Englishmen could not have any sympathy with them. (Loud cheers.) Englishmen could not desire to recognize them as a separate empire, or see their representatives kneeling before our glorious Queen, and defiling the hands which held a scepter only over the free. (Loud applause.) He rejoiced that the sentiments which he expressed were sympathized with by so many of his fellow-countrymen, and he thought, therefore, that they were bound to extend their cordial sympathy to those who, equally with themselves, were the friends of emancipation, and who were bravely and earnestly fighting its battles. Even if there were some persons in the Northern State who were not sincere Abolitionist, it must not be forgotten that millions were the earnest friends of abolition, and who had given pledges of their sincerity. In the District of Columbia, slavery had been already abolished, and it had been decreed that whenever a State should voluntarily liberate its slaves, it should be compensated by the United States Government. Since the war had begun, at least 200,000 slaves had escaped to the North, and President Lincoln had declared that on and after January the 1st, 1863. slavery should forever cease throughout the rebel States. (Loud applause.) They would be recreant to the great cause of freedom if they could know these things without gladdened hearts. Who could refuse sympathy with those whose efforts had for years been tending towards such a result? England was too great to wish the war to continue for the sake of weakening and bumbling America. Americans were our kinsmen and brothers; multitudes of us had relations and representatives there; and would to God they might continue in their great career without such contests as the one now raging! (Hear, hear.) At the same time, he did not see how the war could terminate until slavery was brought to an end; and, therefore, when he prayed that the war might end, he also prayed that slavery might cease. Cheers.) There were those in England who uttered words of unkindness and suspicion about America, and there were those there who returned such language with interest; but he hoped none of that audience would be among the number of such persons. Why should they try to foment wicked passions which might hereafter lead to a war with our kinsmen—a war which, if it did break out, would be one of the most disastrous that could be conceived? No, let them send peaceful, loving messages across the Atlantic, in spite of what some of the newspapers said. (Loud cheers.) The English newspapers which ministered to these passions did not represent the true feeling of England. (Loud cheers.) Might they not suppose, therefore, that the American newspapers which followed that example as little represented the feeling in America? (Hear, hear.) He hoped that slavery and the war would soon come to an end—that freedom and peace would make glad that great country—and that England and America, had in hand, would labor together to spread civilization, freedom, and Christianity. (Loud applause.)
Mr. MURPHY moved the following resolution:—“That slavery dishonors and injures the cause of labor, is subversive of the rights of humanity, and tramples on the plainest precepts of Christianity.”
The Rev. Mr. EVANS seconded the motion.
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, who was received with loud and repeated cheering, supported the resolution. He said that if he were addressing an audience composed of the privileged classes, or of the ship-owners, cotton brokers, and privateers, be might be doubtful of the result. But as he was speaking before a free meeting, composed of persons who had no direct interest, political or commercial, in the maintenance of slavery in America, and who were not jealous of the power, magnitude, and future destiny of America, he felt satisfied that the resolution which had been submitted would be carried all but unanimously. (Cheers.) A week ago, he had received a letter from a friend in the Staffordshire Potteries, who had been engaged in getting up a series of meetings, and who had come to the conclusion that nearly three-fourths of the genteel classes in Staffordshire sympathised with the South. (Hisses, and “No, no.”) He (Mr. Thompson) had, however, since then addressed large and enthusiastic meetings at Hanley, Burse, and Newcastle-under-Lyne; and though he had courted opposition, the only kind of hostility that he evoked was one solitary “No” in response to a particular statement. That was the only form which the pro-slavery feeling in the Potteries assumed. (Cheers.) There had been the most insidious and laborious attempts to pervert the minds of the suffers in Lancashire. Twelve months ago, Mr. Massey, the member of Sanford, and Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, addressed a meeting of operatives and others in this own borough, in a speech calculated to incite them to demand that the government of this country should interfere in American affairs in such a manner as should raise the blockade, and lead to the exportation of cotton to this country. (Shame.) He, moreover, ventured upon and assertion, which was afterwards flatly contradicted by the Moniker, that Napoleon had again and again urged the Government of this country to join with him in such an interference. It was his opinion that Mr. Massey was sent down to feel the minds of the people of the North, but all the efforts which had been made to incite them to discontent and remonstrance against our present neutrality in American affairs had utterly failed. (Loud cheers.) There was a Confederate Society in London, holding its meetings in Devonshire street, Portland place, and the first meeting was held last week. Persons attending had to write their name and address on the ticket, and the lecturer in the course of his address complained of the Morrill tariff, and ascribed to it the Southern secession. [A gentleman in the room asked him if the Southern Senators might not have exerted themselves in Congress to modify that tariff, and whether they were not too busy about secession to do so.] The lecturer replied that no question was to be put, and on being reminded that the lecturer himself had had full liberty accorded to him at a meeting convened by the other side, a policeman was called into the room, and the interrogator was quietly walked off. (Hear, hear.) Granting that there might be many persons in North America who were not sincere Abolitionists, what great measure of reform had ever been carried in this country with entire unanimity? It was not so with the anti-slavery movement, or the repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts, or Catholic emancipation, or the repeal of the Corn Laws. (Hear, hear.) The fact was that America was as sincere in the anti-slavery movement as England ever was, as a nation, on any of those great questions. He pitied those men who could not sympathise with either the North or the South, in the presence of a slaveholders’ rebellion on the one side, and twenty or twenty-one States on the other, struggling for their national existence, trying to uphold the authority of their Constitution, and to save the free institutions which were so dear to them, and so hateful to the South. (Cheers.) The Northern States had been the conservators of freedom since 1832, when to be an Abolitionists was dangerous to a man’s prosperity, and even to his life. In 1856, a clear majority of voters in the Free
<c02>
States voted for Fremont on the same principles as those upon which Lincoln was elected. The District of Columbia had been made free, and New York had entirely ceased to be a port for slave ships—the first slave captain caught there since Lincoln came into power baring expiated his crime upon the allows. (Cheers.) The island of St. Domingo bad also been recognised by the Northern 8tatea since Lincoln became President, and an envoy from the black republic could now take his place among the pale-faced diplomatists from European nations at the Court of Washington. These and other tokens had been given by the United States that she was in earnest in the anti-slavery movement. The Times correspondent at Richmond pictured slavery as a very delightful thing, and said that runaway slaves were only too glad to come back again to their masters. The Times correspondent had, however, been imposed upon, as it was a well known trick of the negroes to return with many professions of repentance, and afterwards to entice many of their fellow-slaves to escape with them a second time. (Cheers and laughter.) Mr. Thompson resumed his seat amid long and continued applause.
The resolution was then carrid by acclamation.
Mr. LAW moved,-That the people of Great Britain can never sympathise with, nor desire the recognition of, any nation which asserts as one of its fundamental principles the right of maintaining and extending the system of slavery."
Mr. PARKES, OF Southwark, a gentleman whose father was tarred and feathered in the Slave States, in consequence of his abolition principles, seconded the motion.
The Rev. J. H. RYLANCE, the deputation from the Emancipation Society, said it was high time that the voice of the masses of Englishmen should be heard on the question. He had travelled through the United States, and having had an opportunity of knowing the people in their own homes, he was sick at heart to see the systematic course of libelling which several newspapers in England pursued towards them. Many persons were led to believe that the Yankees cared nothing for the slaves. Nothing could be farther from the truth; but even supposing that it were so, was there less need of the earnest remonstrance of Englishmen against slavery? (No, no.) Would England be justified on that account in helping those who would tighten the bonds and fetters of the slave? (" No.") But the Northerners bad a very good answer to make to us. It was Great Britain which imported pro-slavery sentiments into the Free States. John Mitchel bad found a congenial home in Tennessee upon a plantation well stocked with slaves, and Mr. Edwin James, who in this country stood shoulder to shoulder with the men who had fought the anti-slavery battle, was now learning the alphabet a( his adopted country, under the tutorship of Fernando Wood, of New York. (Hear, hear.) We imported such men into New York, and then sneered at the Americans for not being what they ought to by. New York City gave a majority of 30,000 votes in favor of the Democratic candidate for Governor. When the State votes were added, the majority was reduced to 10,000, showing that among the honest yeomen, the true sons of America, there was sound, healthy feeling, whilst in New York, where shiploads of discontented Europeans were disembarked every year, the pro-slavery sentiment wan in the ascendancy. Solve these difficulties as we might, they were facts, and the Americans do not thank us for them. (Hear, bear.) Whatever might be the political or military issue, of the war, he hoped the voice of England would be raised against the policy of recognising any nation which came to us with the chains of the slave clanking in her hands. (Loud applause.) As a political question, however, be did not hesitate to say that be viewed the rebellion as one of the darkest political crimes which had ever been committed. (Hear, bear.) He was not insensible to the faults of America, but it must be remembered that she had not had the long centuries of discipline which had helped to form the solid character of England. She was passing now through a dark and painful educational process, and would, he hoped and believed, come from the fire more powerful for every form of good than she bad ever yet been. (Loud cheers.)
The resolution, after a few words from Mr. HUNTINGDON, was carried unanimously.
Mr. MAXWELL moved, and the Rev. W. HAWKINS, minister of Trinity-square Chapel, seconded, the following resolution:—" That this meeting cordially sympathises with the friends of emancipation in America, rejoices in the progress already effected, and fervently hopes that freedom and peace may soon be established throughout both the Northern and Southern States, and that England and America, in cordial alliance, may labor together in promoting liberty, civilization, and religion throughout the world."
WILLIAM ANDREW JACKSON, the escaped coachman of Jefferson Davis, addressed the meeting in support of the resolution, and was received with immense applause. After expressing his gratitude for the hearty welcome tendered to him, he said he had lived twenty-nine years and six mouths in slavery, and was just thirty years of age. He had experienced both good and bad usage, but had from his earliest days longed to gain his freedom. It was false to say that the slaves as a class did not desire freedom. They had been praying for years for the election of an Abolitionist for President. Hundreds and thousands had escaped since Mr. Lincoln came into office. Jefferson Davis had hired him of a Mr. W. A. Tyler as coachman, at the rate of $250 a year, and had given security for $800 in the event of his escaping. That money would have to be paid: if he did not return on the 25th of the present month. (Laughter.) He had written to Jefferson Davis, telling him he was sorry to put him to the trouble of paying the money, as he knew money was very scarce in the South' (Renewed laughter.) He also told him that he had not taken a drop of intoxicating drink since be had been in England— proving that, though a slave, he was able to take care of himself. (Cheers.) He asked for the sympathy of Englishmen on behalf of his brethren in bondage, and of those who were fighting for their freedom. He looked forward to the 1st of January as a day of jubilee. (Loud cheers.) [The above is a mere outline of Jackson's speech, which, though delivered in a thorough genuine negro manner, indicated the possession of no small amount of common sense, intelligence, and humor.]
The resolution was then carried, and a vote of thanks, on motion of Mr. CHESSON, having been passed to the chairman, the meeting broke up shortly before eleven o'clock.

DESPERATE AND PROLONGED CONFLICTS AT MURFREESBORO' AND VICKSBURG.
A most desperate battle was fought at Murfreesboro', Tennessee, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of last week, between the Federal army under Gen. Rosecrans, and the rebel forces under Gen. Bragg, resulting in the repulse of the enemy, and the Federal occupation of the place. On Tuesday, heavy kirmishing took place. On Wednesday, the battle raged furiously alt day, the Federal army maintaining its position. Gen. Rosecrans masked hit butteries into a nark of nearly 100 guns, and opened them upon the enemy's centre. The latter tried to charge and take them, and such slaughter as there took place is scarcely known to history. The fight was renewed early on Thursday morning, and at 10 A. M. two divisions were in Murfreesboro', driving the retreating army. The three days' fighting already done is the most awful to be conceived. Thousands of men are killed and desperately wounded. The woods and roads are lined with exhausted and cowardly stragglers of both armies. The force of each at the outset was estimated at about 70.000 all told. Probably Bragg bad 10,000 the most, consisting of cavalry and conscripts. The Tennessee and Kentucky troops fought like tigers.
Our forces are pursuing the rebels. Bragg may make a stand at Tullahoma.
Our wounded are about 7000. Our whole taw in killed, wounded and missing will not reach 10,000. The rebel loss was double ours. We had about 25 field officers killed and as many wounded.
The rebel Generals Rains and Hanson are killed, and Generals Clarkson, Adams, and Breckinridge are wounded. We have taken nearly 3000 prisoners.
The name of Geo. Rosecrans is on all lips. The victory at Murfreesboro is attributed to his unconquerable determination which vanquished all obstacles, and to his personal gallantry, which inspired his soldiers.
Desperate fighting bad been going on before Vicksburg for five days, commencing on Wednesday. Up to Monday morning, Gen. Sherman had captured three Ban of the enemy's works. The firing on the fourth and last line of defence, on the Jackson and Vicksburg had, had erased, and the indications were that it had surrendered. This line was just two miles from Vicksburg There was nothing between Gen. Sherman and the city but a trestle work of the railroad.
The Richmond Examiner of Saturday last claims that on 3d inst, the rends were jet in fell possession of Vicksburg, and had repulsed every assault.
<c03>
THE PROCLAMATTION: HOW TO MAKE IT EFFICIENT.
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
AT THE
Music Hull, Boston, Sunday, January 4, 1863.
Phonographically reported by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., spoke at the Music Hall, on Sunday morning last, to one of the grandest audiences ever congregated together in this or any other city. Long before the commencement of the services, the immense floor and spacious galleries were filled to overflowing, and hundreds stood In the aisles and at the numerous entrances to the Mall, throughout Mr. Phillips's address, and yet other hundreds turned away disappointed from the doors, unable even to obtain entrance within earshot of the speaker. It was indeed a grand audience—worthy alike of the distinguished orator and his soul-inspiring theme.
After the usual preliminary exercises, Mr. Phillips read the President's Proclamation of January 1st, which makes that a red-letter day for ever in the pages of history, and at its close, adopting the triumphant song of the angels on the plains of Bethlehem, exclaimed, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men!" "Amen!" fervently ejaculated some one among the audience, while toe general feeling of joy and thanksgiving found vent in spontaneous and irrepressible applause.
Mr. Phillips then commenced his address, which occupied about an hour in the delivery, and was heard with profound attention and absorbing interest to its close. He said:—
What can I say, friend, worthy of such an hour and such an audience? For a hundred days, your ears have listened to every word from Washington—jour hearts have been full of this Proclamation. Every possible phase of thought must have been anticipated; every hope, every fear, canvassed. What can mortal lips add to the anxiety or to the joy of twenty million of people? This is the second time that I have spoken under the United States banner. Nearly two years ago, for the first time in my life, I was overshadowed by it in this hall, when the first gun—the first slave gun—was fired at Sumter. Twenty months or more have roiled away, and for the first time, that slave gun is answered. The President's Proclamation is the retort of Freedom upon the first onset of the slave system against our nationality. Fitting it is that at last, to-day, we should surround ourselves again with the emblems of the Union. During these long and weary months, the hand of the people has groped its way—tireless, but still groping, amid the delays of law-givers, the chicanery of cabinets, the prejudices of the President—until at last it grasps the hilt of the weapon firmly, and un sheaths the glittering blade. What the result is to be, God only knows. Our rejoicing to-day is, that at last the nation un-sheaths its sword, and announces its determined purpose to be a nation. The French minister said—"I know you have the power; I know as well that yon will never dare to use it." To-day, America answers to that taunt. She takes her first step in the pathway of using the right which belongs to her.
What vast progress in these two years! What immense progress! And all of it the PEOPLE'S progress. My hope to-day in reading that Proclamation is, because I look upon it as wrung by the determined heart of the masses from the reluctance of leaders. I say, the PEOPLE are fighting this battle; and this Proclamation—the first step, only the first step in the direction of a Union that every man may rightfully love and die for—this Proclamation is the reluctant gift of the leaders to the masses. Two years of mere claim on the part of the people has driven the Government to this point. I believe in success, because I believe that in another year, that same determined heart of the people will drive the Government to the very goal. Look at it! Two years ago—hardly two years ago—the Congress of the United States almost unanimously resolved, that this war had nothing whatever to do with slavery; that the non-slaveholding Slates bad no constitutional right to legislate upon or to interfere with slavery in the Stales of this Union; that those-persons in the North who did not subscribe to this proposition were too insignificant in numbers and influence to excite the serious attention or alarm of any portion of the people; and that the increase of their numbers did not keep pace with the aggregate increase of the population of the Union. On the very day that Congress assembled in Washington, and proclaimed to the world that there was something more sacred than Nationality, and that was Bondage—on that very day, the man whose name I have read with so much triumph at the close of this Proclamation, left his home in Springfield to take charge of the destinies of the Republic; and the first word that the expectant nation heard from his lips was at Cleveland, when he pledged himself to sustain and to execute the Fugitive Slave Law of the Republic. Disguised and hunted, he reached the capital of the Union, and the first word heard from his General, as he entered Virginia, was a pledge to put down insurrection "with an iron hand." Two years ago! Months rolled on, and from his besieged outpost in Missouri, Fremont uttered the statesman word that was to cure the evils of the Republic, and a timid Cabinet hastened to cashier him. Time rolled on, and again and again the heart of the nation sickened over conciliation and submission. The President of the United States, on the 22d of September, dared only to say to the rebel, in the voice of Congress, "If you rebel, we confiscate; keep on in your treason, and we punish, for we will take from you the slave that gives you bread." Then, turning half round, with a side glance at the anxious millions who watched his countenance, all he could say to them was—"In case you should be freed, would you promise to go instantly away?" The 22d day of September, 1862, after Ball Run and Ball's Bluff, after defeats and victories, after insults from abroad and outrages at home, the nation reached only than understanding of its position which attempted to punish treason by taking away its strength. The first day of January dawned, and the bright sun brings us a different message. Mark you! this Proclamation is not the punishment of rebels. It is no echo of the statutes of Congress, saying that if in certain localities there be a traitor, the Union will clutch from him the means of harming us. It is no sidelong appeal to a nuisance, to a burden, to an intrusive race, to take itself away from the centre of the conflict 0 no; it is the act of a great nation, linking its cause to the throne of the Almighty, proclaiming Liberty as an act of justice, and abolishing a system found to be inconsistent with the perpetuity of the Republic. (Applause.) It does not say, "The slaves of rebels are emancipated." It says, "Every stave m rebel States is a free man. We believe it to be dictated by justice; we know it to be essential to the safety of the country." "Will you go away, if I venture to free you?" said the President on the 22d of September. "May I colonize you among the sickly deserts or the vast jungles of South America?" On the first day of January, be says to the same four million, "Let me colonize you in the forts the Union, and put rifles in your hands! (Applause.) Give us your labor to hold op the structure of the Republic 1 Give us your hand to defend the perpetuity of the Union!" To that colonization, I have no criticism to suggest. (Applause.)
Progress! Ordinarily, we must take some microscope to watch it. We look at the dial and see so change in the shadow, though we know that at last twelve o'clock will come. So it is with the raw, unless we take in the sweep of ages. But here oat must project himself afar from die present, in order to get distance sufficient to take in the magic proportions of the edifice which rises from the clouds of the battle-field. (Loud applause.) The distinguishing element and great characteristic of the act of the first of January is, that it recognizes, for the first time m our struggle, not that the slave of a particular person may be taken from him, but that slavery as an Institution, the polity of States, is inconsistent with the life
<c04>
of the Union, and incompatible with the success of the Government. At last, Nationality means Justice; the Union is synonymous with Liberty. The crisis of that long struggle which Mr. Lincoln proclaimed, in JUNE, 1858, as then going on, and which he said could only cease in the triumph of one section or the other—struggle between different portions of a nation half slave and half free, and which he said must become either wholly slave or wholly free—at last, the crisis of that straggle is over, and the voice of the nation proclaims that hereafter it is to be wholly free! (Enthusiasm.) "Hitherto hath the Lord helped us. Here we set up our Ebenezer." The long doubt whether this flag meant liberty is ended. The people never doubted it. The masses always meant it; but the Cabinet, the leaders of both parties, meant it not. I am not certain that they mean it to-day. The great effort of all our politicians, Republican and Democratic, up to this hour, has been to preserve the Union with the slightest change possible. As far as interest in the battle went, the Democrat had as keen a heart for the contest, and keener, than the Republican. The new Governor of the Empire State means as loyally as ours does that this Union to the Gulf shall be preserved: but the difference between his creed and that of Massachusetts is, that he holds that the Union is to be preserved, if possible, by submission to the rebels, by conciliation, that shall bring back the Union as it was; while the Bay State scorns submission, and tramples conciliation under her feet.
Now, revolutions never go back, bat they oscillate. It is by no means certain whether that Proclamation is to be law to day, or fifty years hence. Men make a distinction whether they wish slavery the object of this war or Union. If a man bounds his view within ten years, there is a difference; if he looks a generation ahead—fifty years—there is no difference. Slavery existing, there can be no Union; slavery abolished, there can be no disunion. (Applause.) No other power can keep these States apart. Root up that system, and like kindred drops we roost melt together. Battle fields like that of Manassas rankling in the heart of the North, battle fields like that of Corinth writing defeat on the brow of the rebels, are both and all of them the cement of a more enduring Union. Out of this bloody contest is to come a mutual respect between the sections, such as has never existed since 1776. The battles fought together against a foreign foe cemented the Union of '87; and the North and South, fighting, as they think, the one for liberty and the other for bondage, are the upper and nether millstone—the mill of God, grinding slavery to atoms. The battle between such sections is but the prelude to the reconciliation which precedes an immortal marriage. The Union of the future is to be as indestructible as the granite that underlies the continent; and the cement is not to be what Webster called it, the blood of the slave; it is the blood of the brave hearts that have made Virginia more than equal to Belgium, the battle-field of a purer contest, now sleeping under the glory of one sublime struggle for a Union worthy to lead the world.
I said, that the significance of this hour was, that it was the people's triumph. In defiance of the Cabinet and of Major-Generals, over the head of the President, their irresistible will has carried this measure. Remember, the same means that secured must watch to make it efficient. Without fitting measures, this paper is worth little to our generation. I dare not yet fully believe that the heart either of the President or of his Cabinet is in this Proclamation. I say to the masses, Watch! Save your own child! If your vigilance, your tireless urging fail, the hour and measure are lost. Long before this, there should have been created a "Bureau of Freedmen," to guard and aid the advent of these millions into the condition of freemen. We have Bureaus to guard the rights of Indians. Here are four million about to be born into the State. How absurd this childish bo-peep game of the Executive to keep his purpose a secret—the only secret ever yet kept at Washington—when Congress ought to have spent the hut thirty days in maturing the machinery which should make this change in our social and civil life easy, peaceful, like the still gliding of a noble vessel off of well-prepared stocks into her native element Work enough then for the future. Open and secret foes watch now every misstep, every short-coming of the negro, to make it matter of accusation against this measure and discredit it in the nation's eyes, to cloud our faith and perplex our steps. The usual aid of Government should have been at hand to avert such perils. Watch, then, your leaders with Argus eyes! Keep a hundred hands constantly stretched out to drag them onward in the right path, which so many of them hate!
Yet for all this, I am hopeful. All that blunders In the Cabinet and in the field could do to kill our cause has been done. All that treason could do in either place has been done. As Boer have said of doctors, "there were some good ones, but the world's health would be better if the whole profession were abolished," so, spite of Hooker and Burnside and Hunter, if every West pointer had betrayed us openly and at once, we should bare saved millions of money, thousands of lives, and months of time. Still I nope. Our cause, like every thing divine, is "vital in every part, and cannot, but by annihilating, die." It does not seem possible this territory can have, finally, more than one government; and if so, we must be that government; for brains, justice, God, are on our side. Every natural law works for us. We have secured the laws of the universe on our side. Every broken heart prays for us. The poor and the friendless are sacred. Once their curses weighed us down. Now the blessing of him that was ready to perish is come upon us, for we break the jaws of the wicked, and pluck the spoil out of his teeth. Surely, now we shall die in our nest, and multiply our days like the sand.
I have no doubt, therefore, of the absolute future. The only question is, what this Proclamation means, and how much it will do for us now. It is not so much a step onward as it is launching into a new channel. Let the news of it reach Europe before France and England have decided on intervention, and it will probably leave us our whole field in future untroubled by any foreign interference. What nation will earn the scorn of the world and of all time by marshalling her banners against a flag which now means justice to the oppressed, and liberty to the most hapless of races? I am not to stop here, to-day, to argue the rightfulness of this Proclamation. The slave is either a man or a thing. If he is a man, the Union in its utmost peril has a right to enroll all its citizens. If he is a thing, the Union in its utmost peril has a right to every dollar within its grasp. (Applause.) No matter in which light yon consider him—the right of the nation to his service and his right hand is perfect on either. Bear that for ever in memory! Let no chicanery pf politicians make you forget the alternative. The father of that General who now looks into the eyes of Burnside, on the other bank of the Rappahannock, a bankrupt, built his house on the dividing line betwixt Maryland and Virginia, in order to avoid arrest from either. Just so the statesmanship of the South and Democracy pot the slave on the dividing line betwixt property and citizenship, and defy us to use him. This Proclamation avoids the question. It calls upon the slave, in the name of Justice, to fight for the nation that asks his aid. The "everlasting negro," of whom politicians begged God to deliver them!—what is that? [holding up the Proclamation.] The nation at his feet, after two years of defeated struggle, asking his weight in our scale to insure victory! (Applause.) Nationality! It is built up of races. The despised negro, for whom we hoped to open a door wide enough, amid the prejudices of contending races, to admit him, comes in with sound of trumpet and in the terror of the conflict to insure us success.
What is this Proclamation to do? I said it settles the question of the right. Let me advert to one other idea. We are either a nation, or we are not If we are a nation,—if we are really a unit,—if, like England and France, we are one people, indivisible,—then—mark me! no parchment, even if it attempted the task, could bar us from the use of any power within
<c05>
Our reach to save the nationality. Men say, the Constitution forbids this Proclamation If we are a nation, no AGREEMENT of one generation can bar us from saving our nationality! Do you suppose any agreement could bar the King of England or the Emperor of France from saving his country the hour of peril? How absurd! If the shores of England were beleaguered by the fleets of Europe, do you suppose the Settlement of 1788 would hold Palmerston or Russell from hurling unconstitutional thunder-bolts that should sink Napoleon to the bottom of the channel! The nation know, no limits. <Illegible>. “The safety of the people is the highest law." If we have not this right, if we are not a nation,-if we are merely a Confederacy, then Secession is right. Another alternative; please bear it in your minds. If we have not the right to draft every living man, use every current dollar, in the way the nation pleases, we are not a nation, and if we are not a nation, then South Carolina has a right to secede, and every gun fired by the President is an unprincipled attack on the sovereignty of the States. If, therefore, any man doubts the power of the nation to issue that paper, stop the war. Begin a nationality, however small. If it only includes this peninsular, being! If it only Plymouth Rock, begin! If it is only New England, begin! The vigor of a nationality, once begun, will cover the continent. A confederacy is a nuisance. (Applause.)
These are the corner-stones of that Proclamation. Everything that attacks it, admits the right of South Carolina. If we are a people, that is but the simplest act of our power. Well, what is to do? Is it a "Pope's bull at the comet"? Let us see. One thing it has done—it has opened a million lips. Not pulpit lips, not speech-maker's lips. Since the Proclamation, Generals talk fanaticism, at the head of armies. (Applause.) Banks has found out, at the mouth of the Mississippi, that the gun at Sumter proclaimed Emancipation. (Applause.) Between you and me, how well he has kept that secret for twenty months! (Laughter.) Let us all hope he will be as successful in keeping his war plans secret in time to come. But, Generals talk abolition at the bead of armies. Our voice is to be the proclamation of cannon. Battles are fought now for justice. Will the slave fall into rank? I think so. I have little regard to the extreme limits of what are called the distinctions of races. I find very narrow limits to those differences. Men say the Roman stands at the head of the catalogue, and the Indian and the Negro at the very foot. But I remember, that when Roman liberty was at its last gasp, the culminating vigor of the Roman character was in Cato at Utica, when he gathered his friends around him and said—"The Republic is over. There is nothing left for us but to die!" "The last utterance of freedom," says History. Go with me to Jamaica, two hundred years ago, when white feet pressed the soft Indian of the tropics back, back, through his woods—hunted, meted out, trodden down, starving with hunger, and finally driven to bay—and I will show you a Cacique, Cato-like, assembling the last twenty of his tribe around him, to say, in the words of the Roman—"Liberty is over. Brothers, there is nothing left for us but to die!" And together the twenty Cantos of the tropics imitated the Roman at Utica. (Sensation.) How slight is the distinction of race! The Roman Captain, when Nero bade him stab his own heart, turned pale, until his wife seized the dagger, and, bathing it in her own blood, said—"Petus! it is not so hard to die!" So, too, when the French tyrant ordered a negro of St. Domingo to take his own life, he faltered, and his wife seized the sword, and, inflicting a death wound, turned to her husband, saying—"Husband! life is worth nothing when liberty is gone!" (Profound sensation.) How near are the races to each other! The Indian of the tropics,—the Negro of the plantation,—the Roman of Utica,—and the Patriot of the Caesars! Yes, the negro will fight. But there is a deeper justice than that. This war is not a war of artillery, McClellan to the contrary notwithstanding. It is a war of ideas—it is a war of proclamations—infinitely more potent than cannon. What does this Proclamation mean? It means this: Mr. Lincoln excepts portions of Virginia, he excepts Tennessee, he excepts the lower counties of Louisiana. If it were possible for a little man in a great place to make a mistake, this bad been a great one. But it is not possible to make a mistake. He cannot open his mouth in this hour, and not say Justice; he cannot move his hand, and not secure Victory. He must fight well, that beats the North and Justice allied together. (Enthusiasm.) What care the counties of Louisiana whether they are excepted by the Proclamation or not? With every surrounding locality free, how can they keep their slaves? At least, white the battle rages in Tennessee, it had been better to throw into our scale from one hundred to two hundred thousand slaves. And yet, that is but the hesitation of a timid man. The Border States, after all, are nothing; mere bobs of the kite, North or South; mere counters, belonging to whichever party sweeps the board; mere pawns on the chess-board; nothing but the floating mud of the Mississippi, which the high tide carries North or South at its pleasure. They have not the possibility or making a nation, any more than the silk floss that floats on an electrical machine. Virginia! She belongs to us. What carried her South? Why, her manufactures. She breeds slaves, and of course adheres to the buyers. The white Virginian—what is he? A pedler of babies in the Southwest (Applause.) Of course, when the market seceded, he went with it (Renewed-applause.) This Proclamation abolishes the market, (great enthusiasm,) and Virginia, without a Burnside, gravitates back where she belongs—to the North. In the opening of this struggle, there came to my parlor a Florida slaveholder, to ask what we thought of this contest, and I said—"Will the Border States join you?"-Join us! The devil take them, let them go to you; they don't belong to us," was tike reply. "We don't want them. We can't keep them. They belong to you. They are nothing but a weakness. The moment you take out the bottom of a bucket, the contents fall to the ground. The Gulf States are the bottom. Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, are not Slave States, property speaking. The system is dead there, but for the stone wall South, that keeps it from dying, and being decently buried; and this Proclamation, when it abolishes the Market, with the question of the Border States out of the arena, is in fact,— as an act, not as a principle,—the abolition of slavery in the United States, all through. (Applause.)
I know the distinction between emancipating slaves and abolishing the system. The President conceives that be has a right to free slaves, but not to change laws; that he has a right to emancipate this generation of slaves, but not to forbid the holding of slaves in the separate States. It is doubtless a distinction; but with this English race of ours, it amounts to nothing, because we have never had a struggle, in England or here, that began at the outset with the study of a principle. They all began in a case— with an individual. We cure the evil, and then let posterity. If it finds occasion, attend to the principle. For instance: England, in her great Revolution, began with a question of ship-money—whether the Stuarts had a. right, without Parliament, to make John Hampden pay twenty shillings. He said. No; the courts, said Yes; and be paid it. Out of that grew the civil war But do you suppose that civil war meant only ship-money? Do you suppose that Cromwell dashed into the field at Naseby, against the cohorts of Rupert crying-"Pay me back that ship-money, with six per cent. Interest?” No, indeed. That was but the root out of which grew the power of the King to do acts without the consent of the people. When the Revolution began, it was “Ship-money”; but when it ended it was “Democracy.” (Applause) So it is with us. We began with declaring certain slaves of rebels free; and if you had taken your cue from the actual order at head-quarters, you would have supposed that the war cry of the nation was-“Give us back Sumter, and make Anderson a healthy man again, and you may come in.” But it did not mean 
<c06>
that. It meant, Massachusetts,. Starting on the 19th of April, through the bloody streets of Baltimore, to colonize the Carolinas; and she will not stop until it is done (Applause.) No, not if she stays fifty years; no, not if the energy of the fight shall divide the Union for a generation. The Union is an indestructible fact; no battles can divide it (Applause.)
“Vain is the strife! When its fury is past,
Our future shall move in one channel at last,
As torrents that rush from the mountain of snow
Roll mingled in peace through the valleys below.
Our Union is river, lake, ocean, and sky,
Man breaks not the medal, when God cuts the die;
Though clouded with slaughter or cloven with steel,
The blue arch will brighten, the waters will heal.
Caroline! Caroline! Thou child of the son,
There are battles with fate that can never be won;
The star-flowering banner will never be furled,
For its blossoms of light are the hope of the world.”
(Loud applause.)
Virginia and the Border States know well that, to the statesman, the significance of this proclamation is, that it takes out the cement that binds them to the future of the South. The heart of the Rebellion-it is not Richmond; that is only a limb; the heart of the Rebellion is the rich soil of Alabama and Mississippi, that supplies the markets of the world, and keeps up the demand for what Carolina and Virginia manufacture-slaves; and the moment Banks and Hunter shall say to the blacks, in the language of this proclamation, “The ranks of the army are open to you”; the moment we garrison forts and arm vessels with black men-in other words, the moment we acknowledge the manhood of the negro, and pledge to him the immortal future of the Union, that moment we sever the bond that holds the Border States to their sisters of the Gulf. This Proclamation may be gear nothing to-day. I do not know that it will be vital a year hence. If Mr. Lincoln is as slow this year as he has been the past, a Democratic Administration will follow him, and conciliate the South with a supreme Court that will try set it aside. All within the range of an easy possibility. I am not certain, even yet, that Mr. Seward does not cling to the Union with a firmer grasp than to his own proclamation; and I fear that the Democratic party would gladly set it aside, and make a Union as like as possible to the last. So speaks the Empire State; at least by the voice of her Capital, if not by her countries. But whether they mean it or not, it is impossible that is should ever come to pass for more than a moment because there is something, even to the Northern millions, more precious than Union, and that is-pawn we have bound that motto [the Proclamation] on our frontlet. The basest nation that ever formed a foot stool for a European despot would disdain a compromise which took back that pledge to a proscribed and hapless race. (Applause.) We may be beaten back until Burnside encamps north of Lake Ontario; but while New England rests on granite, the black race is sure of its freedom. (Enthusiasm.) I know what you can say; “Burnside attempted something, and failed; McClellan tried nothing, and succeeded.” (Prolonged applause.) Well, I had rather have Burnside’s failure than McClellan’s success. (Resolved applause.) That Proclamation was written and signed in the blood that crimsoned the Rappahannock. That defeat guaranteed it to us forever. Yes; and looking back-though no single consideration excuses the Cabinet a moment-we can see the footsteps of God. If we had met decided success within the first six months, doubtless the South would have emancipated, summoned Europe to her side, and been able to maintain her independence. If it is true that the intervening months have hardened the South, by victory and defeat, into a nationality, at the same time every flap of the Northern flag has lifted a slave into manhood, so that he comes to us half a solider, even now. (Applause.)
I know what men say about our President’s omitting Tennessee from his list of rebel States, and sparing certain Louisiana districts. No matter; he is only stopping on the edge of Niagara to pick up and save a few chips. He and they will go over together. I know also the threats of the Democratic party,-the party of reaction. But they will not save any more chips than he. The mighty current is too strong for any reluctance of individuals or mad ambition of desperate parties. Saints and sinners, we are all borne onward; and even if some eddy or close nook a few years may delay our progress, the result is certain. God’s hand has launched the nation on. Voyage whose only port is Liberty. Neither the reluctance of the captain, nor the mutiny of the caution boys, will matter much. And this is why I, once a Disunionists, cling to the Union. Once it has neither the right nor the wish to interfere with slavery. Then we sought to break it. That Sumter cannon gave it the right-the right of war. Every day since has ripened the wish. A blundering and corrupt cabinet has made it at last an inevitable necessity-Liberty or Death! The cowardice of Webster’s followers in the Cabinet has turned his empty rhetoric into solemn truth, and now honest men are not only at liberty, but bound, to live and die under his motto-“Liberty and Union, now and for ever, one and inseparable.”
But what is this that I am saying! Union! As idle word, whether on the lips of Lincoln or Seamount. Man does not make Unions, and it is hardly possible for man to break them. One would think, by the way in which men talk, that a Union was made by parchment; as if marriage did not consists of living hearts, but of an imposing ceremony, and a certificate filed with the Town Clerk; as if a Union was made up of pieces of paper. Why does Connection never talk of seceding from Massachusetts? As well might one of the Siamese twins secede from the other; as well might one drop of Massachusetts Bay secede from the north of Winthrop’s Island, and another from the south. The moment you have made these people respect each other, the moment you have made the South recognize the fact that the North has an idea and will fight for it; that the idea includes the, justice of God and the approval of man, prosperity and progress, vigor and strength; that moment Carolina will cling closer to Massachusetts than to Cuba, where she now belongs; and then, without a Convention at Philadelphia, without a Courier or a Herald, without a Democrat or a Republican, this race-one in blood, one in history, one in interest, one in pride who in hope-will be one in Government, indestructibly.
But, after all, what is the President’s Proclamation to us? Nothing but a step in the progress of a people rich, prosperous, independent, in spite of the work. But let me open for you the huts of three million of slaves, and what is that Proclamation there! It is the sunlight, scattering the despair of centuries. It is a voice like that of God, that gives the slave the rights to work and to walk, the right to child and to vita. It is a word that makes the prayers of the poor not the victim the corner-stones of the Republic. Other nations since Greece have built their nationality as a Thermopylae, or a great name-a victory, or a <illegible> family. Our corner-stone, thank God! Is the blessings of the poor. Our flag floats in the prayers of four million, who recognize it as the pledge of their freedom. The hut of the Carolinas! They may curse that paper in ceiled houses; but the blessings of the poor bear it up to the throne of God. Our flag floats in the thanksgiving of the slave. I know it will succeed. Such a breeze never wafted a banner to defeat. The old slave, who sought the “kingfisher,” is the Gulf of Mexico, thirty miles from the shore, it a wretched skiff of boards, rudely nailed together, when the commander asked him-“Why, didn’t you know that a breath would have sent you to the bottom!” said-“Lor, massa, God Almighty never brought not down here to send me to the bottom.” So, God never brought the Union of 1787 to the height of that act, to sunder it in pieces! (Enthusiastic applause)
“Thou, took, sail on, O ship of State!
Sail on, O UNION, strong and great!
Sail on, nor fear to breast the sea!
Our hearts, our hopes, are all with thee,
Our hearts, our hopes, our prayers, our tears,
Our faith, triumphant o’er our fears,
Are all with thee-are all with thee!”
(Loud and prolonged applause) 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union With Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1863.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The THIRTIETH ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery society will be held in Boston on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Jan. 29th and 30th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10o’clock, A.M.
This Society was organized for the utter abolition of slavery throughout the United States. However great has been the change wrought in public sentiment in favor of that godlike object,-and it has been truly marvelous, in view of the mountains obstacles in the way of success; however effectual may by the President’s Emancipation Proclamation in breaking the chains of the bondmen in such rebellious sections of the country as he has just designated,- and Heaven grant it may be as potent in operation as it is comprehensive in its scope; nevertheless, nothing at this hour is settled so surely as the continued enslavement of four millions of the inhabitants of the land; and while any of these remain to wear the yoke, the primary object and specific work of this Society will not have been accomplished. Slavery in the so-called loyal Border States is as inexcusable, as criminal, as revolting, as unendurable, as pregnant with evil and ruin, as in the rebellious Confederate States, and must be as vigorously and uncompromisingly assailed, until liberty is proclaimed “throughout ALL the land, to ALL the inhabitants thereof.”
The approaching anniversary promises to be one of surpassing interest; and it is not doubted that the friends of universal emancipation, in the various sections of the Commonwealth, (and, it is hoped, beyond the limits of the State,) will be encouragingly represented on the occasion. As hitherto, an additional traction will be presented in the holding of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY on the evening (Wednesday, Jan, 28th) preceding the opening session of the Society.
[Further particulars hereafter.]
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec’y.
THE WAR POWERS OF THE PRESIDENT, AND THE LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF CONGRESS IN RELATION TO REBELLION, TREASON AND SLAVERY. By WILLIAM WHITING.BOSTON: John L. Shorey, 13 Washington Street. 1862.
The object of this masterly essay is to prove-to quote the author’s own language-that, when the institution of slavery no longer concerns only the household or family, and no longer continues to be a matter exclusively appertaining to the domestic affairs to the State in which it exists; when it becomes a potent, operative, and efficient instrument for carrying on war against the Union, and an important aid to the public enemy; when it opposes the national military powers now involved in a gigantic rebellion; when slavery has been developed into a vast, an overwhelming war power, which is actually used by armed traitors of the overthrow of Government and of the Constitution; when it has become the origin of civil war, and the means by which hostilities are maintained in the deadly struggle of the Union for its own existence; when a local institution is perverted so as to compel three millions of loyal colored subjects to become belligerent traitors because they are held as slaves of disloyal master,-then indeed slavery has become an affair most deeply affecting the national welfare and common defence, and has subjected itself to the severest enforcement of those legislative and military powers, to which alone, under the Constitution, the people must look to save themselves from ruin. In the last extremity of our contest, the question must be decided whether slavery shall be rooted up and extirpated, or our beloved country be torn asunder and given up to our conquerors, our Union destroyed, and our people dishonored. Are any rights of property, or any claims, which one person can assume to have over another, by whatever local law they may be sanctioned, to be held, by any just construction of the Constitution, as superior to the nation’s right of selfdefence? And can the local usage or law of any section of this country override and break down the obligation of the people to maintain and perpetuate their own government? Slavery is no longer local or domestic after it has become an engine of war. The country demands, at the hands of Congress and of the President, the exercise of every power they can lawfully put forth for its destruction, not as an object of the war, but as a means of terminating the rebellion, if by destroying slavery the republic may be saved. These considerations and others have led the author to the conclusion stated in these pages, “that Congress has the right to abolish slavery, when in time of war its abolishment is necessary to aid the commander-in chief in maintaining the ‘common defence.’”
This very able treatise has quickly passed to a second edition. It was complimented in a recent lecture delivered at Roxbury, by Wendell Phillips, Esq., as follows:-
“To you, I need not argue the question how much power the President and Congress have in this respect. Your neighbor and fellow-citizen has settled that point beyond fair dispute, in an argument whose wealth of illustration, closeness of logic, and kindling eloquence, place it among the highest judicial efforts. Now and then there are speeches and arguments which may be fairly said to dispose of the question at issue. According to John Quincy Adams, the speech of Uriah Tracy on the purchase of Louisiana was one of these. By common consent, Mr. Webster’s reply to Hayne enjoys this repute. I think Mr. Whiting’s argument “On the War Powers of the President” entitled to a place beside them.
In the thirty years of our anti-slavery struggle, we have been often told by law years that they planned to achieve professional repute, and then lay it on the slave’s altar. Very rarely has that pledge been kept. In this instance it has been nobly fulfilled, and one whose long practice in the highest courts and most important questions give his mere opinion the weight of argument, has hastened to throw his well-earned fame into the scale of justice and free institutions and humanity. We only know well the value of the arsenal of weapons he has furnished us, can fitly appreciate the gift.”
ANSWERS TO EVER-RECURRING QUESTIONS FROM THE PEOPLE. A SEQUEL to the Penetralia. By ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, Author of several Volumes of the Harmonial Philosophy. New York: A.J. Davis & Co., 274 Canal Street. 1862.
The number of questions asked is upwards of two hundred-some of them sensible, others simply curious, and a few frivolous. The answers, in too many instances, lack directness and point, and therefore will fail to enlighten or satisfy the general reader. Nevertheless, the volume contains a good deal that will both interest and help inquiring minds; its spirit is sweet and catholic; its object beneficent and progressive-like all the previous writings of its estimable author, whose experience and development constitute some of the most remarkable phenomena in the history of the human race. The concluding portion of it is a psychometrical examination of Abraham Lincoln, made soon after the President entered upon the duties of his office in 1861,-the means of analysis being obtained through the President’s autograph and a scrap of his hand-writing. It strikes us as very successful. We quote the concluding paragraph:-
“Let the country take counsel of its hopes, and despair not; for there is a divinity behind the presidential mind, which will direct heaven’s high purposes, and bring a better day out of this black and awful night. Mr. Lincoln will betray no trust, neither will he shrink from still more pressing responsibilities; and the people would do well to share the burthen of sympathy and care with which he is oppressed.”
“SOMEBODY’S LUGGAGE” is the title of the new Christmas story in Dickens’s “Once a Week.” It has been reprinted by T. B. Peterson & Brothers, of Philadelphia, and is for sale by A. Williams & Co. It has had a great run in England, and will here.
<c02>
PEOCLAMATION-DAY IN BOSTON.
The first day of January, 1863, found this stronghold of conservatism in an unwonted state of excitement. Mingled with, and modifying, the usual joyful associations and occupations of New Year’s day, a feverish unrest and expectation showed itself IN the countenances and the speech of those who met each other. Everybody had been thinking—and out of the fulness of the heart every mouth asked—Will the President issue the promised Proclamation? And if so, will his new position he taken strongly, or weakly in full, or with reservations? as the act of a powerful ruler, or with a repetition of feeble entreaties addressed to the public enemy? Has the Proclamation been sent in advance for publication in the morning papers? Will it arrive at noon, as soon as it has been communicated to Congress! Will a yet longer delay cause doubts whether it will appear at all? Everybody was asking and answering questions like these.
A very strong and very remarkable indication of the public feeling had already, for some days, been teen in the newspapers, namely, the announcement of a Concert to be given on New Year's day, called by a Committee of distinguished citizens of Massachusetts, headed by Henry W. Longfellow and Josiah Quincy, Jr., and called to celebrate the issuing of the Proclamation of Freedom. This Call, with the names of the Committee, appeared in the Liberator of Dec. 26th.
It was to be expected that names so eminent and honored as those of the Committee would draw together an audience as Urge as the spacious Music Hall would contain, and as elegant and distinguished as Boston could supply. Both these expectations were realized. But the music promised, a programme of the very highest and choicest character, was sufficient to attract this brilliant assembly. It remained to be seen whether it would respond to the sentiments of the Call, and the special associations of the day.
When the time for commencing the performances had arrived, Josiah Quincy Jr., Esq., appeared upon the platform, and said that, although the programme announced only music as the business of the afternoon, the Committee had the great pleasure of offering an additional attraction to the audience. He asked their attention to a poem by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
The poem was pervaded and inspired by the loftiest sentiments of freedom. It is not yet to be published. By and by, the readers of the Liberator will see it. But the thoroughness of its strain may be judged by one idea contained in it. Referring to the persistency with which the President has insisted on compensation to the loyal owner when a slave is emancipated, Mr. Emerson energetically said—The slave is the owner of himself. Pay him.
This sentiment, as well as the announcement and the appearance of Mr. Emerson, and the conclusion of the poem, were enthusiastically cheered. But Mr. Emerson, and his speech or lecture, are always warmly greeted by a Boston audience. A poem from him, the highest of intellectual treats, mutt needs be applauded. Were the cheers given to the man only, or to the sentiments expressed?
The selection of music (understood to have been! made by that accomplished artist, Otto Dresel,) was not only admirable as music, but adapted, with good feeling as well as good taste, to the occasion.
In a solo and chorus from Mendelssohn's "Hymn of Praise," a plaintive and wailing voice repeatedly asks—"Watchman, will the night soon pass? A clear, brilliant, victorious tone replies—“ The night is departing! "And a grand chorus answers—" The night is departing; the day is approaching."
The three pieces of the first part of the programme, closing with a Concerto of Beethoven exquisitely played by Mr. Dresel, had each been warmly welcomed by the audience. But an incident which occurred in the recess showed that the occasion was felt by the audience yet more deeply thaw the music. A gentleman on the floor announced—" The President's Proclamation has been issued, and is now coming over the wires."
A storm of enthusiasm followed, such as was never before seen from such an audience in that place. Shouts arose, hats and handkerchiefs were waved, men and women sprang to their feet to give more energetic utterance to their joy. And when another gentleman called out—" The Proclamation is said to be all that was expected or desired"—"three cheers" were called for, and most enthusiastically given, for ABRAHAM LINCOLN; then "three more"; then "three more"; and then three cheers were called for and given, for WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.A few hisses, immediately Gearing, were heard through this last applause, showing the presence of an unconverted minority. But it was no longer doubtful that the great mass of this audience, representing the highest culture, taste and fashion of Boston, rejoiced in the Proclamation, and welcomed the approach of liberty. The inspired singer had truly said—" The night is departing—the day is approaching.":
The second part of the concert opened with Dr. Holmes's beautiful "Army Hymn," set to admirable music for solo and chorus, by Mr. Dresel. At the argent call of the audience, this piece was repeated, the solo being sung by Mr. Kreissmann. Read the hymn, and then judge of the progress made by conservative Boston:—
O Lord of Hosts 'Almighty King!
Behold the sacrifice we bring!
To every arm Thy strength impart,
Thy spirit shed through every heart!
Wake in our heart" the living fires,
The holy faith that warmed our sires;
Thy hand bath mode our nation free:
To die for her is serving Thee.
Be thou a pillared flame to show
The midnight maze, the silent foe;
And when the battle thunders cloud.
Still guide us in its moving cloud.
God of all nations! Sovereign Lord!
In Thy dread same we draw the sword,
We lift the starry flag on high,
That fills with light oar stormy sky.
No more its flaming emblems wave
To bar from hope the trembling slave;
No more ilk radiant glories shine
To blast with woe a child of Thine!
From treason’s rent, from murder's stain,
Guard Thou its folds till peace shall reign.
Till fort and field, till shore and sea
Join our load anthem, Praise to Thee!
The Fifth Symphony of Beethoven, the highest work of the world's greatest composer, combining the most exquisite beauty with the loftiest grandeur, and expressing an advance through long difficulties to victory, was next performed. The grand triumphal' march in its third part will be the fittest of all music to celebrate the completed emancipation, when that shall come. Afterwards the choir, with organ and orchestra, performed the magnificent "Hallelujah Chorus" from Handel's Messiah. The concert was, in every detail and every aspect, a moat gratifying success.
Of another moat enthusiastic and intensely interesting meeting in the evening of that day, called at the Tremont Temple by the Union Progressive Association, and attended by an immense audience, an account will no doubt be given by its officers.
The first of January, 1863, has now taken rank with the fourth of July, 1776, in the history of this country. The Proclamation, though leaving much to be done in the future, clears our course from all doubt, and our prospect from all uncertainty. Now, the progressive diminution of slavery is made certain. How, the danger of foreign intervention—or, more accurately speaking, the occurrence of any foreign intervention of a dangerous character—is averted. Now, the suppression of the rebellion is only a question of time. And now, not least wonderful of these changes, Boston keeps step with Massachusetts, and with New England, in the march towards universal freedom.—C. K. w.
A PRETTY copious report of the proceedings of the Jubilee meetings held at the Tremont Temple, on Thursday, Jan. 1st, will be given in our next number.
<c03>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LONDON. Dee. 19,1862. My DEAR GARRISON:
Just before starting for Oxfordshire to hold a meeting this evening in the town of Banbury, on the Emancipation question, I mail to you several copies of the Star, and this hasty note.
Since the 12th inst., when I last wrote you, I have attended four meetings held for promoting British sympathy with the American abolition movement. The first of the four was one of the finest gatherings I hare ever seen. The place of meeting was a building erected for the purpose of swimming bath. It is very numerously frequented during the summer months. It to situated about a quarter of a mile from Westminster Bridge, on the Surrey or south side of the water. Our President was the Rev. Newman Hall, one of the most popular and justly esteemed among our London ministers; a man who has uttered many noble words for freedom, and whose church and congregation are amongst the most active and liberal promoters of every reformatory agency in the metropolis. The audience was composed of the middle and working classes. The principal speakers
were the Chairman, Mr. Rylance, an Episcopal minister, and one of the most earnest and eloquent vindicators of the Republican party, W. A. Jackson, and myself. From first to last, the proceedings were of the most enthusiastic character. Opposition was invited, but none appeared. The vast audience, to show the feeling they entertained towards the Southern Confederacy and its head, rose to their feet when Jackson [Jeff. Davis's late coachman] appeared, and received him with cheer upon cheer, and "one cheer more." For the rest, I refer you to the report.
On the 15th, I attended a large meeting in Spa Fields, in the School Room of the Chapel in which we received Dr. Cheever on his last visit. At this meeting, the Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel made an eloquent and thorough-going speech, as did the Rev. Dr. Massie and Mr. Washington Wilks. The last named is one of our most gifted platform speakers, as well as a most able writer in one of our daily papers. No man deserves better at the hands of the people of the North than Mr. Wilks. The productions of his pen during the last two years would make volumes of the most convincing evidence of the justice of the Northern cause. On Wednesday, I went to Basingstoke, Hampshire—a pleasant country town—and spoke for two hours in the Town Hall, which was crowded almost to suffocation. On Monday evening, I shall be in Surrey Chapel, the spacious and beautiful building in which Newman Hall officiates. I have no doubt the audience will be very large.
I have no time to comment, in my present communication, on the President's message. I have read it most carefully, thought upon it most deliberately, and have twice publicly criticised it. With all the deficiencies apparent in that portion of it which relates to emancipation, I thank God I have lived to see such a message sent to Congress. I have seen your judgment upon it in the last Liberator, and could wish that the deliverance of the President had been all you say it should have been. You are much better able than I am to form an opinion respecting the extent to which the people are able and willing to support the President in a thorough and decisive policy. I trust Congress will make up for the short-comings of the message. I send you a telegraphic report of a speech delivered at Birmingham hut evening by John Bright. I have not yet had time to do more than glance at it. Ever, most sincerely,
GEO. THOMPSON.

JUBILEE MEETING AT MILFORD.
FRIEND GARRISON—Not willing that such an event as that consummated by Abraham Lincoln, on the 1st of January, 1863, should pass off unnoticed in Milford, a meeting was called and held at Lyceum Hall, on the evening of this memorable day. Notice was read at the several churches, on the Sabbath previous, and the following poster issued:—
"JANUARY 1, 1863!
FRIENDS OF HUMANITY!—The hour of JUBILEE is at hand! Let heaven and earth rejoice, angels and men be glad! Come, then, in the spirit of a common Brotherhood, and swell the Chorus of Emancipation: ' Jehovah hath triumphed, his people are FREE!'
Services to commence at 7 o'clock. The Proclamation will be read, and addresses made by several citizens."
The non-reception of the Proclamation tended to abate somewhat the enthusiasm that otherwise would have prevailed. Nevertheless, a good audience was on hand, and we had a most excellent and satisfactory meeting. Hon. Winslow Battles presided, and Mr. B. H. Marshall acted as Secretary. The opening address was made by Geo. W. Stacy, on the greatness of the event, and the worth of freedom. The Chairman then followed in an impressive speech. Remarks, pertinent to the hour, were also made by Mr. B. H. Marshall, Rev. Messrs. Best and Johnson of New York. The Rev. Mr. Hill, the Universalism clergyman, was called upon, but declined on the ground that he came to listen, and was not prepared to speak! We once heard of a minister who was called upon to pray with his host, but he modestly declined on the same ground of our friend in question.
On the receipt of the Proclamation, the bells were rung, and some fifty guns fired. G. W. S.
THE POPULAR VERDICT. A vast majority of the loyal people of the country regard with solemn joy the President's Proclamation of Freedom. Of course, all that is left of the "satanic Democracy" writhes and howls in its impotency. The glorious event was duly noticed in Boston, Albany, Buffalo, Pittsburg, and other cities, by the firing of one hundred guns. In Salem, the bells were rung, and a National Freedom Salute of 34 guns was given on the Common by a section of the artillery. At Hanover, N. H., the college bell was rung for three hours, and great enthusiasm manifested. The bells were rung at West Needham and many other places.
THE REBELLION RECORD: A Diary of American Events, 1860-'62. Edited by Frank Moore. New York: G. P. Putnam, 532 Broadway.
This valuable historical work is in three Divisions, viz., I. Diary of Verified Occurrences. II. Documents, Narratives, 4c. III. Poetry, Anecdotes, and Incidents. Part XXV., commencing a new volume, contains portraits of Brigadier-General J. S. Wadsworth, and Gen. Bragg, C. A. We have repeatedly spoken of this work in terms of high praise. Never has a war been so accurately and voluminously reported in all its phases as the present, in "THE REBELLION RECORD." All who can should take it.
FAREWELL TO REV. J. SELL A MARTIN. The Joy Street Church and Society tendered a public farewell on Monday evening to their pastor. Rev. J. Sella Martin, who left for England on Wednesday, to take charge of a Society there. Robert Morris, Esq., read a series of commendatory resolutions, to which appropriate remarks were made by Rev. A. A. Miner and Rev. R C. Waterston. Mr. Morris, on behalf of the Society, presented a well filled purse to Rev. Mr. Martin, who made a feeling response. After these exercises, a collation was served, followed by an hour of social greeting and leave-taking.
It will be seen, by notice in another column, that our friend Theodore D. Weld is to speak at Milford on Sunday next. Let no one lose the opportunity, who can conveniently avail of it, to hear one of the earliest, as he is stilt one of the ablest and most powerful, advocates of Liberty and Justice which this country has ever seen. Our friends in the neighboring towns will not regret the additional time they may hare to give in attending Mr. Weld's meetings, as
above.
The reporter deems it due to Mr. Phillips to state, that no part of his speech, given on the preceding page, has come under Mr. P's revision.
<c04>
GEN. BUTLER’S FAREWELL TO THE PEOPLE OF NEW ORLEANS.
Citizens of New Orleans: It may not be inappropriate, as it is not inopportune in occasion, that there should be addressed to you a few words at parting, by one whose name it lo be hereafter indissolubly connected with your city.
I shall speak in no bitterness, because I am not conscious of a tingle personal animosity. Commanding the Army of the Golf, I found you captured, bat not surrendered; conquered, bat not orderly; relieved of the presence of an army, but incapable of taking care of yourselves. So far from it, you hail called upon a foreign legion to protect you from yourselves. I restored order, punished crime, opened commerce, brought provisions to your starving people, reformed your currency, and gave you quiet protection, such as you had not enjoyed for many years.
While doing this, my soldiers were subject to obloquy, reproach and insult.
And now, speaking to you, who know the truth, I here declare, that whoever has quietly remained about his business, affording neither aid nor comfort to the enemies of the United States, has never been interfered with by the soldiers of the United States.
The men who had assumed to govern you and to defend your city in arms having fled, some of your women flouted at the presences of those who came to protect them. By a simple order, (No. 28.) I called upon every soldier in this army to treat the women of New Orleans as gentlemen would deal with the sex, with such effect, that I now call upon the just-minded ladies of New Orleans to say whether they have ever enjoyed so complete protection and calm quiet for themselves and their families, as since the advent of the United States troops.
The enemies of my country, unrepentant and implacable, I have treated with merited severity. I hold that rebellion is treason, and that treason persisted in is death; and any punishment short of that due a traitor gives so much clear gain to him from the clemency of the Government. Upon this thesis have I administered the authority of the United States, because of which I am not unconscious of complaint. I do not feel that I have erred in too much harshness, for that harshness has ever been exhibited to disloyal enemies to my country, and not to loyal friends. To be sure, I might have regaled you with the amenities of British civilization, and yet been within the supposed rules of civilized warfare. You might have been smoked to death in caverns, as were the Covenanters of Scotland, by the command of a General of the royal house of England; or roasted, like the inhabitants of Algiers during the French campaign; your wives and daughters might have been given over to the ravisher. as were the unfortunate dames of Spain in the Peninsular War; or you might have been scalped and tomahawked, as our mothers were at Wyoming by the savage allies of Great Britain in our own Revolution; your property could have been turned over to indiscriminate " loot," like the palace of the Emperor of China; works of art which adorned your buildings might have been sent away, like the paintings of the Vatican; your sons might have been blown from the mouths of cannon, like the Sepoys at Delhi; and yet all this would have been within the rules of civilized warfare, as practiced by the most polished and the most hypocritical nations of Europe. For such acts, the records of the doings of some of the inhabitants of your city toward the friends of the Union, before my coming, were a sufficient provocative and justification.
But I have not so conducted. On the contrary, the worst punishment inflicted, except for criminal acts punishable by every law, has been banishment with In nor to a barren island, where I encamped my own soldiers before, marching here.
It is true, I have levied upon the wealthy rebel, and paid out nearly half a million of dollars to feed 40,000 of the starving poor of all nations assembled here, made so by this war.
I saw that this rebellion was a war of the aristocrats against the middling men; of the rich against the poor: a war of the land-owner against the laborer; that it was a struggle for the retention of power in the hands of the few against the many; and I found no conclusion to it, save in the subjugation of the few and the disenthralment of the many. I therefore felt no hesitation in taking the substance of the wealthy, who had caused the war, to feed the innocent poor, who had suffered by the war. And I shall now leave you with the proud consciousness that I carry with me the blessings of the humble and loyal, under the roof of the cottage, and in the cabin of the slave, and so am quite content to incur the sneers of the salon or the curses of the rich.
I found you trembling at the terrors of servile insurrection. All dangers of this I have prevented by so treating the slave that he had no cause to rebel.
I found the dungeon, the chain and the lash your only means of enforcing obedience in your servants. I leave them peaceful, laborious, controlled by the laws of kindness and justice.
I have demonstrated that the pestilence can be kept from your borders.
I have added a million of dollars to your wealth in the form of new laud from the battue of the Mississippi.
I have cleansed and improved your streets, canals and public squares, and opened new avenues to unoccupied land.
I have given you freedom of elections greater than you have ever enjoyed before.
I have caused justice to be administered so impartially that your own advocates have unanimously complimented the judges of my appointment.
You have seen, therefore, the benefit of the laws and justice of the Government against which you have rebelled. Why, then, will you not all return to your allegiance to that Government—not with lip service, but with the heart?
I conjure you, if you desire ever to see renewed prosperity, giving business to your streets and wharves—if you hope to see your city become again the mart of the Western world, fed by its rivers for more than three thousand miles, draining the commerce of a country greater than the mind of man hath ever conceived—return to your allegiance.
If yon desire to leave to your children the inheritance you received of your fathers—a stable constitutional government; if you desire that they should in the future be a portion of the greatest empire the sun ever shone upon—return to your allegiance.
There is but one tiling that stands in the way.
There is but one thing that at this hour stands between yon and the Government—and that is slavery.
The institution, cursed of God, which has taken its last refuge here, in His providence will be rooted out as the tares from the wheat, although the wheat be torn up with it.
I have given much thought to this subject.
I came among you, by teachings, by habit of mind, by political position, by social affinity, inclined to sustain your domestic laws, if by possibility they might be with safety to the Union.
Months of experience and of observation have forced the conviction that the existence of slavery is incompatible with the safety either of yourselves or of the Union. As the system has gradually grown to its present huge dimensions, it were best if it could be gradually removed; but it is better, far better, that it should he taken out at once, than that it should longer vitiate the social, political, and family relations of your country. I am speaking with no philanthropic views as regards the slave, but simply of the effect of slavery on the master. See for yourselves.
Look around you and say whether this saddening, deadening influence has not all but destroyed the very framework of your society.
I am speaking the farewell words of one who has I shown his devotion to his country at the peril of his life and fortune, who in these words can have neither hope nor interest, save the good of those whom he addresses; and let me here repeat, with all the solemnity of an appeal to heaven to bear me witness, that such are the views forced upon me by experience.
Come, then, to the unconditional support of the Government. Take into your own hands your own institutions; remodel them according to the laws of nations and of God, and thus attain that great prosperity assured to you by geographical position, only a portion of which was heretofore yours.
(Signed) BENJAMIN F. BUTLER.
New Orleans, Dec. 24.1862.
GENERAL ORDER OF GOV. ANDREW ON THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION.
HEADQUARTERS, Boston, Jan. 2, 1863.
General Order No. 1.
With the new year America commences a new era of national life, in which we invoke the blessing of Heaven upon our country and its armies, with renewed faith in the favor of Almighty God.
Our ancestors declared that alt men are endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights of liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and that to secure these rights, governments, with all their powers, both military and civil, are instituted among men; and for the support of this declaration they pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. We, their children, to-day gratefully welcome- an immortal act of civil justice and military necessity, which guarantees these sacred rights to millions in oar country from whom they have been hitherto withheld.
In honor, therefore, of the Proclamation of Emancipation by the President of the United States, and an official recognition of the justice and necessity, by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which was the first of the United States to secure equal rights to all its citizens,
It is ordered, that a salute of one hundred guns be fired on Boston Common, at noon TO-MORROW, January 8.
Major Cook, late of the 8th battery, (six months' service,} is charged with the execution of this order.
By command of his Excellency JOBS A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander-in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant General.
<c05>
THETWENNY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
In view of the colossal magnitude of the Southern rebellion, on the one band, and of the corresponding efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the other, the Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY have deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUAL APPEAL to this late period—not knowing what events might occur, in the mean tine, to reader a modification or suspension of their established plan of action desirable, and winning to be guided by the highest wisdom in such a momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitation the hand of God in righteous judgment for our great national transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land; believing that the Proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever all slaves held in States found in rebellion on the first day of January, 1863, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced, inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that the uncertainties of civil war an- too great, and the expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement of vigilance, activity, zeal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so disinterestedly consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully "bearing the cross and despising the shame." With no personal or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish ends to promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain.—animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism,—it is not for such to commit their sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction even by the most cheering signs of the times, to regard their special mission as accomplished, or to abandon their organized efforts and efficient instrumentalities which have hitherto been crowned with such animating results. Their work is, by Divine help, the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in his fetters, and they are able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be "the forlorn hope" to the end, leading the way, and taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birthright and possession of every inhabitant of our land, from sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti Slavery cause has grown from infantile weakness to manly strength—from universal proscription to respectful public consideration— from an apostolic number of adherents to a multitudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause, of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will include nearly three fourths of the entire slave population. Granted, that the rebels themselves, despairing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus secure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal with stern realities, and must not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recognized and protected, under the old constitutional guaranties, in all the so-called loyal slave States, and possibly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of State sovereignty, after its subjugation and the withdrawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro slavery sentiment exists throughout the North, deadly hostile to every scheme of emancipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostracizing all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to get the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and reconstruct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis.
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there must be no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind. The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be protracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fiercely contested to the end by all that is hostile to impartial liberty, North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our means and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held, as usual, in Boston, the lats week in January, 1863; and to tint annual gathering they cordially and urgently invite ail who abhor treason, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on an enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness and prosperity of our now distracted, fearfully guilty, but we trust to be regenerated country—bringing with them (or sending, if they arc not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations as their means will allow, causing "the riches of their liberality to abound "even in" the abundance of their poverty,"—assured that the proceeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY, as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of slavery by voice and pen, through the press and by the lecturing agent—to quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppression, and, consequently, to the reign of universal justice and good will. It should be remembered that tat pecuniary resource of the Society is largely dependant upon this instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be rendered in the manner already indicated.
To those every where who have so long and so generously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trusting it may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, another year, by reason of the speedy and complete consummation of our labors and aspirations.
L. Maria Child, Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary May, Sarah P. Remand,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Abby H. Stephenson,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Arnm,
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Abby Kelley Fatter,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mallie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Alkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francs,
Caroline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman,
Elizabeth Gay, Georgina Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum..
MEETING or COLORED PEOPLE. There was a large meeting of colored people and others in the Bethel Church, Anderson street, Tuesday evening, assembled for the purpose of expressing their admiration of the labors of Governor Andrew in behalf of the oppressed race, and also those of Charles Sumner, Wendell Phillips, and William Lloyd Garrison. The pastor of the church presided, offered prayer, and made a brief address, in which he complimented the Governor for demonstrating his principles publicly, in firing a salute in honor of the President's proclamation of freedom, and also for his labors in endeavoring to bring the white and black man upon a footing of equal rights. Dr. Smith followed with remarks complimentary to Phillips, Garrison and Sumner, and brief speeches were also made by Rev. Mr. Butler, Mr. Jones, Dr. Knox, and numerous others. The meeting was very harmonious and enthusiastic, a deep religious spirit prevailing; and an idea of its object and the feelings entertained by the participants will be best obtained by the following resolution, offered by J. J. Smith, and adopted unanimously:—
Resolved, That Ibis meeting moat heartily tender their thanks to GOT. Andrew for signalizing his sincere approval of the President's emancipation proclamation by his order for the firing of one hundred guns on Boston Common, and that our gratitude is farther doe to William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Charles Sumner, and their coadjutors, for their consistent devotion to the cause of freedom.
The navy has suffered a serious loss by the sinking of the famous Monitor, south of Cape Hatteras. She was going south, in tow of the steamer Rhode Island, when foul weather came OR, the Monitor sprung a leak early on Thursday morning, and went down in a few hours. Two officers and BJM men are missing, probably lost. Several mea are also missing from the Rhode Island.
The Charlestonians have been banging negroes, nineteen In all, for bringing arms into their city, in coffins, instead of dead men. This indicates that the blacks are preparing for close quarters with their masters. Success to them, and to all men who straggle for their natural rights!—Bottom Traveller.
All “contrabands” captured by the rebels on the Union wagon trains are immediately shot. Twenty thus killed are lying on the Murfreesboro’ Pike.
<c06>
THEODORE D. WELD will speak on Sunday next, Jan. 11th, in MILFOND, (Mass.,) at LYCEUM HALL; at 10 1-2 A.M., and at 6 P.M.
 ANDREW T. FOSS will speak. Upon Emancipation, the Rebellion, and Slavery in the United States, as follows:
Ellsworth, Maine, Sunday, Jan. 11,
Bangor, Tuesday, 13,
Waterville, Wednesday, 14,
Augusta, Thursday, 15,
Portland, Sunday, 18,
AAKON M. POWELL will lecture upon Emancipation at
Lockport, N.Y. Sunday, Jan, 11.
Gasport N.Y. Monday, Jan, 12,
South Barre, N.Y. Tuesday Jan, 13,
Medina, N.Y. Wednesday, Jan, 14,
Ridgeway, N.Y. Thursday, Jan, 15.
Buffalo N.Y. Friday Jan, 16.
Collins, N.Y. Sunday, Jan, 18.
Kerr’s Corners, N.Y. Monday, Jan, 19.
Pontiac, N.Y. Tuesday, Jan, 20.
PARKBR PILLSBURY wilt speak in WILLAMS’S HALL, CAM BRIDGEPORT, on Sunday; next, 11th inst., 2 and 7 P. M.    
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington street. 2d door North of Warren, particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. References,.—Lather Clerk, M. D.; David Thayar, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4. P. M.
Persons disposed to give employment to freed slaves, still occasionally coming among us, both men and women, can apply to EDMUND JACKSON, 22 Chatham Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society’s office, 221 Washington Street.
E.H. HEYWOOD’S Post-Office Address is Princeton, Mass.
MARRIED-In Newburyport, Jan. 1st, by Rev. A.B. Muzzey, Mr. RUFUS LEIGHTON, of Washington, D.C. and Miss CAROLINE C. ANDREWS, daughter of John Andrews, Esq., Of Newburyport.

MISS H. M PARKHURST
Will Commence the Second Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies,
At 92 GRAND STREET, NEWBURGH, N.Y., ON MONDAY, JANUARY 5TH, 1863.
MISS H.M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral Science, Rhetoric, &C.
MISS H.L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
Miss L.E. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages.
MIISS F.E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
PROF. T.F. PERKINS, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISS PARKUNRST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
The School Year will be divided into three terms: two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Braches, per $60; term, per year, $165.
REFERENCES,—Rev. T.J. Sawyer, D.D., Clinton, N.Y.; Rev. S.W. Fisher, D.D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y.; De Witt C Grove Mayor of Utica, N.Y.; Rev. A.D. Mayo, Albany, N.Y.; Henry Bigelow, M.D., Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M.D., Boston, Mass.; Prof. H.B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N.J.; Rev. E.H. Chapin, D.D. New York; Rev. Austin Craig, D.D., Blooming-Grove, N.Y. 

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday, January 7, 1863, and continue Fifteen weeks. For particular, please address
WM.S. HEYWOOD A.B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec. 24 1862 dee26-2t

THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin’s Works on America.
MCOCHIN is an ex-maire and municipal councilor of the city of Paris. He has had great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his forthcoming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the Pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocqueville’s work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo’s Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions.”
12mo. Sent FREE BY NAIL, on receipt of the price,—$1.50.
ALSO,
THE REJECTED STONE; or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia. 12mo. Cloth, 50 cents.
“This remarkable book.” Says the Christian Examiner, “discusses the question of Emancipation as the result of the war, with a depth of conviction, a boldness of utterance, cogency of argument, wealth of illustration, and withal a keenness of satire and a fervid eloquence, which insure readers for the book.” 
Another critic remarks: “This eloquent, argumentative, electric work is instinct with the passion of the South and the reason of the North.”
The Independent opens its criticism with the significant query: “Have we an American Carlyle?”
ALSO,
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH; or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. E.W. REYNOLDS, author of “Records of Bubbleton Parish.” With Introduction by Rev. S.J. MAY. 12mo. 75 ets. 
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
Dec12-3t.is 245 Washington Street, Boston.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308 
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE,
BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Nov7tf

A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURNDS OF 
OIL CARPETING,
-AND-
ROOT CLOTH, 
23 WATER STREET, 
A. FOLSOM,
S.P.FOLSOM, BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator
JANUARY FIRST,
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY-THREE.
Hear it, ye heroes, ‘mid the heavenly arches
Thrilled with Jehovah's grateful praise—"Well done!"
Hear it, ye heroes, in your weary marches
Through northern snows or ‘neath a tropic sun.
Hear it, ye anxious households, waiting, waiting
For news from clustering camps and serried line;
Hear it, ye darkened households, drooping, bending
Above affection's last, most sacred shrine.
Hear it, ye spirits of our patriot cages,
Who did all that ye could for man and God;
Hear it, ye victims of the wrong of ages,
Bowed by the yoke and cringing ‘neath the rod.
Hear it, poor white-lipped, quaking, quailing doubters!
Hear it, brave prophets of this age sublime!
Hear it, amid your pleading prayers, O, Woman—
The second sounding of the Christ-birth chime!
Hear it, ye Traitors, with your sealed doom frantic,
Your own salvation's summons, could ye read!
Hear it, across the Christo-born Atlantic;
Oppressed, to hope! Oppressors, well to heed!
Catch it, yet echoes of the loftiest mountains!
Chant it, ye thunders of the widest sea!
Angels and Men! Should from life's deepest fountains,
TO-DAY, TO-DAY, COLUMBIA IS FREE!
Boston, January 1, 1863. ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
For the Liberator.
SLAVE SONGS.
I
We are free, brothers, free!—we're our own men now!
Let them say we'll prove idle and careless,
We heed not the slander; but heartily vow,
True freemen of labor are fearless.
We are free, brothers, free! How sweet is the food,
The food which our free hands have planted!
Let us thank, with full hearts, and great Giver of good,
Who the blessing of free toil has granted!
We are free, brothers, free! Each hut is a home—
Ah! We never had homes to return to!
In the woods, in the fields, wherever we roam,
The taught makes the glowing heart burn too.
We are free, brothers, free! How pleasant to toil
With free hands, to maintain each own dear one;
No slave dealer now can make them his spoil;
What a thought this to strengthen and cheer one!
We are free, brothers, free! With eyes beaming joy,
See, our free wives their babes are caressing!
Can we better our free evening leisure employ
Than in singing glad hymns for the blessing?
II.
Tis New Year's Day! Such a blessed day
As never before poor slaves have seen;
Never before, and never again
Such New Year's Day shall be, as has been!
A Wonderful New Year! It has come,
Full of new hopes to the toil-worn slave;
Each hut is a home, each hut is our own;
Our life too, our own, from cradle to grave!
Let the past be past—we're freemen now;
Worhty this title strive we to live;
Bearing no malice for injuries past—
Tis noble to pardon, ‘tis brave to forgive.
III.
Chattels no longer! We're chattels no longer!
Every strong arm feels firmer and stronger;
Every stout heart beats fuller and faster;
Freedom has made each slave his own master.
Freedom has made a true home of each dwelling;
No longer its echoes resound with the yelling
Of a slave writhing under the slave-driver's lashes,
While the bystander trembling his teeth vainly gnashes.
Why dwell on the past to recall only sadness?
Let this glorious day be devoted to gladness;
And the wrongs of past times be wholly forgiven—
But thank-offering this for the bounty of Heaven!
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.
For the Liberator.
THE DEPARTED YEAR.
Methinks I hear the waning year
Flit by on his trackless road,
To join the past in that ocean vast
"With the years beyond the flood."
What tales of woe has Sixty-two
To render his successor!
The blood runs cold when the story's told
By his truthful predecessor.
A sable gloom, like "day of doom,"
O'ershadows all our land;
And human blood, in many a flood,
Crimsons the Warrior's brand.
The race of man, since time began,
Have warred against each other;
With fiendish skill combined they kill
Their God-created brother.
Old Sixty-two, with records true,
In after times will tell,
And History's pen shall write it then,
What on that year befell.
God of the just! In thee we trust—
Let not our prayers be vain!
May carnage cease, and dove-like peace
Return to us again!
Rumney, Dec. 31, 1862. R.
For the Liberator.
JOHN BROWN'S AVENGER.
How has God's angry and visible frown
Blasted those regions where old John Brown
In glorious martyrdom laid his life down!
How swift is the punishment! God was defied:—
Say, shall the mockers in safety abide?
Look for your answer in War's fierce tide!
Look! From that town where the drama began,
E'en to those fields where the murder was done—
Grid Desolation looks up at the sun!
Carnage has held his fierce revelry there,
Reaping his harvest of all that was fair,
Filling the land with the wails of despair!
Piled where the tide of the battle hath run,
Carcasses blacken and bleach in the sun:—
Ruin alone in the contest hath won!
When shall War's horrible carnival cease?
Never till repentance bring pardon and peace!
Never till the bondmen are given release!
God only knows! Yet the end shall be shown,
When from the Red Sea He bringeth His own;
And Pharaoh reaps the fell wrath he hath sown.
Justice is certain, and Truth is sublime!
God is th' avenger, and now is His time!
Woe to Virginia! she must pay for her crime!
St. Johnsbury, Vt., 1862. F.B. GAGE.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
"JANUARY FIRST, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY-THREE."
Stand like an anvil, when ‘tis beaten
With the full vigor of the smith's right arm!
Stand like the noble oak-tree, when ‘tis eaten
By the Sapid and his ravenous swarm!
For many smiths will strike the ringing blows,
Ere the red drama now enacting close;
And human insects, gnawing at thy fame,
Conspire to bring thy honored head to shame.
Stand like the firmament, upholden
By an invisible but Almighty hand!
He whomsoever JUSTICE doth embolden,
Unshaken, unreduced, unaw'd shall stand.
Invisible support is mightier far,
With noble slims, than walls of granite are;
And simple consciousness of justice gives
Strength to a purpose while that purpose lives.
<c02>
Stand like the rock that looks defiant 
Far o'er the surging seas that lash its form!
Composed, determined, watchful, self-reliant,
Be master of thyself, and rule the storm!
And thou shaft soon behold the bow of peace 
Span the broad heavens, and, the wild tumult cease;
And see the billows, with the clouds that meet,
Subdued and calm, come crouching to thy feet.
Kentucky, December, 1862. W. D. Gallagher 
From the American Baptist
OUR PRESIDENT.
Steady, O pilot! Though the tempests rave
Fiercely around thee, let thy heart be strong!
God gives the power our laboring bark to save.
Steer bravely on; the storm will cease ere long.
Be strong and steadfast! Even at the door
Freedom and Victory wait, evoked by thee.
"Tis thine to bid them welcome. Speak once more;
Proclaim the promised year of jubilee.
O sorely tried, yet greatly honored! See
To what God calls thee! Cast thou not away 
The crown he proffers. Set the people free!
And, linked with Washington's, to time's last day
Thy name shall live. God gird thee with his power!
God nerve thee now! It is our crisis-hour.
R. A. R.

THE LIBERATOR.
RIGHT OF SECESSION.
EDITOR OF LIBERATOR:
DEAR FRIEND,—In the Liberator of Dec. 19th, I read with interest and pleasure your report of a speech delivered at Maidstone, England, by our highly-esteemed friend, George Thompson, Esq., in reply to a dinner speech of Mr. Buxton, M. P., and have been much gratified with his remarks on slavery, as the ultimate cause of all our troubles, on the President's Proclamation, and, indeed, on the whole subject of the speech, with the exception of one paragraph, to which I wish now to refer. But this paragraph contains some errors of fact, which are much to be regretted, when given out by so able, well-informed and candid a man as Mr. Thompson, to a British audience, who depend on him for correct information on all that relates to the war in the United States. Although I feel the highest regard for Mr. Thompson, and gratitude to him for his fearless and unwearied anti-slavery labors, I cannot deem it offensive to him that I attempt to correct any errors into which he may have fallen, knowing that he always intends to speak the exact truth, and trusting to his known magnanimity that he will receive any such correction in friendship and good feeling, even if it should somewhat weaken his argument.
He commences the paragraph to which I refer by saying—"Now a word as to the right of a State to secede from the Union. There was no such right There was no one profoundly acquainted with the history of the American Republic, either in America or England, who contended for that right" This is the first error which 1 wish to correct. I know of several highly respectable persons—some learned in the law, and as well acquainted with the history of the American Republic as Mr. Thompson himself—-who do contend for the right of a State to secede, and I have reason to believe that this opinion is very prevalent, though suppressed. I have myself studied much of the history and Constitution of the United States; and have read abundance of the newspaper and lecturing proofs that a State cannot rightfully secede, and they have not satisfied me. I am well aware that the doctrine of Mr. T. is supported by the authority of Mr. Motley, Mr. Mill, Mr. Webster, and others: but the fallacy with those gentlemen is, that they all assume that the Government of the United States, like those of Europe, is a full and entire sovereignty, possessing an original, inherent power to sustain itself, irrespective of the States; overlooking the fact that the Federal Government has no powers but those which are expressly granted it by the States, among which is not to be found the power of preventing secession. But the question now is, not whether this opinion is right or wrong, (which I am ready to discuss on any proper opportunity, if permitted,) but simply, whether there are or not some well qualified persons who believe in the right of secession.
Mr. T. says again—" Before the Constitution had been adopted, each State was sovereign; but the Union called upon each State to merge its individual sovereignty in a common nationality, and from that time, the people of the several States became one people, under a Constitution which provided that those who sought its overthrow should be punished as guilty of treason."
Here are two errors of fact. 1. I have before stated, and now repeat, that each State did not "merge its individual sovereignty in a common nationality:" they only granted to the Union a part of the powers of sovereignty, reserving all, not expressly granted, to themselves. The powers granted were not all even made exclusive. There is nothing in the Constitution forbidding the States from exercising any powers, except those expressly prohibited. It is only provided that the laws, &c. made "under the authority of the Untied States, shall be the supreme law of the land."
2. The Constitution has not provided "that those who sought its overthrow should be punished as guilty of treason." On the contrary, the right to do so is expressly admitted in the Declaration of Independence, and no where denied in the Constitution. Mr. T. admits that "there was always a revolutionary right to secede"; but he does not show that" there was a corresponding obligation resting on the servants of the Constitution to repress such a revolution, and to Banish its abettors." Can there be such contradictory rights?
In regard to the charge of treason, the only mention of that crime in the Constitution is, that "treason against the United States shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, firing them aid and comfort" The applicability of this definition to this war of secession depends upon the solution of the right of secession. If there is no right of secession, and the people of the seceded States are to be considered merely as rebels, then, in levying war, the charge of treason dearly applies to them; but if, as I believe, the States had a perfect right to secede, they have then become de jure, as they plainly have de facto, a foreign nation; and the charge of treason no more applies to them than to the subjects of any other foreign, hostile nation. J. P. B.
Our esteemed and venerable friend, J. P. B., is a little too hypercritical and literal in his interpretation of the declarations of Mr. Thompson, who certainly did not mean to say that there were no dissentients from his views of the question of secession and State sovereignty, bat only to affirm the American doctrine of national unity.]

SELF VERSUS SELF.
Nature reveals her limitless variety of resources in her distribution of peculiar individual power; and as degree of popular success depends upon degree of concentration, and not the amount of knowledge possessed, but the amount employed determines the man's reputation for wisdom, a narrowing destiny is aspired to in the pursuit of one idea for public appreciation, i.e. name and bread. Ail civilized societies promote this divorce of self for the affinity of deception, which begins in policy, is next habit, and then character. The inordinate importance attached to wealth and position, the universal devotion to fashion, with their consequent augmentation of elegant idleness, also distract from the highest ideal life, and tend to this un-native servile reality—humanity transformed to machinery—compensated in deformity of flesh and spirit However dear the childhood's home, this popular necessity forces the youth out from its love and protection; deprives declining age of that cheer of presence and sweet return of care its nature craves, and filial nature yearns to give. The unsuspecting companion-ship of brothers and sisters to sacrificed when they
<c03>
have scarce learned to know the precious privilege. Out from home, out to danger. The same great influence that exiles, isolates or ruins. The prime test of inherent strength is loneliness. The youthful stranger meets the frowning barriers between him and admittance to refined society. Around him, numberless and open, stand the gates of hell, alluring to destruction. Can he wait, and lire the character that shall at length be sought by the former, or will be yield to the bitter longings for fellowship and accept it from the latter? Decoying vices know no mercy. The protests of conscience weaken as they multiply. Habit is soon character; and is it strange so many are lost in the momentous issue t Could these harassed souls but speak their want, what a cry for strength and encouragement would pierce our cars! Involuntarily we turn hopeward to the Christian Church. From Ha title and profession, such is our right Its counsels are free, and its liberal subscriptions to ameliorate home destitution and far-sought Heathenism are proverbial. But how many young men hare sought a word of cheer in how many Christian churches, and turned from thence cheerless! Beset on every side with temptations, struggling for truth and manhood, a disparagement of self-a ailment is laying waste the but hope. Yet book and pulpit glut with traditional assertions that man can do nothing of himself. And what equivalent is offered for this filching of the soul's native safeguard t 'Tis this—Pin thy faith to my faith! This does not suffice, and there is no Christian reason why it should. To live morally is to battle the world continually. Every man is a battery of himself, and the fewer his guns, the more his need of encouragement to keep them snapping. To him who has not been fed with old traditions and superstitions—half truths half told—nor pledged to narrowing formulas and dogmas, God and Faith do not appear in the rites of modern worship. He fails to recognize the Divine Spirit in decorated arch and towering spire, in deep swelling organ peal and bewildering fresco. The salaried notes that rise in hymns of praise, the tuned prayer, alternately sycophantic and mendicant, enter the ear, not the heart. If sensitive to the touch of inconsistency, he feels it a relief to go out alone with nature. Each ripening tint of autumn, each glittering flake of winter, each spring-tide blossom, each breath of growing summer, to the natural man is a mice from God. It appeals to his inmost soul. Like a child at the knee of an offended parent, he trembles at the power above him, and promises a better life. In the closet, where the votaries of custom can exact no set phrases and commonplaces, he renews the row, and pours out his heart's gratitude for the manifold blessings of life. This is reverence which begets faith, which begets love. The first step to this faith is through doubt. By what authority shall another prescribe for my soul's need? Show me the diploma signed and sealed in heaven. The second step is through acceptance of the soul's own prescription. Its essence is truth; its hidden fountain, creation. The highest measure of self is individuality—fearless unity—to make soul stronger than circumstance. If there is an element of truth in us, it is worth standing for and obeying. We to him who stoops to apologies and explanations! The self-denying effort to live in the approbation of the many-eyed and censorious public must result in discomfiture and self-contempt, while a firm observance of the honest instincts of the inner being is as unfailing to command the respect of others and of ourselves. Such a character is necessarily felt far beyond the orbit in which it is known, augmenting as it does with its prize of integrity the great whole of morality.
"Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright, for the end of that man is peace." Misconstruction of motives and the scoffs of weaker wills and less favored intellects are not the severest trials to which the endeavor to natural life is subjected. It has to contend with the idols of society—custom, education and culture. As a people, we turn our backs to all others in the victorious chase of mind over matter, but mind has monopolized all vitality. All monopolies are unjust and dangerous. We want more heart—more fact, and less theory; more human oneness, and less servility to custom; more regard for truth, and leas for precedent. "Who can avoid all pledges, and having observed, observe again, from the same unaffected, unbiased, unbribable, unaffrighted innocence, must always be formidable." ALLEN.
Boston, Dec. 29th, 1862.

ECCLESIASTICAL REVOLUTION.
Investigation and bold research, in reference to the ancient Scriptures, are leading onward to a fair and practical understanding of the same. Rev. Dr. Colenso, Episcopal Bishop of Natal, on the north-east coast of Africa, has put forth a work of great erudition on the Pentateuch. The work meets with a rapid sale, and is somewhat startling in the positions taken. The reputation of the learned author, and circumstances which led to his conclusions, together with his strong faith in divine truth independent of human record, is thus set forth in a late Springfield Republican:—
"Dr. Colenso is a missionary Bishop of marked piety and attainments, a celebrated Hebrew scholar, and every way influential in his denomination. It was while translating the Old Testament Scriptures into the Zola language, and discussing their contents with his native assistants, that he discovered what he has come to consider insurmountable obstacles to a belief in their authenticity and historical accuracy. Dr. Colenso states the general conclusions he has reached as follows:—
'The result of my inquiry is this, that I have arrived at the conviction—as painful to myself at first as it may be to my reader, though painful now no longer under the clear shining of the light of truth— that the Pentateuch, as a whole, cannot possibly have been written by Moses, or by any one acquainted personally with the facts which it professes to describe; and, further, that the so-called Mosaic narrative, by whomsoever written, and though imparting to us, as I fully believe it does, revelations of the divine will and character, cannot be regarded as historically true.'
Of course, the character of a commentary based on a theory like this can be conjectured without difficulty. Dr. Colenso rejects all the miraculous and marvellous portions of the narrative, and considers them of no more account than the myths of the Heathen mythologies. But he deprecates the idea that faith in Christianity should be shaken by his conclusions, and says: ' Our belief in the living God remains as sure as ever, though not the Pentateuch only, but the whole Bible were removed. It is written on our hearts by God's own finger as surely as by the hand of the apostle in the Bible, that " God it, and is a rewarded of them that diligently seek him." It is written there also, as plainly as in the Bible, that "God is not mocked"—that "whatsoever a man south, that shall he also reap"—and that "he that south to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption." But there will be others of a different stamp, meek, lowly, loving souls, who are walking daily with God, and have been taught to consider a belief in the historical veracity of the story of the Exodus an essential part of their religion, upon which, indeed, as it seems to them, the whole fabric of their faith and hope in God is based. It is not really so: the Light of God's love did not shine less truly on pious minds when Enoch "walked with God" of old, though there was then no Bible in existence, than it does now. And it is, perhaps, God's will that we shall be taught in this our day, among other precious lessons, not to build up our faith upon a book, though it be the Bible itself, but to realize more truly the blessedness of knowing that be himself, the living God, our Father and Friend, is nearer and closer to us than any book can lie—that his voice within the heart may be heard continually by the obedient child that listens for it, and that shall be our teacher and guide in the path of duty, which is the path of life, when all other helpers—even the words of the best of books-may fail us.'
The book is to be reprinted in this country, and will provoke no little controversy, and some alarm for the foundations of the Christian faith, but the Bishop proteases to think he has not overstepped the creed or canons of the Episcopal Church in writing it"
Thus, work will be made for new and thorough investigation. Let it come! What is tree and permanent in the Christian Scriptures win stand, and we shall love all the more the better and latter covenant made by Him who is the "light of the world." We need, perhaps, a religious and ecclesiastical revolution, as well as a political one. The murky atmosphere of theology, entangled with the doctrines of men, needs to be purified by the gathering elements of simple and divine truth. G. W. S.
<c04>
CHRONOLOGY OF THE WAR. 1860.
Meeting of South Carolina Secession Convention, Dec. 17
Secession ordinance passed, Dec. 20
Major Anderson moves his forces from Fort Moultrie to Fort Sumter (on the night of) Dec.26 
John B. Floyd resigned position as Secretary of War, Dec. 29
1861.
Senator Benjamin's farewell secession speech in the Senate, Jan. 1
Departure of the South Carolina Commissioners from Washington, Jan. 4
Buchanan's Fast, Jan. 4
Mississippi Convention pasted ordinance of Secession, Jan. 9
Star of the West fired on from Fort Moultrie, Jan. 9 
Florida and Alabama passed the ordinance of Secession, Jan. 11
Mr. Seward's speech in the U. S. Senate, Jan. 12
Navy-Yard at Pensacola seized by the rebels, Jan. 12
Secession ordinance passed by Georgia Convention, Jan. 19
Jeff. Davis withdrew from the Senate, Jan. 21
Louisiana passed the ordinance of Secession, Jan. 26
U. S. Mint and Custom-House seized at New Orleans, Jan. 31
The Montgomery Convention organized, Feb. 4
Peace Convention organized at Washington, Feb. 5
Jeff. Davis elected President, and Alex. H. Stephens Vice President of the Southern Confederacy by the Montgomery Convention. Feb. 8
Jeff. Davis inaugurated, Feb. 18
President Lincoln arrived in Washington, Feb. 23
Texas declared out of the Union, Mar. 4.
Commissioners from the Montgomery Government left Washington, Apr. 11
Attack on Sumter, Apr. 12
President's call for 75,000 men, Apr. 15
Arsenal at Harper's Ferry burnt, Apr. 18
First troops arrived at Washington, Apr. 18
Massachusetts troops attacked in Baltimore, Apr. 19
New York 7th Reg't started for Washington, Apr. 19
Gasport Nary Yard abandoned, Apr. 20
21,000 stand of arms taken by Illinois troops from St. Louis Arsenal, Apr. 25
Capture of Camp Frost at St. Louis, by Gen. Lyon, May 11
Gen. Butler enters Baltimore, May 13
Ordinance of secession passed by North Carolina Convention, May 20
Telegraphic dispatches seized throughout the North, May 20
Death of Col. Ellsworth, May 24
Lieut. Tompkins's dash to Fairfax Court-House, May 31
Battle of Philippi, Western Virginia, June 3
Border State Conv. met at Frankfort, Ky. June 3
Battle of Big Bethel, June 10
Western Virginia Convention met at Wheeling, June 12
Fast Day in rebel Stales, June 13
Harper's Ferry evacuated, June 14
Massachusetts 1st Regiment, Col. Cowdin, left Boston for seat of war, June 15
Ohio troops fired on from masked battery at Vienna, June 17
Battle of Booneville, Missouri, June 17
Marshal Kane arrested, June 27
The Sumter escaped from New Orleans, June 29
Battle of Falling Waters in Western Virginia, July 2
Congress met, July 4
Battle of Carthage, Missouri, July 5
Battle of Rich Mountain, Western Va., July 11
Battle Carrick's Ford, July 14
Advance from Washington toward Manassas, July 16
Battle of Blackburn Ford, July 18
Battle of Bull Run, July 21
Gen. Fremont arrives at St. Louis, July 25
Gen. McClellan arrives at Washington, July 27
Battle of Dug Spring, Mo., Aug. 2
Hampton burnt, Aug. 7
Battle of Wilson's Creek, death of Gen. Lyon, Aug. 10
The banks agree to take $60,000,000 of Government loan, Aug. 12
Gen. Fremont's proclamation, Aug. 29
Capture of Forts at Hatters, Aug. 29
Gen. Grant takes possession of Paducah, Aug. 6
Battle of Summersville, Western Va., Aug. 10
The President modifies Fremont's proclamation, Aug. 11
Battle of Chear Mountain, Western Va. Aug. 14
Surrender of Lexington, Missouri, Aug. 20
National Fast, Aug. 25
Munson's Hill evacuated, Aug. 28
Wilson's Zouaves attacked on Santa Rosa Island, Oct. 9
Attack on our fleet at mouth of the Mississippi, 12
Battle of Ball's Bluff and death of Senator
Baker, 21
Zagonyi's charge at Springfield, 21
Gen. McClellan appointed General-in-Chief, Nov. 1
Gen. Fremont's removal from his command, Nov. 2
Battle of Belmont, Missouri, Nov. 7
Capture of Port Royal, S. C, Nov. 7
Gen. Halleck appointed as Fremont's successor, Nov. 10
Fast in Rebel States, Nov. 15
News of the capture of Mason and Slidell, Nov. 16
The rebels attack Fort Pickens, 22 & 23
Congress met, Dec. 2
Gen. Phelps landed troops at Ship Island, Dec. 4
Battle at Camp Alleghany, Dec. 13
Stone fleet sunk in Charleston Harbor, Dec. 20
Battle of Danielsville, Dec. 20
News of settlement of the Trent affair, Dec. 27
1862.
Gen. Burnside's fleet sailed from Annapolis, Jan. 9
Col. Garfield's defeat of Humphrey Marshall, 13
Secretary Cameron retires from the Cabinet, (about) 13
Battle of Mill Spring, death of Zollicoffer, 20
Expulsion of Mr. Bright of Indiana from the Senate, (about) 30
Capture of Fort Henry, Feb. 6
Capture of Roanoke Island, Feb. 8
Capture of Fort Donalson, Feb. 16
Nashville occupied, (about) Feb. 25
Battle of Pea Ridge, Apr. 6, 7, 8
Destruction of the Cumberland and Congress by the Merrimac, Apr. 8
Manassas evacuated by the rebels, Apr. 9
Capture of Newbern, Apr. 14
Evacuation of New Madrid by the rebels, (about) Apr. 15
Battle at Winchester, Apr. 23
Battle at Shiloh or Pittsburg Landing, Mar. 6, 7
Surrender of Island No. 10 to Com. Foote, Mar. 7
Surrender of Fort Pulaski, Mar. 11
Commodore Farrago runs past Forts Philip and Jackson, Mar. 23
Our fleet before New Orleans, Mar. 25
Evacuation of Yorktown, May 3
Battle of Williamsburg, May 5
Gen. Wool takes possession of Norfolk, May 5
Battle of West Point, May 7
Gen. Hunter's proclamation issued at Hilton Head, May 9
Naval Battle near Fort Wright on the Mississippi, May 10
The Merrimac blown up, May 11
Robert Small runt steamer Planter out of Charleston, May 13
The Monitor and Galena repulsed near Fort Darling, on James River, May 16
Hunter's Proclamation annulled by the President, May 19
Federal victory at Lewisburg, Western Va. May 23
Col. Kenley's 1st Md. Regiment routed at Front Royal, May 24
Gen. Banks retreats through Winchester, May 25
Evacuation of Corinth, May 29
Battle of Fair Oaks or Seven Pines, May 31 and June 1
Great naval victory before Memphis, May 6
Battle of Cross Keys, May 6
Port Republic, May 8
Rebel raid at White House, rear McClellan's army, May 13
Reverse at James Island, near Charleston, May 16
The President visits Gen. Scott, May 23
Fremont superseded by Gen. Pope, May 26
Great battles in front of Richmond, June 26 July 1
President Lincoln calls for 300,000 volunteers, June 1
Congress adjourns, June " 10
The rebels attack Murfreesboro', June 13
Gen: Pope takes command of the Army of Virginia, June 14
The rebel iron-dad gunboat Arkansas succeeds in passing our fleet to Vicksburg, June 16
The President calls for 300,000 militia, Aug. 4
Battle of Baton Rouge, Aug. 5
Citizens liable to a draft prohibited from leaving their State or county, Aug. 8
Battle of Cedar Mountain, Aug. 9
Gen. Pope began his retreat from the Rapidan, Aug. 27
Battles at and near Bull Ron, 28,29, 30
Battle at Richmond, Ky., 28,29, 30
Battle of Chantilly, Sept. 1
Martial law at Cincinnati, Sept. 2
The rebel army crosses the Potomac, Sept. 4
Battle at Washington, N. C, Sept. 5
Battle of South Mountain, Sept. 14
Surrender of Harper's Ferry, Sept. 15
Battle of Antietam, Sept. 17
Proclamation of Emancipation, Sept. 22
Gen. Davis shoots Gen. Nelson at Louisville, Sept. 29
Battle of Corinth, Oct. 3, 4
Battle at Perryville, Ky., Sept. 8
Stuart's cavalry raid into Pennsylvania, Sept. 10,12
Victory at Maysville, Arkansas, Sept. 22
Gen. Mitchell's attack upon the South Carolina Railroad, Sept. 23
Gen. Buell relieved of Ms command in Ky., and Gen. Resources appointed in his place, Sept. 24
News of depravations of the Alabama near our coast, Nov. 3
<c05>
Negro troops engaged at king's Bay, Ga., Nov. 4
Van Dorn, Price and Lovell defeated at Corinth. Miss 4
The Mass 41st, 43d,45th and 46th Regiments leave Boston far the war, 5
The President's Sabbath Proclamation, 6
Gen McClellan superseded by Gen. Burnside, 7
St. Mary's. Ga., destroyed by the Mohawk, Nov. 9
Imbued routed in Western Virginia, 10
Holly Springs, occupied by Grant's forces, Nov. 13
Burnside demands the surrender of Fredericksburg, 21
Secretary of War issues an order for releasing political prisoners, Nov. 22
Message of President Lincoln recommending alteration of the Constitution, Dec 1
Battle of Fayetteville, Ark., Dec 7
Burnside crosses the Rappahannock, Dec 12
Repulse of Burnside at Fredericksburg, Dec 13
Battle of Kinston, N. C, Dec 14
Battle of Whitehall, Dec 16
Gen. Banks supersedes Gen. Butler at New Orleans, Dec 16
Battle of Gold borough, N. C, Dec 17
Desperate but abortive assaults upon Vicksburg, Dec 27, 28, 29
Great Battle in Tennessee, near Murfreesboro', Dec 30,31
FAREWELL OF GEN. BUTLER TO HISTROOPS.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 15, 1862.
GEN. ORDERS NO. 106. Soldiers of the Army of the Gulf I—Relieved from further duties in this Department by direction of the President, under date of Nov. 9, 1862, I take leave of you by this final order, it being impossible to visit your scattered outposts, covering hundreds of miles of the frontier of a larger territory than some of the kingdoms of Europe.
I greet you, my brave comrades, and say farewell!
This word, endeared as you are by a community of privations, hardships, dangers, victories, successes, military and civil, is the only sorrowful thought I have.
You have deserved well of your country. Without a murmur, you sustained an encampment on a sandbar, so desolate that banishment to it, with every care and comfort possible, has been the most dreaded punishment inflicted upon your bitterest and most insulting enemies.
You had so little transportation, that but a handful could advance to compel submission by the Queen City of the Rebellion, while others waded breast-deep in the marshes which surround St. Philip, and forced the surrender of a fort deemed impregnable to land attack by the most skillful engineers of your country and her enemy.
At your occupation, order, law, quiet and peace sprang to this city, filled with the bravos of all nations, where for a score of years, during the profoundest peace, human life was scarcely safe at noonday.
By your discipline, you illustrated the best traits of the American soldier, and enchained the admiration of those that came to scoff.
Landing with a military chest containing but $75, from the hoards of a Rebel Government you have given to your country's treasury nearly $500,000, and so supplied yourself with the needs of your service that your expedition has cost your Government less by four-fifths than any other.
You have fed the starving poor, the wives and children of your enemies, so converting enemies into friends, that they have sent their representatives to Congress by a vote greater than your entire numbers, from districts in which, when you entered, you were tauntingly told that there was " no one to raise your flag."
By your practical philanthropy, you have won the confidence of the "oppressed race" and the slave. Hailing you as deliverers, they are ready to aid you as willing servants, faithful laborers, or, using the tactics taught them by your enemies, to light with you in the field.
By steady attention to the laws of health, you have stayed the pestilence, and, humble instruments in the hands of God, you have demonstrated the necessity that His creatures should obey His laws, and reaping His blessing in this most unhealthy climate, you have preserved your ranks fuller than those of any other battalions of the same length of service.
You have met double numbers of the enemy, and defeated him in the open field. But I need not further enlarge upon this topic. You were sent here to do that.
I commend yon to your commander. Yon are worthy of his love.
 Farewell, my comrades! again farewell!
BENJ. F. BUTLER, Maj. Gen. Com'g.
CENSUS OF CUBA. The census of the island has just been published:
Whites 793,484
Colored 603,046
Total 1,396,530
Of the colored portion. 225,843 are free, 370,553 slaves, and 6650 emancipates. The colored population is 79.99 per cent, of the whites.
 The classification of the sexes is as follows:
White males 468,107
White females 326,377
Free colored males 109,027
Free colored females 116816
Slaves, males 217,722
Slaves, females 151,831
Emancipates, males 4,779
Emancipates, females 1,871
The married among the whites are in the proportion of one to three, while among the colored the proportion is one to eleven. In the white population, the excess of males is 142,727 over females, while among the slaves, the females exceed by 82,211.
The increase in the white population since 1859 is 170,987, or more than 27 per cent; in the free colored, 35,995, and in the slave and emancipate class, 9835; the increase in the entire population, 216,817, or 18.37 per cent This is a very large increase in so small a population, and in so short a time. Of the whites, the proportion of those who can read and write is 30.42 per cent, of the whole, or less than one-third. But in country parts, the disproportion is infinitely greater. For instance, in Jane, it is only 17 per cent. in San Cristobel, 18 per cent.; and in Villaclara, a little more than 20 per cent. In the first mentioned place, the proportion of females who can read and write is not more than six per cent, of the female population there, which numbers 10,342; and in Pinal del Rio, not very far from Havana, the per centage is still less (5.27), in a female population of 17.556. These figures are not very flattering to the moral and intellectual condition of Cuba.
STRUGGLES FOR LIBERTY. The following story is related by one of the officers of the blockading squadron on the coast of South Carolina, to his relatives in Massachusetts:—
"I send you a Charleston paper that was brought off to this ship, not long ago, by a boat-load of ' contrabands,' who claimed our protection. Poor creatures! There were four of them in a miserable dugout, with one oar and two paddles made of rough boards, cut to shape with a jack-knife. They were nearly forty-eight hours in getting to us, and the wonder is they ever reached us at all. They had to secrete themselves one day in the swamps near Fort Sumter, and had nothing to eat all the while. We were lying about six miles off. in a rough and angry sea; but they paddled alongside, and asked if we ‘would give them a little aid.' If you could have heard them exclaim, as they got on board, 'Brass de Lord! and have seen their anxious, worn-out faces, it would have touched your heart, I know. It did mine, and I am not very easily moved. One of them brought off $335 in American gold! They are now safely ashore at Hilton Head."
THE PRICE OF LIBERTY. Gen. Neal Dow gives the following account of the escape of a ' contraband ' now one of his servants at Pensacola. He came from Mobile by Und to Biloxi, twelve miles from here. There he got a little dug-out, about ten feet long. In the night he put off, and in the fresh breeze was overset twice in the dark. He lost his oars, and after long struggle succeeded in getting the water out of his canoe, and paddling with his hands. In the morning, he was seen two or three miles from the shore, and a boat was sent to pick him up. When he came, he had nothing on but shirts and pants.—no bat nor shoes. All were lost, and he was drenched and weary. He had been a long time in the rebel army, and was at the battle of Corinth. An Englishman, Scotchman or American striving for liberty would be a hero, but he is only a Digger, and deserves only a "walloping"!
THE BOON or FREEDOM. The following is an extract of a letter from the correspondent of a Western paper with the army of Gen. Grant:—
"Along with our forces on the return came some three hundred negroes, of all ages, sexes, color, sizes and conditions. Tramping eagerly through the deep mud came old, paralytic women, bent with the deep infirmity, who bore the pelting rain and the discomforts of the camp without complaint, their faces and soul all aglow with the thought that they were bound for the North and Freedom. Mothers waded through mud and water, carrying babies in their arms, sustained by the thought that they had at length obtained that wonderful blessing-Freedom. Barefooted children, ragged adults, young women clad in hermaphrodite suits of half petticoats and pantaloons, all came budging on, grinning over the sublime thought that they had obtained that priceless boon-Freedom." 
<c06>
THE NEWSPAPER CRISIS. The Journal of Commerce remarks:—"The Newspapers on our exchange list are undergoing a through transformation. A large number have almost passed beyond recognition, in their effort to retrieve expenditures on account of the high cost of printing materials, and the burden of taxation. Quite a number—such as the Albany Argus, Albany Evening Journal, Baltimore American Boston Courier, Philadelphia Inquirer, Rochester, Union and Advertiser—have curtailed their dimensions. Others resort to a cheaper kind of paper. On from New Jersey, for example, came t us yesterday composed of brown wrapping-paper. But the more common expedient is to advance the subscription price, or terms of advertising, or both. This movement of increasing the price is general over the whole country. Very few city newspapers are now sold for the less than three cents a copy. New York, Boston and Philadelphia Occupy common ground in this respect. These changes will continue, and it will not be strange if eventually many of the small country papers become extinct—the large metropolitan dailies taking the lion's share of patronage. This tendency of things is to be deprecated, but is unavoidable."
Paper has advanced in price one hundred or two hundred per cent. (i.e., it has doubled, and in some cases nearly trebled in market value!) and this had not only brought great distress upon all those who were furnishing the public with reading matter, but has threatened to dry up many channels of useful information. The book trade is almost entirely suspended. Some newspapers have been stopped; others curtailed in dimensions; while yet others are struggling along at an advance in price which only partially remunerates them for their increased cost. The magnitude of the change is not yet fairly understood. It is a moderate newspaper establishment which has paid only ten thousand dollars per annum for white paper, when this was at ten cents a pound. Now, advance the price to 25 cents per pounds, and the cost of that one concern is increased, in that item alone, fifteen thousand dollars a year, or many times its annual profits! Take larger newspaper establishments, pay from twenty-five to one hundred thousand dollars a year for paper, and this advance adds from thirty-seven thousand to one hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year to their expenses—a sum which no economy could evade, and entailing a loss which no amount of capital could justify or long sustain.—Ibid.

THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a new volume on the first of January. It is published weekly, and every number contains sixteen pages of useful information, and from five to ten original engravings of new inventions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly for its columns.
No person engaged in any of the mechanical of manufacturing pursuits should thing of "doing without" the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per week; every number contains from six to ten engravings of new machines and inventions, which cannot be found in any other publication.
The Scientific American is indispensable to every investor, as it not only contains illustrated descriptions of nearly all the best inventions as they come out, but each number contains an Official List of the Claims of all the Patents issued from the United States Patent Office during the week previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress of inventions in this country; and also a summary of all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in the old countries.
To Chemists, Architects, Millwrights and Farmers, the Scientific American will be found a most useful journal. All the new discoveries in the science of chemistry are given in its columns, and the interests of the architects and carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical information pertaining to the interests of millwrights mill-owners will be found in the Scientific American, which information they cannot possibly obtain from any other source. Subjects in Scientific American; most of the improvements in agricultural implements being illustrated in its columns.
TERMS—To mail subscribers: Three Dollars a year or One Dollar for four months. The volumes commence on the first of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
Jan 2tf 37 Park Row, New York.

THE BEST WORK FOR CANVASSING AGENTS.
Harper's Pictorial History
OF
The Great Rebellion
IN
THE UNITED STATES.
MESSRS. HARPER & BROTHERS have commenced the issue in numbers of a complete HISTORY OF THE GREAT REBLLION IN THE UNITED STATES. The work has been for many months in course of preparation, by a writer every way qualified for the task.
The INTRODUCTION contains a clear and succinct account of the formation of the Confederacy of the States; the formation and adoption of the Constitution of the United States, and the establishment of the National Government; the origin, development, and progress of the doctrines of Nullification and Secession, and the various phases which they assumed until their final culmination in the Great Rebellion.
THE HISTORY comprises a full account drawn from the most authentic sources, of all the Events of the War; the intrigues of the Southern leaders at home and abroad; the gradual defection of one section; the great Uprising of the People for the maintenance of the National Life and Existence; the rapid creation of an immense Army and Navy; and the Battles by Land and Sea.
The ILLUSTRATIONS comprise Portraits of all those who have borne a prominent part in the struggle; Maps of the different localities; Plans of the leading actions; Views of every scene of interest, and of the most important Battles. These Illustrations are mostly from drawings taken on the spot by artists deputed for that purpose to accompany every division of our Army and Navy.
Every facility at the command of the Publishers has been employed in the preparation and execution of the work; and they confidently believe that it will form the trustworthy and valuable history which can be prepared of THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR THE AMERICAN UNION.
Mode and Terms of Publication.
The work will be issued in Numbers, each consisting of 24 pages of the size of "Harper's Weekly," printed from clear type, upon fine paper, and will probably be completed in about Twenty Numbers.
The Numbers will be issued at intervals, if possible, of about three or four weeks.
The price of each Number, which contains matter equivalent to an ordinary volume, will be Twenty-five cents.
The Illustrations in each Number are alone worth the price asked. Men out of employment, especially

SICK OF DISABLED SOLDIERS,
can find no other work so sure of ready sale and good profit.
For further particulars apply to the Publishers,
HARPER & BROTHERS,
Dec19tf Franklin Square, New York.

DENTISTRY.
DR. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 149 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years, inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better that gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filing teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20 1862.