The LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.-6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAR, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXX[1. NO. 16. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1862. WHOLE  NO. 1634.
RANSOM OF SLAVES AT THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
<c01>
A Speech for the Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Delivered in the United States senate on Monday, March 31. 1862.
BY CHARLES SUMNER OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Mr. President with unspeakable delight I hail the measure and the prospect of its speedy adoption. It is the first installment at that great debt which we all owe to an enslave race, and will be recognized in as one of the victories of humanity. At home throughout our own country, it will be welcomed with gratitude: while abroad it will quicken the <Illegible> all who love freedom. Liberal institutions will gain every where by the abolition of slavery at the national capital. Nobody can read that slaves were once sold in the markets of Rome, beneath the eyes of the sovereign Pontiff, without confessing the scandal to religion, even in a barbarous and nobody can hear that slaves are now sold in the markets of Washington, beneath the eyes of the President, without confessing the scandal to liberal institutions. For the sake of our good name, if not for the sake of justice, let the scandal disappear.
In early discussions of this question, there were many topics introduced which now command little attention. It was part of the tactics of slavery to claim absolute immunity. Indeed, without such immunity it had small chance of continued existence. Such a wrong, so utterly outrageous, could find safety only where it was protected from inquiry. Therefore slave masters always insisted that petitions against its existence at the national capital were not to the received; that it was unconstitutional to touch it even here within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress: and that if it were touched, it should be only under the auspices of the neighboring States of Virginia and Maryland. On these points elaborate arguments were constructed; but it were useless to consider them now. Whatever may be the opinions of individual Senators, the judgment of the country is fixed. The right of petition, first vindicated by the matches perseverance of John Quincy Adams, is now beyond question, and the Constitutional power of Congress is hardly less free from doubt. It is enough to say on this point, that if Congress cannot abolish slavery here, then there is no power anywhere to abolish it here, and this wrong will endure always immortal as the capital itself.
But as the moment of justice approaches, we are called to meet a different objection, inspired by generous sentiments. It is urged that since there can be no such thing as property in man, especially within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, therefore all now held as slaves at the national capital are justly entitled to freedom, without price of compensation of any kind to their masters; or, as least, that any money paid should be distributed according to an account stated between masters and slaves. Of course, if this question were determined according to divine justice. so far as we may be permitted to look in that direction, it is obvious that nothing can be due to the masters, and that any money paid belongs rather to the slaves, who for generations have been despoiled every right and possession. But it we undertake to audit this fearful account, pray what sum shall be allowed for the prolonged torments of the lash? What treasure shall be voted to the slave, for knowledge shut out, and for all the fruits of labor wrested from him and his fathers? No such account can be stated. It is impossible. If you once remains for Congress, anxious to secure this great boon, and unwilling to embarrass of jeopardy it, to act practically according to its finite powers, in the light of existing usages, and even existing prejudices, under which these odious relations have assumed the form of law; nor must we hesitate at any forbearance or sacrifice, provided freedom can be established without delay.
Testimony and eloquence have both been accumulated against slavery; but on this occasion I shall confine myself precisely to the argument for the ransom of slaves at the national capital; although such is slavery that it is impossible to consider it in any single aspect without confronting its whole many-sided wickedness, while the broad diversified field of remedies is naturally open to review. But at some other time the great question of emancipation in the States may be more fitly considered, together with those other questions in which the Senator from Wisconsin [Mr. DOOLITTLE] has allowed himself to take sides so earnestly, whether there is an essential incompatibility between the two races, so that they cannot live together except as master and slave, and whether the freedmen shall be encouraged to exile themselves to other lands or to continue their labor here at home. It is surely enough for the present to consider slavery at the national capital; and here we are met by two enquiries so frankly addressed to the Senate by the clear-headed Senator from Kansas, (Mr. POMEROY;) first, has slavery any constitutional existence at the national capitals and, secondly, shall money be paid to secure its <illegible> The answer to these two inquiries will make our duty clear. If slavery has no constitutional existence here, them more than ever is Congress bound to interfere, even with money; for the scandal must be peremptorily stopped, without any postponement of any consultation of the people on a point which is not within their power.
It may be said that, whether slavery be constitutional or not, nevertheless it exists, and therefore this inquiry is superfluous. True, it exists as a MONSTROUS FACT; but it is none the less important to consider its origin, that we may understand how, assuming the form of law, it was able to shelter itself beneath the protecting shield of the Constitution. And when we shall see clearly that it is without any such just protection, that the law which declares it is baseless, and that in all its pretensions it is essentially and utterly brutal and unnatural, we shall have less consideration for the slave tyranny, which, in satisfied pride, has thus far-not without compunction at different moments-ruled the national capital, reducing all things here-public opinion, social life, and even the administration of justice-to its own degraded standard, so as to fulfil the curious words of and old English poet;
"It serves, yet reignes as King;
It lives, yet's death; it pleases full of paine.
Monster! ah, who, who can thy beeing faigne?
Thou shapeless shape, live death, paine pleasing, servile reigne."
It is true, there can be no such thing as property in man: and here I begin to answer the questions propounded by the Senator from Kentucky, (Mr. Davis.) If this pretension is recognized anywhere, it is only another instance of the influence of custom, which is so powerful as to render the idolator insen-
<c02>
sible to the wickedness of idolatry, and the cannibal insensible to the brutality of cannibalism. To argue against such a pretension seems to be vain; for the pretension exists in open defiance of reason as well as humanity. It will not yield to argument, nor will it yield to persuasion. It must be encountered by authority. It was not the planters in the British islands nor in the French islands who organized emancipation, but the distant Governments across the sea, far removed form the local prejudices, who at last forbade the outrage. Had these planters been left to themselves, they would have clung to this pretension as men among us still cling to it. Of course, in making this declaration against the idea of property in man, I say nothing new. An honored predecessor of the Senator from Maryland, (Mr. KENNEDY,) whose fame as a statesman was eclipsed, perhaps, by his more remarkable fame as a lawyer-I mean William Pinkney, and it is among the recollections of my youth that I heard Chief Justice Marshall call him the undoubted head of the American bar-in a speech before the Maryland House of Delegates, spoke as statesman and lawyer when he said:-
"Sir by the eternal principles of natural justice, no master in the State has a right to hold his slaves in bondage for a single hour."
And Henry Brougham spoke not only as statesman and lawyer, but as orator also, when, in the British Parliament, he uttered these memorable words:-
"Tell me not of rights-talk not of the property of the planter in his slaves. I deny the right-I acknowledge not the property, The principles, the feelings of our common nature rise in rebellion against it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the sentence is the same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of laws that sanction such a claim. There is a law above all the enactments of human codes-the same throughout the world, the same in all time: it is the law written by the finger of God on the heart of man; and by that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they will reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy that man can hold property in man."
It has often been said that the finest sentence of the English language is that famous description of law with which Hooker closes the first book of his Ecclesiastical Polity; but I cannot doubt that this wonderful denunciation of an irrational and inhuman pretension will be remembered hereafter with higher praise: for it gathers into surpassing eloquence the growing and immitigable instincts of universal man. 
If I enter now into a brief analysis of slavery, and say familiar things, it is because such exposition is an essential link in the present inquiry. Looking carefully at slavery as it is, we shall find that it is not merely a single gross pretension, utterly inadmissible, but an aggregation of gross pretensions, all of them utterly inadmissible. They are five in number: first, the pretension of property in man; secondly, the denial of the marriage relation, for slaves are "coupled" only, and not married; thirdly, the denial of the paternal relation; fourthly, the denial of instruction; and fifthly, the appropriation of all the labor of the slave and its fruits by the master. Such are the five essential elements which we find in slavery; and this fivefold Barbarism, so utterly indefensible in every point, is maintained for the single purpose of compelling labor without wages. Of course, such a pretension is founded in force, and in nothing else. It begins with the kidnapper in Guinea or Congo; it traverses the sea with the pirate slave trader in his crowded hold; and it is continued here by virtue of laws which represent and embody that same brutal force which prevailed in the kidnapper and the pirate slave trader. Slavery, wherever it exists, is the triumph of force, sometimes represented in the strong arm of an individual, and sometimes in the strong arm of laws, but it is always the same in principle. Depending upon force, he is master who happens to be the stronger; so that if the slave were stronger, he would be the master, and the master would be slave. For according to reason and justice, every slave possesses the same right to enslave his master which his master possesses to enslave him. If this simple statement of unquestionable principles needed confirmation, it would be found in the solemn judgments of courts. Here, for instance, are the often-quoted words of Mr. Justice McLean, of the Supreme Court of the United States: "Slavery is admitted, by almost all who have examined the subject, to be founded in wrong, in oppression, in power against right." (Jones vs. Vanzandt, 2 McLean's Reports, 645.) And here are the words of the Supreme Court of North Carolina: "Such services (of a slave) can only be expected from one who has no will of his own, who surrenders his will in implicit obedience to that of another. Such obedience is the consequence only of uncontrolled authority over the body. There is nothing else which can operate to produce the effect." (Jarman vs. Patterson, 7 Munroe's Reports, 645.) And the Supreme Court of the United States, by the lips of Chief Justice Marshall, has openly declared in a famous case, read the other day by the Senator from Kentucky, (Mr. DAVIS,) that "slavery has its origin in force." Thus does it appear by most authoritative words that this five-headed Barbarism is derived not from reason, or nature, or justice, or goodness, but from force, and nothing else.
Of course, here in the national capital, which is under the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, the FORCE which now maintains this unnatural system is supplied by Congress. Without Congress, the "uncontrolled authority" of the master would cease. Without Congress, the master would not be master; nor would the slave be slave. Congress, then, in its existing legislation giving sanction to slavery, is the power behind, which, here in the national capital, enslaves our fellow-men. Therefore does it behoove Congress to act in order to relieve itself of this painful responsibility.
But this responsibility becomes more painful when it is considered that slavery exists at the national capital absolutely without support of any kind in the Constitution: and here again I answer the Senator from Kentucky, (Mr. DAVIS.) Nor is this all. Situated within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitution, where State rights cannot prevail, it exists in open defiance of most cherished principles. Let the Constitution be rightly interpreted by a just tribunal, and slavery must cease here at once. The decision of a court would be as potent as an act of Congress. And now, as I confidently assert, this conclusion which bears so directly on the present question, pardon me if I express the satisfaction with which I recur to an earlier period, shortly after I entered the Senate, when vindicating the principle now accepted, but then disowned, that freedom and not slavery is national, I insisted upon its application to slavery everywhere within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitution, and declared that Congress might as well undertake to make a king as to make a slave. That argument has never been answered; it cannot be answered. Nor can I forget that this same conclusion having such important bearings was maintained by Mr. Chase, while a member of this body, in that masterly effort where be unfolded the relations of the national Government
<c03> 
to slavery, and also by the late Horace Mann in a most eloquent and exhaustive speech in the other House, where no point is left untouched to show that slavery in the national capital is an outlaw Among all the speeches in the protracted discussion of slavery, I know none more worthy of profound study than those two, so different in character and yet so harmonious in result. If authority could add to the force of irresistible argument, it would be found in the well-known opinion of the late Mr. Justice McLean. in a published letter, declaring the constitutional impossibility of slavery in the national Territories, because, in the absence of express power under the Constitution to establish or recognize slavery, there was nothing for the breath of slavery, as respiration could not exist where there was no atmosphere. The learned judge was right, and his illustration was felicitous. Although applied at the time only to the Territories. it is of equal force everywhere within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress; for within such jurisdiction there is no atmosphere in which slavery can live.
If this question were less important, I should not occupy time with its discussion. But we may learn to detest slavery still more when we see how completely it has installed itself here in utter disregard of the Constitution, and compelled Congress ignobly to do its bidding. The bare existence of such a barbarous injustice in the metropolis of the Republic, which has gloriously declared that "all men are entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," is a mockery which may well excite surprise; but when we bring it to the touchstone of the Constitution, and consider the action of Congress, surprise is deepened into indignation. 
But how, sir, was this foothold secured? When and by what process did the national Government, solemnly pledged to freedom, undertake to maintain the slave master here in the exercise of that force of "unrestrained power" which swings the lash, fastens the chain, robs the wages, sells the child, and tears the wife from the husband? A brief inquiry will show historically how it occurred; and here again I shall answer the Senator from Kentucky. 
The sessions of the Revolutionary Congress were held, according to the exigencies of war or the convenience of members. at Philadelphia, Baltimore, Lancaster, York, Princeton, Annapolis, Trenton, and New York. An insult at Philadelphia, in 1783, from a band of mutineers, caused an adjournment to Princeton, which was followed by the consideration, from time to time, of the question of a permanent seat of government. On motion of Mr. Gerry, of Massachusetts, it was resolved, 7th of October, 1783, that buildings for the use of Congress be erected on or near the banks of the Delaware, or of the Potomac, near Georgetown, provided a suitable district can be procured on one of the rivers aforesaid for a Federal town; that the right of soil, and an exclusive or such other jurisdiction as Congress may direct. shall be vested in the United States. (Journals of Old Congress, vol. 4, 299.) Thus did the first proposition of a national capital within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress proceed from a representative of Massachusetts. The subject of slavery at that time had attracted little attention; but at a later day, in the Federal convention, this same honored representative showed the nature of the jurisdiction which he would claim, according to the following record in the Madison Papers, (p.1395.) "Mr. Gerry thought that we had nothing to do with the conduct of the States as to slaves, but ought to be careful not to give any sanction to it." In these words will be found our own cherished principle-freedom national, slavery sectional-expressed with homely and sententious simplicity. There is something grateful and most suggestive in the language employed, "we ought to be careful not to give any sanction to it." At a still later day, in the first Congress under the Constitution, the same representative, in the debate on slavery, gave further expression to this debate on slavery, gave further expression to this same conviction, when he said that "he highly commended the part the Society of Friends had taken: it was the cause of humanity they had interested themselves in." (Annals of Congress, vol. 2, p. 489.)
The proposition of Mr. Gerry, after undergoing various modifications, was repealed during the next year. But shortly afterwards, in 1784, three commissioners were appointed to lay out a district not exceeding three nor less than two miles square "on the banks of either side of the Delaware, not more than eight miles above or below the falls thereof, for a Federal town." At the Congress of the succeeding year, which met at New York, great but unsuccessful efforts were made to substitute the Potomac for the Delaware. The commissioners, though appointed, never entered upon their business. At last by the adoption of the Constitution, the subject was presented in a new form under the following clause: "Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over such district, not exceeding ten miles square, as may by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the Government of the United States." From the report of debates in the Convention. it does not appear that this clause occasioned discussion. But the discussion broke out in the earliest Congress. Virginia and Maryland each, by acts of their respective Legislatures, tendered the ten miles square, while similar propositions were made by citizens of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. After a long and animated discussion. Germantown, in Pennsylvania, was on the point of being adopted, when the subject was postponed to the next session. Havre-de-grace and Wright's Ferry, both on the Susquehanna; Baltimore, on the Patapsco; and Connogocheague, on the Potomac, divided opinions. In the course of the debate, Mr. Gerry, who had first proposed the Potomac, now opposed it. He pronounced it highly unreasonable to fix the seat of Government where nine States out of the thirteen would be to the northward, and he adverted to the sacrifice the northern States were ready to make in going as far south as Baltimore. An agreement seemed impossible, when the South suddenly achieved one of those political triumphs by which its predominance in the national Government was established. Pending at the same time was the great and trying proposition to assume the State debts, which being at first defeated through Southern votes, was at last carried by a "compromise," according to which the seat of Government was to be placed on the Potomac, thus settling the much-vexed question. Mr. Jefferson, in a familiar letter, thus sketches the "compromise":-
"It was observed that this pill [the assumption of the state debts] would be peculiarly bitter to the Southern States, and that some concomitant measure should be adopted to sweeten it a little to them. There had before been a proposition to fix the seat of Government either at Philadelphia or at Georgetown on the Potomac, and its was thought that by giving it to Philadelphia for ten years, and to Georgetown permanently afterwards, this might, as anodyne, calm in some degree the ferment which might be excited by the other measure alone. So two of the Potomac members (one with a revulsion of stomach almost convulsive) agreed to change their votes, and Hamilton undertook to carry the other point."-Memoirs and Correspondence of Jefferson, vol. 4, p. 449.
<c04>
Such was one of the earliest victories of slavery in the name of "compromise." It is difficult to estimate the evil consequences which it has entailed upon the country.
The act establishing the seat of Government having already passed the Senate, was adopted by the House of Representatives, after vehement debate and may calls of the yeas and nays, by a vote of 32 to 29, on the 16th of July. 1790. A district of territory, not exceeding ten miles square, on the river Potomac, was to be accepted for the permanent seat of the Government of the United States; "Provided, nevertheless, That the operation of the laws of the States within such district shall not be affected by this acceptance until the time fixed for the removal of Government thereto, and until Congress shall by law otherwise provide." Here, it will be seen, was a positive saving of the laws of the State for a limited period. so far as Congress had power to save them, within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitution; but there was also a complete recognition of the power of Congress to change these laws, and an implied promise to assume the "exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever" contemplated by the Constitution. 
In response to this act of Congress, Maryland by formal act ceded the territory which now constitutes the District of Columbia "in full and absolute right, as well of soil as of persons residing or to reside therein;" provided that the jurisdiction of Maryland "shall not cease or determine until Congress shall by law provide for the government thereof." Acts of Maryland, 1791, cap. 45, sec.2.
In pursuance of this contract between the United States of the one part and  Maryland of the other part, expressed in solemn statutes, the present seat of Government was occupied in December, 1800, when Congress proceeded to assume that complete jurisdiction which is conferred in the Constitution, by enacting on the 27th February, 1801, "that the laws of the State of Maryland, as they now exist, shall be and continue in force in that part of the said District which was ceded by that State to the United States, and by them accepted for the permanent seat of Government." Thus at one stroke all the existing laws of Maryland were adopted by Congress in gross, and from that time forward became the laws of the United States at the national capital. Although known historically as the laws of Maryland, they ceased at once to be the laws of that State, for they draw their vitality from Congress alone, under the Constitution of the United States, as completely as if every statute had been solemnly reenacted. And now we shall see precisely how slavery obtained its foothold here.
Among the statutes of Maryland thus solemnly reenacted in gross by Congress was the following, originally passed as early as 1715-in colonial days:
"All negroes and other slaves already imported or hereafter to be imported into this province, and all children now born or hereafter to be born of such negroes and slaves, shall be slaves during their natural lives." -Laws of Maryland, 1715, ch. 44, sec. 22.
But slavery cannot exist without barbarous laws in its support. Maryland, accordingly, in the spirit of slavery, added other provisions, also reenacted by Congress, in the same general bundle of which the following is an example:-
"No negro or mulatto slave, free negro or mulatto, born of a white woman, during his time of servitude, by law in this province, shall be admitted and received as good and valid evidence in law, in any matter or thing whatsoever depending before any court of record or before any magistrate within this province, wherein any Christian white person is concerned." -Laws of Maryland, 1717, ch. 13, sec. 2.
At a later day the following kindred provision was added in season to be reenacted by Congress in the same code:-
"No slave manumitted agreeably to the laws of this State shall be entitled to give evidence against any white person, or shall be received as competent evidence to manumit any slave petitioning for his freedom." -Laws of Maryland, 1796, ch. 67, sec. 5.
And such is the law for slavery at the national capital.
It will be observed that the original statute, which undertakes to create slavery in Maryland, does not attaint the blood beyond two generations. It is confined to "all negroes and other slaves," and their "children," "during their natural lives." These are slaves, but none others, unless a familiar rule of interpretation is reversed, and such words are extended rather than restrained. And yet it is by virtue of this colonial statute, with all its ancillary barbarism, adopted by Congress, that slaves are still held at the national capital. It is true that at the time of its adoption, there were few slaves here to whom it was applicable. For ten years previous, the present area of Washington, according to received tradition, had contained hardly five hundred inhabitants, all told, and these were for the most part laborers distributed in houses merely for their temporary accommodation. But all these musty, antediluvian, wicked statutes, of which you have seen a specimen, took their place at once in the national legislation, and under their supposed authority slaves multiplied, and slavery became a national institution. And it now continues only by virtue of this slave code borrowed from early colonial days, which, though flagrantly inconsistent with the Constitution, has never yet been repudiated by court or Congress. 
I have said that this slave code, even assuming it applicable to slaves beyond the "natural lives" of two generations, is flagrantly inconsistent with the Constitution. On this point the argument is so plain that it may be presented like a diagram. 
Under the Constitution, Congress has "exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever" at the national capital. The cession by Maryland was without condition, and the acceptance by Congress was also without condition, so that the territory fell at once within this exclusive jurisdiction. But Congress can exercise no power except in conformity with the Constitution. Its exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever is controlled and limited by the Constitution, out of which it is derived. Now, looking at the Constitution, we shall find, that there are no words authorizing Congress to establish or recognize slavery; and, secondly, that there are positive words which prohibit Congress from the exercise of any such power. The argument, therefore, is twofold: first, from the absence of authority, and, secondly, from positive prohibition. 
Of course, a barbarism like slavery, having its origin in force, and nothing else, can have no legal or constitutional support except from positive sanction. It can spring from no doubtful phrase. It must be declared by unambiguous words incapable of a double sense. In asserting this principle, I simply follow Lord Mansfield, who, in the memorable case of Sommersett, said: "The state of slavery is of such a nature that it is incapable of being introduced on any reasons, moral or political, but only by positive law. It is so odious that nothing can be suffered to support it but POSITIVE LAW." (Howell's State Trials, vol. 20, p. 82.) This principle has been adopted by tribunals even in slaveholding States.(See Horey vs. Decker, Walker's R., 42;
<c05>
Rankin vs. Lydier, 2 Marshall, 470.) But I do not stop to dwell on these authorities. Even the language, "exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever." cannot be made to sanction slavery. It wants those positive words, leaving nothing to implication, which are obviously required, especially when we consider the professed object of the Constitution, as declared in its preamble, "to establish justice and secure the blessings of liberty." There is no power in the Constitution to make a king, or, thank God, to make a slave, and the absence of all such power is hardly more clear in one case than in the other. The word king nowhere occurs in the Constitution, nor does the word slave. But if there be no such power, then all acts of Congress sustaining slavery at the national capital must be unconstitutional and void. The stream cannot rise higher than the fountain head; nay more, nothing can come out of nothing; and if there be nothing in the Constitution authorizing Congress to make a slave, there can be nothing valid in any subordinate legislation. It is a pretension which has thus far prevailed simply because slavery predominated over Congress and courts.
To all who insist that Congress may sustain slavery in the national capital, I put the question, where in the Constitution is the power found? If you cannot show where, do not assert the power. So hideons an effrontery must be authorized in unmistakable words. But where are the words? In what article, clause, or line? They cannot be found. Do not insult human nature by pretending that its most cherished rights can be sacrificed without solemn authority. Remember that every presumption and every leaning must be in favor of freedom and against slavery. Do not forget that no nice interpretation, no strained construction, no fancied deduction, can suffice to sanction the enslavement of our fellow-men. And do not degrade the Constitution by foisting into its blameless text the idea of property in man. It is not there; and if you think you see it there, it is simply because you make the Constitution a reflection of yourself.
A single illustration will show the absurdity of this pretension. If under the clause which gives to Congress "exclusive legislation" at the national capital, slavery may be established, if under these words Congress in empowered to create slaves instead of citizens, then, under the same words, it may do the same thing in "the forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings" belonging to the United States, wherever situated, for these are all placed within the same "exclusive legislation." The extensive navy yard at Charlestown, in the very shadow of Bunker Hill, may be filled with slaves, whose enforced toil shall take the place of that cheerful, well-paid labor whose busy hum is the best music of the place. Such an act, however consistent with slaveholding tyranny, would not be regarded as constitutional near Bunker Hill.
But if there were any doubt on this point, if the absence of all authority were not perfectly clear, the prohibitions of the constitution would settle the question. It is true that Congress has "exclusive legislation" within the District; but the prohibitions to grant titles of nobility, to pass ex post facto laws, to pass bills of attainder, and to establish religion, are unquestionable limitations of this power. There is also another limitation, which is equally unquestionable. It is found in an amendment proposed by the First Congress, on the recommendation of several States, as follows:-
"No PERSON shall be deprived of life, LIBERTY, or property, without due process of law."
This prohibition, according to the supreme Court, is obligatory on Congress. (Barron vs. Baltimore. 7 Peters's Rep., 243.) It is also applicable to all who are claimed as slaves; for, in the eye of the Constitution, every human being within its sphere, whether Caucasian, Indian, or African, from the President to the slave, is a person. Of this there can be no question. But a remarkable incident of history confirms this conclusion. As originally recommended by North Carolina and Virginia, this proposition was restrained to the freeman. Its language was:-
"No freeman ought to be deprived of his life, liberty, or property, but by the law of the land."
Of course, if the word freeman had been adopted, this clause would have been restrained in its effective power. But in deliberately rejecting this limitation, the authors of the amendment recorded their purpose that no person, within the national jurisdiction, of whatever character, shall be deprived of liberty without due process of law. The latter words are borrowed from Magna Charta, and they mean without due presentment, indictment, or other judicial proceedings. But Congress, in undertaking to support slavery at the national capital, has enacted that persons may be deprived of liberty there without any presentment, indictment, or other judicial proceedings. Therefore, every person now detained as a slave in the national capital is detained in violation of the Constitution. Not only is his liberty taken without due process of law, but since he is tyrannically despoiled of all the fruits of his industry, his property also is taken without due process of law. You talk sometimes of guarantees of the Constitution. Here is an unmistakable guarantee, and I hold you to it. 
Bringing the argument together, the conclusion may be briefly stated. The five-headed barbarism of slavery, beginning in violence, can have no legal or constitutional existence, unless throughout positive words expressly authorizing it. As no such positive words can be found in the Constitution, all legislation by Congress supporting slavery must be unconstitutional and void, while it is made still further impossible by positive words of prohibition guarding the liberty of every person within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress.
A court properly inspired, and ready to assume that just responsibility which dignifies judicial tribunals, would at once declare slavery impossible at the national capital, and set every slave free-as Lord Mansfield declared slavery impossible in England, and set every slave free. The two cases are parallel; but, alas! the court is wanting here. The legality of slavery in England during the last century was affirmed by the ablest lawyers in professional opinions; it was also affirmed on the bench. England was a slave State, and even its newspapers were disfigured with advertisements for the sale of human beings; while the merchants London, backed by great names in the law, sustained the outrage. Then appeared Granville Sharp, the philanthropist, who, pained by the sight of slavery, and especially shocked by the brutality of a slave hunt in the streets of London, was aroused to question its constitutionality in England. For two years he devoted himself to an anxious study of the British constitution in all its multifarious records. His conclusion is expressed in these precise words: "Neither the word slaves or anything that can justify the enslaving of others can be found there, God be praised!" (Hoare's Life of Sharp, vol. 1, p. 58, chap.1.)Thus encouraged, he persevered. By his generous exertions the negro Sommersett, claimed as a slave by a Virginia gentleman then in London,
<c06>
was defended, and the court of King's Bench compelled to that immortal judgment by which slavery was forever expelled from England, and the early boast of the British constitution became a practical verity. More than fifteen thousand persons, held as slaves in 1772 on British soul-four times as many as are now found in the national capital-became instantly free, without price or ransom.
But the good work which courts have thus far declined remains to be done by Congress. Slavery, which is a barbarous anomaly and an anachronism here, must be made to disappear from the national capital; if not in one, way, then in another. A judgment of court would be simply on the question of constitutional right, without regard to policy. But there is no consideration of right or of policy-from the loftiest principle to the humblest expediency-which may not properly enter into the conclusion of Congress. The former would be the triumph of the magistrate; the latter of the statesman. Let it come from magistrate or from statesman, it will constitute an epoch in history. 
But the question is asked, shall we vote money for this purpose? I cannot hesitate. And here there are two considerations, which with me are prevailing. First, the relation of master and slave at the national capital has from the beginning been established and maintained by Congress, everywhere in sight, and even directly under its own eyes. The master held the slave; but Congress, with strong arm, stood behind the master, looking on and sustaining him. Not a dollar of wages has been taken, not a child has been stolen, not a wife has been torn from her husband, without the hand of Congress. If not a partnership, there was a complicity on the part of Congress, through which the whole country has become responsible for the manifold wrong. Though always protesting against its continuance, and laboring earnestly for its removal, yet gladly do I now accept my share of the promised burden. And, secondly, even if we are not all involved in the manifold wrong, nothing is clearer than that the mode proposed is the gentlest, quietest, and surest in which the beneficent change can be accomplished. It is therefore, the most practical. It recognizes slavery as an existing fact, and provides for its removal. And when I think of the unquestionable good which we seek; of all its advantages and glories; of the national capital redeemed; of the national character elevated; and of a magnanimous example which can never die; and when I think, still further, that, according to a rule alike of jurisprudence and morals, liberty is priceless, I cannot hesitate at any appropriation within our means by which all these things of incalculable value can be promptly secured.
As I find no reason of policy adverse to such appropriation, so do I find no objection to it in the Constitution. I am aware that it is sometimes asked where in the Constitution is the power to make such appropriation? But nothing can be clearer than that under the words conferring "exclusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever," Congress may create freemen, although it may not create slaves. And, of course, it may exercise all the powers necessary to this end, whether by a simple act of emancipation or a vote of money. If there could be any doubt on this point, it would be removed when we reflect that the abolition of slavery, with all the natural incidents of such an act, has been constantly recognized as within the sphere of legislation. It was so regarded by Washington, who in a generous letter to La Fayette, dated May 10, 1786, said: "It certainly might and assuredly ought to be effected, and that, too, by legislative authority." It is through legislative authority that slavery has been abolished in State after State of our Union, and also in foreign countries. And I have yet to learn that the power of Congress for this purpose at this national capital is less complete than that of any other legislative body within its own jurisdiction. 
But while not doubting the power of Congress in any of its incidents, I prefer to consider the money which we pay as in the nature o ransom rather than compensation, so that freedom shall be acquired rather than purchased; and I place it at once under the sanction of that commanding charity proclaimed by prophets and enjoined by apostles, which all history recognizes, and which the Constitution cannot impair. From time immemorial every Government has undertaken to ransom its subjects from captivity, and sometimes a whole people has felt its resources well bestowed in the ransom of its prince. Religion and humanity have both concurred in this duty, as more than usually sacred. "The ransom of captives is a great and excelling office of justice," exclaims one of the early fathers. And the pious St. Ambrose insisted upon breaking up even the sacred vessels of the Church, saying, "the ornament of the sacraments is the redemption of the captives." The power thus commended has been exercised by the United States under important circumstances with the cooperation of the best names of our history, so as to be beyond question. The instance may not be familiar, but it is decisive, while from beginning to end it is full of instruction. 
Who has not heard of the Barbary States, and of pretension put forth by these Powers to enslave white Christians? Algiers was the chief seat of this enormity, which, through the insensibility or incapacity of Christian States, was allowed to continue for generations. Good men and great men were degraded to be captives. while many, neglected by fortune, perished in barbarous slavery. Even in our colonial days there were cases of Americans whose fate, while in the hands of these slave masters, excited general sympathy. It was only by ransom that their freedom was obtained. Perhaps no condition was more calculated to arouse indignant rage. And yet the disposition so common among us to paliate slavery in Washington has shown itself with regard to slavery in Algiers; and, indeed, the same arguments to soften public opinion have been employed in the two instances. The parallel is so complete that I shall require all your trust to believe that what I read is not an apology for slavery here. Thus a member of a diplomatic mission from England, who visited Barbary in 1784, speaks of the slavery which he saw: "It is very slightly indicted, and as to any labor undergone, it does not deserve the name." (Keatinge's Travels, p. 250.) And another earlier traveller, after describing the comfortable condition of the white slaves, adds, in words to which we are accustomed: "I am sure we saw several captives who live much better in Barbary than ever they did in their own country. Whatever money in charity was sent them by their friends in Europe was their own. And yet this is called insupportable slavery among Turks and Moors. But we found this, as well as many other things in this country, strangely misrepresented." (Braithwaite's Revolutions in Morocco, p. 353.) And a more recent French writer asserts, with a vehemence to which we are habituated from the partisans of slavery in our country, that the white slaves at Algiers were not exposed to the miseries which they represented; that they were well clad and well fed, much better than the free Christians there; that special care was bestowed upon those who became ill; and that some were allowed such privileges as to become indifferent to freedom, and even to prefer Algiers to their own
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all
the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When tow hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
THE LIBERATOR
APRIL 18.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
country. (Histoire d'Alger, Paris, 1830, cap. 27.) Believe me, sir, in stating these things, I simply follow history; and I refer to the volume and page for chapter of the authorities which I quote, that the careful inquirer may see that they relate to slavery abroad, and not to slavery at home. If I continue to unfold this strange, eventful story, it will be in order to exhibit the direct and constant intervention of Congress for the ransom of slaves; but the story itself is an argument against slavery, pertinent to the present occasion, which I am not unwilling to adopt.
Scarcely was our national independence established when we were aroused to fresh efforts for the protection of our enslaved citizens. Within three years, no less than ten American vessels were seized. At one time, an apprehension prevailed that Dr. Franklin, on his way home from France, had been captured. "We are waiting," said one of his French correspondents, "with the greatest impatience to hear from you. The newspapers have given us anxiety on your account, for some of them insist that you have been taken by the Algerines, while others pretend that you are at Morocco, enduring your slavery with all the patience of a philosopher." But though this apprehension happily proved to be without foundation, it soon became known that there were other Americans, less distinguished, but entitled to all the privileges of new-born citizenship, who were suffering in cruel captivity. The sentiments of the people were at once enlisted in their behalf. The newspapers pleaded, while the slave corsairs were denounced sometimes as "infernal crews," and sometimes as "human harpies." But it was through the stories of sufferings told by those who had succeeded in escaping from bondage, that the people were most aroused. As these fugitive slaves touched our shores, they were welcomed with outspoken sympathy. The glimpses opened through them into the dread regions of slavery gave a harrowing reality to all that conjecture or imagination had pictured. It was, indeed, true that our own white brethren, entitled like ourselves to all the rights of ;manhood, were degraded in unquestioning obedience to an arbitrary task-master; sold at the auction block; worked like beasts of the field, and galled by the manacle and lash. As our power seemed yet inadequate to compel their liberation, it was attempted by ransom.
Informal agencies at Algiers were organized under the direction of our minister at Paris, and the famous Society of Redemption, established in the thirteenth century, under the sanction of Pope Innocent III. offered their aid. Our agents were blandly entertained by the chief slave-dealer, the Dey, who informed them that he was familiar with the exploits of Washington; and as he never expected to set eyes on this hero of freedom, expressed a hope that, through Congress, he might receive a full-length portrait of him, to be displayed in the palace at Algiers. But amidst such professions, the Dey still clung to his American slaves, holding them at prices beyond the means of the agents, who were not authorized to go beyond $200 a head, being somewhat less than is proposed in that present bill; and I beg to call the attention of the Senator from Maine [Mr. MORRILL] to the parallel.
Their redemption engaged the attention of our Government early after the adoption of the Constitution. It was first brought before Congress by a petition, of which we find the following record:-
"Friday, May 14, 1790-A petition from sundry citizens of the United States, captured by the Algerines, and now in slavery there, was presented, praying the interposition of Congress in their behalf. Referred to the Secretary of State."-Annals of Congress, First Congress, p. 1572.
An interesting report on the situation of these captives, dated Decembers 28, 1790, was made to the President by the Secretary of State, in which he sets forth the efforts of Government for their redemption at such prices as would not "raise the market," it being regarded as important that in "the first instance of redemption by the United States, our price should be fixed at the lowest point." I quote the precise words of this document, which will be found in the state Papers of the country, (vol. 1, p. 101,) and I call special attention to them as applicable to the present moment. It appears that at this time the numbers of white slaves at Algiers, belonging to all countries, was nearly identical with number of black slaves at Washington whose redemption is now proposed. The report of Mr. Jefferson was laid before Congress, with the following brief message from the President (State Papers, vol. 1, p. 100):-
UNITED STATES, December 30, 1790.
Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:
I lay before you a report of the Secretary of State on the subject of the citizens of the United States in captivity at Algiers, that you may provide on their behalf what to you shall seem most expedient.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
It does not appear that there was any question in any quarter with regard to the power of Congress. The recommendation of the President was broad. It was to provide on behalf of the slaves what should seem most expedient.
Another report from the Secretary of State, entitled the Mediterranean Trade, and communicated to Congress December 30, 1790, related chiefly to the same matter. In this document are the estimates of different persons with regard to the price at which our citizens might be ransomed and peace be purchased. One person, who had resided very long at Algiers, put the price at sixty or seventy thousand pounds sterling. This was the lowest estimate. But another authority put it at $570,000; and still another said that it could not be less than $1,000,000, which is the sum proposed in the present bill.
Mr. Jefferson, after considering the subject at some length, concludes as follows:-
"Upon the whole, it rests with Congress to decide between war, tribute, and ransom. If war, they will consider how far our own resources shall be called forth. If tribute or ransom, it will rest with them to limit and provide the amount, and with the Executive, observing the same constitutional forms, to make arrangements for employing it to the best advantage." -State Papers, vol. 1, p. 105.
Among the papers accompanying the report is a letter from Mr. Adams, while he was minister at London, from which I take the following words:-
"It may be reasonably concluded that this great affair cannot be finished for much less than 200,000."
In pursuance of these communication, the Senate proceeded to tender its advice to the President, in the following resolution:-
"Resolved, That the Senate advise and consent that the President of the United States take such measures as he may think necessary for the redemption of the citizens of the United States now in captivity at Algiers: Provided, The expense shall not exceed $40,000; and also that measures be taken to confirm, the treaty now existing between the United States and the Emperor of Morocco.:-State Papers, vol. 1, p. 128.
By a subsequent message, dated February 22, 1791, the President said:-
"I will proceed to take measures for the ransom of our citizens in captivity in Algiers, in conformity with your resolution of advice of the 1st inst., so soon as the moneys necessary shall be appropriated by the Legislature, and shall be in readiness."-Ibid.
Still later, the same subject was presented by the following inquiry proposed to the Senate by President Washington, under date of May 8, 1792:-
"If the President of the United States should conclude a convention or treaty with the Government of Algiers, for the ransom of the thirteen Americans in captivity there, for sum not exceeding $40,000, all expenses included, will the Senate approve the same? Or is there any, and what, greater or lesser sum which they would fix as the limit beyond which they would not approve the ransom?"
The Senate promptly replied by a resolution declaring it would approve such treaty of ransom. (State Papers, vol. 1, p. 136.) And Congress, by the act of May 8, 1792, appropriated a sum of $50,000 for this purpose. Commodore Paul Jones was intrusted with the mission to Algiers, charged with the double duty of making peace with this Power, and of securing the redemption of our citizens. In his letter of instructions, dated June 1, 1792, Mr. Jefferson expresses himself as follows:-
"It has been a fixed principle with Congress to establish the rate of ransom of American captives with the Barbary States at as low a point as possible, that it may not be the interest of those State to go in quest of our citizens in preference to those of other countries. Had it not been for the danger it would have brought on the residue of our seamen, by ex citizens now in Algiers would have been long ago redeemed, without regard to price. The mere money for their particular redemption neither has been nor is an object with anybody here."-State Papers, vol. 1, p. 292.
<c02>
In the same instructions, Mr. Jefferson says:-
"As soon as the ransom is completed, you will be pleased to have the captives well clothed and sent home at the expense of the United States, with as much economy as will consist with their reasonable comfort."-Ibid.
Commodore Paul Jones-called admiral in the instructions-died without entering upon the performance of these duties, which were afterwards undertaken by Colonel Humphreys, our minister at Lisbon, who was honored especially with the friendship of Washington, as an accomplished officer of his staff during the Revolution. But the terms exacted by the Dey were such as to render the mission unsuccessful.
Mean while, other Americans were seized by the Algerines, who are described as "employed as captive slaves on the most laborious work, in a distressed and naked situation" (State Papers, vol. p.418) One of their number, in a letter to the President, dated at Algiers, November 5, 1793, says:-
"Humanity towards the unfortunate American captives, I presume, will induce your excellency to cooperate with Congress to adopt some speedy and extricate the American captives from their present distresses."-Ibid.
At this time there were one hundred and nineteen American slaves in Algiers, who united in a petition to Congress, dated December, 1793, in which they say:-
"Your petitioners are at present captives in this city of bondage, employed daily in the most laborious work, without any respect to persons. They pray that you will take their unfortunate situation into consideration, and adopt such measures as will restore the American captives to this country, their friends, families, and connections."-Ibid, p.421.
The country was now aroused. A general contribution was proposed. People of all classed vied in generous efforts. Newspapers entered with increased activity into the work. At public celebrations the toasts "happiness for all," and "universal liberty," were proposed, partly in sympathy with our wretched white fellow countrymen on bonds. On the occasion, at a patriotic celebration in New Hampshire, they were remembered in the following toast: "Our brethren in slavery at Algiers. May the measures adopted for their redemption be successful, and may they live to rejoice with their friends in the blessings of liberty." The clergy too were enlisted. A fervid appeal by the captives themselves was addressed to the ministers of the Gospel throughout the United States, asking them to set apart a special Sunday for sermons in behalf of their enslaved brethren. Literature, too, added her influence, not only in essays, but in a work, which, though now forgotten, was among the earliest of the literary productions of our country, reprinted in London at a time when few American books were known abroad. I refer to the story of the Algerine Captive, which though published anonymously-like other similar works at a later day- is known to have been written by Royall Tyler, afterwards Chief Justice of Vermont. Slavery in Algiers is here depicted in the sufferings of a single captive-as slavery in the United States has been since depicted in the sufferings of Uncle States has been since depicted in the suffering of Uncle Tom; but the influence of the early story was hardly less strong against African slavery than against white slavery. "Grant me," says the Algerine captive-who had been a surgeon on board a ship in the African slave trade-from the depths of his own sorrows, "once more to taste the freedom of my native country, and every moment of my life shall be dedicated to preaching against this detestable commerce. I will fly to our fellow-citizens of the Southern States; I will on my knees conjure them, in the name of humanity, to abolish a traffic which causes it to bleed in every pore. If they are deaf to the pleading of nature, I will conjure them, for the sake of consistency, to cease to deprive their fellow-creatures of freedom, which their writers, their orators, Representatives, Senators, and even their constitutions of government have declared to be the unalienable birthright of emancipation pleaded at that early day.
Colonel Humphreys from his distant mission at Lisbon, while yet unable to reach Algiers, joined in this appeal by a letter to the American people, dated July 11, 1794. Taking advantage of the general interest in lotteries, and particularly of the custom, not then condemned, of resorting to these as a mode of obtaining money for literary of benevolent purposes, by suggested a grand lottery, sanctioned by the United States, or particular lotteries in the individual States, in order to obtain the means required for the ransom of our countrymen. He then asks:-
"Is there within the limits of these United States of individual who will not cheerfully contribute in proportion to his means to carry it into effect? By the peculiar blessing of freedom which you enjoy, by the disinterested sacrifices you made for its attainment, by the patriotic blood of those martyrs of liberty who died to secure your independence, and by all the tender ties of nature, let me conjure you once more to snatch your unfortunate countrymen from fetters, dungeons, and death."
Meanwhile, the Government was energetic through all its agents, at home and abroad; nor was any question raised with regard to its constitutional powers. In the animated debate which ensued in the House of Representatives an honorable member said, "If bribery would not do, he should certainly vote for equipping a fleet." (Annals of Congress, Third Congress, p. 434.) At last, by act of Congress of the 20th of March, 1794, $1,000,000 was appropriated for this purpose, being the identical sum now proposed for a similar purpose of redemption; but it was somewhat masked under the language " to defray any expenses which may be incurred in relation to the intercourse between the United States and foreign nations." (Statutes at Large, vol. 1,p.345.) On the same day, by another act, the President was authorized, "to borrow on the credit of the United States, if in his opinion the Public service shall require it, a sum not exceeding $1,000,000." The object was distinctly avowed n the instructions of Mr. Jefferson, dated the 28th March, of the same year, "for concluding a treaty of peace and liberating our citizens from captivity," and in other instructions, dated the 19th July, of the same year, in which the wishes of the President are thus conveyed:-
"Ransom and peace are to go hand in hand, if practicable; but if peace cannot be obtained, a ransom is to be effected without delay," "restricting yourself, of the head of ransom, within the limit of $3,000 per man."-State Papers, vol. 1, p.529.
The negotiation was at last consummated, and the first tidings of its success were announced to Congress by President Washington in his message of 8th December, 1795, as follows:-
"With peculiar satisfaction I add, that information has been received from an agent deputed on our part of Algiers, importing that the terms of a treaty with the Dey and Regency of the country had been adjusted in such a manner as to authorize the expectation of a speedy peace, and the restoration of our unfortunate fellow-citizens from a grievous captivity."-State Papers, vol. 1, p. 28.
The treaty for this purpose was signed at Algiers 5th September, 1795. It was a sacrifice of pride, if not of honor, to the necessity of the occasion. Among its stipulations was once even for an annual tribute from the United States to the barbarous slave power. But amidst all its unquestionable humiliation, it was a treaty of emancipation; nor did our people consider nicely the terms on which such a good was secured. It is recorded that a thrill of joy went through the land on the annunciation that a vessel had left Algiers, having on board the Americans who had been captives there. The largess of money and even the indignity of tribute were forgotten in gratulations on their new-found happiness. Washington in his message to congress of December 7, 1796, thus solemnly dwelt on their emancipation:-
"After many delays and disappointments arising out of the European war, the final arrangements for fulfilling the engagements to the Dey and Regency of Algiers will, in all present appearance, be crowned with success; but under great, though inevitable, disadvantages in the pecuniary transactions occasioned by that war, which will render a further provision necessary. The actual liberation of all our citizens who were prisoners at Algiers, while it gratifies every feeling heart, is itself an earnest of a satisfactory termination of the whole negotiation."-State Papers, vol. 1, p.30.
Other treaties were made with Tripoli and with Morocco, and more money was paid for the same object, until at last, in 1801, the slaveholding pretensions of Tripoli compelled a resort to arms. It appears by a document preserved in the State Papers of our country, that from 1796-in the space of five years-appropriations had been made for the liberation of our people, reaching to a sum total of up-
<c03>
wards of two millions of dollars.(State Papers, vol. 2, p.372.) To all who now question the power of Congress or the policy of exercising it, I commend this account, in its various items, given with a1l possible minuteness. If we consider the population and the resources of the country at the time, as compared with our present gigantic means, the amount will not be considered inconsiderable.
The pretensions of Tripoli aroused Colonel Humphreys, the former companion of Washington, who was now at home in retirement. In an address to the public, he called again for united action, saying:-
"Americans of the United States, your fellow-citizens are in fetters! Can there he but one feeling? Where are the gallant remains of the race who fought for freedom? Where the glorious heirs of their patriotism? Will there never be a truce to political parties? Or must it forever be the fate of the free States, that the soft voice of union should be drowned in the hoarse clamors of discord? No! Let every friend of blessed humanity and sacred freedom entertain a better hope and confidence."Miscellaneous Works of David Humphreys, p. 75.
Then commenced those early deeds by which our arms became known in Europethe best achievement of Decatur, and the romantic expedition of Eaton. Three several times Tripoli was attacked; and yet, after successes sometimes mentioned with pride, our country consented by solemn treaty to pay $60,000 for the freedom of two hundred American slaves, and thus again by money obtained emancipation. But Algiers was governed by slavery as a ruling passion. Again it seized our people; but even the contest in which we were engaged with Great Britain could not prevent an outbreak of indignant sympathy with those who were in bonds. A naval force, which was promptly dispatched to the Mediterranean, secured the freedom of the American slaves without ransom, and stipulated further that hereafter no Americans should be made slaves, and that "any Christians whatever, captives in Algiers," making their escape and taking refuge on board an American ship of war, should be safe from all requisition or reclamation. Decatur, on this occasion, showed character as well as courage. The freedmen of his arms were welcomed on board his ship with impatient triumph. Thus, not by money, but by war was emancipation this time secured.
At a later day, Great Britain, weary of tribute and ransom, directed her naval power against the Barbary States. Tunis and Tripoli each promised abolition; but Algiers sullenly refused, until compelled by irresistible force. Before night on the 27th August, 1816, the fleet fired, besides shells and rockets, one hundred and eighteen tons of powder and fifty thousand shot, weighing more than five hundred tons. Amidst the crumbling ruins of wall and citadel the cruel slave power was humbled, and consented, by solemn stipulation, to the surrender of all the slaves in Algiers, and to the abolition of white slavery forever. This great event was announced by the victorious admiral in a dispatch to his Government, where he uses words of gratulation worthy of the occasion:
"In all the vicissitudes of a long life of public service, no circumstance has ever produced on my mind such impressions of gratitude as the event of yesterday. To have been one of the humble instruments, in the hands of Divine Providence, of bringing to reason a ferocious Government, and destroying forever the insufferable and horrid system of Christian slavery, can never cease to be a source of delight and heartfelt comfort to every individual happy enough to be employed in it."Osler's Life of Lord Exmouth, p. 432.
And thus ended white slavery in the Barbary Slates. A single brief effort of war put an instant close to this wicked pretension, if, in looking back upon its history, we find much to humble our prideif we are disposed to mourn that our Government stooped to ransom those who were justly free without price, yet we cannot fail to gather instruction from this great precedent. Slavery is the same in its essential character, wherever it exists, except, perhaps, that it his received some new harshness here among us. There is no argument against its validity at Algiers which is not equally strong against its validity at Washington. In both cases, it is unjust force organized into-law. But in Algiers it is not known that the law was unconstitutional, as it clearly is here in Washington. In the early case, slavery was regarded by our fathers only as an existing FACT; and it is only as an existing FACT that it can be now regarded by us in the present case; nor is there any power of Congress, which was generously exerted for those distant captives which may not be invoked for the captives in our own streets.
Mr. President, if in this important discussion, which seems to open the door of the future, I have confined myself to two simple inquiries, it is because practically they exhaust the whole subject. If slavery be unconstitutional in the national capital, and if it be a Christian duty, sustained by constitutional examples, to ransom slaves, then your swift desires cannot hesitate to adopt the present bill. It is needless to enter upon other questions, important perhaps, but irrelevant. It is needless also to consider the bugbears which Senators have introduced, for all must see that they are bugbears.
If I have seemed to dwell on details, it is because they furnished at each stage instruction and support; if I have occupied time on a curious passage of history, it is because it is more apt even than curious, while it sometimes held the mirror up to our own wickedness, and sometimes even seemed to cry out, " Thou art the man." Of course, I scorn to argue the obvious truth that the slaves here are as much entitled to freedom as the white slaves that enlisted the early energies of our Government. They are men by the grace of God, and this is enough. There is no principle of the Constitution, and no rule of justice, which is not as strong for one as for the other. In consenting to the ransom proposed, you will recognize their manhood, and if authority be needed, you will find it in the example of Washington, who did not hesitate to employ a golden key to open the house of bondage.
Let this bill pass, and the first practical triumph of freedom, for which good men have longed, dying without the sightfor which a whole generation has petitioned, and for which a whole generation has petitioned, and for which orators and statesmen have pleadedwill at last be accomplished. Slavery will be banished from the national capital. This metropolis, which bears a venerated name, will be purified; its evil spirit will be cast out: its shame will be removed; its society will be refined; its courts will be made better; its revolting ordinances will be swept away; and even its loyalty will be secured. If not moved by justice to the slave, then he willing to act for your own good and in self-defence. If you hesitate to pass this bill for the blacks, then pass it for the whites. Nothing is clearer than that the degradation of slavery affects the master as much as the slave; while recent events testify that wherever slavery exists, there treason lurks, if it does not flaunt. From the beginning of this rebellion, slavery has been constantly manifest in the conduct of the masters, and even here in the national capital, it has been the traitorous power which has encouraged and strengthened the enemy. This power must be suppressed at every cost, and if its suppression here endangers slavery elsewhere, there will be a new motive for determined action.
Amidst all present solicitudes, the future cannot be doubtful. At the national capital, slavery will give way to freedom; but the good work will not stop here. It must proceed. What God and nature decree, rebellion cannot arrest. And as the whole wide-spread tyranny begins to tumble, then, above the din of battle, sounding from the sea and echoing along the land, above even the exultations of victory on well-fought fields, will ascend voices of gladness and benediction, swelling from generous hearts wherever civilization bears sway, to commemorate a sacred triumph, trophies instead of tattered banners, will be ransomed slaves.
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. The Senate bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia has passed the House of Representatives by a two-thirds vote, and now only awaits the approval and signature of the President to become operative. Some doubts have been expressed in regard to the probable endorsement of this bill by Mr. Lincoln, but those best informed are confident that the President will sign the bill. The whole country has cause for congratulation in the passage of this bill by Congress. The stigma of holding slaves beneath the shadow of the Capitol has Long enough rested upon the Nation, and has furnished our foreign enemies a most powerful weapon to use against us in this present rebellion. It is time that the Seat of Government rested upon free soil, territory unpolluted by slavery. We are glad that this stain upon our National escutcheon is shortly to be wiped out and obliterated. Boston Herald.
<c04>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1862.
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on Tuesday, May 6, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of speakers for these meetings will be seasonably announced.
The Society will meet, for business purposes only, in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, at 3 1/2 P. M. on Tuesday, and 10 A. M. on Wednesday.
The object of this Society is stillas at its formationthe immediate and total abolition of slavery wherever existing on the American soil, because of its inherent sinfulness, immorality, oppression and barbarity, and its utter repugnance to all the precepts of the Gospel, and all the principles of genuine Democracy; its measures are still the samepeaceful, moral, rational, legal, constitutional; its instrumentalities are still the samethe pen, the press, the lecturing field, tracts and other publications, etc., etc., disseminating light and knowledge in regard to the tyrannical power claimed, possessed and exercised by slaveholders, the actual condition of their miserable victims, and the guilty complicity of the people of the North, religiously, politically, governmentally, with those who "trade in slaves and the souls of men;" its spirit is still the samelong-suffering, patient, hopeful, impartial, benevolent alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, zealously intent on "promoting the general welfare and securing the blessings of liberty" universally, "knowing no East, no West, no North, no South," but embracing the whole country in its charitable and humane concern, and conflicting with nothing just, honest, noble, and Christian in sentiment, practice or tendency.
In regard to the struggle now going on between the Government and the Rebel States, this Society is unequivocally with the Government, because it has done no wrong to those States, nor furnished any justification for such a treasonable procedure on their part. Yet the Society sees in this awful conflict the fulfilment of the prophetic declaration" Ye have not proclaimed liberty every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; therefore I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine"; and it trusts that, in the spirit of sincere repentance and deep humiliation, acknowledging the righteous retribution which has come upon them, THE PEOPLE will imperatively demand of the Government, (now that it has the constitutional right under the war power,) that it forthwith decree the immediate and entire abolition of slavery, so that peace may be restored on an enduring basis, and the unity of the nation preserved through universal justice.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
THE NEW YORK (CITY) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will hold its anniversary in the Cooper Institute on WEDNESDAY evening, May 7th.
UNION IN RIGHTEOUSNESS vs. AN UNRIGHTEOUS UNION
The New York Journal of Commerce says:
"No candid, outspoken abolitionist will take the least offence at our distinct charge, that he and those who think with him are not for the Union which Washington and his companions founded."
None whatever! That was a guilty Union cemented with the blood of an enslaved race on our soil-"a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell," in the making of which, "Washington and his companions" committed a grievous sin. The natural and inevitable result of it is a dismembered republic and a tremendous civil war, through the treachery of the very slaveholding class that originally dictated the terms of the Union, and also as a divine retribution for trampling upon the poor and needy! Not for myriads of worlds ought it to be, even if it could be restored, with all its iniquitous conditions and horrible pro-slavery compromises! "Wo to them that go down to Egypt [the South] for help, for they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord! Yet he will arise against the house of evil-doers, and against the help of them that work iniquity. Now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their houses flesh, and not spirit. When the Lord shall stretch out his hand, both he that helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they shall fail together." Behold the verification of the fearful prediction! Judicially blind, and incurably perverse, the same paper adds"Some persons are inclined to look leniently on the great crime of the radical abolitionists, which has done so much to plunge the nation into its present war." The crime here alluded to is identical with that committed by certain "pestilent and seditious fellows" of old, of whom we read that they had the impudence to raise the inquiry as against the rulers of their day, "Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye." Also with that committed at an earlier period against "the powers that were," by certain "radical" Jews, when they defiantly said, " Be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image thou hast set up." Their crime is a determined resolution to make no truce with violence, oppression and blood; to stand by the cause of impartial liberty at all hazards; to call a nation, dead in trespasses and sins, to true repentance and thorough reformation. They deny that "Washington and his companions" could set aside the eternal law of God with impunity, or innocently seek to promote their own interests at the expense of the rights and happiness of a class "meted out and trodden under foot of men," or bind any of their posterity to sanction and perpetuate their evil doings, or claim any more exemption from sharp criticism and stern condemnation than others who have done those things they ought not to have done, in order to subserve their own ends. In their essential nature and claims to merciful consideration, we have as much regard for any similar number of manacled slaves as we have for "Washington and his companions." "A man's a man, for a that." And sure we are that if any Constitution or Union had been formed at the sacrifice of the liberty of "Washington and his companions," they would have pronounced it "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," and treated it accordinglyno matter who had been its framers. Yea, we know that it was because some slight encroachments were made upon their freedom by the mother country, that they rose in rebellion against king and government, and deemed themselves justified in resisting unto death. In the light of their example, the race whom they so cruelly consented to sacrifice would be a thousand times more justified in rising up in insurrection, and slaughtering their oppressors without mercy. "With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."
The Journal of Commerce, animated by the spirit of those who accused Jesus in this manner" We found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Cesar"and of those who accused his disciples of "going about to turn the world upside down"maliciously accuses the abolitionists of having "done much to plange the nation into its present state of war";meaning that they have pursued a lawless and wicked course, for the basest purposes, and reckless of consequences. It is a libellous charge; they have done no such thing. They have expended years of time, and a large amount of means and effort,
<c05>
at great personal hazard, and in the face of every form of obloquy and abuse, to save the nation from its present evil plight, by urging it to "execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor"otherwise, in due time, the righteous retribution of Heaven would be poured out without mixture upon our guilty land. They have tenaciously adhered to the Declaration of Independence, as setting forth the true doctrine as to man's inalienable right to freedom. They have done as they would be done by, by remembering those in bonds as bound with them. They have advocated those principles of justice and humanity which distinguish mankind from the brute creation, and which the civilized world recognizes as eternally obligatory. They have denounced fraud, oppression, concubinage, child-stealing, and all the crimes and horrors to which the accursed slave system gives birth. They have never felt or manifested any ill-will to the slaveholders, but have interposed in order to save them and their victims alike. Their appeals have been made to the reason and conscience, "to the law and the testimony," in the spirit of conscious rectitude and disinterested benevolence. They have done nothing in the dark, but every thing has been made manifest in the light. They have set a manly example of free discussion, ever courting in their own organs and on their own platforms the closest scrutiny and the boldest utterance of expression on the part of their opponents. And it is precisely for these reasons that the venal Journal of Commerce hates and persecutes them; for if they had only "gone with the multitude to do evil," and sanctioned the act of "striking hands with thieves and consenting with adulterers," that paper would have applauded them as patriots and Christians. The charge it maliciously brings against the abolitionists, of "having done much to plunge the nation into its present state of war," is fearfully true of its own course for a long series of years. It has daily exerted itself to corrupt the moral and religious sentiment of the North on the subject of slavery, to encourage the South in all her infamous demands, to strengthen and enlarge the power of the slave oligarchy now at the head of the present rebellion, to ridicule and caricature the Anti-Slavery movement, to insult and libel every man in public and private disposed to resist the further extension of slavery, and with special, persistent and dastardly malignity to heap contempt and outrage upon the free colored population, endeavoring to rouse up popular enmity every where to secure their virtual expulsion from the country. It has no real sympathy with the government, and is doing all in its power to paralyze vigorous action against the Southern traitors, and, as far as it dares, to give them countenance and aid. In short, its career has been marked with odious duplicity, Shameless villany, detestable religious cant, and brutal inhumanity. Every copy of it is saturated with blood.
"PARSON BROWNLOW." This notorious parson having had his paper suppressed, his printing-office destroyed, his life threatened, and himself thrust into prison, by the rebels, for his unfaltering loyalty to the Union, has at last been released, and is now making a Western tour, narrating his hair-breadth escapes and actual sufferings to crowded audiences. He has had tendered to him the freedom of several of the Western cities as a mark of sympathy and respect, though he really deserves little of either; for a more coarse-minded, vulgar, abusive, pugilistic disputant it would be difficult to find. It is something to his credit, under such trying circumstances, that he refused to play the traitor; but this makes him neither a gentleman nor a Christian. Here is an extract from his speech before the Legislature of Ohio:
"Some time since, I stood alone amidst 2,000 rebel soldiers, and I said, in my address to them:'It is you of the South that are to blame. The North have not precipitated this war on us; it is you who have done it. You complained of an infringement of Southern rights when there was no infringement. You complained of Northern encroachments when there were none, and you have rushed into a war of the most wicked kind, without a shadow of a reason.' But, gentlemen of Ohio, I do not and cannot exonerate the North; and I say in brief to you, that if thirty years ago, we had taken one hundred Southern fire-eaters and one hundred Northern Abolitionists, and hanged thrill up, and buried them in a common ditch, and sent their souls to hell, we should have had none of this war. (Immense applause.) I am speaking too long. (Cries of 'No, no,' &c, &c.)"
This murderous expression against the truest friends of freedom was received with "immense applause," it seems, by this legislative assembly, and the morally demented utterer of it was urged to "go on"! What degradation of mind is here manifested! And what madness is evinced in supposing that a righteous God is to be baffled in his dealings with oppressors, by the seasonable hanging of any number of their opponents!
LETTER OF MR. MARTIN. We publish in another column a letter from Mr. William Carlos Martyn, in reply to one in our paper of the 4th inst., impeaching his integrity in the manner therein set forth. Mr. M. has entirely mistaken his accuser, who, so far from skulking behind intangible blanks, appended his name to his statement, and authorized us to make any use of it we might deem proper. We did not think it necessary to print his name; but, at the same time, we said it would be communicated to Mr. M., if he desired it; and we shall send it to him all the more readily, because he has implicated quite another person.
From Mr. Martyn's explanations as to his alleged connection with Yale College, it appears that he has had no intention of practicing any deception; and, so far as anti-slavery lecturing is concerned, he has had no motive to do so. He has good talents, and we trust his future course will be "onward and upward."
"PROFESSOR CLARENCE BUTLER." We have copied a communication from the Boston Courier, accusing this itinerating lecturer of outrageously base conduct in trifling with female confidence, and breaking his plighted faith&c., &c. There is no question of his guilt. We have seen a letter from him, acknowledging it in full, heaping upon himself unmeasured condemnation, and, of course, professing to be filled with shame and confusion of face. It is now very doubtful whether any of his statements, concerning his brutal treatment in Texas and narrow escape from lynching, are to be believed. From this revelation, the poet seems to have drawn his picture, thus:
"0, serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
Did ever dragon keep go fair a cave?
Dove-feathered raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
Despised substance of divinest show!
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st;
A damned saint, an honorable villain."
BOTH WORTHY OF A THOROUGH PERUSAL. See the Letter of Gerrit Smith to Montgomery Blair on our last page, excellent in spirit, noble in purpose, and kind in rebuke. Also, the admirable speech of Charles Sumner, on the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbiaso worthy of the eloquent orator and his inspiring theme. We had hoped to be able to announce, in our present number, that President Lincoln has put his name to the bill which has passed both houses of Congress; but he has not yet done so, though it is said that he will certainly sanction it.
THE REBELS FULLY AWARE OF THE MOVEMENTS OF GENERAL MCCLELLAN. The Baltimore correspondent of the New York Herald, who is considered good authority in matters appertaining to the rebels in Virginia and their sympathizers in Maryland, says it was known at Richmond when the bulk of the Union army of the Potomac moved from Manassas to Washington; it was known there when the corps d'armee had landed and were assembled at Fortress Monroe; it was known there when General McClellan and his staff arrived at the Fortress; and it was known there when the march on Yorktown commenced, and what number of troops General McClellan had wherewith to make the attack. How is this to be accounted for? There is something inexplicable about this Gen. McClellan and all his movements. Of all "slow coaches," his is the slowest; and his vaunted "military strategy" is manifestly a humbug.
<c06>
THE METAYER TENURE
My friend "C.," who wishes the Metayer tenure interposed, by way of precaution, between enslavement and perfect freedom, need not feel the least alarm lest we should get too speedily from the bottom to the toplest our difficult social problem should be solved too easily or too rapidly. Further, he may dismiss from his mind the idea that I expect any important attainments, material, intellectual or moral, to be made by the blacks "rather suddenly." It is because all such progress must inevitably be very slow that I am so particular and emphatic in demanding the right and the best conditions wherewith to the <illegible> the process of elevation.
The position of the colored race in the South, when placed, as I wish to have them, in freedom under law will be by no means poetical, but sadly prosaie. They will merely have reached the opportunity Will merely have come to the beginningof an attempt to rise above the lowest condition of humanity, They are in the position of the boy who has just commenced going to school. There is no danger of his getting too much knowledge, or of his it too quickly. There is no possibility of his becoming at once, a great scholar. It is now to be decided whether he will choose to make the exertion, and use the patience and perseverance necessary to learn anything. What we demand for him is, that he shall have the opportunity to make a fair experiment; that the rules of the school shall not bar him out, in advance, from either spelling, reading, writing or arithmetic; and what we demand for the freedman is, that the rules of the civil state, shall not bar him out, in advance, from any of occupation and resilience, or from any such change of occupation and residence, as he may prefer and can attain, under the laws which govern the whole community. This is all. Scholar or laborer it will take him a long, long time to work upwards. Being richer, stronger and more intelligent than he, we ought to help him. But the very least we can do is to avoid hindering him by obstructions, either of law or custom. And we may as well at once free ourselves from the delusion (to which the preserving lies of the slaveholders have given an underserved currency) that such restrictions are really helpful to him; that he works rather better with one hand tied behind him.
The advantage which my friend expects from the adoption of the Metayer system here is, that the interests of the laborer will be better protected by the "public sanction and unwavering custom" which he finds connected with that system in some <illegible> France, than by the special verbal contract which<illegible> borers here make with their employers.
Now, even if we could have here, for the solution of our great problem, that "public sanction and unwavering custom" which the growth centuries has produced in certain quiet, "slow," old-fashioned rural districts of France, I should differ with my friend a regard to its preferableness over the freedom which states its own demands, and takes equal part in a contract. But we cannot possibly have the conditions in question for our experiment. Unwavering custom is not a thing that can be made to order, or bought ready-made. Not only is no such thing in existence here, but it is doubtful whether either party would agree to commence a trial of it. And even of both parties did agree to begin, and give it a trial, and if they consented to continue it for ten or fifteen years, it would take at least that time to establish the unvarying custom" which is the chief recommendation of the scheme; whereas, we need some plan which shall not only promise well for the future, but answer the necessities of the present moment also. It seems to me that immediate emancipation, a chance for those who have been slaves to begin to work for such moderate wages as shall offer themselves, taking the chances that the poor in all our Northern towns have to take will work better than any system intermediate between that and slavery, alike for the present and the future.
Of course, in so great a change as is now coming upon Southern labor, both upon its form and its substance many inconveniences are to be expected, and many dangers to be guarded against. Let us do the best we can in regard to each of these as it shall arise. But there is one great, imminent, enormous danger, constantly threatening, pressing; in every moment and at every crevice, and needing to be provided against "first, and last, and midst, and without end"namely, the habit of whites to consider blacks inferior beings, to treat them as inferior beings, and to oppress them. Whatever safeguards we may provide, much of this oppression will certainly be exercised, and many of our white population will yield to this besetting sin. But the more thoroughly we shall secure the end which "C"." and myself have equally at heart, the progressive elevation of these people whom our nation has kept in bonds, under darkness.
We are told that it is unwise to fight the devil with fire, because he understands the properties and capabilities of that element better than we do, and can stand its assault better than we can. Let us oppose water to fire, liberty to slavery, free knowledge to unforced ignorance. Instead of enforcing a small oppression as the best step next in succession to a great one, let us have done with all oppression, recognize human rights in practice as well as in theory, discard the sham democracy and the class legislation which have so long disgraced us, and try a system of laws which, aiming to secure the rights of all, shall have specially in view the protection of the poor and the weak.
Perhaps we cannot fully attain this, corrupted as the minds and hearts of our people have been by their long alliance with slaveholders. But this is the right thing to strive for; and the degree of our success in attaining the right will be proportionate to the numbers, the assiduity and the perseverance of those who keep on demanding that, and nothing less. The higher we aim, other thing being equal, the higher our arrow will reach. Freedom, nothing less that freedom under law, for the slave, will give the last chance for the attainment of ultimate welfare, alike for black and white.-C.K.W.
THE FUGITIVE WIFE: A Criticism on Marriage. Adultery and Divorce. By Warren Chase, Author of "The Life of the Lone One." Boston: Published by Bela Marsh, 14 Bromfield Street. <illegible> pp.116.
The topics discussed in this unpretending volume are such as, owing to the corrupt state of society, obtain little consideration, and yet are deserving of close analysis and universal attention. Particularly is this true in regard to the marriage institution, which involves to so wide and vast an extent the weal of woe of mankind, and which few have had the moral courage to investigate as to its nature, obligations, liabilities, tendencies and results. Whatever that institution is, in any hand,-and its features vary according to the degrees of civilization,-it is startling fact that one half of the human race, namely, the female <illegible>, have never yet had any voice in determining <illegible> or limitations, because they have been universally disfranchised, and therefore deprived of all opportunity to help shape the laws on the subject. This ought not so to be, and will not always be so.
The perusal of "The Fugitive Wife" will help to awaken reflection and lead to needed investigation.
JUSTLY AFRAID OF RIVALRY. The editor of the Newburyport Herald, who is desperately afflicted with negrophobia, alarmingly says-"Wendell Phillips and Parker Pillsbury boldly avow that emancipation is not enough: the slaves must be entitled to become governors and senators in Congress; and Charles Sumner declares constantly for equality." Unhappy man! he is manifestly afraid of a successful rival in the enfranchised negro. His fears are certainly well founded.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FORM WM. CARLOS MARTYN.
New York, April 12,1862. 
Mr. GARRISON:
MY DEAR SIR,-Owing to my absence from home, I failed to see the Liberator containing-'s attack on me until this morning, it having just been forwarded to me from New Haven. Surprised and grieved at such bitter charges, my duty to myself, my family, my friends, and to the cause of liberty which I profess and delight to serve, all imperatively demand that the calumny be refuted.
Permit me, then, a word in reply.
I would bad the public mark at the outset that-assumes the habitual garb of all assassins of character, and, with convenient secrecy, stabs me in the dark; hoping, perhaps, thus hid, to go unwhipped of justice. Or does he think his character and abilities so fitly and accurately described by the three blanks over which his letter is written, that it would be impossible to mistake him?
This "old acquaintance of mine," with whom (if he be the person I suspect) I never passed a dozen words, says that, during his Freshman year, he met a gentleman one day on the college grounds, who inquired for the room of Wm.'C. Martyn; stating that he had make my acquaintance in Boston, and that I had given him my address, "No. 5, South Centre, Yale College." On learning that there was no such building or person, said gentleman felt deeply grieved at my <Illegible>
Now, sir, these are the facts:-
Several years since, my father removed his residence from Worcester to New Haven, the better to facilitate the entrance into, and continuance at college, of my brother and myself. Before having Worcester, I had commenced and nearly completed my fit, and expected to enter Yale the then approaching 11th of September. Under these circumstances, I had occasion, a little before our removal, to pass several days in Boston. While there I met, and became quite familiar with, the gentleman this "old acquaintance of mine" refers to. In the course of one of a number of conversations, I incidentally mentioned my intention to enter college at New Haven the then coming term. My friend told me he was frequently through New Haven, and added, "Next time I pass that way, I will call, and renew the acquaintance: where shall I find you?" Knowing at that time neither what house my father would rent, or what room I should have, I told him that if he would call on Mr. Chamberlain, (a gentleman with whom I had met, and whom I highly esteemed,) he would doubtless be able and willing to direct him to me. I did not write my directions as is alleged, but said, "You will find Mr. Chamberlain at South Middle," not Centre. However, owing to the weakness of my sight, I did not enter college, as had been my intention, it being impossible for me to study. But my father took a house in New Haven, the situation of which was well known to all my friends. Have I not a right to think that this "old acquaintance of mine." might, without great difficulty, have pointed out to this "chagrined" gentleman my residence? Would it not have been the part of an "old acquaintance" to seek to account for such a mistake naturally, without rushing headlong, with volunteer haste, to the conclusion that an "old acquaintance" was a liar and a rascal May I not justly fear that, with this "old acquaintance of mine," "the wish was father to the thought"? Or am I to accept this attack as evidence that we are but too prone to judge of others by ourselves.
Then in regarded to Le Roy.
While I tarried in that village, it was with a "lang syne" friend of my father's, and I met the warmest of welcomes, and the heartiest. This old friend, feeling naturally interested in myself and our family, inquired particularly all about us. I told him of our residence in New Haven-said I had a brother already a college-and added farther, that I expected to enter soon myself in my last-the Senior-year. I informed him that my poor eyesight had obliged me to leave, for a little, my studies at New Haven, where I had been engaged in study several years, aiming at the outset to enter Yale in my Freshman year, but taking steps latterly to go into one of the higher classes. Having gone into Western New York on a visit to my friend, George W. Clarke, of Rochester, he had persuaded me to speak on the war, and its relation to slavery, with which request I was then complying. I said nothing of my "high scholarship, preferring to let my returns speak for themselves on that point. Indeed, this convert charge of the grossest egotism comes with exceeding ill grace from this "old acquaintance of mine." Those who know us both will bear me witness that I am not the one most addicted to self praising. I think he will remember that it was not of me that it was once said, in the words of Gratiano, in the Merchant of Venice,-"I am Sir Oracle; and when I ope my lips, let no dog bark!" And I have been told that this "old acquaintance of mine" is the exact prototype of that fellow in Coleridge's story, who was so impressed with his exceeding importance, that he never mentioned himself without taking off his hat, and making a profound bow!
This friend in Le Roy asked me if I knew a young friend of his in the Junior class at Yale, whose home was at Le Roy. My answer was-"I do not, nor do I think my brother would, since they are not in the same class, and the higher and lower classes have little familiarity." This was all the conversation we had on this subject.
Now, sir, if my remarks were so fatally misunderstood as, from the remarks-attributes to me, appears to be the case, you will agree with me that it certainly was my misfortune, though hardly my fault.
Apropos to the use of my friend G. W. Clarke's name, I think it but just to say, since I wish to open the whole chapter to you, that the better to circulate my notice-or, rather, our notice, since my friend and myself were together a very considerable time-we had some handbills struck off. On these bills my name was, by my friend, and unknown to me, placed as being from Yale. Mr. Clarke knew that it had been my intention to enter college, and was aware that my brother had done so. He accordingly concluded that I was also in. While under this belief, he spoke of me a Yale student to two or three acquaintances. Immediately on seeing these bills, we had a talk in which I expressed a fear that, should we venture to use them, they might cause trouble. But it was finally decided that we would use them up, as we hade been at some expense in getting them published, and as I had so nearly entered college-intending, of course, that the blunder should never be repeated-nor was it. Although-does not mention this, I thought it but right to tell it; especially as I esteem it the fountain whence these falsehoods have flowed.
I assure you, sir, I have never valued a "college-bred" reputation sufficiently to lie myself in. I know enough of Abolitionists to be aware that such a reputation would do me no good, anti-slavery wise. I certainly value the college as a means to an end, yet I know fall well that many a graduate only adds, when be gets though, a sheep-skin to a sheep's-head. I have any number of notices from the Western press of my lectures, in which, while I am always mentioned as being from New Haven, no reference is made to my being from Yale. Now, if I had been in the habit of giving out that I was a student, would that fact have remained unstated! Nay, I have a notice of this very lecture in Le Roy, published in the Rochester Democrat, in which it is said that I am from New Haven, though it is not said that I am a student.
No! I met with the best of success, without sailing beneath the shadow of ecclesiastic, political, or collegiate institutions. I am confident that, thus unaided, I can still carve out an honorable and useful future; for, as I said in my former letter, I have given up all thought of completing my college course, preferring to devote my little sight to higher and more important objects. As regards-, (assuming him to be the person I think him,) I know him only by reputation, as I have stated above, never in my life having exchanged a dozen words. Indeed, this "old ac-
<c02>
quaintance of mine" commenced that "acquaintance" by an attack in the Worcester Spy, as silly as it was malignant, on my first speech at Framingham, in July, 1858. I may add, without egotism, that my reputation for honesty and truth stands certainly as high as that of my detractor. "People who live in glass houses should never throw stones." I say this not unkindly or ungenerously, but only in vindication of my character, grossly and malignantly vituperated for personal and splenetic ends.
A young man, just entering life-life all before me, its brightness and beauty unclutched-believe me I am not nor have I been so thrice sodden a fool as to blast every prospect, blight every hope, and chill all sympathy, by pretending to be aught but what I am-young, honest, full of ardor, determination, and legitimate ambition. Very truly,
WM. CARLOS MARTYN.
LECTURE OF MISS ANNA E DICKINSON.
NEWPORT, (R.I.) April 13,1862.
FRIEND LIBERATOR,- Last Thursday evening, we had a lecture on our national crisis from Miss Dickinson, of Philadelphia. It was of remarkable ability and eloquence, and kept the full house spell-bound through the whole time of its delivery. Even the rough element, so often blatant, was completely hushed. This young lady has statesmanship much beyond our twaddling politicians and time-serving priests, and will do a powerful work in the right direction. She is mighty in spirit, to the pulling down the strongholds of oppression, that there may be a newer uprising in the righteousness which exalts a nation. She is a capital instructor of the people, and should be aided to the utmost in the field of her labors; and while she is ventilating national sins, let it be seen that she has well ventilated houses in which to speak; for nothing more surely undermines health in general, and the throat in particular than confinement and speaking in vitiated air. She appears a chosen medium for the higher light, and wherever conservative owls and bats may be found dwelling in the thick darkness, we know of no one more apt to disperse them than this young woman, in the ministry of God and the angels, striving unto such darkness. C. B. P.
Here is a notice of the same lecture, communicated to the Providence Press by a democratic correspondent at Newport. Coming from such a source, it is certainly very complimentary:-
LECTURE ON THE NATIONAL CRISIS. Miss Anna E. Dickinson, "a young lady of Quaker parentage,' lectured on the above question in the vestry of the First Baptist Church last evening. Although the notice was brief, sufficiently so, indeed, to have, under ordinary circumstances, rendered futile any expectation of an audience, the lecture room was quite full, drawn together in fact more from the novelty of hearing a woman lecture than for any other reason.
Miss Dickinson is about nineteen years of age, of an intellectual cast of countenance, and is a bold, fluent, and even eloquent speaker, handling her subject "without gloves," and leaving no one in doubt in regard to her view, her sentiments, and the reason therefore. Who she is, any further than is expressed by her nomenclature, whence she came, and whither she is tending, is beyond our ken; but this we will venture to say-that if she was born a Quaker, she has got bravely over it. To witness the boldness of her manner, speech and gesticulation, one is almost led to the conclusion that she only needs the sword, the charger and the opportunity, to become a second Joan of Arc, and, placing herself in the stead of McClellan, whom she affects to underrate, lead the "grand army" on to victory and to glory.
She entered the room a few minutes past the hour appointed for the commencement of the lecture, ascended the platform, leisurely laid aside her bonnet and wrapper, and seating herself with the utmost coolness and unconcern, remained for a moment scanning her audience, after which she deliberately descended and held a moment's conference with some ladies on the floor of the house, then returned to the desk, and was introduced to the audience by Colonel William B. Swan.
Her discourse was wholly extempore, and was delivered in a clear, distinct, undaunted tone, and in such a manner as to at once command and receive the undivided attention of her auditors. It was plainly to be seen from the commencement that she had been taught in the school of the Phillipses, the Garrisons, the Greeleys, &c.-men who believe that the success of the present war for the Union depends entirely as to whether it be made a war of extermination against slavery, or an attempt to restore the Union as it was-which latter, albeit, she rates as among the impossibilities.
She affected to scout the idea that the recent Federal victories were anything gained; we had not yet touched the seat of the rebellion, the cotton States, and, reaching them in June, July, August and September, we should find that the malarias of the South would do more towards decimating our armies than the cannon ball, the shell, the bullet and the sword. To avoid this, she would end the war-end it now; end it by proclaiming liberty to the captive every where. She regarded the Border Stated as of doubtful loyalty, instancing scenes in Baltimore in support of her theory, and held them all as in secret sympathy with the rebellion, only waiting on opportunity to deal a death-blow to the loyal cause within their boundaries.
We repeat what we said, that we are at a loss to conceive whence sprung this new champion in petticoats of an anti-slavery war; but in sending her forth, her coadjutors have made a wise selection-for, with the tongue of a dozen women, she combines the boldness of forty men, and presuming upon her sex, will boldly utter sentiments in condemnation of men and measures, the utterance of which by one of the sterner sex might at times, and in some places, subject him to some little inconvenience. Nevertheless, it is a treat to listen to the woman, so bewitching (if we may apply the term) is the eloquence of her tongue and the significance of her gesture. Twice or thrice in the course of her lecture did she make points that called forth expressions of applause from the "intense" portions of the audience, and likewise at the close, while all listened with respectful attention, though it was evident that in some of their cases the doctrines advanced did not "go down" The lecture occupied one hour and a quarter in delivery.
It is a stroke policy on the part of the Emancipationists, the sending forth of this modern Joan of Arc to preach the crusade against slavery and in favor of promoting and fostering slave insurrections, and it will have its effect upon some.-Providence Press.
Miss Dickinson has also lectured in Fall River, with flattering success. Here is what the Press in that city says:-
THE NEW STAR. If to have an audience remain quiet, attentive and sympathizing, during the delivery of a long lecture, is any indication of the ability, tact and success of the speaker, we think it may be claimed for Miss Dickinson, that she is a compeer worthy to be admitted as a particular star in the large and brilliant constellation of genius and talent. now endeavoring to direct the country to the goal of negro emancipation.
Music Hall was filled to overflowing; hundreds of the audience went early, and must have sat there more than an hour before the lecture began; and yet, we do not remember to have seen less signs of weariness and inattention at any lecture we ever attended in this city. Her voice is clear and penetrating, with out being harsh; her enunciation is very distinct, and at times somewhat rythmic in its character, with enough of a peculiar accent to indicate that her home has not been in Massachusetts. Her whole appearance and manner are decidedly attractive, earnest and expressive. Her lecture was well arranged, logical, and occasionally eloquent, persuasive and pathetic.
She traced the demands and usurpations of the Slave Power from the commencement of our Government till the present time, and proved that, because it could not hope to control the country in the future as it had in the past, it raised the standard of rebellion,-an act long since determined upon when such an exigency should arise. Slavery being thus proved to be the cause of the war, the justice, necessity and propriety of its abolition, as a means of present defence and future security and peace, was forcibly illustrated.
That the slave was prepared for freedom was proved by the thousands who have passed though so much danger and suffering to obtain it. The inhuman character of the fugitive-slave enactment was most beautifully referred to, bringing tears to may eyes which are not accustomed to weep over the wrongs of the colored race.
She spoke in eloquent terms of Fremont, which met with a hearty response from the audience, as did other parts of her address. On the whole, we think her friends here must be greatly delighted with her first effort, on her first visit to our old Commonwealth.
Previous to the delivery of the lecture, the "Negro Boatman's Song," Whittier, was sung by a quartette, acompanied by the organ, and the exercises were closed by singing "America," in which the audience joined.-Fall River Press.
<c03>
THE BATTLE OF PITTSBURG.
Highly Important Details-Agonizing Spectacle in the Hospitals-The Rebels Carry off our Surgeons.
CINCINNATI, April 12. The Gazette's Pittsburg, Tennessee, correspondent says the sum and substance of the battle is:-
One Sunday we were pushed from disaster to disaster till we had lost every division camp we had, and were driven within half a mile of the landing, when the approach of night, the timely aid of the gunboats, the tremendous effects of our artillerists, and Buell's approach, saved us.
On Monday, after nine hours' hard fighting, we simply regained what we had lost on Sunday.
Not a division advanced half a mile beyond our old camps on Monday, except Gen. Lew. Wallace's. The lowest estimates place our loss in killed and wounded at 3,500, and in prisoners 3,000 to 4,000.
The rebel loss in killed and wounded is probably 1,000 heavier.
The rebels in their retreat left acres covered with their dead, whom <Illegible> had carried to the rear. They also destroyed the heavy supplies they had brought up.
The correspondent of the following the Cincinnati Times, who was in the battle, gives the following description of field after the fight:-
A visit to the field immediately after the retreat of the rebels and the pursuit of our forces exhibited a spectacle seldom to be witnessed, and most horrible to contemplate. The first approaches occupying the further range of the enemy's guns showed at the first glance the work of devastation made by those balls and shells which had overshot the mark. Large trees were entirely cut off within ten feet from the ground, heavy limbs lay strewn in every direction, and pieces of exploded missiles were scattered all around. The carcasses of dead horses and the wrecks of wagons strewed all the woods, and other evidences of similar character marked every step of the way.
Half a mile further on, and the more important feature of the struggle was brought to view. Dead bodies in the woods, the dead and dying the fields, lying in every conceivable shape, met the gaze on either hand. Some lay on their back, with their clenched hands raised at arm's length, upright in the air. Others had fallen with their guns fast in their grasp, as if they were in the act of loading them when the fatal shaft struck them dead. Others still had received the winged messenger of death, and with their remaining strength had crawled away from further danger, and sheltering themselves behind old logs, had laid down to die. Here were the bodies of those who had fallen in the fight of yesterday, and mingled with them were those from whose wounds the blood was yet trickling away. The scene beggars all description, and I do not wish to attempt to depict its horrors. The fatality on the open space I have referred to as the open "Battalion Drill Ground," was the greatest which came under my observation.
The cannister which has swept it over during the morning had been terrible in its results. Strongly contested as its possession had been by both sides, yet the dead were as five to one on the side of the rebels. One man here was in a bent position, resting on his hands and feet, with his face downward, yet cold and rigid as marble. One had crawled away to the border of the woods, and ensconcing himself between two logs, had spread his blanket above him to shield him, perhaps, from the rain of the previous night. He was a wounded rebel, and he pitifully asked "if we could do anything for him." At his feet lay the body of one of those Union boys I have spoken of as having his hair burned from his head. On interrogating the rebel as to the cause of his being in such a condition, his only reply was, "I do not know; I did not do it." We assured him that an ambulance would soon be at hand to take him to better quarters, and we left him.
The larger guns had done some strange work. One case I saw where the entire lower portion of man's foot had been carried away, leaving two toes and the upper portion remaining. Another had been struck by a bullet on the forehead, and the missile had followed the curve of the head entirely around to the termination of the hair on the back portion of his cranium. The case of the celebrated Kansas scout, Carson (not Kit,) was horrifying. His face and the entire lower portion of his head were entirely gone, his brain dabbling into the little pool of blood which had gathered in the cavity below. I could fill pages with such case, but it is useless to particularize. Suffice it to say that the slaughter is immense.
DEATH OF LIEUTENANT-COLONEL CANFIELD, CAPTAIN BERTRAM AND CAPTAIN WARNER.
As I write this, I just learn of the deaths of Lieutenant Colonel Canfield of the 72nd Ohio, and Captain Bertram of the 44th Ohio, and Captain Warner of the 48th Ohio. The case of the former named officer is peculiarly affecting. His amiable lady has reached here in company with her young son, in time to learn that her husband has been sent to Savannah severely wounded. he is now dead, and his body has been placed aboard the J. W. Pattin for transportation to Paducah. Captain Bertram's body will be sent for ward to Cincinnati to-morrow.
An old surgeons, who has been long in the service, and who has just returned from the field for the first time since the battle began, said to me, as he sat down to-night on the river bank: "I have been present at both Bull Run and Fort Donelson, but they were skirmishes to what I have seen since yesterday morning." Such, it seems, is the testimony of all with whom I have conversed in relation to this great contest.
The battle has now been over for at least ten hours, yet so accustomed have I become, since yesterday, to the rattle of musketry, that there is a constant "crack," "crack," "crack," ringing though my ears as I sit down to write.
THE REBELS AMONG THE HOSPITALS.
In my previous letters I have mentioned that the diarrhoea and prevailed most extensively among our troops, none of whom were accustomed to the soil, eliminate or water of this section of Tennessee. This had weakened some of the regiments so far as numbers were concerned, the hospitals having been tolerably well filled with the sick previous to the attack.
Though the health of the men was improving, yet there were many who had not yet been discharged as fit for duty. These were on the sick list at the time the enemy so suddenly made their appearance within the camps on the front lines. Many of them left for the river, an order being issued for the immediate evacuation of the hospitals, and it was pitiful sight to see the poor invalids, scarcely able to drag one foot after another, wending their way to some place of safety. The fire of the enemy was severe from behind them, but some of them looked as though they would welcome a friendly bullet, or at least receive it with indifference. Those who were unable to walk remained and awaited their fate. They saw their healthy comrades driven back amid a show of balls, some of which pierced the tents wherein they lay helpless as though they were dead.
The tide of battle rolled on, and they were left to such treatment as the rebels might choose to bestow upon them. In some cases the hospital tents were burned, with the sick still within them. In some cases I found that they have even filled the canteens of the sick with water, and left them by their couches for future use. In others they had been roughly treated, coursed as Yankees, but yet not outraged as they had been on former occasions, where the fortunes of war had made our men subject to their mercy.
One singular feature was remarkable after the battle, which, as it may have some connection with this department, I may mention here. Numbers of our men were found, with the hair on the top of their head, their whiskers, and sometimes a portion of their upper clothing burned away. They presented a strange and ghastly appearance. Whether these were mere wanton acts on the part of the enemy, or whether the victims were those who has been inmates of some o the burned hospital tents, I cannot say. If the latter, they has made an attempt to escape, and had so far succeeded that they had reached the woods, and there, from sheer exhaustion, had laid them down to die.
THE FORCE ENGAGED.
As near as I can estimate of the entire force engaged in this conflict, I have set it down at the opening of the battle as being about sixty thousand on the rebel side, with a somewhat smaller number, say over fifty thousand on ours. This morning witnessed an while from the testimony o the rebel prisoners taken to-day, the reinforcement to the enemy were about eight thousand men, more than half of whom had been left at Corinth when the troops moved from that point on Saturday evening last.
The intricate knowledge possessed by the enemy of every foot of the contested soil on which the battle was fought, gave them a greater advantage than was awarded us by the trifling increase in numbers, but on either side the battle was fought with a desperation which I could not have believed to exist in the minds of men, unless in cases of strong personal grievance. The determination appeared, even under the most galling fine, to be victory or death. The Mississippians on the side of the enemy, were the ruling spirits, and they well deserve to be set down as among the best fighting men of the day.
CARRYING OFF OUR SURGEONS.
I found, even at the end of the first days fighting, that many of our surgeons were missing. They were known to have been at the hospital tents at the period in which the battle opened, but after that time they were not to be found. After the retreat of the enemy had begun, and those of the sick who had been left in the hospitals were again under the protection of our troops, they stated that the rebels had forced the surgeons away with them, in order that they might attend to their own wounded.
THE BATTLE GROUND-ITS LOCATION.
The ground upon which this most bloody battle was fought is known as Pittsburg Landing, and is situated
<c04>
in Harding County, Tenn., 240 miles from the mouth of the Tennessee river, and about ten miles from the Alabama border. It occupies an eminence of some fifty feet above the river, and has but two houses, both of which were riddled by the shells of the gunboats when the National troops first arrived, several weeks since. It was the-main outlet, previous to the building of the Memphis and Charleston Railway, for the transportation by steamer of all the produce raised in the vicinity of Corinth and the more interior portions of the State.
The ground, beyond the eminence, stretched away along a broad ridge, which was pierced at intervals by deep ravines, running mostly in a southwesterly direction, and covered with scrub oak, growing so close together-that it was impossible for either infantry or cavalry to press through them, and at the same time preserve any kind of order. In this scrub oak, or "black jack," the enemy kept themselves as much hidden from sight as possible. From the river bank to the furthest line of the National camps there were but three open fields, of from fifteen to twenty-five acres each, and it was when the enemy endeavored to cross these, into the heavy forest on the top of the ridge, that our troops were enabled to do them the most damage.
FEW PRISONERS TAKEN.
One strange feature in the battle was that neither yesterday nor to-day have I seen many prisoners. On our side it did not seem to be a contest for captives. It was a life and death struggle to us, and the rebels seemed to entertain the same idea as to themselves. I do not believe that more than one hundred prisoners were taken to the rear during the battle of both days. All I know is, that if prisoners were taken, I do not see how they disposed of them.
SURRENDER OF FORT PULASKI, GA.
A Terrible Bombardment by the Federal Troops-Unconditional surrender of the Fort.
BALTIMORE, April 15. The Savannah Republican of the 12th, announces the unconditional surrender of Fort Pulaski on the 11th inst. Seven large breaches were made in the walls by our batteries of Parrott guns at King's Landing, and all the barbette guns on that side and three casement guns were dismounted. Three balls entered the magazine.
Col. Olmsted, the rebel commander, signalled, the day previous to the surrender, that our fire was so terrible that no human being could stand upon the parapet even for a moment.
EXTENT OF THE VICTORY AT ISLAND No. 10. As yet, there is too much confusion to learn accurately the extent of this great victory, gained without injury to the flotilla, or any sacrifice of loyal blood. But in round numbers, its gives us upward of 4,000 prisoners, 110 heavy guns, 25 field-pieces, 1,200 horses, 500 mules, 100 wagons, 4,000 or 5,000 stand of arms, half a dozen steamers, a floating battery, 1,000 hogsheads of sugar, hundreds of barrels of powder, immense quantities of projectiles of all descriptions, and a great amount of other ammunition and valuable commissary stores. The armament is the heaviest taken on either side since the rebellion broke out, and its bloodless capture, with so many prisoners is a most remarkable event in the history of the war.
NASHVILLE,. Tenn., April 14. On Saturday morning two expeditions were started from Huntsville, in cars. One, under Col. Dill of the 33d Ohio Regiment, went east to Stevens's Junction of the Chattanooga with the Memphis and Charleston Railroads, which point he seized, 2,000 of the enemy retreating without firing a gun. He captured five locomotives and a large amount of rolling stock.
The other expedition, under Col. Turchin of the 10th Illinois, went west, and arrived at Decatur, which was in flames.
Gen. Mitchell now holds one hundred miles of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad.
THE MERRIMAC OUT.AGAIN FORTRESS MONROE, April 11. To the Hon. E. M.. Stanton, Secretary of War:The Merrimac, Jamestown, Yorktown, and several gunboats and tugs appeared between Newport News and Sewall's Point today. The only damage done us is the capture of two small vessels, one empty and one loaded, it is said, with coal. These vessels were captured opposite Brigadier-General Casey's division, (which had small guns of three inch calibre,) and some two hundred feet from shore.
(Signed,) JOHN E. WOOL, Major General.
WASHINGTON, April 13. The committee on the Conduct of the War have completed their examination of witnesses in regard to the alleged atrocities of the rebels at Bull Run, and will this week make personal inspection at that place, and soon after present their report. The members of the committee say it is true, according to the testimony of Governor Sprague and many others, that in some cases graves which contained the bodies of our soldiers were opened, and the bones of the dead carried off to be used as trinkets and trophies for secession ladies to append to their guard chains, &c, while the skulls are used for drinking cups. Those of our dead interred by them were placed with their faces downward, and in repented instances buried one across another. The barbarities in respect to our dead are not, it is said by the same authority, exceeded in history for the last 4000 years.
The committee are receiving intelligence from Pea Ridge, showing incontestibly that our dead were not only scalped by the rebels' Indian allies, but in other respects outraged. The brains of the wounded were beaten out with clubs, thus confirming the newspaper reports.
REBEL BRUTALITIES."perley, "of the Boston Journal, giving an account of the barbarities practised on the remains of Massachusetts soldiers, says:
A lady who resides near by informed the seekers after the dead that members of a Georgia and of a Louisiana regiment had, up to as late a date as November, obtained bones from these and other graves. Skulls had been set up on poles with insulting mottoes, and one chivalric Georgia lieutenant had a skull neatly cleaned to send home, with instructions that it be mounted with silver as a punch bowl. He said it was the skull of one of the "damned Massachusetts Yankees."
CATTLETS STATION, April 13
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
An intelligent negro, just from Stafford county, says his master returned this morning from Fredericksburg to his home in Richmond, and told his wife in this negro's presence that all the enemy's forces had left Fredericksburg for Richmond and Yorktown, the last of them leaving Saturday morning. This has just been confirmed by another negro.
(Signed) IRV1N McDOWELL, Maj. Gen.
THE CIVIL WAR IN TENNESSEE.A recent letter from Nashville to the Louisville Journal says that parties lately arrived from the counties of Queston, Fen-tress, and Bledsoe, state that a fierce civil war has been raging in those and adjoining counties, between. Union men and resident secessionists, backed by roving bands of Confederate cavalry. Neighbors are daily killing each other in casual rencontre. Not long since, a band of about forty Union men killed not less than eighteen of their persecutors in one day. McHenry's cavalry are still marauding in those sections, and a number of these have been killed by the citizens.
A letter from the Army of the Southwest, in the Cincinnati Commercial, says that Gen. Sigel has been confined to his bed ever since the great battle. For five days and nights he was almost constantly in the saddle, and during this time scarcely slept at all. The consequence was that his nervous system, already enfeebled by a previous attack of disease, was completely prostrated. He is not yet able to sit up, but is slowly recovering, He will leave for St. Louis to recruit his health as soon as his strength will permit the journey.
DEATH OF FITZ JAMES OBRIEN.Lieut. FITZ JAMES O'BRIEN, of Gen. LANDERS staff, died at Baltimore, recently, of wounds received in a skirmish about two months ago. Mr. O'BRIEN had attained some celebrity as a writer for periodicals and newspapers. He was the author of "The Diamond Lens," and other contributions to the Atlantic.
WASHINGTON, April 11, 1862.
SENATE,. Mr. Sumner presented a petition in favor of the employment of negroes in suppressing the rebellion.
Mr. Wilson introduced a bill to amend the Fugitive Slave Act.
HOUSE. The passage of the bill to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia was followed by applause in the House to day. Only two members from the slaveholding StatesMessrs. Blair, of Missouri, and Fisher, of Delawarevoted for it, and of the 39 against it, 22 are from the free States.
A resolution, moved by Mr. White of Indiana, was on Monday passed by the U. S. House of Representatives, appointing a Committee of nine members to inquire and report whether any plan can be recommended for the emancipation of slaves in Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Missouri; and whether the colonization of the liberated slaves is necessarily a concomitant of their freedom. The resolution was passed by a vote of 67 to 52.
DEATH OF MR. FRELINGHUYSEN. The death of Hon. Theodore Frelinghuysen is announced. Mr. Frelinghuysen was distinguished as the Whig candidate for the Vice Presidency, on the ticket with Henry Clay, in 1&44, and widely known and esteemed in the religious world for his active interest in the great religious and philanthropic movements of the day.
DEATH OF A WELL KNOWN CITIZEN. John P. Cushing, Esq., one of the wealthiest and most benevolent citizens of Massachusetts, died at his residence in Belmont (formerly a part of Watertown) on Saturday, at the age of 76 years.
<C05>
OBITUARY.
DiedAt Hilton Head, Port Royal, S. C, on the 30th of 1st month, of typhoid fever, sergeant GERRIT SMITH HAMBLETON of Company C, 97th Regiment P. V., aged 22 years, only son of Thomas and Alice Eliza Hambleton, of Upper Oxford, Chester Co., Pa. His remains were interred at Longwood, on First-day morning, the 16th of 2d month, where a large and interesting meeting was convened, and many beautiful and impressive words were spoken in testimony of his exceeding merit.
Referring to his enlistment as a volunteer, he said that there was not one attractive feature to him in camp life, or the duties pertaining thereto; that nothing but a sense of duty would have induced him to enter the service. If there were only more who enlisted from the same conscientious motives, what an army we should have! As he bad always been in every avocation of life, so he proved to be in the new field of labor, so recently entered, faithful in the discharge of every duty ; manly and beautiful in his strict integrity and observance of the divine moral law. He was a bright example to all those who were associated with him. Occupying a position which required peculiar talent to give satisfaction, he bad won the esteem of all the officers and men in his company, and gave universal satisfaction in every department of the regiment with which his duties were connected.
When such as he are removed from our midst, it is not the relatives and friends of the family alone who are bereaved, but the whole community sustains a loss which cannot be replaced. And the little band now in active service in the far South have experienced a loss which they must feel throughout their term of service. One such as he is a tower of strength, a stronghold of good to those around him; and though we have hope for the scope of his talents in the. bright future, and a life of usefulness undiminished by the changethough we have faith in the reunion of congenial spirits, and in the ministration of loved ones gone before us to a higher life; still, we must mourn, and feel it a privilege that we can sympathize with and appreciate the full extent of the bereavement which his family and the community have sustained.
The regiment had left Port Royal during his sickness; but we have the unspeakable satisfaction of knowing that, though dying in a strange land, who was not alone. B. Lundy Kent, the friend of his early years, and his bosom companion throughout the whole period of their service, remained behind to wait upon him, and faithfully ministered to his every want, rendering the greatest consolation and comfort in the absence of nearer and dearer ties. In a letter written by this friend, he says: " His last moments were those of peace and comfort, and his countenance wore the expression of satisfaction; and as some patriot bad complained at the battle of Bunker Hill that he should remain while a Warren should die, so it seemed to him that the Warren of their little band had fallen."
West Chester.L.
Among the many victims of this wicked rebellion, there has perhaps been none of fairer promise, or more lamented, than Sergeant Gerrit S. Hambleton. And in. the subjoined extracts which we have been permitted to make from letters to his parents, we catch glimpses of the manly spirit and views of duty which actuated him. As we think of him dying in his glorious youth in a tent at Hilton Head, yet with his failing breath speaking words of comfort and affection to the dear comrade who wag permitted to watch by him, we feel that "there is no death"; we realize that there is a power in a great purpose and a great consecration which links individuals with the life of the race, and makes them, for all time, ours on earth, as well as our Father's in heaven. To defend Liberty and Right was the single purpose that inspired him and many others in en-listing in this war, and as one after another of these costly sacrifices is laid upon the nation's altar, let her see to it that they have not been made in vain! Let her see to itnow while this rebellion gives her the right and powerthat the horrible system of American slavery shall not be permitted to live and resume its inevitable and " irrepressible" conflict with liberty, to fill the coming time with desolation, and bathe again the land in blood. A.
To his mother, who was absent from home, he wrote, September 4:
"A little more than two years ago, I left a situation in which I was well suited, to assume the charge of the farm, and release father from the care thereof. Thou art well aware that I acted not from choice, nor from any pecuniary considerations. A sense of duty alone impelled me to abandon the plans I had laid for the future, and adopt an occupation not in accordance with my tastes. Although I have often looked back with regret upon my unfinished plans, I have never yet had cause to regret that I listened to what then seemed to me the plain voice of tluty. Now, that same voice seems to call me in another direction, and I write to ask thy consent to follow it. I am fully aware that what I ask will be hard for thee to grant, but I cannot rest satisfied to see this, the best government on earththough it may not be perfectshattered to fragments without raising my  hands to support it. The time has come, so it seems to me, when it is the duty of every one who can. to take up the sword, and crush this most diabolical rebellion, which is threatening not only the Union, but the life and property of every one who dares oppose that must damnable curse, American slavery. I have always felt, that to die in a just and holy cause was better than to live. Life is sweet, of course, but if it is but to witness the downfall of this government, and the spread of slavery throughout this fair land, then it would become as gall.
I mentioned the subject to father last evening, and as he objected, I told him I would consider it longer. Sister has already consented, and from the patriotic tone of sister's letters, I know she will not object. I will not decide fully until I hear from thee, but I hope thee can bring thy mind to be willing to give up whatever of pleasure I may afford thee, for the good not only of the country that has protected thee and thine, but for the good of all mankind. I hope the Good Father may so strengthen thee that thee can rise to the magnitude of the work before usfor a holier cause has never had a martyrand be willing to make this sacrifice.
If I am spared, I shall rejoice to have been the means of showing to the world, as far as my part is concerned, that every man is a sovereign, and entitled to his liberty; if I fall, you will have the rich consolation, that I was a martyr in God's most sacred cause."
Later he says:
"There is a principle at stake far more important than the preservation of this governmentthe principle of liberty itself. I firmly believe this waralthough not waged for the abolition of slaverywill result in its final overthrow. Without boasting, I can say, I think I have been a better man since thinking of this subject. I feel as if I could meet death, at any time, as calmly as though I were going to sleep. I feel willing to give up all I have, either in possession or prospect, friends, relatives, comforts, and even life itself, for the good of my country.
have been fighting the hardest battle I shall ever have to fight. It is over now ; I am victorious, though I fear I have wounded my friends. The constant prayer of my soul will be, that thee may see this matter in its brightest light; that instead of feeling sorry thy son has gone, thee may be thankful to have raised a son to battle against wrong. Do push back the clouds of war and death, that thee may see Heaven's light shining upon free America, an example for all the world, the dread of despots, and beloved by all who respect the rights of man. I thank God that he has given me health and strength. I put my trust in him. He will protect thee. Good night, my cherished mother! GERRIT."
From Fortress Monroe, Dec. 8, just on the eve of embarking for Port Royal, he writes to his parents:
"I still feel that I am right, and trust that you will be able to feel that you are justified in giving up your only son in this good cause; at any rate, let this consolation be yours, whatever may happenfor the future is unknown that I rushed not hastily into the matter, but enlisted believing it to be my solemn and sacred duty, and feeling fully prepared for the worst. I pity some of those poor cowards who are remaining at home for fear of bullets. Death in such a cause as this would be sweeter far than life such as theirs. I know well neither of you would ever shrink from duty, let the consequence be what it might. You hare done your part, and will be rewarded, but my field of labor lies in a different direction. A long and happy life I trust may be yours; and if it shall so happen that we shall not meet again on earth, I hope we may meet in that spirit home where my beloved sister Is awaiting us with outstretched arms.
In weal or woe, in life or death, your loving son,
G.S.H.
<C06>
THE REJECTED STONEThe new edition of this book, by Mr. CONWAY, of which we recently spoke, may be expected in about a fortnight. We are desired to say that Walker, Wise & Co. will continue to be the publishers. Messrs. Ticknor A Fields are soon to be the publishers of another work by the same author We were incorrectly informed as to the retail price of the first edition, which we are assured was sixty cents, and not seventy-five cents, as stated last week.
We repeat our last week's announcement respecting the "Rejected Stone," viz., that an arrangement  has been made by which copies nay be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents a copy, in cloth, provided ten or more copies are takes at once. Those who wish the book, for this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENRY G. DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
The attention of our friends everywhere is earnestly called to this great opportunity of promoting the abolition of United States slavery.
NOTICE.All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should he addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington, Boston.
Many of the best and most recent publications of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to he made as above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send hem.
NOTICE.Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL May, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
REMOVALDISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and Wm. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M.
March 28.3m
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D. has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.Luther Clark, M. D; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Canaan, N. Y., Sunday, April 20.
Canaan, N. Y., Monday, April 21.
Chatham Four Corners, N. Y., Wednesday, April 23.
Chatham Four Corners, N. Y., Thursday, April 24.
Nassau, (Rens. Co.) N. Y., Saturday, April 26.
Nassau,(Rens. Co.) N. Y., Sunday, April 27.
Spencer town, N. Y., Wednesday, April 30.
Spencer town, N. Y., Thursday, May 1.
West Ghent, N. Y., Saturday, May 3.
West Ghent, N. Y., Sunday, May 4.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in 
Gloucester, Sunday, April 20.
Milford, Sunday, April 27.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, April 20.Subject" The National Crisis."
MISS DICKINSON will also speak upon American Slavery and the War at South Danvers, (probably,) Tuesday evening, April 22.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Canton, Sunday, April 20, forenoon and evening.
TO CORRESPONDENTS. The requests of Mrs. LYDIA IRISH, JOHN E. PALMER, and H. L. SHERMAN, have been complied with.
DIEDAt North Abington, on Wednesday, 19th ult., Mrs. E. M. Randall, in the 35th year of her age.
It is not without emotions of sadness that we announce to her numerous friends the early removal by death of one so eminently fitted for the duties of life. In the language of one intimately acquainted with her, " She was brave, self-relying and useful, ever a faithful friend to the poor and the oppressed ; when social respectability, and unreasoning prejudice, and the crushing weight of Church and State combined to trample upon an entire race, she was ever ready to do battle for outraged and imbruted human nature. She believed, too, in the Immutability of truth, and sought eagerly for all the light which radiated from any quarter to solve the momentous problem, "Whence came we, and whither do we go?" She often expressed the wish that she might be spared to see the final triumph of the cause she bad so much at heart. But she rejoiced that she saw the dawning of a brighter day; that she saw the winter disappearing, and the spirit of a new and joyous springtime already swelling the buds upon the tree of liberty; that her eyes saw the salvation for which she had labored glistening in the horizon of the future. In the death of Mrs. Randall, the slave has lost a true and untiring friend, and his advocates a devoted associate. s.
Woman's Rights under the Law.
THREE LECTURES,
DELIVERED IN BOSTON, JANUARY.1861 
BY MRS. C. H. DALL,
AUTHOR OF
"Woman's Right to Labor," "Historical Pictures Retouched," etc.
16 mo. cloth, sixty-three cents,
"An eloquent protest. Mrs. Dall maintains her positions with energy and skill. Her rhetoric is pointed by earnest-ness of conviction, and her historical illustrations are well chosen." N'. Y. Tribune.
"These three lecture evince much research, careful thought, and earnest feeling."Christian Register.
"She has an earnest purpose, large command of facts, and a power of satire which gives a relish to all she writes."Portland Transcript.
"No one, we are sure, can read the studious and freighted leaves of Mrs.Dall's bright and brave little volume, in a cordial and generous spirit, without receiving exalted Christian impulses."Boston Transcript.
"We find ourselves constantly regretting that there is not more of it."Home journal.
"We welcome this book, not only for its large information, but because it is a woman's view of a subject on which women have seldom written."Worcester Spy.
"Mrs. Dall is neither a visionary nor a fanatic. Her arguments in this volume are intensely practical. "Norfolk County Journal.
"This is an unostentatious little book, without rant or exaggeration. She makes a very powerful argument for the repeal of all laws which mix up the question of sex with the rights of property, liberty, and life."New York Evening Post.
"This is an earnest, and in many respects eloquent, protest against exiting laws."Congregationalist.
"Mrs.Dall's books abound in the most curious and interesting information. Their tone is the reverse or truculent. They are the most womanly books about women." G. W. Curtis, Harpers' Weekly.
Published by WALKER, WISE & CO., Boston.
Sent FREE BY MAIL on receipt of price.
April 11.
THE PROGRESSIVE AGE.
Devoted to all Reforms.
THIS is a monthly Journal, of eight pages, edited by Bryan J. Butts and Harriet N. Greene, his wife, Hopedale, Mass. It commences its fourth volume in May, 1862; and the friends of an unqualifiedly tree paper are invited duly to consider its claims on their patronage. Specimen copies sent to any address.'
TERMS.Single copies, 5 cents; a year, clubs of twenty names, $5.00.
Address B. J. BUTTS & H. N. GREENE.
Hopedale, April 16. 2w
SELECT SCHOOL.
THE subscriber will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her charge for purposes of Instruction in English Branches, Music and French. A Term of Ten Weeks will commence Wednesday. May 7, 1862.
For particulars, address ABBIE B. HEYWOOD.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 15, 1862.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
The papers are republishing the following vigorous effusion, by Mrs. Howe, as not inapplicable to "Mrs. Lincoln's Grand Ball" at the White House, a few weeks since. 
FROM NEWPORT TO ROME, A. D.1848.
BY JULIA HOWE.
Ye men and women of the world,
Whom purple garments soft enfold,
I've moved among you from my youth
Decorous, dutiful and cold.
God granted me there sober hues,
This quiet brow, this pensive face,
That inner free might deeply glow,
Unguessed without the frigid vase.
Constrained to learn of you the arts
Which half dishonor, half deceive,
Ive felt my burning soul flash out
Against the silken web you weave.
No earnest feeling passes you
Without dilution infinite;
No word with frank abruptness breathed
Must vent itself on ears polite.
In your domain, so brilliant all,
So fitly jewelled, wreathed and hung.
Vocal with music, faint with sweets,
From living flower-censers swung;
Thronged by fair women, tireless all,
As ever-moving streams of light,
Yielding their wild electric strength
To contact, as their bloom to sight;
I wondered, while the flow of sound
Made Reason drunken through the ear,
Dreaming: "This is soul-paradise,
The tree of knowledge must be here,-
The tree whose fruitage of delight 
Impacts the wisdom of the gods,
Unlike the scanty, seedling growth
That learning's ploughshare wins from clods."
"And if that tree be here." said one,
Who rend my meaning in mine eyes,
"No serpent can so soothly speak
As tempt thesa women to be wise!"
A sound of fear came wafted in,
While these careered in giddy rout.
None heeded! I alone could hear
The wailing of the world without.
'Mid dreadful symphony of death,
And hollow echoes from the grave,
It was a brother's cry that swept,
Unweakened, o'er the Atlantic wave!
It breathed so deep, it rose so high,
No other sound seemed there to be:
"Oh! do you hear that woeful strain?
I asked of all the company.
They stared as at a madman struck
Beneath the melancholy moon;
"We hear the sweetest waltz," they said,
"And not a string is out of tune."
Then, with one angry leap, I sprang
To where the chief musician stood;
I seized his rod of rule, I pushed
The idiot from his shrine of wood.
"I've sat among you long enough,
Or followed where your music led;
I never marred your pleasure yet,
But ye shall listen now!" I said:
"I hear the battle-thunder boom,
Cannon to cannon answering loud;
I hear the whizzing shots that fling
Their handful to the stricken crowd.
"I see the bastions, bravely manned,
The patriots gathered in the breach;
I see the bended brows of men
Whom the next dreadful sweep must reach;
I feel the breath of agony,
I hear the thick and hurried speech.
"Before those lurid bursts of flame,
Your clustering wax-lights flicker pale;
In that condensed and deadly smoke,
Your blossoms drop, your perfumes fail.
"Brave blood is shed, Whose generous flow
Quickens the pulses of the river;
He 'neath his arches, muttering low,
'It shall be so, but not forever.'
"Were death the worst, the patriot's hymn
Would ring triumphant in my ears;
But pangs more exquisite, await
Those who still eat the bread of tears.
"Pale faces, press'd to prison bars,
Grow sick, and agonize with life;
And firm lips quiver, when the guard
Thrusts rudely back some shrieking wife.
"Those women gathering on the sward,
I see them, helpful of each other;
The matron soothes the maiden's heart,
The girl supports the trembling mother;-
"Sad recognitions, frantic prayers,
Greetings that sobs and spasms smother;-
And 'O, my son!' the place resounds,-
And 'O, my father!' 'O, my brother!'
"And souls are wed in nobleness
That ne'er shall mingle human breath;
Lover's seed, in holy purpose sown,
Love's hope in God's and Nature's faith.
"And ye delight in idle tunes,
And are content to jig and dance,
When e'en the holy Marsellaise
Sounds for the treachery of France!
"And not a voice amongst you here
Calls on the traitor's wrath and hate,
And not a wine-cup that ye raise
Is darkened by the victim's fate!
"No one with pious drops bewails
The anguish of the Mother world!"
"O hush! the waltz is joy!" They said,
And all their gauzy wings unfurled.
"Nay, hear me for a moment more,
Restrain so long your heedless haste;
Hearken how pregnant is the time
Ye tear to shreds, and fling to waste!
"Through sluggish centuries of growth
The thoughtless world might vacant wait;
But now the busy hours crowd on,
And man is come to man's estate!
"With fuller power, let each avow
The kinship of his human blood;
with fuller pulse, let every heart
Swell to high proofs of brotherhood!
"With fuller light, let woman's eyes,
Earnest, beneath the Christ-like brow,
Strike this deep question home to men:
'Thy brothers perish-idlest thou?'
"With warmer breath, let mothers' lips
Whisper the boy whom they caress:
'Learn from these arms that circle thee
In love, to succor, shelter, bless.'
"For the brave world is given to us,
For all the brave in heart to keep,
Lest wicked hands should sow the thorns
That bleeding generations reap.
"O world! O time! O heart of Christ!
O heart betrayed and sold anew!-
Dance on, ye slaves! ay, take your sport,
All times are one to such as you!
AFTER THE STROM.
All night, in the pauses of sleep, I heard
The moan of the snow-wind and the sea,
Like the wail of thy sorrowing children, O god!
Who cry unto thee.
But in beauty and silence the morning broke;
O'erflowing creation, the glad light streamed;
And earth stood shining and white as the souls
of the blessed redeemed.
O glorious marvel, in darkness wrought!
With smiles of promise the blue sky bent,
As if to whisper to all who mourn,
Love's hidden intent,
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
GERRIT SMITH TO MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
"OF ONE BLOOD ALL NATIONS."-OF EQUAL RIGHTS ALL RACES.-"HONOR ALL MEN."
PETERBORO', April 5th 1862.
HON. M. BLAIR, Postmaster General:
DEAR SIR,-I have read the letter which you sent to the great Anti-Slavery Meeting held in New York the 6th of last month; and I have read it with the respect due to its distinguished author, and with my ever deep interest in the subjects of which it treats.
You evidently foresee the speedy death of American slavery. It will be as sure as speedy. The nation will not let it live to become the cause of another war. One such reckoning day for the crime of slaveholding as is this day of horrors will cure us of all disposition to repeat the crime. The punishment which the guilty south and no less guilty North are suffering cannot soon be forgotten by either. And was there ever a punishment more justly allotted! more righteously retributive? It falls just where it should, and only where it should. The whites of the two sections are plundering and slaughtering each other; and in neither are the blacks harmed.  The South is not aggravating the sorrows of the blacks; the North has ceased to send them into slavery, and is becoming kind to them. The slaves are getting their freedom without fighting for it. The blood of their oppressors, Northern and Southern, instead of their own blood, is purchasing it. And however expedient it might be, it nevertheless will not be indispensable to build up barriers, statutory, constitutional or other against the return of slavery. It will never come back to curse us. The nation that has tried slavery and abolished it, never recalls it. As they who have had the small-pox do not have it again, so too the nation that has had the infinitely more loathsome disease of slavery does not have it again. The British West India planters, although they grumbled at some of the workings of Emancipation, had nevertheless no desire for the restoration of slavery.
You are "morally certain" that if the slaves shall be unconditionally freed, they will be massacred. I am greatly astonished that you are. My more favorable views of human nature would not allow the slightest suspicion of such diabolism. and no less astonished am I that your only preventive of the unparalleled crime is for Government to fall in with the claims of the guilty, and to yield up the rights of the innocent. How unlike are your views of the office of government to those expressed by the noble and lovely Paul! He would have it "a terror to evil doers, and a praise to them that do well." But you would have it take sides with guilty against the innocent. A true government goes for the innocent at whatever expense to the guilty. A true government stands by the least black baby at whatever cost to the millions of men who would wrong it. A true Government goes for justice without compromise. But your best proposition is to leave undisturbed the monsters who are whetting their knives, and to save millions of men from those knives only by tearing them form their homes and driving them out of their country. I acknowledge your hope that these millions will go voluntarily. But if it is not your plan that they must go, then I know not why you should have written your letter. the most radical abolitionists admit, ay, and claim, that they may go. Moreover, you would probably (I would not) call it a voluntary going, however much it might have been induced by their disabilities, deprivations and oppressions at the hands of Government.
Government is now and ever has been the heaviest curse of earth; but it will be transmuted into its greatest blessing when it shall be driven back from its manifold usurpations to its sole legitimate office of protection. Then it will meddle with the rights of none, but will simply hold a sure and steady shield over the rights of all. Then beneath that shield will the right of all to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" be equally sacred. Then Government will have no part in assorting, domesticating or colonizing its subjects; but will leave them to dispose of such matters after their own free choice.
The colonizing of the blacks may be expedient, but Government has no more to do with it than with their dress or food. If the blacks have an insurmountable dislike of their white neighbors, or of the climate, or Government, then let them leave us to go where they please. Hayti, Central America and other countries will invite them, and pay much of the expense of their emigration. Their white neighbors will very probably prize the labors of the blacks too highly to consent to pay anything to get rid of them. You and I and the speculatists may have our theories about collecting the whites into the temperate and the blacks into the tropical regions. I confess that I am among those who believe that, were Government to allow free play to the laws of nature, the blacks would move toward and the whites from the equator. But Government is not to act upon nor so much as to take knowledge of these theories. Its one work is to protect those who for the time being are its subjects. It is to have no choice of subjects. Whether they become more or less white, red or black, is nothing to it. Should the white men of this nation visit other nations, and bring back for their wives negresses and squaws, there would be no power in the government to stop it, and no modification of its duties resulting from it.
You would have Government colonize the blacks to prevent their being murdered by the whites. I apprehend that your assumption of this illegitimate power for Government is not your only fault as this point. You would not have the power wielded impartially. Were the case reversed, and the blacks to threaten the murder of the whites, not the colonization of the whites, but the slaughter, if need be, of every black, would be your remedy. I much fear that your highest ideal of Government is a white-man's Government; but that is no better than black-man's Government; and neither is good for anything. For whether it be the Government or the individual that, instead of being ennobled with the soul of manhood, is shrivelled with the spirit of caste, humanity has nothing to hope for from the miserable counterfeit.
You have much to say of the difference of races; and you hold that out of this difference have grown difficult problems for our Government to solve. what I have already said shows that in my opinion Government has nothing to do with such problems. I add, that the less individuals have to do with them, the better. The bare entertainment of them begets conceit, arrogance and oppression. what is more, they are not real problems. There is in them nothing to solve-nothing to tax the ingenuity of either Government or individuals. What we shall do about the difference between two races is no more a problem than what we shall do about the difference between two stars or two mountains. We are simply to accept the difference, and to pass on. An owlish philosophic inquiry into what we shall do about the difference God has made in the skins of different men is not less impertinent than would be such an inquiry into what we shall do about the difference He has ordained between the complexion of the sun and moon. Moreover, that one portion of the human family is essentially inferior to another is probably nothing better than a prejudice. Englishmen were not essentially inferior to Irishmen, when, long ago, Irishmen bought and sold them; and Irishmen are not essentially inferior to Englishmen when now they are oppressed by Englishmen. Changes of circumstances, along with other causes, alternately lift up and depress a people. But their inherent, inborn faculties are neither multiplied nor diminished because developed in one age, and undeveloped in another. Africa has contained the preeminent seats of learning and power; and in the endless revolutions in human affairs, she may again and again contain and cease to contain them. The sooner government shall stop its war upon nature, the sooner will these fluctuations become less,
<c03>
and the sooner will the nations begin to approach the same permanent level.
In your eyes, the special action of Government, where there are "two different races in the same community," is its duty. It is its duty, you mean, to prefer one to the other. I would that you could gee such special action and such preference to be a crime, and a crime for which God has desolated many nations, and is now desolating this.
You justify the "jealousy of caste"the "jealousy of races:" and your proof that it is the product of "the highest wisdom" is that "we conquer and hold our conquests by it." But what is to you proof of its good, is to me proof of its bad character. And you commend this jealousy, because it protects a superior race from social intercourse with an inferior one. Better such intercourse, however, than to fortify ourselves against it by hatred. At the risk of whatever consequences, we are to love all men, and to rejoice at their rising in the social scale. And whilst I dare not admit that to refuse intercourse with any portion of our common Father's children is sinless, I dare affirm that such intercourse is not to be avoided if it can be avoided only at the expense of ignoring the claims of the human brotherhood, and of withholding our love from a portion of it. Whatever else you have learned in the school of Christ, I cannot believe that you learned this jealousy there. Much as you hate slavery, I feel confident that it is to its teachings and influences you are indebted for this jealousy. It is a sad fact, that slavery has been a successful teacher of our whole people, and that the damaged characters of even those who hate it prove the universality of its baleful influences. Our hatred of the blacks, notwithstanding you so strangely construe it into an expression of our hatred of slavery, comes nevertheless from the teachings and largely also from our love of slavery. In the nature of things, the unrighteousness of hating men cannot stand in connection with the righteousness of hating oppression. Go the world over, and you will no more find the haters of men hating; oppression than you will find the lovers of men loving it. I confess that the mass of the Southern whites (and there is a great deal of such malignity at the North also) hate the blacks; and I affirm that it is because they hate them that they love to see them sunk in slavery.
Your remark that "the blacks have quickly disappeared when emancipated" can be accounted for only on the supposition that at the moment of making it, you inadvertently confounded them with the Indians. All writers are liable to such confusion. It is very true that the Indians diminish rapidly; but it is as true that the negroes do not diminish at all. Whether bond or free, they increase everywhere, if we except instances where, as on sugar plantations, they are from purpose and policy worked to death. They increase in the West India Islands, and in the rigorous climate of Canada. And even in the Northern States, where by force of cruel laws, both civil and social, they are shut out of respectable employments, places and associations, degraded, driven into the narrowest straits of poverty, and driven into the most wasting vices, they almost everywhere keep up their numbers; and this, too, notwithstanding that at every census many, under that "bleaching process" which goes steadily on, pass from the black to the white class. I must believe that were the Northern blacks, instead of being crowded into the unhealthiest tenements of our towns, scattered through the rural districts in as large proportion as are the whites, their increase would, in spite of all their disadvantages, fall little short of that of the whites. I would say, in this connection, that they who argue that the negro's habits of improvidence in slavery hinder his thrift in freedom, argue not against setting him free, but in favor of hurrying him out of slavery.
You assume quite too much when you say that the whites hold the lands of the South by title from the Creator. If you mean only that the climate of these lands is more favorable to the whites, (though for pro-slavery ends the reverse is often insisted on,) I am willing to let the assumption pass for what it is worth. But the title to a country growing out of considerations of climate is very far from being the only one. Occupation is a ground of title: and the title is none the weaker if the occupation be compulsory instead of voluntary. The earned title is another: and by this most emphatically does the South belong to the sweat and tear and blood-drenched slave. Moreover, there is such a thing as the forfeiture of title to a country: and in all their generations the Southern oppressors have, by turning a free country into a prison, and its blessings into curses, repeated their forfeiture of all possible title to it.
Do you ask what is to become of the lands of the South when the war is ended and slavery abolished? I would that these as well as lands elsewhere could be disposed of on those great and precious Land Reform principles, which teach that the right of all to the soil is as equal and sacred as to the light and air. But few even of the good and intelligent are as yet up to the level of these principles. The lands of the South will in the main continue to be held by the families that now hold them. It will be said that wives and children should not, because their husbands and fathers were rebels, be made homeless. And even the rebels themselves, although they have forfeited both lands and lives, we shall be slow to drive from their homes, when we remember our own share of the responsibility for the rebellion. Parents, who give wine to their children until they arc so intoxicated as to kick the table over, are hardly the right persons to punish them for their uncontrollable feat; and we, who have fostered slavery until slaveholders could no longer contain themselves, are in hardly a suitable relation to punish them very severely for their outbreaking insanity. The rebellion we must put down; but all the time we are putting it down, we should be holding ourselves largely responsible for it, and condemning ourselves quite as emphatically as we condemn the traitors. Slavery made them traitors, and we were so corrupt and cruel as to sustain slavery. To believe that anything else than slavery either did or could prompt the rebellion is evidence of the last degree of prejudice and foolishness. No Free State {embarked in it; and every Slave State, not even Delaware excepted, would have done so, but for fear of! Free State resistance. Add to this the avowed purpose of the rebel leaders to make slavery the cornerstone of the new nation; and, what is more than all, add that nothing short of the impatience, intolerance, imperiousness and contemptuousness generated in an ambitious, restless spirit by slaveholding, could have sufficed to urge up men to the point of this wild and guilty rebellion.
I said that we must put down the rebellion. God teach our rulers how to do it! They are impoverishing the nation, and sacrificing scores of thousands of livesand but too probably all in vain. Very cheap and very easy is the way to put it down; and to put it down surely, and so that it will stay down. Very plain is it too. But our rulers are as yet too blind to see it. Simply take slavery from the hends of the rebels, and the Rebellion is ended, certainly, entirely, and forever. It is, however, immeasurably important, both to them and to us, that it be taken in the right spirit. It must be taken, not vindictively, not with self-complacency, and with Pharisaical righteousness, but in penitence and pity. We are to take slavery from the hands of the rebels, as the reasonable parent takes back the knife which with false indulgence he had given to his child. He is more disposed to blame himself than to punish the child for the cutting of the furniture and fingers. Conquered the rebels must be, in mercy to themselves. Conquered they must be, that the country may be saved. Conquered they must be, that a Rebellion, which is the most horrible pro-slavery piracy, may be adequately abhorred, and that civil government may be adequately vindicated and honored. But it is not for us to magnify their crime and invoke its severest punishment. Their pro-slavery is not half so guilty as ours. Theirs falls in with their education. Our education forbids ours. Theirs comes of mighty temptation. Ours has nothing better to feed on than the
<c04>
poor scraps which pro-slavery merchants and manufacturers, politicians and priests throw out to it. There are many among us who are wont to say that we cannot forgive such men as Davis and Stephens and Mason and Slidell. Punished they should bethough not excessively. But when we come to the point of forgiveness, the question which should most engage as is, what we, the greater sinners, shall do, in order that we may be able to forgive ourselves. There is one thing, and only one thing, to do to this endand that is, to take from the hands of the slaveholders the slavery which we have strengthened in their hands. This done, this mercy rendered to the slaveholders, the slaves and ourselvesand we shall then be at peace with ourselves, or, in other words, shall have forgiven ourselves. Talk of our inability to forgive rebels! Why, every Northern editor who continues to cry against the Abolitionists, <illegible> in other words, to cry for slavery, and every Northern preacher who preaches prudence on the slavery question, and every Northern member of Congress who stands in the way of making an instant and clean sweep of slavery, is in important respects a far guiltier upholder of the Rebellion than is the worst rebel who was born and bred under Southern influences.
Could I have my wish, the chief punishment of the mass of the rebels would be but to wrest slavery from them. What, and then leave them to do us all possible harm! But, deprived of slavery, they would be as well nigh harmless as serpents without fangs. Moreover, their disposition to do harm would then rapidly die out. It is true, that were the slaveholders to emancipate under the pressure of the warand I much fear that they will ere we are reedy to do sothey would then be both morally and physically unconquerable; the nation would be dissolved, and for a time great evil would ensue both to the North and South. But this time would not exceed a generation. The cause of the division being blotted out, the South would soon be glad to get back into the old nation, the course of whose mountains and rivers shows that it can be divided only unnaturally and temporarily.
I said that the lands of the South will be held mainly as now. But what will the poor emancipated landless blacks do? Just what the poor landless whites will. Both will have to work for those that have landat least, until they are able to buy land. The blacks will buy it fast. The African evinces a peculiarly strong love for his "bornin ground", and a peculiarly strong desire to have a home of his own. During the brief period of freedom in the British West Indies, black men to the amount of nearly or quite one hundred thousand have become freeholders; and this, too, notwithstanding they wore much inferior to ours in intelligence.
My saying that the blacks will buy homes at the South implies the assumption that, after the war, "The United States (will) shall guarantee to every State in this Union a (real) republican government." The "Dred Scott Decision" will no longer be law. Men will then buy and sell, and exercise all the rights of citizenship, not because of their complexion, but simply because they are men. They, who shall still stand out for the "Black Laws" of Illinois and other States, will rapidly become few. The denial to manhood of the rights of manhood will then be seen to be the guiltiest and the meanest crime. Black Laws, Cutaneous Democracy, Caste-Colonization, Pro-Slavery sermons, Pro-Slavery Editorials, and all that sort of satanic blood, will then be at immense discount. The war will cost us much treasure and life. But as the thunder-storm, though with damage here and there from its bolts, is, nevertheless, a messenger of health, so will the war, in purifying the moral and political atmosphere, bring us some recompense for our frightful sacrifices in it.
Will the illiterate and ignorant blacks of the South be allowed to vote? Not unless the illiterate and ignorant whites are. There will be no bounty on a black skin. Qualifications for voting, and, in short, for all political and civil rights, will, I trust, be at the South as in the British West Indies, entirely irrespective of complexion.
Alas! that the question was ever raised: "What shall Government do with the blacks at the close of the war?" Because of our ignorance and prejudice we have entertained it, and been embarrassed by it. Nothing so much as this question has kept us and still keeps us from prosecuting the war unconditionally and thoroughly, and, therefore, to a speedy and triumphant result. I admit that our leading men are concerned to have the Rebellion put down. Far greater, however, is the concern of a large share of them to have the slaves continued in their chains or colonized. To these the ending of the Rebellion, if it is to be also the lifting up of five millions of blacks into fellow-citizens, would be no joyful prospect.
Pardon me, dear sir, for expressing regret that you sent such a letter to the New York meeting. I readily admit that most of our statesmen would not have written a better one. They would have written a worse one at some points. But I believed that you would be able to rise in this crisis above vulgar statesmanship, and contrast yourself honorably and beautifully with its prejudice, narrowness and superstition. I did not suspect that, in answer to the thunder-calls for the abolition of the crime of crimes, you too would be found proposing conditions. I had counted confidently on your readiness to have slavery struck down by the War-Power. I should even have hoped that for a piracy, and that too the superlative one, you would be found to hold that there is no law, and can be no law. I could not doubt that, in your eyes, no race of men is "common or unclean"; and that even in the one which has been more bruised and battered than any other by its unnatural brethren, you would discern, ay, gratefully and joyfully, the image of the Common Father.
I am disappointed in you. I am disappointed in many. Nevertheless, I do not despair of the nation. It will come out of the "seven times more heated" furnace of this war, freed from much dross. It will come out of it, not to be still shamed by the world for a sham and pro-slavery democracy, but to win the world's admiration of the beautiful and glorious first fruits of a genuine and anti-slavery democracy. Degraded and trampledon men will be lifted up by this war, and will, for the first time, be invested with sacredness and held in honor. Their better-conditioned brethren will receive them into fellowship, and will henceforth talk less about inferior races, and be less disposed to argue an essential and permanent inferiority from a circumstantial and transient one.
"It coming yet, for a' that,
That man to man the world o'er, 
Shall brothers be, for a' that."
Men will yet consent to dwell with men. Preposterous is the hope that, before they do, "the tabernacle of God shall be with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God." That men consent to dwell with men will ever be the highest proof that God dwells with them. As the harmony of mankind is the most persuasive prayer for the descent of the Spirit, so is it also the surest evidence that the prayer is heard, and that the Spirit has descended. As the recognition of their entire brotherhood is what God most loves in His children, so is the recognition the surest evidence that lie dwells with them and in them.
I do not choose words too strong to express my emotions when I say, I am alarmed and distressed at the multiplying indications that a political Caste Colonization Party is in process of organization, and that gentlemen of the highest standing and anti-slavery antecedents of yourself and Senator Doolittle are favoring it. It will, from the first, act in concert with, and will probably soon become openly one with, that portion of the Democratic party which its pro-slavery leaders are now at work to rally. Such a Colonization party is distinguishable in name only, and not at all in effect, from an open Pro-Slavery party. The unconditional patriots in the Democratic as well as the Republican party feel that the present is emphatically no time for such work. Until the war which threat-
<c05>
ens the life of the country is ended, they will have no part in building up the Democratic, or Republican, or any other party. Until then, their one work will be to save the country.
I deprecate this nascent Colonization Party, not because I fear its success. When slavery shall be abolished, (and we are on the ere of its abolition.) the party will die. Hatred of the blacks, which is the pabulum and soul of the party, gets all its life and virus from slavery. Slavery dead, and the desire to colonize the blacks would also be dead. You and Senator Doolittle would find no more sympathy with your scheme. Nay, you would yourselves have no more sympathy with it. And if slavery shall live, even the slaveholders will not consent on any terms to the colonization of the mass of the blacks, either those in or those out of slavery. They will, as were the slaveholders of Maryland, be found valuing the labor of black men too highly to consent to their expulsion from the country. Nor do I deprecate the party, because the first actual attempt to drive five millions of useful, innocent people out of the nation would begin a war of races, in which the dozen millions of blacks in this hemisphere, and the whole civilized world in addition, would be against us; for there will never be this first actual attempt. When the time for it shall have come, the daring and the disposition will both be lacking.
It is for other reasons that I deprecate this Colonization movement. Its tendency will be to hold back the Government from striking at the cause of the war; and to produce hesitation, diversion, compromise, at a moment when the salvation of the country calls for blows, immediate, united, and where, at whatever damage to whatever other interest, they will fall most effectively. Not its least lamentable tendency is to foster in the American people that mean pride of race, and that murderous spirit of caste, by which they have outraged and crushed so many millions, and for which they are now, in the righteous  providence of God, called to an account so appalling.
I am, sir, respectfully yours,
GERRIT SMITH, 
PBO-SLAVEBY BITTERNESS.
ROCHESTER, (N.Y.,) April 2d, 1862.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND,It almost inclines one to skepticism regarding the beautiful germ of divinity that is in the composition of every human being, to see the heartless invectives yet predominant in and showing the bitter feeling of the pro-slavery press. Even now, when the retributions which are sure to visit an ungodly and oppressive nation are so overwhelming to every reflecting mind, the opposers of liberty are taunting and scoffing at every gleam of moral light that seems indicative of "the good time coming." The only signs that sustain the true-hearted who are watching with earnest solicitude this dreadful strife that is so revolting to their own holier nature, seem to call out the malignant feelings of those who are ever on the alert to crush the beautiful Angel of Liberty. The humane feelings of those who have gone to Port Royal on the blessed mission of comforting the outcast and neglected poor, (those who have escaped from the relentless grasp of Slavery, and thus shown that our Father maketh the wrath of man to praise Him,) appear to give fresh impetus to their rage and revilings, while these missionaries are adopting, in acts, if not in words, the language
"I thank thee, Father, that I live,
Though wailings fill this earth of thine;
To labor for thy suffering ones 
Is joy divine."
I feel more pity and compassion for those who are thus walking in darkness, and continually blinding their eyes to the light of truth, than contempt. I look at the future, when the lovers of our race will have a pleasant and happy retrospect, added to the comparative serenity and composure of the present, and compare their feelings of gratitude and pleasure with the depression and sorrow which will haunt the consciences of those who have through long years been upholding the hands of the oppressor, and striving with a zeal worthy alone of a holy purpose to retard the progressive labors of the true friends of humanity.
How truthful are Whittier's beautiful lines!
"0, how contrast with such as ye
A Follen's soul of sacrifice,
And May's, with kindness overflowing!
How green and lovely in the eyes
Of freemen are their graces growing!
Ay, there's a glorious remnant yet,
Whose lips are wet at Freedom's fountains,
The coming of whose welcome feet
Is beautiful upon our mountains!
Men, who the Gospel tidings bring
Of Liberty and Love forever,
Whose joy is one abiding spring,
Whose peace is as a gentle river.
And thou, sad Angel, who so long
Hast waited for the glorious token,
That Earth, from all her bonds of wrong,
To Liberty and Light has broken?
Angel of Freedom! soon to thee
The sounding trumpet shall be given,
And over Earth's full jubilee
Shall deeper joy be felt in Heaven!
SARAH D. FISH.
GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ., IN WHITBY.
During the past week, (says the Whitby (Eng.) Times of March 15,) Whitby has been favored with a long-expected and eagerly-anticipated visit from the distinguished orator and philanthropist, whose name for more years than most of this generation have seen, has been associated with every movement of human benevolence and amelioration. Our townsmen, we believe, are indebted to a number of public-spirited gentlemen in this town for Mr. Thompson's welcome visit. Thirty changeful years have passed away since a Mr. Thompson's first visit to Whitby, when he advocated with the generous fervor of youthfervor, which years, ripened knowledge and enlarged experience have purified without impairingthe cause which is still dear to his heart, as it is inseparably identified with his fame. The crisis in America, as it affects the chances of negro emancipation, is now an absorbing subject of national consideration; and the opinions of a man to whom slavery in its various phases has been the subject of profound and life-long study, could not but be pregnant with interest and instruction at a moment so solemn and so critical in the history of that momentous struggle which is now desolating the continent of America. 
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Thompson gave the first of his two lectures in St. Hilda's Hall, which was overcrowded by an audience of the highest intelligence and respectability. In the regretted absence of C. Richardson, Esq., of St. Hilda's, the Rev. W. If Keane ably filled the chair, and in language singularly graceful and happy introduced the lecturer to his expectant audience.
Mr. Thompson traced the history of the United it States from the time when the Mayflower landed her three precious cargoes of freedom-seeking Englishmen, to the election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidential chair. He proved conclusively that the South had persistently endeavored to extend the limits of slavery. He denounced with tremendous power the men who, being Cabinet Ministers, abused their high positions by weakening the North and favoring the it South, so that when the crisis came, there were not 1,000 troops to defend the capital. The South had always had a preponderance of men in the highest state offices. The North had been afraid to speak about slavery, for fear of offending the "Lords of the Lash." Mr. Thompson was himself hunted from town to town in the North, because of his abolition principles. But all this time, no one ever thought of arguing in favor of slavery. It was said to be a local institution, and to be dealt with as such, and it was hoped that a way would be found for its extirpation. Now, however, was seen the most awful spectacle of rebellion having for its design the establishment of nation with slavery for its chief corner stone. Never
<c06>
since Cain slew his brother had there been more horrible crime. Mr. Thompson showed how the Republic had been formed by the consent of the people represented in convention. A convention had joined themnothing but a convention could legally sever them. On his election, Mr. Lincoln therefore proposed the assembly of a national convention, where all grievances should be discussed. The South refused and nothing remained but war. In this country, the friends of the South said that tariffs and taxes had much to do with the war, but Mr. Thompson disproved this assertion by showing that never in all the Southern complaints was any reference made to taxation. In conclusion, the talented lecturer, out of the mouths of the Southerners themselves, showed that their desire was to extend slavery over all the nation domain. No language of ours can describe the thrilling power of that voice, which has never been raised but to attack injustice and defend freedom. At the close of the lecture, votes of thanks were accorded by acclamation to the lecturer and the chairman.
Mr. Thompson will give his concluding this (Friday) evening, and we trust that none will neglect the opportunity of hearingprobably for the last timethe peerless eloquence of he famous anti-slavery advocate.
"PROFESSOR CLARENCE BUTLER" 
In last week's Banner of Light,-a paper be it known, devoted to the promulgation of the spiritual philosophy,the following apparently unimportant announcement is made in an out of the way place, to with 
"We have received a communication from Prof. Clarence Butler, requesting us to withdraw his name from our list of lecturers. As he has gone to the arena of conflict in the Southwest, he will be unable to fulfil his lecturing engagements. The societies where be has engagements will therefore be obliged to secure other speakers.
Knowing that this same Prof. Butler, whose public introduction to the citizens of Boston was that of exile from the South, on account of his political opinions, for his story runs that he was tarred and feathered in Texaswhich story, since the cause of his sudden departure has became known, we believe to be false: knowing that this Butler was regarded as a shining light, a blight particular star in the spiritual galaxy which revolves around this terrestrial Banner as a grand and common centre; that he was engaged months ahead (as can be seen by referring to their list lectures,) to enlighten that class of benighted ones whom even the Banner is  not honest or courageous enough to represent; knowing this, we naturally queried why this luminous light so suddenly disappeared from the spiritual firmamentwhy he abandoned  so lucrative a field, and betook himself to the war!
Feeling impressed, to use the spiritual nomenclature that there was something hidden beneath their quoted statement above, we found, on inquiry, our impressions to be correct; we found in fact, more than we will now state. Suffice it to say, it appears that the aforesaid Butler has been guilty, for months past, of certain misdemeanors in private matters, and that he method to avoid the unpleasant consequences of his misdeeds.
We have reason to believe all this came to the knowledge of the editors and publishers of this spiritual beacon-light, who, in the spirit of one of old chose to bury his talent in the groundthey thought, for the good of the cause," (of which they are such unworthy exponents,) to withhold ail mention of this man's doings, save what is given above; not even hinting at the real cause. By refusing to reveal his true character, they practically send him on his way rejoicing, bearing their recommendation, and at liberty to make dupes of whoever he can.
When a public sheet like this, claiming to be religiously respectable, to be guided not only by the principles of Christianity, but has the supra-intelligence of disembodied ones especially enlisted in its behalf, to direct its course aright; ostentatiously professing to  actuated only by a desire to do equal justice to friend and foe,when such a paper forgets its first duty to the public, to itself, and to the Spiritualists everywhere; when it suppresses the truthrefuses to warn even its own flock of the black sheep in the fold, of subtle and dangerous enemies in the midst of them to put the sincere and confiding on their guard against imposition; to cowardly deceive that public to whom it owes its existence, by wilfully keeping them in ignorance; withholding that very knowledge for which the paper was originally designedthe separating the true from the false, the right from the wrong,when such a paper does this, it virtually makes itself accessory with those impostors who make of what some regard as sacred things a mask!
"He that hath a truth and keeps it,
Keeps what nut to him belongs
But performs a selfish action,
And a fellow-mortal wrongs."
Boston Courier.
CLV The Oldest House in Boston CLV
BUILT IN 1656.
PRICES REDUCED
FOR THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE BOOKS:
Echoes of Harper's Ferry.
This volume is a collection of the greats Speeches, Sermons, Lectures, Letters, Poems, and other Utterances of the leading minds of America and Europe called by John Brown's Invasion of Virginia. They are all givenmostly for the first timeunabridged; and they have all been corrected by their authors for this edition, or re-printed with their permission from duly authorized copies. That this volume is justly entitled to the claim of being the first collection of worthy specimens of American Eloquence, the following brief summary of its contents will show:-It contains Speeches and Sermons-by Wendell Phillips, (two.) Ralph Waldo Emerson, (two.) Edward Everett Henry D. Thoreau, Dr. Cheever, (two.) Hon. Chas OConor, Henry Ward Beecher, Theodore Tilton, Colonel Phillips, Rev. Gilbert Haven, James Freeman Clarke, Fales Henry Newhall, M.D. Conway, (of Cincinnati,)and Edwin M. Wheelock; Letters-by Theodore Parker, (tow,) Victor Hugo, (two.) Mrs. Mason of Virginia. and Lydia Maria Child; Poems and other Contributions-by William, Allinghame John G. Whittier, William Lloyd Garrison, Judge Tilden, F. B. Sanborn Hon A. G. Riddle, Richard Realf C. K. Whipple, Rev. Mr. Belcher. Rev. Dr. Furness Rev. Mr. Sears, Edna Dean Proctor, L. M. Alcott, Wm. D. Howells, Elizur Wright, &e. &e. &e. Also, all the letters sent to John Brown when in prison at Charlestown by Northern men and women, and his own relatives; "one of the most tenderly-pathetic and remarkable collections of letters in all Literature. "Also, the Services at Concord, or "Liturgy for a Martyr"; composed by Emerson, Thoreau, Alcott, Sanborn, &e; "unsurpassed in beauty even by the Book of Common Prayer." With an Appendix, Containing the widely-celebrated Essays of Henry C. Carey on the Value of the Union to the North.
Appended to the various contributions are the Autographs of the authors.
EDITED BY JAMES REDPATH. 
1 volume, 514 pages, handsomely bound in muslin. price. 50c.-former price $1.25.
THE PUBLIC LIFE OF
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an Autobiography of his Childhood and Youth:
With a Steel Portrait and Illustrations. pp.408. 
This volume has been the most successful of the season, having already reached its FORTHIETH THOUSAND, and the demand still continues very large. It has also been republished in England, and widely noticed by the British press. The Autobiography (of which no reprint will be permitted) has been universally pronounced o be one of the most remarkable compositions of the kind in the English language. In addition to being the authentic biography of John Brown, and containing a complete collection of his celebrated prison letterswhich can nowhere else be foundthis volume has also the only correct and connected history of Kansas,from its opening for settlement to the close of the struggle for freedom there,to be found in American literature, whether periodical or standard. It treats therefore, of topics which must be largely discussed in political life for many years. A handsome percentage, on every copy sold, is secured by contract to the family of Capt. Brown. Copies mailed to any address post paid on the receipt of the retail price. Price 50c., former price $1.00
SOUTHERN NOTES
FOR NATIONAL CIRCULATION
This is a volume of facts of recant Southern life as related by the Southern and Metropolitan press. It is not too much to say that next to Charles Sumner's speech it is the most unanswerable and exhaustive impeachment of the Slave Power that has hitherto been published. Although treating of different topics, it extends, completes, and strengthens the argument of the Senator. It is a history of the Southern States for six months subsequent to John Brown's Invasion of Virginia. No one who has read Sumner's speech should fail to procure this pamphlet. The diversity of its contents may be judged from the titles of its chapters"-Key Notes Free Speech South, Free Press South, Law of the Suspected, Southern Gospel Freedom, Southern Hospitality, Post-Office South, Our Adopted Fellow-Citizens South, Persecutions of Southern Citizens. The Shivering Chivalry, Sports of Heathen Gentlemen &e. &e. &e. As a manual for Anti-Slavery and Republican orators and editors, it is invaluable.
A handsome pamphlet of 128 pages. Price 12c. Former price 25c.
Copies mailed to any address on receipt of price.
LEE & SHEPARD,
155 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
