THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 16.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1589.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
WAR UPON NORTHERN METHODISTS IN TEXAS.
The Methodist Church North to be driven out of Fannin County-Trouble ahead.
From the Bonham [Texas] Independent, March 19.
At a meeting of the citizens of Fannin, held at the court-house in Bonham, on Saturday, the 12th instant-
On motion, Dr. Hoffer was called to the chair, and John M. Crane was appointed Secretary.
On motion, Gen. Green was called on to state the object of the meeting. He stated that an organization known as the Northern Methodists, existed in this county; that it was gradually increasing in strength by accessions of preachers and members from the Northern States, and was becoming so strong as to endanger the security of our slave property; that the avowed object of this church was the extirpation of slavery, and that their organization was but so many agencies of the North, designing its ultimate abolition among us: and. in proof of the ground assumed towards slavery, he called on Mr. DeLisle to read a series of resolutions from official documents of the Maine Conferences of the Northern Methodist Church, that were adopted at their annual meetings in 1858. The first series of resolutions were adopted by the Maine Conference and the second by the East Maine Conference.
Gen. Green then proceeded by stating that one of the preachers of this denomination, (Joe Logsdon,) on hearing these resolutions read on the street, publicly proclaimed his endorsement of every article, and further, that ‘they could not be engaged in putting down a greater evil.' He stated that the citizens felt insulted and outraged by such proceedings, and had assembled to take measures for the removal of this nuisance from the county.
Judge Samuel A. Roberts, being called for next, came forward. He was astonished at finding an association in our midst professing such sentiments. He could not have heard one endorsing such resolutions, without striking him to the ground. He felt satisfied, from the resolutions passed by their different Conferences at the North, what the sentiments of their Church were, that they differed from the Methodist Church South only on the slavery question, and that this organization, coming here from the North, and presided over by Northern men, must necessarily be endeavoring to carry out the same ends as the Church of the North, and hence should not be tolerated by the people. He further stated that he was never in favor of mob law, but it was necessary that the people should take some decisive measures; let them act mildly, but firmly.
R. P. Tarleton then moved that a committee of three be appointed to draft resolutions expressive of the sentiments of the meeting, and of the citizens generally. The motion was carried, and the following gentlemen appointed by the chairman: General Green, Judge Roberts, and John M. Crane.
During the absence of the committee, Wm. Wood, Esq., was called for, and came forward. He entered into a discussion of the feelings of the Abolitionists towards the slaveholding portion of the South, and their utter disregard for all law when intervening between them and the prospects of their abolition schemes. He enlarged on their conduct towards the Southern people in the late Kansas war, and mentioned some thrilling incidents that same under his personal observation as a participator in that struggle, and closed by urging the people to adopt decisive measures towards those in this county, and drive them from our borders.
L. C. DeLisle, Esq., spoke next, and, after reading several of the resolutions adopted by the Northern Methodist Church, devoted a short time to a lucid exposition of the policy pursued by the Northern Abolition Societies in sending their 'wolves dressed in sheep's clothing' among us, professing to preach the gospel, but in reality to spread Abolition documents among the people, and endeavor to abolitionize the country: that all their operations were carried on in the 'Underground Railroad system'; that if we wanted to catch them in the overt act, we might wait until it was too late, as did the people of South Carolina and Virginia before the fearful negro insurrections that took place in portions of those States, instigated by the emissaries of the Northern Abolition Societies. He believed those in our midst to be but spies and forerunners of the invading army of Abolitionism, and mentioned the peace and safety that resulted to the people of Marion county, Mo., from routing just such a nest as had organized in their midst.
Dr. P. Dakin next came forward, commented on the resolutions that had been read, and thought the time had come when it was necessary that the people, in self-protection, should put down such organizations, henceforth and forever.
S. D. Rainey, Esq., was loudly called for, and came forward. He endorsed all that had been said on the subject. He believed they were derogatory to our best interests, and that they were exciting an influence that had better be nipped in the bud, or it would yet cause us trouble.
Dr. Reed, on being called for, stated that he heartily endorsed all that had been said on the subject by the speakers that had preceded him, and for his own part would not feel contented with anything short of placing the entire 
organization across Red river.
B. F. Christian was next called for, and came forward, and strongly advocated the policy of immediate and decisive action against the organization.
The committee appointed to draft resolutions now returned, and the Chairman presented the following, which were adopted unanimously:
Whereas, a secret foe lurks in our midst, known as the Northern Methodist Church, entertaining sentiments antagonistic to the institution of slavery, and the manifest intention of whose Northern coadjutors is to do away with slavery in these United States; and whereas, the further growth of this enemy would be likely to endanger the perpetuity of that institution in Texas; and whereas, sentiments diametrically opposed to the interests of the South have been this day publicly proclaimed upon our street by a minister of the said Northern Methodist Church; therefore, be it.
Resolved, 1. That the Methodist Church, having separated into divisions North and South, the organization of the Northern branch of that Church in our midst, as a screen behind which to hide the emissaries of a Northern political faction known as Abolitionists, is dangerous to our interests, and ought not, therefore, to be tolerated by the people of Texas.
2. Resolved, That the public denunciation of the institution of slavery, and the public assertion by a minister of their Church to the effect that the Northern Methodists designed the extirpation of that institution in our land, heard in our streets this day, was a gross insult to our people, and should be boldly and summarily resented.
3. That the teachings and preaching of the ministers of that Church do not meet the views of the people of Fannin, and must therefore be stopped.
4. That a committee be appointed to memorialize the Legislature to pass laws to punish the utterance
<c02>
of such seditious sentiments as are mentioned in resolution 2. and that other counties be earnestly called on to consider the matter.
5. That a suitable committee be appointed to wait on the Bishop and ministers now in Conference assembled, on Timber Creek, in this county, and warn them to withhold the further prosecution of said Conference, as its continuance will be well calculated to endanger the peace of this community.
6. That our motto is: Peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must.'
The following resolution was presented by B. F. Fuller, Esq., which was appended, and made part of the above:-
7. Resolved, That we hereby bind ourselves to cooperate in the future, to do all we can to suppress Abolitionism in our midst, and that henceforth we will suffer no expression of abolition doctrines or sentiments in our streets or county to go unpunished.
It was moved by Dr. Reed that a committee of fifty responsible men be appointed by the chairman to wait on Bishop Janes and the ministers in Conference assembled, at Timber Creek Church, on Sunday, the 13th of March, and read to them the resolutions adopted by this meeting, and to order the discontinuance of their meetings in this county henceforth and forever.
A meeting, pursuant to adjournment, was held on Monday, March 14, Dr. H. H. Hoffer in the chair, and L. C. DeLisle, Secretary.
On being called, Judge Samuel A. Roberts, chairman of the committee appointed to read the resolutions adopted at the last meeting to Bishop Janes and the ministers in Conference assembled on Timber Creek, reported as follows: That, in conformity with the instructions of the meeting on Saturday, the Committee met on Sunday morning, at the Bonham Court house, and thence proceeded to the place of holding the Conference. On their arrival at the church, worship had commenced, and the Committee was informed that as soon as service was ended, the Conference would disperse; that this was the only opportunity to be had of presenting the resolutions to them as a body. Consequently, we entered the house after the prayer was over, and read the resolutions to the Bishop, and told him that we would expect a categorical answer; in two hours after the expiration of which time, two of their preachers (Carlisle and Hatley) reported that they were authorized by the Conference to answer that they would cease their ministerial functions until their next quarterly Conference, when action would be taken on the matter. Whereupon the Committee withdrew. Judge Roberts then called on John M. Crane, who read the resolutions adopted by fourteen of their Conferences in different portions of the Northern States. Judge R. proceeded by calling the attention of the meeting to these resolutions, in which they all denounced slavery in the strongest terms, and recommended the preacher to work for its extirpation, in the pulpit, and the members to work through the ballot-box, and by circulating their anti-slavery literature; and he considered that if this organization do not openly pass such resolutions as those just read, it is because they dare not, living as they do in a slave State. But do they not perform all their functions secretly? In conclusion, I wish to hear a full expression from the gentlemen present on this important question.
Hon. Gideon Smith rose to a question of inquiry. He had heard that a negro belonging to Joshua Cox had been tampered with by some of the members ofthis denomination on Timber Creek, and requested that Mr. Cox would come forward, and give the facts to the meeting. Mr. Cox stated that his negro man commenced attending their meetings, and was entirely useless to him after so doing, He commenced to leave home every night, and when told to remain at home, would steal off after bed-time; when I asked him where he spent his nights, he answered at the house of James Rose, who used to read to him and talk to him about his freedom. Mr. Cox further stated that he went to Mr. Rose, and requested him to whip the negro, and send him home. Mr. Rose acknowledged that the negro came there of nights to hear him read, and he did not feel like driving him away. Mr. Cox sold the negro to Col. R. H. Lane. Col. Lane was then called. He did not wish to make any statement to criminate a white man on the evidence of a negro, but mentioned that the negro said he was told by one of the Northern Methodists that if he would go, to Illinois, he soon could make sufficient money by preaching to buy his freedom.
Mr. Davidson mentioned the finding of some abolition literature, by some gentleman in the county, in the possession of his negroes, and they said they got it from Timber Creek.
After hearing these statements, Mr. Smith proceeded by saying that sufficient had been heard to act upon. It was plain that they were undermining us secretly, and it behooved us to protect ourselves and our property, to adopt strong measures and carry them out. We had proceeded too far now to turn back. It is necessary to stop their proceedings, let the means be such as they will.
Hon. R. H. Taylor was the next speaker, and he addressed the meeting in an eloquent and telling speech. He was one of the Committee that waited on Bishop Janes yesterday, and had become satisfied as to the fact of their being pilots-men sent to blaze the way for the hosts of Abolitionists that were to follow. With withering invectives he exposed the designs and devices of their schemes in these missions against the institutions of our State. There is no law on our statute-book to prevent them without the overt act. But there is something above all law-self-preservation; and this is not secure as long as incendiary speeches are permitted on our streets with impunity. He was in favor of strong resolutions against such a procedure, and that they should not only be written, but placed in the hands of men who will carry them out.
Rev. Mr. Porter was now called for, and came forward. He recapitulated at some length the facts concerning the separation of the Methodist Episcopal Church into the division North and South. He considered the northern portion thoroughly abolitionized-he considered those in our midst equally so with those in the North, else why not join the Southern portion? He had been in attendance at the late Conference, held in this county, for the purpose of watching them; he did not think we had much danger to apprehend from them, so long as they remained an ‘embodiment of ignorance,' but thought they had the will to tamper with our property, and would doubtless do so as soon as they received fresh accession's of men with more intelligence and energy from the North.
Judge Roberts moved that a committee of five be appointed to draft resolutions to be acted upon at the next meeting. The motion was carried, and the following gentlemen appointed:-B. F. Christian, A. E. Pace, Hon. Gideon Smith, Hon. Robert H. Taylor and Judge Bailey English.
On motion, the meeting adjourned, to meet again at this place on Saturday, the 19th inst. at 2 o'clock, P.M.
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN THE EMPIRE STATE.
We give, below, the concluding portion of the admirable Address to the Legislature and People of New York, by Rev. A. D. MAYO of Albany, in advocacy of a decree, prohibiting slave-hunting within the limits of the Empire State:-
But it is not alone for its injustice and inhumanity towards the negro that 1 hold up this law* to the indignation of the people. The insult it offers to the white citizens of our State moves my whole soul to its opposition. The negro slaves of America are now an inferior race; and wicked as it is to add another drop to their cup of bitterness, we have learned to bear this with comparative resignation. But when this slave power insolently confronts that white race which has risen into comparative elevation; when it comes into New York, and demands that you and I shall turn our backs on the glorious hopes of a coming civilization, and accept the alternative of losing our humanity by aiding to enforce this infamous law, or save our humanity on penalty of a criminal offence, the outrage becomes insupportable. To drag back a man who has always been a slave to his old bondage, is as much as an ordinary mortal can endure; to compel a cultivated, Christian man or woman of New York to become a brute or a traitor, is more than a saint can tolerate without indignation.
Have you well contemplated the provisions of this statute concerning white men? Section 5th provides that the United States Commissioners may have power to 'call to their aid the bystanders, or posse comitatus of the proper county, when necessary to insure a faithful observance of the clause of the Constitution referred to, in conformity with the provisions of this act; and all good citizens are hereby commanded to aid and assist in the prompt and efficient execution of this law whenever their services may be required, as aforesaid, for that purpose.' That clause makes a slave-catcher of every white citizen of the United States. It makes slave-catching a test of good citizenship. But I may be told this is an imaginary danger. I reply: every white man and woman in New York is insulted by the supposition that, under any combination of circumstances, they could be called to commit such a degradation as catching a slave. Has it come to this, that no citizen of New York can rise above this disgusting liability of being a Marshal's assistant in getting between a fugitive and the North Star?
But this is only the beginning of our liability. The framers of this statute understood that the cultivated, refined citizens of our State would not often be called directly to catch the slave; they would only be expected to acquiesce at home, or declaim in conventions about the salvation of our Union, while the grog-shops could be relied on to furnish a Marshal's posse. But it was anticipated that often these good people would be called to aid the flying fugitive. Some poor man might skulk in at the merchant's counting-room, and implore him, for God's sake, to give a morsel of food or an old garment. Some benevolent clergyman might be awakened at night by the summons to relieve a girl flying from a life of shame worse than death. Any woman, however elevated her position, might find her favorite maid a fugitive from the New Orleans market. The Judge might come home to see his wife binding up a woman's wounds, gained in a week's hiding in a vessel, stowed away like a dead dog. So this class is amply provided for: And section 7th of the law provides that any person who shall obstruct, hinder or prevent the arrest of such fugitive, or shall attempt to rescue such fugitive, or shall aid, abet or assist such person to escape from his pursuers, or 'shall harbor or conceal such fugitive, so as to prevent the discovery or arrest, shall be subjected to a fine not exceeding $1,000, and imprisonment not exceeding six months;' besides being liable to the owner of the slave for $1,000 for each fugitive so lost. Rather expensive do our masters make obedience to Christ's golden rule in the world's greatest Republican State. This provision covers every form of assistance to the flying fugitive. Every man or woman in New York who offers a loaf of bread-a night's sleep-a God speed, to a self-emancipated bondman, is a criminal deserving fine and imprisonment. So here is the alternative to which we are all driven; we must be prepared to aid in catching the slave at the bidding of any drunken man-stealer; must refuse every office of our common humanity to any supplicant we know to be a fugitive, and thereby sink ourselves to the lowest service of despotism; or we must become criminals to our country's laws-subject to the disgrace appointed only for the villains and ruffians of the police court.
Perhaps we do not yet fully understand what this slave-catching means; we may think it would be a somewhat dignified performance to meet a black man flying from the Paradise of the Patriarchal Institution, and implore him to turn and go back to the arms of his afflicted master, and beg to be punished for his contumacy in running away from the missionary institutions appointed by Providence, where 'in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watching, in feastings,' the Ethiopian disciples could learn the apostolically way of getting to heaven. But, unfortunately, these runaways have a different theory about this matter, and whenever they are not surprised and secured instantly, insist on defending themselves with all the means Providence affords them. So it has come to pass that slave catching in America means: in Buffalo, knocking a man into a hot stove; in Pennsylvania, murdering a white man who went to Maryland to procure the release of the free woman, Rachel Parker, and shooting dead Wm. Smith, a fugitive attempting to escape; in Downington, seizing a girl, and putting a plaster over her mouth; in Bedford, wounding one man mortally and one dangerously, while five more were starved out, and betrayed by a wretch of whom they begged bread; in the case of William and Ellen Crafts, the presentation by the Rev. Theodore Parker of a brace of pistols as a wedding gift, a bridal pair whom Boston was too patriotic to harbor; at Boston a man shot dead by one of his own party preventing the rescue of Burns; at Ripley, Ohio, a pursuer killed by a fugitive; at Cincinnati, Margaret Garner killing her child to save it from the slave catcher; at Sandy Hill, Pennsylvania, a man and his family beaten insensible with clubs; in Philadelphia, a woman with her unborn child sent back from the building where the Declaration of Independence was signed; at Christiana, Pennsylvania, Gorsuch shot arresting his slave; at Philadelphia, Passmore Williamson imprisoned for offences growing out of his informing a free woman that she was free. But why go on? There is no criminal service in Christendom so bloody and barbarous as slave-catching in America; none so dangerous. This law has drawn a track of blood all over the Northern States; rioting, popular insurrection, martial law, court-houses in chains-this is the entertainment to which the white citizens of New York are invited; this is the ‘service' we
Referring to the Fugitive Slave Law.
<c04>
owe to our masters on the plantation; and any attempt to escape from our 'service' makes us felons and traitors. Why, the old Hebrew law punished a man-stealer with death, and forbade any one to pursue a fleeing bondman. But we are out of the shade of Judaism; we are Christians, and so have legislated every American into the alternative of being a brute or a criminal. There is not a week when some family in New York is not called to choose between this dilemma. The North is alive with flying fugitives, and we cannot escape the responsibility of action in respect to them. The Fugitive Slave Law is a statute to enslave the white man, and compel every northern citizen to do a work which every slaveholding gentleman scorns to do otherwise than through a subordinate.
Do you say this penalty is not inflicted? Have you heard of the Jerry rescue trials; of the Gorsuch trials; of the Boston trials; of the arrest of several citizens of Oberlin, Ohio, among them a professor in a college; of the imprisonment of an editor in Cincinnati? Have you read the atrocious charge of Kane and Wilson and Sprague, which would.change every Christian of the North into a traitor? But what if this penalty is never enforced? Are all the citizens of New York who have, first or last, given a crust of bread and a cup of water to a fugitive slave, to sit down under the imputation of a criminal prosecution? Is it true that the hundreds of clergymen of the State, the multitudes of the best and noblest men and women of New York, including numbers of defenders of this law; the hundreds of thousands of benevolent persons-from the hackman who scorns to betray the slave, to the Commissioner or Marshal who gives timely warning to the 'chattel's’ friends to get him on the express train of the underground railroad-is it true that all these are simply unconvicted criminals, permitted to go unpunished by the mercy of our rulers? Why, should every man and woman of any city in New York, who has committed this crime of helping him who was ready to perish, be arrested and sentenced, there would be a procession from court-room to jail, containing more of the wealth, position, culture, worth and refinement of that town, than ever yet walked on any solemn celebration of our nation's great holiday. If all the citizens of New York who  have succored the fugitive would appear in an army  to be reviewed by our Governor and officers of the commonwealth, I take it there would be no question whether we should longer permit the flower of our State to lie under the imputation of crime for obedience to the common instincts of humanity. In behalf of 3,400,000 white people, enslaved to this miserable alternative by our American despotism, we demand that the State of New York shall throw  the protection of her great name alike over white and black men; since we cannot oppress the humblest negro that flies over our hills, without enslaving the chief magistrate who sits at the head of the commonwealth.
Whence comes the necessity for such a law? Show us the cause why the people of New York should live under such humiliation as this statute imposes upon us all. What is the great necessity of State which makes it a patriotic duty for freemen to sit down in this valley of abasement? Is it found in that clause of the Constitution of the United States which provides for the rendition of fugitives from service or labor? Look at that mildly worded clause, and say if it appears like the lair of such a monster as this bloody edict? Grant (what is still an open question) that, under this provision, the Congress of the United States has power to enact any law for the return of fugitive slaves; where is the necessity that one so abhorrent to all the sympathies of good men should be thrust upon us? This does not read like one of the laws of a Christian Republic, in which a hard necessity is complied with by the scrupulous guarding of all adjacent rights, and liberty protected even while submitting to slavery. No, this reads like the edict of an Oriental Despot, purposely made to insult its subjects; sparing no feelings, respecting no rights, rudely and wantonly trampling on the noblest sentiments and most sacred hopes of man. And its enforcement is marked by the same results as a tyrant's mandate. Everywhere its officers are despised and hated; to be mixed up with its operations is a stain on any gentleman's reputation; to defend it ungowns the most venerable minister of religion; and its strenuous supporters betray their disgust at the cause in which they are engaged. Does not this point fatally to the origin and purpose of this law?
We shall never understand this statute till we see that it is one of a series of measures deliberately planned by the Slave Power to break down Liberty in the United States, to oppress the freemen of this Union, to humble and disgrace the Free States of this confederacy, to make freedom contemptible, and undermine all reverence for human rights in our distracted country. Maddened by the failure to impress the State of California into the service of despotism; turned away to the hope of establishing slavery in the deserts of Utah and New Mexico, should the people consent; this remorseless power concentrated itself in 1850 for a series of bold aggressions on the constitutional liberties of the American people. And with the pertinacity and ability characteristic of tyranny from the earliest ages, it has strode on to that consummation. Every new demand has been coupled with the treasonable threat of violent disunion, involving civil war, and every compliance has but aggravated the lust of dominion; that has now reached the height of a towering insanity.
First in this series of aggressive measures was the Fugitive Slave Law. It was drawn up by one of the most able and unscrupulous devotees of the national despotism, pressed upon a reluctant administration, and driven through by the panic cry of dissolution. 
The statesmen and people of the North were smitten with the delusion that this was to be the end of agitation, and, as a ‘finality,' granted the demand, and legislated themselves into slave catchers for the South. The law was not enacted for the sake of the slaves that might be returned under its provisions, but to make servants of freemen, and assert a despotic power hereafter to be exercised. And what a commentary has the history of the last eight years been upon our mistaken compliance with this demand! When we were sufficiently humbled by this edict, our despotism again took the field, and the Missouri Compromise was rent in fragments. Then followed the invasion of Kansas, and for five years that devoted territory has been buffeted by the high winds of tyranny. Heaven and earth have been moved to subjugate this great territory; but, thank God, she is headed the same way as California, Minnesota and Oregon; and no Congress will have shoulders broad enough to bar the door, when she comes, another year, escorted by a majestic retinue of eighteen free States, and thunders for admission to the national household. Next came the Dred Scott decision, which denationalized 5,000,000 of Americans, and spread slavery over a million and a half square miles of free territory, and put forth heresy enough to subvert the Constitution and change the government; and now comes the clamor for the possession of the purse and sword to carry out a gigantic scheme of subjugation and annexation in behalf of slavery; and close on the heels of this demand run the propositions to open the African
<c05>
Slave Trade, and assert the right of property in <illegible> on every foot of American soil.
Every step in this series of measures is the inevitable result of its predecessor; and if history records any instance where tyranny has gained so many points in eight years, I have not read the page. And there is no halting in this march. This insane despotism must go on by the inexorable logic of events. Mr. Douglas cannot stop it; Mr. Hammond cannot stop it; nobody can arrest it by moderate counsels. Every man who whispers moderation is counted an enemy. It is the old spectacle of Despotism arrayed against Liberty. This is our form of tyranny. What Pharaoh was to Egypt; what the Caesars were to Rome; what the Hapsburgs are to Germany; what the Stuarts were to England; that is slavery to America. We must cast it out, or it will first subdue and then change us all, and Constitutional Government once more be launched on the untried ocean of new revolution and new experiments.
Such is the condition of affairs in our commonwealth and country; and we believe it justifies State legislation for the protection of personal liberty. We see no way to avert the dismal overturn of constitutional and national freedom, save through the action of the people in their capacity of sovereign States. By this unjust Fugitive Slave Law, the State of New York is insulted and humiliated in the person of every citizen. We call on the Legislature representing that State to discover some practical way of relief from such oppression. We ask those we have chosen as our agents in making laws to be more solicitous for the preservation of liberty than any other interest. All things in the State rest on the personal liberty of the citizen. Do not tell us you have done any thing for the material prosperity of the people, until you have repelled this indignity, and rescued us from the despotism of this odious statute.
I do not argue the ways and means of doing this; or prescribe the form of a statute; or venture to interfere with the vocation of legislators in framing the law. I only would represent the moral reprobation with which the people regard this statute; their demand for release from its unjust provisions; their determination to be free from allegiance to it. There is no longer a question of obedience or disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Law. The people of New York never intended to obey it; never have obeyed it; are now perpetually disobeying it in every way, save the most legitimate and honorable action in their sovereign capacity as a State. The real question at the present juncture is this: Shall the people of New York lie under the imputation of unconvicted criminals; or shall their sense of this odious law be embodied in a statute, and the Commonwealth defend her citizens? We are now in anarchy; every humane man and woman is compelled to resist and evade a law of the United States, which conflicts with natural justice and republican institutions. We desire to return to the reign of law and order; and since the people do not intend to be oppressed in this way, let them enact their determination into a statute, and pledge the whole power of the State to its enforcement. We demand that every safeguard shall be thrown about the personal liberty of the citizens of New York, which the wisdom of our legislators can devise; that it shall be made an impossibility for any free man to be reduced to slavery on our soil, or forced to aid in subjugating his neighbor to servitude. We only ask that whatever law may be enacted shall be adequate to that end. Give us a practical, unmistakable, decisive statute, and enforce it against the whole world; and from the day when the Empire State takes this position, slavery aggression shall cease; the siege of liberty in the Free States will be raised; and our national barbarism will shrink back to its native home, preparatory to its abdication, and the inauguration of freedom throughout the Republic.

MISS REMOND IN DUBLIN.
In the Liberator of the 8th inst. we copied from the Dublin Freeman's Journal a sketch of an anti-slavery address delivered in Dublin, on the 11th ultimo, by Miss SARAH P. REMOND, (sister of C. L. REMOND,) of Salem, Massachusetts. The last number of the London Anti-Slavery Advocate contains an extended report of that admirable address, together with sketches of the speeches that were subsequently made by several highly respectable gentlemen at that meeting. We regret that we cannot find room to publish the entire proceedings. In the course of her impressive remarks, Miss REMOND said:-
It would be indeed a sad and fearful task to give even an outline of the <illegible> endured by the slaves, or the brutalities practised by the inhuman slave­holders. Man degraded, lashed, and tortured even to death; womanhood defenceless, exposed to the very wantonness of insult, and without protection from the licentiousness of a brutal master. It cannot be denied that 'Eliza Harris' was no fancied character, or that 'Madame Cassie' was no imaginary picture. There were still in the hands of merciless and licentious slaveholders women suffering even more than those, and enduring bitterer wrong, and more cruel outrage. Such were the results of American slavery. These facts should be impressed upon all, that those tyrants and their abettors had degraded their fellow-men to the level of the brutes. Was it not the fact that five-and-twenty thousand slaves were 'raised' annually in the most northern of the Slave States, to supply the human flesh market in the South, even as herds of cattle were reared and fattened in order to supply the Southern shambles? (hear.) Is it not true that in the proud city of Washington, the capital of the American Union, may be seen on stated days, numbers of enslaved human beings, group after group, in chains and fettered in pairs, driven like beasts to the auction mart to be sold like cattle to the highest bidder? (sensation.) Was it not the fact that on the first Friday of the present month, a sale of this description took place? Ay, took place in the city of Washington! (hisses.) The slaves were, marched through the streets to the place of sale, well guarded. There were white men in front and white men in the rear, armed with loaded weapons, lest the slaves, the victims of their rapacity, goaded to desperation, might assert their God-given right as men, and regain their liberty. (Cheers.) Bitter indeed it was for the lover of the freedom of the Human race (white, as well as colored) to be compelled to avow, with shame, that America was, and deserved to be, the scorn and the reproach of all good men in every part of the civilized world (cheers.) Happily, the free and enlightened denizens of this country were in a position to judge coolly, justly, and impartially on a subject so artfully slurred over and misrepresented by interested parties and their adherents, so marred by lukewarm friends and conceding philanthropists, and so opposed by the upholders of American slavery.
She (Miss Remond) would now place herself and the great cause she represented in the hands of that audience which represented so numerously and influentially the citizens of the Irish metropolis. She would ask them, without challenging the principles or feelings of a single individual amongst them, to become a jury in the issue between their fellow-im-
<c06>
mortal and his self-styled master; between the slave and his self-styled owner; between man's natural birthright of freedom derived from God, and the claim over the person of that human being, grounded on payment of a certain number of dollars, and certified by a bill of sale of a licensed appraiser of 'live stock and other chattel property' (loud cheers.) She (Miss Remond) would ask them to put themselves in the place of a jury, and to decide truly and give a verdict according to their conscience. She stood there to advocate and inculcate, with all the energy of her soul, the truly noble and upright principles avowed, taught, and defended by the 'ultra abolitionists' of the United States, those true friends of freedom and of the human race. She would invite her audience to imitate the energy, the zeal, the courage, and the perseverance of that noble band of philanthropists-the very salt of the American people-whose exertions and sacrifices in the cause of human liberty, and for the utter abolition of slavery in America, it was impossible to exaggerate, but which would become mutter of history, yet to be read and dwelt on with pride by their descendants (cheers.) It was the simple truth that many of these illustrious friends of freedom, both men and women, had devoted their time, their fortunes, and untiring personal labors to the noble cause of abolishing slavery in America (cheers.) An amount of odium, obloquy and hatred was daily visited upon them, such as no dweller in England or Ireland could have an idea of. One should be for a time in absolute contact with the American people (especially in the slaveholding States), and be a witness of the brutal acerbity prevailing against what is called the 'Slave population,' to comprehend the vindictive malice levelled by the slaveholders and their friends against those who would fain assert the slave's right to the equal privileges of human beings. People here do not and cannot fathom the terrible depth and darkness of the abyss of 'American slavery' (hear.) There was no use in concealing or glossing over the fact. The truth was, that the honest and earnest-minded abolitionists had an arduous, a terrible task to encounter. But were they discouraged by the immensity of the obstacles opposed to them, or dismayed by the difficulties and dangers in their path? No, far from it. They were progressing-slowly perhaps, but yet steadily and surely-day after day (cheers.) The abolitionists were, happily, as sincere and earnest in their efforts as the upholders of the slavery system were obstinate in their opposition. The abolitionists being true friends of freedom, were conscious that their philanthropic exertions tended not only to the rescue of the black slave from the curse of bondage, but would also be the means of eventually redeeming the very oppressors of those slaves from ruin and disaster, the inevitable results of a continuance of enforced slavery in coming times (immense cheering.)
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, the veteran leader of the abolitionists, (whose name should ever be spoken of with respect by every lover of freedom,) did not ask the American people to carry out a new principle; he merely applied a new test. He did not dream, when he began his efforts to free the slaves, that he was also working for the redemption of the whites. He made his first appeal to the Christian Church, for there he felt should be his first field of effort, and possibly of success. But how was he met? At first with coolness, apathy, and indifference-then with covert sneers and injurious calumnies; and at last by open and vindictive opposition. Such had been the reception 'religion' (so called) had accorded to devoted effort in the cause of human freedom (groans.) Such was the case even now, because (as had been already observed) the religious as well as the literary, the commercial, the political, and other influences in the States, were in favor of the strong against the weak; in favor of rampant despotism against unoffending helplessness; it was marshalled, in short, on the side of American slavery.
She (Miss Remond) did not stand before that as­semblage to advocate the cause of the slaves in America, merely because she was identified with them in complexion (an accident of which she was proud), but because they were men and women. Where they white as alabaster, they would he but men and women still, and, alas! slaves also. It was on the broad, comprehensive, and intelligible principle of that mutual love and charity which ought to exist amongst fellow-beings, that she stood there to advocate the cause of the most outraged and oppressed of all God's creatures; it was because she remembered and took to heart the divine precept, ‘Forasmuch as ye shall do it even to the least of these, my little ones, ye shall do it unto me' (loud cheers.) The true and sincere abolitionists in America inculcate and act on the maxim, 'God is our Father, and the Creator of us all, whatever may be our color, complexion, race, or country. We are all equal in the sight of God.' This also was a maxim taught and practically illustrated in the lives and acts of the early Christians, who worshipped the true God in secret in the catacombs of Pagan Rome (cheers.) These were the sentiments which, emanating from the glowing heart of the Saviour and from his sacred lips, still characterize the acts and doings of those who were known as 'ultra abolitionists' in America, who are stigmatized by every vile reproach, both as a body and individually, which vindictive malice can suggest. The abolitionists are not identified with any political party; their watchword is, 'The immediate and unconditional abolition of American slavery.' There is one political party (the Republicans, so called) who professed themselves to be opposed to the extension of slavery into free states or free territory, and who were to this extent hostile to the system; but they had not laid the axe to the root of the tree. The Abolitionists had their task before them, and their determination was never to cease to 'agitate, agitate, agitate,' until justice was done to the oppressed, and the stain of human slavery was banished from the American soil.
She made her appeal to women on behalf of the female slave, the most deplorably and helplessly wretched of human sufferers. Of all who drooped and writhed under the infliction of this horrible system, the greatest sufferer was defenceless woman (hear.) For the male slave, however brutally treated, there was some resource; but for the woman slave there was neither protection nor pity. If the veriest scoundrel, the meanest coward, the most loathsome ruffian, covets the person or plots the ruin of a defenceless female, provided she be known to be ever so remotely, of African descent, she is in his power (sensation). Remember, this did not depend upon color. She might possess the loveliness of sylph; she might be endowed with the dignified beauty of a Cleopatra, or have the winning grace and charming innocence of a Juliet; she might be rich in every rare gift and accomplishment which can enhance female beauty; let her skin be white as alabaster, it has only to be shown that she holds even remote affinity with the proscribed race; it has only to be shown that she is the child of a slave and a slave herself, she is liable to the brutality of the vilest wretches, and may be finally auctioned and sold at any time at the will of her 'master.' (Miss Remond here proceeded to read an extract from a recent work, descriptive of a harrowing scene at the sale of a beautiful young female, and then proceed-
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION SWERVRD FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . . . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ed.) She could go on thus furnishing a thousand painful instances, enforcing her appeal to women on behalf of the female slave, but she felt she need not; for when were the women of this country ever backward in the cause of humanity? (cheers). Every where woman was found ready to aid in every good work, as of old, the first at the cross and the last at the tomb. Need she name Elizabeth Fry or Florence Nightingale? (cheers). Should not woman take her part in this great work also?
Miss Remond, in conclusion, thanked the assemblage for their attention, and resumed her seat amidst enthusiastic plaudits.
The Rev. Dr. ABELTSHAUSER, Professor of Modern Languages in the University, then came forward, and moved the following resolution:
'That -we take this opportunity of renewing the expression of our sympathy with the American abolitionists, in their persistent and faithful efforts to free their country from the sin of slaveholding; that we are confident that all true-hearted Irishmen will range themselves on the side of freedom for all men, irrespective of color or clime; end that we deeply regret that some of our countrymen in the United" States have disgraced themselves and their native land by a base truckling to the slaveholders in the trans-atlantic republic.'
The Rev. Dr. FOLEY, Professor of Irish in the University, in seconding the resolution, said that his heart had been stirred within him by the language and sentiments of the splendid address they had heard from the lips of Miss Remond (cheers). As one who had visited the American States himself, and had made himself acquainted with the condition and feelings of the colored population there, he could appreciate the painful truthfulness of Miss Remond's portraiture of the slave system and its unhappy results, as regarded the moral and social welfare of the American people. He could not well express his horror and abhorrence of that system (hear, hear). He had examined some of the persecuted beings who had succeeded in escaping from the clutches of their tyrants. He had also conversed with others of the presented race who were born free, and every thing he had heard served only to confirm his conviction of the infamy and brutality involved in the principle and practice of American slavery (cheers). It was a gross delusion to suppose for an instant that the black population (slaves or otherwise) were content with their social lot in the American States. It was an insult to human nature to entertain such an idea. Let any honest and intelligent mind only imagine the nature of the malignant and insulting restrictions imposed by men who bragged of freedom, upon an industrious, useful, and unoffending class of their fellow-beings, who had shown themselves, caters paribus, to be fully the equals of their white brethren in point of intellectual capacity and high moral perception. Let our friends at home only imagine the kind of protection which the laws of' free' America afford to all shades of the colored population in the Slave States. They cannot, dare not, go out at night or leave their homes after a prescribed hour, without a pass, as if they lay under suspicion of being spoliators and robbers. It was a crime, by the law, to teach even the alphabet to the black pupil (hisses), that is to say, if that pupil happened to be a bondsman. The slave owner had the power of selling a female slave to one purchaser, and the child to another, severing parent and child, never perhaps to meet in this world (hisses). What mattered the hue of the skin? The black mother was as fondly and devotedly attached to her offspring as any white mother could be (cheers). Unhappily it was too true that there were some in these enlightened realms who had been somehow subjected to the pernicious influence exercised by the promoters of American slavery, and were known openly and shamelessly to defend and advocate that abominable system (hear, hear and hisses). But the task of the moral abolitionists, the friends of humanity, plainly was, to adopt the most direct and effective measures for developing in the public mind a thorough and practical hatred of that system, and a unanimous determination on the part of all upright men to remove such a blot from civilized society (cheers). They should create and foster a public opinion against slavery and the slave trade, and they should be as thoroughly in earnest in so doing as Paul, the apostle of Christ, had been when he stigmatized kidnappers and men-stealers as violators of the law of God, and ranked them with murderers. (Cheers). He (the Rev. Dr. Foley), believed that a time would come-nay, was coming, (though he did not recommend any cruel or violent reprisals,) when a day of reckoning and retribution would arrive for those persecutors of their kind; when the as yet vague alarms and undefined apprehensions which were oppressing the guilty minds of the slave owners, and loomed like a storm-laden cloud in the horizon of their future, would give place to dread reality; when those who had long been the victims of this brutal tyranny, avarice, and licentiousness would be the witnesses of their punishment (cheers). The rev. gentleman concluded amidst loud cheers, by seconding the resolution.
The CHAIRMAN, in putting the resolution, said, that before doing so, he wished to say that he had often experienced a sinking of heart when he came to consider the conduct of Irishmen who had made America their home (hear, hear). He had asked himself, how it was that they bad become in America so inconsistent and so false to the principles of freedom which they so earnestly advocated at home (hear, hear)? and why it was that men who had been accustomed to prize liberty as the first and dearest of human blessings, could, in another land, range themselves on the side of the most brutal and relentless foes of human freedom? He trusted that the influence of this night's meeting would work out beneficial results, in at least preventing others from falling into so grave an error. He hoped that such of his fellow-countrymen as were going to America would remember when there to adhere to the cause of Freedom. If they did not determine to do so, they had better remain at home. The Chairman then put the resolution, which was carried with acclamations.
WILLIAM NEILSON HANCOCK. L. L. D. (formerly Whitely Professor of Political Economy in the University), rose to move the second resolution, which was as follows:-
'That the recent appearance of articles in support of slavery and the slave trade, in many influential London journals, indicates the progress of a corrupt public sentiment in this country, which we attribute to the great increase of intercourse with the United States, where a pro-slavery public feeling extensively prevails. That it if is incumbent on all who abhor a system so inhuman and unchristian as slavery, to make known its real character, and we therefore rejoice in the promulgation of such information as we have heard this evening, and cordially recommend Miss Remond to the assistance and good offices of all who desire to promote a sound anti-slavery sentiment in these kingdoms.'
The learned gentleman said that this resolution was intended to convey the sentiments of the meeting with regard to what they had heard on the subject of American slavery.
He remembered some years ago, when he had been speaking and writing on this subject, he had acknowledged himself to be very much disheartened, and used to admit that he almost despaired of the progress of the anti-slavery cause, so little hope or expectation did he then entertain of its ultimate success (hear). About that very time, however, or shortly after, there appeared that very remarkable work, 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' written by Mrs. Beecher Stowe (cheers). Then he felt that an answer and a rebuke was give to his doubts and despondency in the good cause, when an American lady could write such a book, a book read and circulated throughout the whole world, translated into various languages-a book which portrayed American slavery in its true colors, which appealed to the finest feelings of our nature, in language fraught with vivid truth, force, and simplicity (cheers). Seeing this, he felt that it would be folly to doubt the final success of the anti-slavery cause (cheers). He would repeat that no one, after once reading that book, could bare a moment's doubt as to the final result of the conflict between slavery and public feeling and opinion (cheers). The conviction of that result had never been brought more forcibly to his mind than it had this night (hear). He needed not to speak of his own impressions with regard to the able address they had all heard with such delight (hear). This resolution expressed their grateful appreciation of Miss Remond's able elucidation of the character of American slavery, and her not less masterly delineation of its baneful effects on the social condition of an entire people (hear). Miss Remond thought Anxiously and felt deeply in connation with this subject. She had spoken as she felt, and they had all seen how she had succeeded. So far, then, this resolution simply expressed the unanimous feeling of the meeting (cheers). He (Dr, Hancock) knew of no other agency so well adapted to succeed and follow up the effect produced on the public mind by
<c02>
Mrs. Stowe's book, than lectures such as that they had heard delivered this evening (cheers). They were accustomed in this country to hear lectures on public subjects delivered by men only; but this was a great moral question. Miss Remond had identified herself with it, and had made it her own (cheers). It was also a question involving a mission of kindness and humanity, a question coming completely within woman's province. Miss Remond, feeling deeply and painfully on the question, had but obeyed the noble impulse which urged her to appeal on behalf of the oppressed and the injured, and as her appeal had met with such a cordial and enthusiastic reception here, why not in other parts of the kingdom? Therefore the friends of humanity, who longed for the extinction of American slavery, would recommend that Miss Remond's lectures should be delivered in every town and city throughout the land.
Mr. RICHARD D. web seconded the resolution, which was carried with acclamation.
MISS REMOND came forward, amidst renewed plaudits, and said she wished to thank them all for the kind attention with which they had followed her through the course of a necessarily lengthened address on a painful subject (cheers). If by any means she could have conveyed the spirit as well as the matter of this meeting to America, the slaves would take courage and rejoice in renewed hope of freedom, and their advocates would work with renewed vigor, and the slaveholders would believe that the hour of retribution was at hand, that they saw' the handwriting on the wall,' and that their unholy power was passing away for ever (loud cheers).

PROTESTANTS OF BELGIUM ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
To the Christians of the United States who Support Slavery:
Dear Brethren of the United States.-The Christian Missionary Church of Belgium, by the organ of its Sandal Assembly, charges us to address to you a word of Christian fraternity.
The religious awakening which the Holy Spirit is working so marvelously in your favored country, affords the hope that the festering wound of slavery will ere long be bound up and healed; and we feel ourselves urged to stand forward to encourage you to set yourselves actively to work for the attainment of this object.
Never, as it appears to us, has the voice of God so powerfully exhorted you to strive for the abolition of an institution which Christianity reprobates, and which is utterly discordant with your social and political organization.
We do not conceive that there exists a single citizen of the United States, reading the Bible, professing Christianity, and claiming fur himself a right, religious, civil and political liberty, who can think himself authorized to reduce a single human creature to the condition of a slave.
We cannot comprehend that a difference of color, and of education, or a bargain concluded against the will of him who is the victim of it, can justify such an usurpation. Since, as said the Scripture, (Acts xvii. 26,)'God hath made of one blood all nations of men,' no man can refuse to the African his rights as a member of the human family.
There is no one, we think, who would venture any longer to maintain, that the degraded condition of the slave has broken the moral and intellectual ties which bind him to the human race. Experience has superabundantly proved, in your country especially, that the African possesses all the faculties of mind and heart that characterize the children of Adam, and that in him these noble faculties only require to he cultivated by a liberal and Christian education to reach the level of those of civilized man.
Nor can we ever any the more understand how a man; who professes to be one of the redeemed of Jesus Christ-to be a disciple of Him who humbled Himself even to the infamous death of the Cross, to rescue, and to bring him into the glorious liberty of the children of God, can allow himself to retain his fellow man-much less his fellow believer-under the oppression of slavery. Has he then never read the parable narrated by St. Matthew xviii 23, 35? Was his heart never startled on hearing these words:' Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on the?'
Is it to authorize us to hold slaves, that the Lord says to us-' and all ye are brethren,' (Matt, xxiii. 8.)'Love one another as I have loved you,' (John xv. 12)?
Seeing then, in the midst of nations professing Christianity, human beings retained in a brutalizing servitude, which the Old Testament even never knew, and still less authorized, we think we hear those awful words of the Eternal addressing the slaveholder,' What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crutch Unto Me from the ground,' (Gen. iv. 10.)
You must not, assuredly, dear American brethren, consider us as having entered upon this question, from any personal interest. The admiration which many of your institutions inspire, the respect we entertain for you, and the numerous ties which exist between yourselves and us, the grounds of which are non-existent between us and the negro race, are more likely to prepossess us in your favor, than in favor of the slaves. It is the voice of our consciences-the cry of our hearts oppressed with the thought of the grievous situation of the slave, which forces us to address to you, notwithstanding our weakness, this word of warning.
Besides, do not conceal it from yourselves, the maintenance of slavery in the United States constitutes a frightful scandal in the eyes of the nations of Europe. The Romish Church of the present day is seeking to wash itself clean from the reproach of having ever favored slavery.
No doubt there exist in Europe vicious and anti-Christian institutions. Far from denying it, we hasten to acknowledge it with humiliation. But we pray God to remove them whilst we work to attain this end; and we shall be always happy to see you join your efforts with ours. But we beseech you to labor also incessantly to banish from the United States a vice that brings outrageous scandal on Christianity, which many accuse us of complicity therein, on account of your religious profession.
We close, entreating you, well beloved brethren, not to despise the word of exhortation which we have taken the liberty of addressing to you; and praying earnestly to the Lord that He would not permit the wondrous awakening which the Holy Spirit is working in the midst of you to cease, until it has made of all Americans, and of all the inhabitants of the earth, free men-enfranchised from social slavery, and from the slavery of sin.
Accept, dear brethren, the assurance of our sincere devotedness. For the administrative Committee, and by its order,
LEONARD ANET. Sec'y of the Belgium Christian Missionary Church.
Brussels, February 1st, 1859.

MAZZINI ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
The following letter from Mazzini was received a few days ago by the principal of a private school in the vicinity of New York:
LONDON. March 21, 1859.
DEAR SIR:-I beg to apologize for being so late in acknowledging the receipt of $112 09, subscribed by you and others at the end of the lecture delivered at your institution by my friend, Mm. Jessie M. White Mario, toward our Italian school, &c.
I am very much pleased at my honored friend's first success and response to her efforts in the United States, coming from Young America, to whom Young Italy looks for sympathy and support in her approaching struggle, and my thanks are the thanks of all the members, both teachers and pupils, of our Italian school.
We are fighting the same sacred battle for freedom and the emancipation of the oppressed-you, Sir, against negro, we against white slavery. The cause is truly identical; for, depend upon it, the day in which we shall succeed in binding to one freely accepted pact twenty-six millions of Italians, we shall give what we cannot now, an active support to the cause you pursue. We are both the servants of the God who says before Me there is no Master, no Slave, no Man, no Woman, but only Human Nature, which must be everywhere responsible, therefore free.
May God bless your efforts and ours! May the day soon arise in which the word bondage will disappear from our living languages, and only point out a historical record! And, meanwhile, let the knowledge that we, all combatants under the same flag, do, through time and space, commune in love and faith, strengthen one another against the unavoidable suffering which we must most on the way. Believe me, my dear Sir,
Very gratefully yours,
JOSEPH MAZZINI.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, APRIL 22, 1859.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city of New York, in the City Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on Tuesday, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.; and continued, by adjournment, at the same place, on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday forenoon and afternoon.
The sublime and beneficent object for which this Society was organized yet remains to be fully consummated. No matter how numerous the difficulties, how formidable the obstacles, how many the foes to be vanquished-slavery must cease to pollute and curse the land. No matter, whether that event be near or remote, whether the taskmaster willingly or unwillingly relinquish his arbitrary power, whether by a peaceful or a bloody process-slavery must die. No matter, though, to effect it, every party should be torn by dissensions, every sect dashed into fragments, the national compact dissolved-still, slavery roust be abolished. If the State cannot survive the Anti-Slavery agitation, then let the State perish. If the Church must be cart down by the straggling of Humanity to be free, then let the Church fall. If the Union cannot be maintained, except by <Illegible> human freedom on the altar of a bloody tyranny, then let the Union be dissolved. If the Republic must be blotted out from the roll of nations, by proclaiming liberty to the enslaved, then let the Republic sink beneath the waves of oblivion, and a shout of joy, louder than the voice of many waters, fill the universe at its extinction. Against this declaration, none but traitors and tyrants will raise an outcry. It is the mandate of Heaven, and the voice of God. It has righteousness for its foundation, reason for its authority, and truth for its support. It is simply asserting the supremacy of right over wrong, of liberty over oppression, of God over man.
There must be no compromise with slavery-none whatever. Nothing is gained, every thing is lost, by subordinating principle to expediency. The spirit of freedom must be inexorable in its demand for the instant release of all who are groaning in bondage, nor abate one jot or title of its righteous claims. By one remorseless grasp, the rights of humanity have been taken away; and by one strong blow, the iron hand of usurpation must be made to relinquish its murderous hold. The Slave Power cannot be conquered by compromise, stratagem, or bribery. Its dying throes will convulse the land. The conflict admits of no parley. No flag of truce must be sent or received; no quarter must be given or taken.
Animated by these sentiments, let there come up to this anniversary a large and spirited gathering of the members and friends of this Society, resolved upon a fresh consecration, and still more effective efforts to accomplish their nightly undertaking.
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers may be expected on the occasion. [Particulars hereafter.] In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
SYDNEY H. GAY, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
OUR FOREIGN POPULATION.
The last number of the Boston' Pionier,' the new German paper, copies the brief reply we appended to the letter addressed to us by its editor, respecting the proposed alteration of the Constitution of Massachusetts, requiring of foreign naturalized citizens a residence in the State of two years after the time fixed for their naturalization, before being permitted to vote. It says:-
'CHANGE IN MASSACHUSETTS. The Boston Investigator, which does not generally meddle with politics condemns, in the strongest terms, the amendment to the Constitution, and anticipates the rejection of the same by the voice of the people. Mr. Garrison, (who has been sick for some time,) in his rep y to our letter in the Inst number of the Liberator, expresses himself to the same effect.
ï¿½We certainly are not now of Mr. Garrison's opinion, that Know-Nothingism is on the decline, or is already harmless; furthermore it happens to be the fact, that the Republican journals indirectly defend a measure in open violation of the Philadelphia Platform,-which is of little consequence, except that most of them indirectly condemn themselves. Nevevertheless, we have now got thus far at least, that, in Massachusetts itself, official Know-Nothingism has been condemned, not only by the Democrats, but also by organs and statesmen of a liberal disposition, and has thereby become isolated. The true Republican sentiment has (with the exception of the Liberator, which confines itself almost exclusively to the slavery question) no organ at all in Boston, which is politically ruled by commercial conservatism. In this city, the Republican newspapers, like the Democratic, court the favor of the South, while the interest of this mercantile community unites with it, and the mercantile community gives the advertisements, &c. The chief papers which are better affected, in the State of Massachusetts, are the Springfield Republican and the Worcester Spy. These two papers have repeatedly condemned the amendment. Nevertheless the opposition is not confined to these. As we remarked in our last number, the liberal Republican in Boston itself ore also bestirring themselves, in order yet, at the eleventh hour, to work to the utmost of their power for the defeat of the amendment. Perhaps we shall be able to say more on this point next week. Let it be constantly understood, that those politicians have been brought to their feet by no means from any special sympathy for foreigners, or from any pickings of conscience, but evidently because of the political necessity that has at last become clear to them. The unexpected opposition to the measure has apprised them of its consequences. Of this, more anon. Meanwhile, we must give the majority of these Messrs. Editors, whose every other word means' practical,' to understand, that we have as little respect to entertain for their political manoeuvies as for their characters.'
In Boston, the Atlas and Bee has sought directly to praise, and the N. Y. Tribune in every way to apologize for them. The N. Y. Times and a host of other papers have taken no notice of them whatever-i. e., have passively approved.
The Milford Journal holds out the prospect that it will be accepted by 100,000 majority.
The 'Pionier' dissents from our assertion that' Know-Nothingism is oft the decline,' but in what part of the country that journal finds it to be as dominant as it was four years ago, we do not know. Its supremacy in this Commonwealth, at that time, was absolute; now, it can achieve nothing, without assuming to be also Republican; and we do not believe it will succeed in getting sufficient aid from that party to carry the measure referred to above. Out of Massachusetts, it has no vitality whatever.
In this connection, we beg leave to remark, that if any portion of the American people have had cause to dread the early and too easy access of our foreign population to the polls, they have been the Abolitionists; for, until very recently, the German and Irish voters have always gone almost en masse with the Democratic party, for every measure dictated by the Slave Power, however detestable or pro-slavery, and have given no word of cheer, no smile of approbation to the Anti-Slavery movement, being recreant to the cause of human rights and impartial liberty as pertaining to the millions in bondage on the American soil. Yet-though conscious of this deplorable fact, and lamenting this blindness and inconsistency-the Abolitionist; have never sought to proscribe our foreign population at any time or in any way, but have acted upon the principles so grandly enunciated and so eloquently enforced in the remarkable speech of carl schurz in Faneuil Hall, on Monday evening last. Of the Irish population there appears to be no hope; the battle of freedom, the triumph of the emancipation cause, if won at last, must be won without their aid; nay, must be won against their concentrated re
<c04>
ligious and political action. No appeal to their sense of justice, to their regard for suffering humanity, or to their democratic professions, has as yet availed aught: they are the most reliable allies of the slave-breeders and slave-hunters at the South, and the most bitter and prejudiced opponents of the colored population it the North. True, in an enlightened sense, 'they know not what they do,' for they are most ignorant and degraded, and therefore easily controlled alike by priest and demagogue. Happily, the Germans are better educated as a class, and are beginning to understand what are the operations of Southern slavery, and <Illegible> designs of the slave oligarchy; and so are gradual espousing the Free Soil or Republican party. We are glad to see this change, imperfect and inadequate as it is; for it is' the beginning of the end'-and the end must be, as a matter of principle, the repudiation of every compromise measure, and the adoption of the abolition motto,' No Union with slaveholders!' We have no sort of respect for any foreign naturalized citizen who is denouncing as unjust and tyrannical the proportion to add two years to the term fixed by the naturalization law, before the right to vote can be enjoyed, but who, at the same time, cares nothing that four millions of native-born Americans are stripped of every right, ranked with the brutes, bought and sold as property, and subjected to insults, outrages and tortures innumerable. His love of liberty is nothing but personal selfishness.
MOTHERS AND INFANTS, NURSES AND NURSING. Translated from the French of a Treatise on Nursing, Weaning, and the General Treatment of Young Children, by Dr. Al. Done, late Head of the Clinical Department of the Faculty of Paris, Inspector General of the Schools of Medicine, Counsellor of the University, Private Professor of Microscopy, &c., &c. Boston: Phillips, Sampson & Co. 1859.
The author of this very sensible and practical work, which is written in a plain and popular style, stands so high in his profession in France, that, being entrusted by Louis Philippe with the choice of a nurse for the infant Count of Paris, at a time when several nurses had been tried without success, he devoted himself to a series of severe studies upon the microscopic appearances of the milk. The results at which he arrived, and the success attending their application in practice, gained for him at a very early ago the Decoration of the Legion of Honor, and the Office of Inspector General of the Schools of Medicine in Paris. These results, with the author's views upon the general treatment of children, have been embodied in this work-a work which all young mothers and nurses will do well to have in their possession. It is replete with good sense, and full of practical suggestions find Bound advice. It treats of questions to be settled before the birth of the child: of nursing by the mother; of professional nurses; of artificial nursing, or bringing up children by hand; of the general regimen of children; of their intellectual development and moral in connection with physical education; of the cases demanded by the most common accidents to which children are exposed; and of the regimen employed as treatment in certain diseases of children, and in particular of a stay in the country, and the milk regimen. The plates accompanying this work, giving a microscopic view of various kinds of milk, are curious as revelations.
THE HOMEOPATHIC DOMESTIC PHYSICIAN AND TRAVELLER'S MEDICAL COMPANION: Containing Plain Instructions for curing Diseases, including those of Females and Children, by Homoeopathic Remedies By Dr. Ferd. Gustav CEhme, late Homoeopathic Physician in Dresden, Saxen, and author of several Homoeopathic Works. Concord: Edson C. Eastman. Boston: Otis Clapp. 1859.
This little treatise, by its terseness, simplicity and clearness of specification, contains ns much us a far more voluminous work usually does, and is what we have desired to see for family use. The first part treats of Homoeopathic therapeutics, the administration of medicine, and diet. The second part of diseases of the brain, nervous system, and mind; diseases of the eyes, ears, nose, mouth, throat and chest diseases of the stomach, liver, bowels, &c.; diseases of the sexes, of the skin, and other organs; and has a chapter on the treatment of children. The third part is an enumeration of the various remedies to be used, according to the nature of the disease.
The Atlantic monthly for MAY. This popular monthly makes its appearance as promptly as usual, the following being its table of contents for May:-I. The Gymnasium. II. Why did the Governess Faint? III. Two Years After. IV. A Bundle of Old Letters. V. In the Pines. VI. The Last Bird. VII. The Utah Expedition. VIII. Bulls and Bears, IX. Inscription for an Alms-Chest. X. A Trip to Cuba. XL The Professor at the Breakfast-Table XII. The Minister's Wooing. XIII. The Walker of the Snow. XIV. Reviews and Literary Notices. XV. Recent American Publications.
THE LATE NICHOLAS BROWN, OF RHODE ISLAND.- The following tribute to the memory of NICHOLAS BROWN, (late Lieut. Governor of Rhode Island,) is from a private letter, and was written with no view to publication. But its justice, and the fact that it comes from one who knew him well, lead us to give it this place:-
Our friend NICHOLAS BROWN is gone. Another friend and myself called upon him, not many weeks since, to lay before him the present needs of the Anti-Slavery cause in our State, especially in regard to the State Convention we are expecting soon to hold in Providence. With the utmost kindness and interest in our cause, he promised us the aid we sought
Mr. Brown had-what we so seldom find-genuine, unselfish, untrammeled humanity; so that we had but to present our claim, and he never felt obliged, before he responded to it, to take into consideration the worldly-wise objections which we encounter almost every where.'
He was an upright and a generous man;-he scorned above all things pretence and hypocrisy;-he was true to his convictions of right, in word and in deed. His loss will be sensibly felt, not in his native State alone, but in a more extended relation.
THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL in the New York Legislature received 55 votes to 44 against it, when it came up for final action. As it requires a majority of all the members elected to either house, (65 in the Assembly,) it did not pass. Ten more votes would have carried it. More than this number were absent, or dodged, who were known to favor the bill. The negative votes were mostly Democrats or Americans. Very few Republicans voted against it, although more shamefully dodged. The influence of eminent lawyers defeated the bill. The feeling was all one way, until some book-worms of the profession frightened the timid. The result in Massachusetts also dampened the ardor of some.
REPUBLICAN MEETING IN FANEUIL HALL. On Monday evening last, the Republicans and many German citizens of Boston had a full meeting in Faneuil Hall, to hear Carl Schurz, the German orator of Milwaukee, and through him to receive the greetings of the Republicans of Wisconsin and the North west, in view of their recent victories. A considerable number of ladies were in the galleries. Hon. Henry Wilson presided on the occasion. Curl Shurz, the German exile in the cause of European liberty, was received with great enthusiasm on taking the platform, and his noble thoughts and glowing sentiments elicited frequent applause as he proceeded. With only one or two exceptions, we pronounce it the most eloquent speed. that has been made in Faneuil Hall for fifty years.
<c05>
CLERICAL CALUMNY'-REPLY TO C. K. W.
MR. GARRISON:
The strictures of your respected correspondent, C. K.W., entitled' Clerical Calumny,' upon the newspaper report' of an address delivered in the Union Congregational Church, Worcester, on the evening of the 17th March, by Rev. Henry T. Cheever, of Jewett City, Conn., in explanation of the ideas of the new Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States,' and not met my attention until to-day, I find the article copied in the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
Those strictures I regard as entirely justifiable and Warranted, on the ground of the presumptive truth and accuracy of the newspaper report on which they are based: but it happens in this instance, (as your correspondent has probably often found in respect to his own remarks at public meetings,) that that report is lamentably incorrect and deficient; and I am sure the candor of C. K W. will lead him to say so, and to withdraw his imputations of false witness and willful calumny,' when he rends all that was said to the point in the address referred to. I therefore ask the insertion of the following paragraphs, the erroneous report of which has naturally elicited the article of your correspondent:-
'Another reason that has wrought with us to induce the formation of a new Society is this, that there has not been until now any distinctively Christian or Church organization against slavery. The American Anti-Slavery Society, formed in 1833, was, indeed, an outgrowth of Christianity, a natural product from the union of Humanity with the spirit of the Gospel; and it ought to have been adopted and guided by the Church at the time of its formation, through the cordial cooperation and control of her representative men in the ministry; for it was essentially a religious movement, and the men who founded it were men of prayer. To that Society will doubtless be awarded, in history, the prime agency in this greatest of modern reformations. Honor to its founders, and to the brave men who have perseveringly sustained it, and who have done so much to disseminate anti-slavery truth by means of it, and to keep the wrongs of the slave before the eye and the ear of the nation. Their reward is with them, in the pioneer-work which they have done so well, of cutting and clearing for the principles of freedom to grow, which they, too, have planted, with unsparing hand. Posterity will care for their fame.
But that Society has not been the representative of the Church. It has been mainly, for years, under the control of men, who, whatever may be said of their unwavering fidelity to the cause of Humanity, do not hold, as we understand, to the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures, nor to the Protestant view of the Bible as an authoritative rule of faith and practice; and although right and true upon the great question of human freedom, and far in advance of most of the churches in practical philanthropy, they did not speak for those churches, nor could a Society in their hands fairly represent the American Church.
It has long been felt by many that a visible organization was needed in the bosom of the Church, that should bear, without concealment or compromise, the testimony of the Word of God against slavery, and should rally under its banner Christian churches of every denomination in the United States, and should stand as the acknowledged exponent and organ of the Church.:, if not of Christianity, in behalf of the slave. To supply this existing deficiency is our object in this organization, and our reason for it; and we seek herein the cordial co-operation and support of all Christian ministers and churches. We ask that pastors and church members control their names with ours, and lay before their several churches the claims of this Society to their support, and that they organize every where local Church Anti-Slavery Societies on the same principles.'
At the close of the address, after giving divers other reasons for the movement, and proving, by a rigid comparison of facts, that there had been a great change in the attitude of Southern Christians toward slavery, this is added:-
' It is the great fact of this Southern apostasy that now renders necessary a positive expression from the Northern churches; and it is to advocate and secure such an expression, and to give to it moral weight, by the union of the people of God in it of every denomination, that we have organized a Church Anti-Slavery Society. We ask now every Christian opponent of slavery in the United States to join us in this movement. We find fault with no existing anti-slavery organization. We do not say to any man, or to any Society, Stand by, for I am holier than thou. We would not absorb, or supersede, or crowd from the track any genuine anti-slavery agency. We have no fellowship with the narrow bigotry that refuses to join with an honest man in a practical work of charity, or in an aggressive movement against some great social wrong, because that man is not with us in our theological dogmas, or because we fear the imputation of his doctrinal peculiarities. We can go with an earnest worker against slavery and intemperance, without first asking whether he can go with its in our theology or to the communion table. All those who are in the essentials of the Protestant faith, who hold with us the Head and confess their allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ our King, are invited to enter with us into solemn league and covenant against slavery, on the basis of the Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States.
A man high in the confidence of Church and State in this nation (Rev. Albert Barnes) has justly said that there is no power outside the American Church that could sustain slavery one hour, were it not for the sanction and support given to slavery in the Church. Let Christians, then, of every denomination, do what they can, not merely to withdraw the support of the Church from this foul system of wrongs and abominations, but to marshal all its forces in stern array against it. Nor let minor differences of past antagonisms be suffered to keep good men from coming together on the platform of this Christian Society, to fight shoulder to shoulder with the acknowledged gigantic evil of the country and the age. All who hold to the sinfulness of the system and of the practice of slavery, whether in their metaphysics they hold the sin of slavery to be a sin per se, or a sin extra se, let them unite in this practical organization for the extinction of that sin. If they can call the claiming of property in man sinful, and the selfish keeping of a slave, without his consent, a sin, then let them come with us, and bring their churches with them, so as to bear upon the removal of the greatest scandal to Protestant Christianity known in our day.'
No one could be more averse to calumniating the American Anti-Slavery Society than the author of this address. He was a member of two auxiliaries of that Society, one in the Theological Seminary, and another in his native town; and he was a delegate from the Seminary at the great meeting in 1839 or 1840, when a division was made in the National Society. And how far the author of that address has refrained from all outward and visible manifestation' of his anti-slavery principles and views, aside from the habitual declaration of them in his public ministry, (and that not without cost,) may be learned, first, by reference to a series of twenty or more letters, over his own signature, in the New York Evangelist, some years ago, and, second, by consulting the chapters of a Inter volume, called 'The Pulpit and the Pew.'
With these plain statements and references, it will be seen to be unnecessary for a' representative of the Church Anti-Slavery Society' to notice further the three alleged charges of your correspondent, in. as much as they were never either made, intended, or implied. H.T. C.
REJOINDER.
Since H. T. C. admits that my strictures upon the newspaper report of his Address were strictly justified"
<c06>
We, and warranted by the terms of that report, I am relieved from the necessity of further reference to either of these documents. In passing them by, I will merely remark, that my comments on the erroneous report seem to have been providentially ordered to the very desirable end of eliciting precisely what was said upon that occasion; and that, but for these comments, those interested in the new Society would have continued to think, and would have had good reason to think, that the speaker and the' Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States' meant to affirm just what that report affirmed. I happy in having done the good service to both these parties of bringing their real intent and meaning more accurately before the public.
Since now, however, we have the true sentiments and the exact language of the Address, in relation to those controverter points, I wish to make some comments upon them also.
H. T. C. testifies that' the American Anti-Slavery Society, formed in 1833,was an outgrowth of Christianity, a natural product from the union of Humanity with the Spirit of the Gospel.' He says also-' It was essentially a religious movement.' This testimony is true, and it is nothing more than justice to the Anti-Slavery Society requires. If I should make any criticism upon the statement, it would be in behalf of the Gospel, which I hold to include humanity as one of its essential elements, instead of being complete without it, and requiring the addition of that ingredient to make anti-slavery. The America Anti-Slavery Society was, indeed, a religious movement, an out-growth of Christianity. But what then does H. T. C. mean by saying-' There has not been until now any distinctively Christian or Church organization against slavery'?
If he means to assume that church and Christian, used adjectively, each imply the other-if he means to assume that the absence of a church organization necessarily implies the absence of a Christian organization- I protest against such an abuse of words and of meaning. So far from the church of this country being necessarily Christian, it will be unable, judged by the Gospel rule, the rule given by Jesus of Nazareth, to prove itself Christian at all. But, leaving this point, I understand H. T. C. to say that the American Anti-Slavery Society is not distinctively Christian. Mere assertion, on either side, is here of but little worth. It is the life which must prove, both for an individual and for an association, whether it bears a Christian character. It is certain that the American Anti-Slavery Society does not label itself Christian. But since this fact is used to its prejudice by those who seem to think that an article cannot be genuine without a label, and can have no genuine characteristics but such as appear in this label, I will give my reasons for thinking, individually, that the American Anti-Slavery Society is 'distinctively Christian.' I think so from the open fact, (of which I challenge disproof,) that the whole official life of the Society, its declarations and its acts, from the beginning until now, have been in perfect coincidence with the following ideas, manifestly Christian, which appear in its Preamble, Constitution, and Declaration of Sentiments, and in an Exposition of these, given by its founder, William Lloyd Garrison.
EXTRACTS FROM THE PREAMBLE AND CONSTTUTION.
'Whereas, the Most High God' hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell upon all the face of the earth,' and hath commanded them to love their neighbors as themselves; and whereas, our National Existence is based upon this principle, as recognized in the Declaration of Independence,' that all mankind are created equal, and that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;' and whereas, at the lapse of nearly sixty years since the faith and honor of the American people were pledged to this avowal, before Almighty God and the world, nearly one-sixth part of the nation are held in bondage by their fellow-citizens; and whereas, slavery is contrary to the principles of natural justice, of our republican form of government, and of the Christian religion, and is destructive of the prosperity of the country, while it is endangering the peace, union, and liberties of the States; and whereas, we believe it the duty and interest of the masters immediately to emancipate their slaves, and that no scheme of expatriation, either voluntary or by compulsion, can remove this great and increasing <Illegible> and whereas, we believe it is practicable, by <Illegible> to the consciences, hearts, and interests of the people, to awaken a public sentiment throughout the nation that will be opposed to the continuance of Slavery in any part of the republic, and, by effecting the speedy abolition of Slavery, prevent a general convulsion; mid whereas, we believe we owe it to the oppressed, to our fellow-citizens who hold slaves, to our whole country, to posterity, and to God, to do all that is lawfully in our power to bring about the extinction of slavery, we do hereby agree, with a prayerful reliance on the Divine aid, to form ourselves into a Society, to be governed by the following Constitution:
ARTICLE I. This Society shall be called the AMERCAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
II. The objects of this Society are the entire abolition of Slavery in the United Stales. While it admits that each State, where slavery exists, has, by the Constitution of the United States the exclusive right to legislate in regard to its abolition in said State, it shall aim to convince all our fellow-citizens, by arguments addressed to their understandings and consciences, that slaveholding is a heinous crime in the sight of God, and that the duty, safety, and best interests of all concerned, require its immediate abandonment, without expatriation.'
Concluding portion of the' DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS':
'These are our views and principles-these our designs and measures. With entire confidence in the overruling justice of God, we plant ourselves upon the Declaration of Independence and the truths of Divine revelation as upon the Everlasting Rock.
We shall organize Anti-Slavery societies, if possible, in every city, town and village in our land.
We shall send forth agents to lift up the voice of remonstrance, of warning, of entreaty, and rebuke.
We shall circulate, unsparingly and extensively, anti-slavery tracts and periodicals.
We shall enlist the pulpit and the press in the cause of the suffering and the dumb.
We shall aim at a purification of the churches from all participation in the guilt of slavery.
We shall encourage the labor of tremens rather than that of slaves, by giving a preference to their productions; and
We shall spare no means to bring the whole nation to speedy repentance.
Our trust for victory is solely in God. We may be personally defeated, but our principles never. truth, justice, reason, humanity, must and will gloriously triumph. Already a host is coming up to the help of the Lord against the mighty, and the prospect before us is full of encouragement.
Submitting this DECLARATION to the candid examination of the people of this country, and of the friends of liberty throughout the world, we hereby affix our signatures to it; pledging ourselves that, under the guidance and by the help of Almighty God, we will do all that in us lies, consistently with this Declaration of our principles, to overthrow the most execrable system of slavery that has ever been witnessed upon earth-to deliver our land from its deadliest curse-to wipe out the foulest stain that rests upon our national escutcheon-and to secure colored population of the United States all the rights and privileges which belong to them as men and as Americans-come what may to our persons, our interests, or our reputation- whether we live to witness the triumph of liberty, justice and HUMANITY, or perish untimely as martyrs in this great, benevolent, and holy cause.
Done at Philadelphia, the 6th day of December. A. D. 1833.'
Extracts from an' EXPOSITION OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY PLATFORM,' phonographically reported from a speech of William Lloyd Garrison at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, in Boston, May, 1853.
'Sir, for what are we assembled at this Anniversary? It is to bear anew our testimony against chattel slavery in our land. That sin is so palpable, that crime is so enormous, that no man can honestly doubt in regard to its real nature; for God never yet made a human being who felt in his soul that he ought to be a slave; and, therefore the universal heart of our common humanity, in all ages, in all climes, has rejected the idea, that man can be made the property of man.'
'But, surely, it is desirable to organize; it is better to work together than to work singly; for, by con-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
centrating our forces, we can operate all the more powerfully upon public opinion. But how shall we organize; What should be the platform laid down. upon which to invite every opponent of slavery to stand?
In the first place, it ought not to be a religions organization, technically speaking-Presbyterian, Baptist, Methodist, or any other; for that would be exclusive and sectarian. It would leave, a vast multitude of the friends of freedom outside of it, for various reasons; and, hence, there would be great loss of strength, and an unwise division of forces.
In the second place, it must not be, simply or mainly, a political organization; for as only a small portion of the people are permitted to vote in this government-as one half of the population, on account of their sex, are politically disfranchised-as many persons are conscientiously; opposed to upholding a government of violence and blood-as many others are precluded from the ballot-box by their views of the pro-slavery compromises in the Constitution-a mere political organization must necessarily be exclusive, and therefore contracted in its sphere of activity and influence.
Sir, we want something better than either the one or the other-something more catholic, more philosophical, more comprehensive. Can we get it? What ought to be its leading characteristic? What should be the condition and test of membership? I and In the third place, the organization must not ex<illegible> women either from membership of from active participation in its affairs; because women abhor, and have reason to abhor, slavery as intensely as men; and because as many women are clanking their chains and crying for relief as men. Every member must be permitted to 'plead the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction, on his or her own responsibility, as a sense of duty may determine.
Lastly, the object of the organization must be YOKAL AGITATION- the promulgation of the truth, end its application to the consciences of a people who are sladen with iniquity,' and whose hands are full of blond.' It is a MORAL REGENERATION which is to be effected, as much now as in apostolic times, and by the same instrumentality- the foolishness of preaching.
In is evident, moreover, that such an organization should be bases upon A SELF-EVIDENT TRUTH, and animated by A VITAL PRINCIPLE, appealing alike to the understanding and conscience of every human being, without regard to religion or political opinions ,That truth is, that slaveholding is, under all circumstances, a sin against God; and, therefore, that immediate emancipation is the right of the slave and the duty of the master. What is self-evident is all embracing, and may be held in common by men and women; by Christians and Intidels; by those who belong to religious bodies, and by those who do not ;but those who exercise the elective franchise, and by those who are disfranchised for conscience sake. We can give our heavy endorsement to the principle,-requiring nothing beyond this, that each one shall coply and carry it out, with conscientious fidelity, at chatever cost, and wherever it may lead, according to the light that is in him.'
I rest my case upon these extracts, combined with the fact that their spirit has been faithfully carried out in the action of the Society. To say that a Society which declares itself founded from a sence of duty to God, and to those oppressed fellow-men whom God has declared our equal brethren-which specifies as one of its complaints against slavery that it is contraty to the principles of the Christian religion-which further testifies that slaveholding is a heinous crime in the sight of God-which, with entire confidence in the overruling justice of God, plants itself upon the truths of Divine revolution-which aims not; only to bring the nation at large to speedy repentance for its sin, but to bring the pulpit to the performance of a long neglected duty, and to purify the churches from their gross and palpable guilt-and which has faithfully applied those ideas to practice-to say that such a Society is ' not distintively Christian' is some-thing more than a mistake; it is (in my judgment) a statement grossly false, and grossly calumnious; and a charge to this effect made by either worldlings or churchlings seems (in my judgment) evidence <illegible>? of unrepented sin on their part, than of a sinple eye towards the welfare of the slave.
But, H.T.C. proceeds to say, this out-growth of Christianity, the American Anti-Slavery Society, ought to have been adopted, guided and controlled by the Church and the Ministry!
While the ludicrous and preposterous character of this idea is enough to make a statue laugh, it gives a key to the position of H.T.C., a view of his standpoint, and presumptive evidence of his honesty and good intention. He seems hopelessly and irretrievubly entangled in the hypothesis that this American Church-which has determinedly and persistently allied itself with the sum of all villanies, in which South- side Adams of Boston is a recognized minister, and Deacon Netherland of Tennessee a recognized 
partaker and distributor of the Lord's supper- a reality, nevertheless, the Church of God! the Church of Christ!! His manifest assumption that his position is held by birthright, irrespective of Character, reminds one of the similar assumption which Scott (in Woodstock') represents to have been made by a King of England. This monarch (the ex <illegible> head of the Anglican church) being about to fight a duel, founded on a licentious intrigue, was merrupted by the entrance of a clergyman, who had
time for the express purpose of preventing it; but the loyal seducer and duellist, not at all out of countenance, sends the intruder away with the authoritative statement that, being a clergyman of the Church of England, he is subject to the rules of that church, 'AND TO ITS HEAD'!
Does H.T.C. really think that malefactors ought to adapt, and forthwith take the guidance and control of a reformatory Society that rebukes their sins? The American Anti-Slavery Society accused the slaveholders of a heinous sin against God, and accused the churches of being (some by actual slaveholding, and the rest by acquiescence in it) participants in this sin. The business of both these parties obviously was to repent and reform. What claim had a guilty slaveholding church, any more than the less guilty slaveholding ' world,' to take the 'guidance and control of the Anti- Slavery Society?
The truth which lies at the bottom of this fog in E.T.C. 's mind is plainly this: that the nominal church, and the ministry, its leaders, ought (by their own professions, and by conformity to their adopted standard, the Bible,) to be foremost in labor, zeal and faithfulness in the anti-slavery work. No doubt they ought! It is to their unspeakable disgrace that they did not think of or care for the slave, but left this cause to be taken up, in 1833, by one who was either a minister not a church member; and that ever since that time, they have bestowed more active and hearty labor in hindering that movement than in helping the slave. But, these things being true, their first business in the premises evedently is, humility, repentance, confession of sin, and reformation. They adopt the cause, the Progress of which, from the beginning until now, has been in spite of strenuous opposition on their part! They take the guidance and <illegible> of it ( like Lord Chesterfield of Dr. Johnson's Dictionary) after it ha entered upon the highway of success! Such a claim, made by them of for them, is impudent in the extreme. But H.T.C. does
not mean to be impudent; he really thinks that this American Church is the Church of Christ, with authority from him to bind and to loose, to dictate and the control; and, to judge by his language, as long as displayed the banner 'EVENGELICAL,' and kept up <illegible> Sunday services, daily prayer- meetings, and occasional revivals, it would still be the Church <illegible> to him, even if every member were a slave holding
In this harsh and unjust? What, then, does H.T. of mean by saying ( at the commencement of his fourth paragraph, "-' But that Society has not been the representative of the Church.' He means, if I understand him, to state this as an error, or at least as a delect, in the American Anti-Slavery Society. As if an anti-slavery association could be a representative of at pro-slavery church! As if it were not the honor and very of the American Anti-slavery Society, that it <illegible> a erupt church as promptly and emphaticed as a corrupt government! As if the an and the shame of the diversity between these two bodies did not rest entirely with the ro-slavery church!
<co2>
But H. T. C. proceeds to make more minute specification in regard to the unsatisfactory character of the anti-slavery Society. He says it is controlled by men who do not hold, 1st, the plenary inspiration of the Bible; nor, 2d, the Protestant view of its authority.
Of course, they do not hold these ideas at members of, or leaders in, the American Anti-Slavery Society. To bring up either these dogmas, or their opposites, for adjudication by that Society would be inappropriate, impertinent, entirely inconsistent with its proper province-the deliverance of the-slave. Even if these dogmas were parts of Christianity at all, and even if the persons referred to held them with the strongest faith as individuals, they could not require the Society to express any opinion, or take any action upon them, because they are entirely foreign to the business and purpose of that Society, namely,-the deliverance of the slave. That great essential feature of Christianity which is concerned with the deliverance of the slave-the duty of practically recognizing him as a brother because he is a child of our common Father-that great truth it incorporated with the constitutional basis of the Society, and with its whole series of operations, from the beginning until now; but when a sectarian of any sort tries to thrust in his particular dogma, and apply the moral force of a great philanthropic movement to the support of sprinkling or immersion, of Protestantism or Catholicism, of plenary inspiration or infallible superintendence afforded to the writers of the Bible-the true Abolitionist must ignore all these matters while acting as a member of the Society, as thoroughly as Paul did the distinctions of Jew or Greek, bond or free, male or female, while treating of the relations of the individual to Christ Jesus.
Moreover, the business of the American Anti-Slavery Society being to incite the whole world to unite in the overthrow of slavery, it wants, for this good purpose, the aid of Catholics as well as Protestants, of unbelievers as well as believers, of those who call themselves ' liberal,' as well as of those who call themselves ' evangelical.' Acting as counsel, agent, treasurer, tailor, coachman, and committee of ways and means for the slave, it is glad to accept in his behalf such aid us any body is disposed to give. It would be utterly unjustifiable, as well as absurd and suicidal, before accepting a dollar or a pair of shoes for a fugitive, to ask of the donor-' Do you believe in immersion: Do you believe in the plenary inspiration of the Bible:' The slave needs the proffered aid just as much whether the donor believes in every thing or in nothing. And if the ' Church Anti-Slavery Society' docs not want men to oppose slavery till they are Christians, (and, moreover, Christians of the Protestant, plenary-inspiration stripe,) or if it will not admit men, until they become such, to the great advantage (to the slave) of co-operation in his behalf -all I have to say is, that they will show themselves less efficient for the slave, and less heartily engaged in his service, than the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
How can H. T. C. say-' We find fault with no existing anti-slavery organization '? Has he not (in the corrected version of his Worcester address now before us) tried to turn to the credit of his Society the name most highly honored in the civilized world, the name Christian, by turning it to the discredit of the American Anti-Slavery Society? Is not his allegation, that the leaders of that Society do not hold certain theories in regard to the Bible, intended to show that the Society itself is unsatisfactory, and that a new one needs to be formed? It is because he has blamed, and unjustly blamed, the American Anti-Slavery Society, that I am calling him to account.
The whole of this controversy between the friends of the two Societies lies in a nutshell, and this is it, in my apprehension.
Both Societies being really anti-slavery in principle, and both having published to the world their principles, purposes and methods of operation, each has the right fairly to criticise the other, first generally, in regard to its faithfulness to the slave, and next particularly, as to its fidelity to its own principles. Our criticism of you is founded on a fair basis, being made from the stand-point of the slave, to whose interests you have deliberately pledged your-selves; your criticism of us is founded upon an unfair basis, being made from the stand-point of the church, to whose interests we are not pledged in any way whatever.
The frankness of inconsistency shown by H. T. C. is excessive and remarkable. To specify one of several instances of it in the article above, the latter half of its seventh paragraph indirectly self- contradictory; for, immediately after disclaiming the narrow bigotry which would refuse co-operation in a work of charity on account of theological differences, the writer proceeds to invite to the help of the slave those who agree with him in 'the essentials of the Protestant faith.
Here narrowness is first disclaimed, and then practised. Is help to the slave good for nothing until the helper has made up his mind about the essentials of the Protestant faith?
The important fact, in regard to the 'Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States, is, that it has undertaken to serve two masters. We have high authority for assuming that it cannot perform true and faithful service to both. It needs no authority to show that a divided gift will be less to each recipient than the entire one; and a large experience has proved to us that when a party undertakes to help.' the church and the slave,' the slave's portion will assuredly be less than half at the beginning, and will grow
'Small by degrees, and beautifully less,' until it vanishes altogether.
I doubt not H. T. C. 's strong and hearty desire to benefit the slaves, nor that he has pleaded their cause, in the pulpit and elsewhere, ' not without cost.' I am perfectly convinced, now, that he meant to be fair and just in saying what he did at Worcester (as above reported) against the American Anti-Slavery Society. But I am also so perfectly convinced, (both by his letter above, and by my recollection of similar features in the book to which he refers me, ' The Pulpit and the Pew,' which I carefully read at the time of its publication,) that he has established the permanent habit of looking at 'evangelical' church-members as high-caste persons, and at others as necessarily holding a lower rank, both in character and rights, that I must urge him to make the effort necessary to overcome this tendency in the present case. I therefore request him to show, by specification, either
1. That the constitutional basis of the American Anti-Slavery Society, above given, is, in any respect, other than ' distinctively Christian ': or
2. That the official action of that body has ever been other than 'distinctively Christian': or else,
3. To retract his statement that there has not existed-before the formation of the Church Anti-Slavery
Society of the United States-' any distinctively Christian organization against slavery.'
I understand H. T. C. to disavow, as incorrect, the allegation in the newspaper report of his address, that the American Anti-Slavery Society 'had latterly come to be mainly guided by men notoriously and avowedly rejecters of the fundamentals of Christianity'.
-or I should demand proof of that also.-
C. K. W.
We understand that Rev. JOHN T. SARGENT has resigned his office as "General Agent' of the ' Boston Provident Association,' with intention to resume his professional relations as opportunity presents. Said resignation to take effect in May next.
We ask of all our readers a careful perusal of the timely and admirable Discourse on ' Religion and Politics,' by WILLIAM. FURNESS, of Philadelphia, which, we insert without abridgment on our last page. Let Rufus Choate take a lesson form it.
<c03>
The writer of the following article is a venerable and much respected Methodist minister.
THE BOSTON JOURNAL.
FRIEND GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I saw a few days since, in the Boston Journal, a brief and somewhat spicy article, written, I suppose, by the editor of that paper, in reply to you, for having made some comments on his vindication of the opposing party to the passage of what is called the Liberty Bill; and I confess I was not a little astonished to learn that that excellent paper should be found opposing the almost universal sentiment of the free States. The pretence that such a law would endanger the peace and harmony of the United States is a mere bubble; it would be as likely to result in a civil war as the laying down of proper disciplinary rules in our poor-house at Tewksbury would be, should the subjects of that institution offer to rebel against its officers. Such reasoning is too contemptible to be listened to for a moment. What could the South expect but an ignominious default, with no men to spare from the standing army that would be necessary to keep their chattels in subjection? This fact was made to appear by a Georgian, who declared that his State had no man to spare, and to think of the doctrine of nullification for a moment was reposterous. No sane man can doubt that the free States have a preponderance of physical power in their favor or two to one, when the South shall have provided themselves with a sufficient defence against their slaves; and this conservative, contemptible yielding to the claims of the South is all that furnishes them with courage to make such unreasonable demands of the free States as they are ranking; and as long as this disposition to conciliate the South is kept up, we may expect their claims will be urged and increased. If the slaveholding
South would listen to Christian principles, there might be some hope of success in yielding to their claims; but what reason is there to hope that a class of men who maintain the right to steal the bodies and souls of their brethren, and plunder them of all that is dear to them, and make merchandize of them, will listen to a righteous course of conduct?
In calling up the history of the past, it is easy to see how the oppressor of God's poor has taken courage from two classes of supporters, to wit-the office seeker of the North, who wishes Southern votes to help him into offices of trust and profit, and, secondly, this temporizing, crouching spirit that is allowed to rule the free States. If the calamities of a civil war are to be avoided, it must be done by a determined stand being taken and maintained by the free States; and if it is constitutional for the slave States to incarcerate a free colored man from the North in jail when he is found in their streets, let the same rule apply when they send a posse of men, with their bloodhounds, after a fugitive in Massachusetts. If it is constitutional to put a man in the State's Prison for ten years, because ' Uncle Tom's Cabin ' is found in his trunk, then let this rule apply when a Southerner comes North to transact any legal business. If it is constitutional for the Governor of Massachusetts to send a claim on the Governor of Mississippi for a fugitive from justice, and the officer be told by the Governor that the North are Abolitionists, and their claim will not be regarded, let the same rule apply to the South, and we shall soon find out how this tit-for-tat business will end.
But these cases of unconstitutional acts on the part the South are so numerous and aggravating that I can allude to but one or two more. In reading a Boston paper to-day, I find that Bishop James, of the Methodist Episcopal Church, is to be waited upon out of Texas by a gang of desperadoes, because he is supposed to be an Abolitionist; and the writer of this article would be glad to visit his children in Louisiana. but his son told him that if ho should go there and preach the undoing of heavy burdens, and letting the oppressed go free, he could not save his head one night. Now, it is known to all who are conversant with the news of the day, that the Constitution, so called, of the United State, is a dead letter, and not regarded either by the Congress of the United States or the United States Court, unless it is when some defence is needed for slavery-the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the Fugitive Slave Act, &c. &c.-I need only mention them. Now, what are the provisions of the Constitution? Are they not intended to defend the universal rights of the citizens of the United States? Let the second article in the Declaration of Independence, with the spirit of the Constitution, be decided by this test, and before an honest court, and no man would be held as a slave one hour. .Slavery is not so much as named in that instrument.
I am conversant with the history of the framers of the Constitution. My vote was given for Thomas Jefferson, who, as a political commodity, would stand a poor chance in the Democratic market in these days. But suppose we admit that a compromise was entered into to obtain the adoption of the articles of Confederation, it will also be admitted, that the framers of the Constitution expected that the good sense of the people, with the instructions of the fathers of the country, would soon annihilate slavery in the United States; and some of them left on record the fact, that it was not intended man should ever be held as property by man. But how has the case been? Instead of slavery being given up, it has extended its claims over every freeman in the United States; and that man who obeys the law of charity, and feeds the poor fainting, perishing child of God, or finds him a night's lodging, must be imprisoned in a common jail and pay a fine of one thousand dollars. And all this is claimed to be constitutional! I trust not, however, by the Journal.
If this Liberty Bill is not passed at the next Legislature, it is my opinion that mane take will be written on the Republican walls in Massachusetts very soon after its sittings at the next session. It is already threatened in this town, and if the people should speak out upon the subject, it would be found that three-fourths of the constituency are grievously disappointed. They expected the passage of that law in order to prevent the slaveholder from supposing, from the tameness of the people, that he might come and call the roll of his slaves under the Bunker Hill Monument.
In conclusion, if it is decided that the Constitution of the United Slates provides for the plundering of men of all their rights, soul, body, earnings, and the loss of heaven, if I am bound to unite in this plunder by that instrument, for one I say, let it be torn up- the quicker the better-for I will not be a party in that matter. BRYAN MORSE.
Groveland, April 14, 1859.
The celebrated Roger Sherman, one of the committee of live to draft the Declaration of Independence and also a member of the Convention that framed the United States Constitution, said, in the first Congress after its adoption, ' The Constitution does not consider these persons (slaves) as a species of property."-Lloyd's Conn. Registry, vol. 1, p. 313.
WEST INDIA IMMIGRATION SCHEME. At a recent meeting of the Warrington (Eng.) Anti-Slavery Society, the following address was adopted in reference to the West India Immigration scheme, and the Secretary was requested to transmit it to the Borough Member for presentation:
To the Right Honorable Sir E. Bulwer Lytton, Bart.,
Secretary of State for the Colonies.
SIR,-Inasmuch as it appears from reliable authority,
that there is no deficiency of labor in the Islands of Jamaica, St. Lucia, and Grenada, we view as unnecessary the projected Immigration Bill
And inasmuch as the said bill proposes to supply a lack of labor which does not exist, by re-enacting many of the most objectionable features of the old slave law. we give it our unqualified disapproval.
For these reasons, we humbly but firmly beg that the projected measure be not laid before her Majesty for her Royal sanction.
Signed on behalf of, the Warrington Anti-Slavery Society. JOSEPH WOOD, President.
March, 1859.
<c04>
STILL DECEIVING THE PUBLIC.
We have seen repeatedly under the painful necessity of exposing the tricks and devices of a colored young man, named Leo L. Lloyd, who began his career of imposture by pretending to be the son of an African Prince, and who has been fleecing the public and benevolent individuals for several years past, having succeeded indeceiving such men as Edward Everett, Rufus Choate, L. Agassiz, (if indeed the credentials purporting to come from them be not forgeries,) and thus finding little difficulty in deceiving others, Recently a conspicuous handbill, issued by him, announcing concerts, has been put into our hands, a portion of which is as follows:-
MR. LLOYD is desirous of making Africa his future home, and of contributing what he can of personal endeavor to redeem that country from its present unhappy condition. He is now ready to go, and only lacks the necessary means to place him beyond the reach of penury and want, until he finds in what capacity he will be of the most service in that country. He wishes to sail in the regular Packet from Baltimore, on the first of May, 1859. MR. Lloyd is now engaged in giving Concerts as a means of raising the amount of money he needs; the proceeds of these entertainments he forwards to Prof. Agassiz. who has kindly-consented to receive it or any other monies that may be forwarded to him for the" purpose above stated. He is assisted in his Concerts by two ladies, (colored, .arid considered handsome,) who feel more than an ordinary amount of interest in the progress of Christianity and science in that now important field of labor. Their endeavors so far have been crowned with the most signal success. Whether proceeding from a sincere desire to aid their cause, or from a curiosity to see and listen to the voices of three of the most highly cultivated and intelligent colored persons that have ever appeared in any public capacity in the United States. is unknown. They are thankful, however, for the money they have received, although not half the amount required has as yet been received.
The company consists of MISS ANNA E. HALL, of Baltimore, Md., who has kindly volunteered her indispensable aid free of charge, in this cause, though unless singing for some philanthropic object, she would never have appeared before the public in her present capacity, notwithstanding her superior qualifications and fitness for such a position.
MISS HELEN WILLIAMS, of Utica, N. Y., who is better known as the "Northern Nightingale;" she also sings gratuitously for this object, and is really a charming vocalist, and a fair representative of the cultivated colored lady of the North.
LEO L. LLOYD, of whom Bayard Taylor says: " As far as I can judge, he is a cross between one of the Desert Tribes on the Western Frontier of Nubia, (perhaps the Kababbish,) with one of the Central African Blacks, of the Negro race; although born in Nubia, he is not of pure Nubian blood: his case is an interesting one, and he is highly worthy of encouragement in his endeavors to become a teacher and explorer in the land of his nativity."-Signed, bayard taylor.
The Concert comprises SONGS, DUETS, TRIOS, CHORUSSES, BALLADS, &c., (with proper musical accompaniments.) of a mirthful and sentimental character, in the general style of the Hutchinson, Peak, Luca and Baker families. They hope the public will give them full audiences, and in this manner assist them in their efforts to better the condition of their race, and at the same time give them an opportunity to prove how basely and libelously misrepresented the people of color are by numerous companies of vulgar and ignorant fellows, called Ethiopian Serenades, Minstrels, &c., who travel the world over, adding insult to injury, by pretending to represent the oppressed African.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-As our Concerts have been attended by a larger number of ladies than gentlemen, boys, and gentlemen unaccompanied by ladies, will please give them a preference to the unreserved seats.
CERTIFICATES.
CAMBRIDGE, Dec. 1st, 1858.
While the Committee interested in the education of L. L. Lloyd have done what they could for his instruction, and are receiving means to fit him out to go to Liberia, they approve of his intention mean-while to do his part in raising means for himself by giving Musical Entertainments of the character of that performed in the presence of Rev. Dr. Blagden and Dr. Smith, from whom he has received a very satisfactory certificate as to the character of the performance. L. AGASSIZ.
Mr. Lloyd and his company are highly recommended from most respectable sources, as eminently worthy of encouragement, and deserving success. Their object is a worthy one. JOHN P. HALE.
This certifies that we had the pleasure of listening to a Musical Entertainment given by Mr. Lloyd, in connection with Miss Hall from Baltimore, and others, and was highly gratified with the talent of the Company. They are well worthy of encouragement, and we sincerely hope they may meet with success. G. W. BLAGDEN, J. V. C. SMITH.
The Boston Herald says:-" Their musical education is of the highest order, and they are as familiar with operas as with common ballads; and as their object in singing in public is a good one, they should attract considerable notice."
"They are a first-class Company, and should be liberally patronized."-Tribune.
" They are no roving Company of Squealers, but musicians of rare talent and culture."-Phil. Bulletin.
Tickets 15 cts. Reserved Sears 25 cts. Children 10 cts. Doors open at 6 1-2 o'clock. Concert to commence at 7 1-2.
Positively but one Concert can be given in a place, owing to appointments being made in advance. No postponement unless the weather is bad enough to be unconstitutional.
The declaration of Lloyd, that the two colored ladies who sing with him are ' considered handsome,' and that he and they constitute ' three of the most highly cultivated and intelligent colored persons that have ever appeared in any public capacity in the United States,' is perfectly characteristic! Humbug!
Lloyd says that Bayard Taylor thinks he is a cross between a Nubian and a Central African. It is a mistake. He is clearly a cross between a rogue and a zany-the rogue decidedly preponderating.
PERSONAL-LIBEBTY LAW IN NEW YORK.
[Extract of a letter from AARON M. POWELL.] GHENT Columbia co., N. Y., April 13,1859. DEAR MR. MAY:
You will have seen by this day's papers, that our modified Personal Liberty Bill is now in the hands of a favorably inclined select committee in the Senate, having passed by a large majority vote in the Assembly. I do not much expect that even the modified bill will become a law. I am gratified, however, with the good beginning which has been made in this State in relation to the prohibition of slave-hunting. Massachusetts has done less towards it than I had hoped, New York more, even now, whatever may be the result in the Senate.
I trust that the movement now so well inaugurated will be duly presented here, and in your State, and elsewhere, at each successive Legislative session, with the reiterated call for the absolute prohibition of slave hunting, until the desired and most righteous end shall be fully and unqualifiedly attained.
THE WHITE SLAVE WOMAN FREE. Our readers will recollect the case of the white slave woman Ellen, who recently made a trip from Virginia to New York, on her parole of honor, to raise means to buy herself and five children, and the touching scene of her introduction into Plymouth Church by Henry Ward Beecher. The necessary sum was contributed, and the white slave woman last week passed through the Capital of the land of the free,-what a burlesque on the Declaration of Independence!- to buy herself and her white children. The Washington correspondent of the State Journal went down to Fredericksburg, Va., with Mr. Louis Clephlane, to see the manumission papers. He writes.
' These were all properly made out before our eyes. Four of the children were still in the town, and we saw them. The two little girls are white as any man's children, and beautiful as white. The negro, trader who bought Ellen and her children from her inhuman master, to save them from a Southern market, is one of Nature's noblemen, and has liberated a dozen slaves in the course of as many years. He was prepared to save Ellen, even if he had lost the money he paid for her. A slaveholder in the place also agreed to divide the sum with the trader, and send the woman North, in case money was not raised in the free States to save her. Ellen's father is one of the first men in the place, and he started off North to see to her welfare. By the late commercial panic his property was swept away, and he: was unable to purchase his daughter. Her husband and the father of her children was the cashier of a bank in the place, but deserted her a few years ago;'
<c05>
TRACTS FOR THE TIMES.
We ask the particular attention of the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause to the following new series of tracts, just issued by the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. They afford an excellent opportunity and means of aiding the cause, and of disseminating its great truths and principles. A little money expended in them may be made to accomplish a great good. These tracts may all be had at the following low prices: by the hundred, $2; dozen, 30 cts: tingle, 3 cts. Apply at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 21 Cornhill, Boston, and 138 Nassau street, New York.
GREATAUTION SALE OF SLAVES AT SAVANNAH GEORGIA Reported for the Tribune, PRESENT CONDITION OF THE FREE COLORED PEOTLN OF THE UNITED STATES .By Rev. James Freeman Clarke.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, before the Committee on Federal l Relations of the Massachusetts Legislature, in behalf of the Petition for a law against Slave-hunting.
No FETTERS IN THE BAY STATE . Speech of William Lloyd Garrison, on the same occasion.
SPEECH OF CHARLES C. BURLEIGH at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, 'No Slave-hunting in the Old Bay State,'
SPEECH OF REV. HENRY BLEBY, Missionary to Barbadoes, on the Results of Emancipation in the British West India Colonies.
SLAVERY AND THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISION ERS FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS By C. K. W. THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY . By C. K. W.
FAIR IN AID OF THE PRISONER'S FRIEND.
A Fair will be held in the Music Hall, Boston, commencing April 27th, and to continue four days.- The direct object will be to obtain means for the establishing Rooms to aid the poor, discharged prisoners, and to carry out all the various objects connected with the Prison Mission. Rooms are now occupied for this purpose in the building well known as Boylston Hall, corner of Boylston and Washington streets. These are used for offices, for meetings, and as a home. 
Those friendly to the work are requested to aid us. Flowers, refreshments, clothing, and various articles are wanted, or donations in money to meet the expenses of the Fair.
Among other features of the Fair will be specimens of convict labor in prisons. Persons having any curiosities made in Dartmoor prison, or in any prison, are requested to furnish them for the Fair.
Works of art to adorn the Hall are respectfully solicited. There will also be exhibited a fine collection of paintings in connection with the Fair. The Germania Band will perform each evening.
Any one desirous of attending one of the tables, is requested to send immediate word to the Rooms, or address Rev. Charles Spear, or Mrs. Spear.
WENDELL PHILLIPS may be expected to attend the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Convention on Friday.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE VIGILANCE ASSOCIATION.
MONEY NEEDED, AND AID SOLICITED.
In September, 1850, the Executive Committee addressed a circular to the churches and religious societies of New England, and also made application to many individuals, soliciting contributions to create a fund for rendering pecuniary assistance to such fugitive slaves as reached the Northern States in a destitute condition. These unfortunate men and women all needed food, clothing and shelter; moreover, they all needed protection, since in every part of New England, the law (as administered by the courts) was their enemy, and many individuals in every town were known to be mean and base enough to co-operate with such n law; some of these fugitives also needed medical aid and careful nursing; and almost all of them needed the means of transportation to a safer place than New England.
The amount thus raised from all these sources was $6028, and this sum has been expended for the relief of fugitives, some in one, some in another, and some in all the above-mentioned departments. The result to be reported to the public is, that more than four hundred fugitives have been aided by their beneficence, and that the Treasurer's purse is now empty.
Those who wish to help these poorest of the poor with money or aid of any other sort, are requested immediately to communicate with the Treasurer or some member of the Finance Committee.
SAMUEL E. SEWALL, HENRY I. BOWDITCH, Committees
JOHN A. ANDREW, of ROBERT MORRIS. Finance.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
RHODE ISLAND STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION,
An Anti-Slavery State Convention, for Rhode Island, will be held in the city of PROVIDENCE, on Thursday and Friday, April 21st and 22d, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. of the day first named, to which we invite all the friends of Human Liberty in the State to come, either in person or by their delegates.
The Convention will be held in Franklin hall, and will be attended by Charles C. BURLEIGH E. H. Heywood, and others.
The hour is critical. If any abolitionist, in the weakness of the flesh, seeks release and rest from the Anti-Slavery work, let him remember the solemn truth, that he who puts his hand to the plough, and looks back, is not fit for the kingdom of God; and that it is no time to rest while the open foes of freedom are pressing their measures of all conceivable iniquity, and while thousands of its fair-seeming friends are proving false and treacherous on every hand. Let the friends of freedom and the right crowd the Convention!
ALPHONSO R. JANES,
ASA FAIRBANKS, 
THOMAS M. HATHAWAY,
ELIZABETH B. CHASE,
ANNA T. FAIRBANKS,
SUSAN R HARRIS,
PELEG CLARKE,
WILLIAM CHACE,
SOPHIA L. LITTLE, Committee.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
The Ninth Anniversary of the National Woman's Rights Association will be held in Mozart hall, Broadway, New York, on Thursday evening, May 12th, at half-past 7 o'clock.
Addresses by LUCRETLA MOTT, ERNESTINE L. ROSE, CAROLINE H. DALL, Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN FLACK WELL and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A meeting for business and general discussion will be held at half-past 2, P. M., of same day, at same place.
Communications should be addressed to Susan B. Anthony, Anti-Slavery Office, No. 5 Beckman street, New York.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, sec'y.
WENDELL PHILLIPS. ESQ., will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society (Rev, Theodore Parker's) on Sunday morning next, 24th inst., at Music Hall.
HENRY C. WRIGHT, of Boston, will hold meetings on Sunday, April 24, in Ellsworth, Me., all day and evening.
ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A quarterly meeting of the Essex County Society will be held, on Sunday, May 1st, at the Town Hall in WEST NEWBURY; and will be attended by CHARLES Is. REMOND and PARKER PILLSBURY.
All friends of freedom, all haters of slavery all who desire to make the soil of Massachusetts truly free, are invited to-come.
.In behalf of the Society,
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., will lecture in the Town hall, Blackstone, Mass., on Sunday, April 24, at a o'clock, P. M. Subject: The Death of the Body, and the Immortality of the Soul. Free admission.
NOTICE.-The Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society propose holding a Fair in that city, about the 1st of June next, and would respectfully solicit contributions for the same. Please direct to the care of the President, Mrs. WM. IVES, Essex St.. Salem, Mass. April 11.
<c06>
'HE BEING DEAD, YET SPEAKETH'
IF the above can with propriety be applied to any man of modern times, that man is Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT, whose recent death has sent a pang of sorrow through thousands of hearts; but 'he yet speaketh,' and his works do follow him. Perhaps no man has done so much for the cause of Physical Education as he. Feeble in body, yet ever active; with a heart overflowing with benevolence and love for universal man, he wrote, and lectured, and counselled the young and old, and those of middle life, with untiring perseverance for a long series of years; and tens of thousands, who have been made wiser and happier by his teachings, will ever fondly cherish his memory.
His last three and most popular works are the following:
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MARRIAGE,
COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE,-AND
THE LAWS OF HEALTH: OR, SEQUEL TO THE ‘HOUSE I LIVE IN.
The prices of the first two are 75 cents each, and the last $1.
THIRTY THOUSAND COPIES
of these books have been sold, and the demand is increasing from day to day.
A copy of each should be in every household. We can offer uncommon inducements to" TRAVELLING AGENTS, both male and female, to engage in the sale of these valuable PHYSIOLOG CAL WORKS . You can not only make money, but do good. Copies sent, post paid, by mail, when the cash or postage stamps are sent to us, covering the price of each book.
JOHN P. JEWETT &, CO.,
PUBLLSHERS,
No 20 Washington Street, Boston.
P. S. We shall put to press, immediately, one or two volumes, which Dr. Alcott had been many years in preparing, one of which will contain and embody his experiences from childhood to (we may almost say) the day of his death, for he died with his harnees on. This will be an Autobiography of uncommon interest and value. April 15. 3wis
BLAKE;
Or, The Huts of America,
A Tale of the Mississippi Valley, the Southern United States, and Cuba.
By MARTIN R. DELANY.
THIS interesting Story, unique in character, and unsurpassed in thrilling interest of historical and real incidents, is now being published in
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE.
The scene is laid in Mississippi, the plot extending into Cuba; the Hero being an educated West Indian black, who, being fraudulently deprived of his liberty when young, and brought to the United States, in maturer age, at the instance of the maltreatment of his wife, who, being sold from him, he sought revenge through the medium of a deep-laid scheme and secret organization for rebellion.
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE Is published monthly, at the low price of One Dollar per year. It is the exponent of the rapidly growing and advanced intelligence of
THE COLORED RACE
of the present day, and should be in every family in the country.
THOS. HAMILTON, PUBLISHER,
48 Beckman Street, New York. April 15.
THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great laboratory, has stored Some remedy adapted to every disease which 'flesh is heir to.' But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a case of Dyspepsia cured was a, rare experience in medical practice. Now, under the influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the, rars exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afllicted:
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters.
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which ho lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith:
WATERTOWN, N. Y., July 23.1858. S. W. FOWLE & Co., Boston: SIRS-Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fullness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pains in the stomach, often occasioning nausea, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden.
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible on my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing all like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy.
THEO. CALDWELL,
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. March 25-4tis
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) term of this thoroughly Reformatory
and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 4th, and continue ten weeks. For Circulars, containing fall information, address W. S. HAYWOOD, ) A. S. HAYWOOD, Principals. Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 4, 1859.
The Boston Investigator
WILL commence its Twenty-Ninth Volume on the 27th of April, in quarto form, and as here-to fore, will be devoted to the promotion of Universal Mental Liberty, and opposed to every form of Priestcraft and Superstition, whether under the guise of Modern Theology, or the pretensions of an ancient Divine Revelation. HORACE SEAVER, Esq., Editor. Now is the time to subscribe. Price, $2.00 a year. Address J. P. MENDUM, 45, Cornhill. Boston, Mass. A8 3 The Free Convention
AT RUTLAND, VT.
JUST PUBLISHED, a Second Edition, of the full Report of the proceedings of the RUTLAND (FREE) CONVENTION, containing the discussions on The Bible, Marriage, Slavery, Woman's Rights, Spiritualism, Free Trade, Shakerism, Education. &c. &c., by S. B. Brittan, Andrew Jackson Davis, H. C. Wright, Rev. A. D. Mayo, George Sennott, Joel Tiffany, Parker Pillsbury, Stephen Se Foster, Miles Grant, Frederick W. Evans, Mrs. F, D. Gage, Mrs.. E. L. Rose, Mrs. Mary F. Davis,. Mrs. Eliza Farnham, and many others.
The book contains nearly 200 page, large octavo. Price, in paper, 50 cents; in cloth, 67 cts. Postage, in paper, 10 cents; in cloth, 18 cents. The usual discount to the trade, for cash.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Nov. 19. tf 21 Cornhill, Boston.
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK, AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON
BY MISS S, D. CARMAN.
Physiological, Mechanical & Pathological Physician.
On THURSDAY, EVENINGS, at 7 o'clock, to Gentlemen and tidies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o' clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guardians and Philanthropists will find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the liberator.
AN ISRAELITE, AND AN AMERICAN LAW.
In haste, in breathless haste the slayer flies-
A slayer, not s murderer; his eyes
Stain through the sultry haze, to see the gate
Of the asylum city. Well he knows
Within its sacred walls he safe may, wait,
Find food, protection, shelter, and repose.
Poor hunted one! the sages of the land
With pity see him faint and trembling stand.
No 'blood-avenger' there the wretch dare seize,
Until the Law's award pronounce his guilt,
Or tender mercy the man-slaver frees,
Who, without malice, human blood has spilt.
Beneath night's sheltering gloom, the wretched slave
Creeps through the swampy brake, the forest dense,
To live a freeman, or to find a grave
Untortured by the lash. His aching sense,
Sharpened by fear, bean in the howling wind
The bloodhound's cruel bay; or, terror-blind,
In the dark shadows of the forest trees
Sees his pursuers stand, ready to seize
And bear him back to slavery again,
With added insult, and a heavier chain.
Christian America! hast thou no State
Where Slavery's fugitives may safely wait?
No refuge cities, where the innocent,
With long and anxious flight weary and spent,
'Neath just and equal laws secure may rest,
No human bloodhounds daring to molest?
Yet, noble Hebrew Leader, such will plead-
Slave-torturers, slave-sellers-plead thy laws
To sanction wickedness; and call their creed
More merciful than thine. They will not pause
To mark thee, in thy nation's righteous cause,
Choose freedom in the wilds with danger rife,
Leave pomp and luxury for a wanderer's life.
Thou couldst not change the manners of thine age;
But where thou couldst not change thou didst assuage.
Slaveholders slander thee whene'er they plead
Thy laws to sanction a vile, cruel deed;
Yet e'en they dare not say in them is found,
Thou mad'st oil Israel one hunting-ground,
Where slaves were game, and Israel's greatest men,
Judge, elder, priest and Levite, all were bound
To act as guardians over a slave pen.
Thou who didst give to blameless homicide
Safety, until the Law his muse decide,
Thou wouldst not punish those whose kindness gave
Food, shelter, pity, to a trembling slave.
Yet here, even where the churches' shadows fall,
The hunted slaves in vain for pity call!
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
TO THE BLUEBIRD.
Thou bringest sweet visions of sunshine and flowers,
Bird of the glancing wing;
Visions of brightness, of beauty and bloom,
Bird that tellest of Spring!
Of the soft green moss, by the streamlet's side,
And the violets hidden there,
Of the fragrant Arbutus, 'neath the oak,
Of the Wind-flower frail and fair.
Of the Cowslip bells, so golden bright,
With their wealth of emerald leaves,-
Of the tassel'd Birch, and the Maple flowers,-
Childhood's rich treasures these.
Oh, bird of Springtime! we love thee well;
To every heart thou art dear;
For we know that Winter's reign is o'er,
When thy soft, sweet voice we hear.
And Memory's fountains by thee are stirred-
Dreams of life's early morn,
When with hearts as care-free as thine, bright bird,
We listened to thy glad song.
When, 'mid the orchard's budding bloom,
We sought the hollow tree,
Where, resting in their sheltered home,
Thy nestlings we might see.
How beautiful they were to us!
Nought is so wondrous now
As were those tiny little ones
Upon the orchard bough!
Oh, childhood's bright and blessed time,
Ye may not come again,
But Time shall never break the links
Of Memory's golden chain!
And we'll greet thee, bird of beauty and song,
With a welcome warm as of old;
For, 'mid our trials, arid toils, and cares,
Our hearts shall not grow old.
And though the dew of life's early morn
From our brows hath been swept away-
Though the bounding step is measured now,
And the sunny locks are gray;
Yet still, amid all change and blight,
We have kept our love for thee;
And the sunshine of old-time shall brighten our hearts
When thy glancing wing we see.
Barre, Mass. CARRIE.

From the Sew York Independent.
ONLY A PICTURE.
Only a picture-and is that all!
Only a picture upon the wall:
The smile so becoming, the cheek so bright,
The eye so dancing with sunny light,
I almost fancy my baby boy
Is springing to me in his pride and joy-
But 'tis only a picture upon, the wall,
A silent picture-and that is all!
Only a lock of silken hair
Lying alone in its casket there!
Where is the head that in sportive glee
Was wont to toss it so careless and free?
The baby head that upon my breast
So lovingly nestled each night to rest!
Only a lock of its silken hair
Is lying alone in its casket there!
Only a shoe that is soiled and torn!
But where is the foot that that shoe has worn?
The darling foot, so dimpled, and small,
That made music so merry in the chamber and hall?
Oh, to catch of that little step one sound,
How wildly now would my pulses bound!
But there is only a shoe that is soiled and torn-
The foot comes no more that that shoe has worn.
Only these relics-and nothing more!
Can nought to our arms the lost restore?
Must we hopeless yearn, as the yean go by,
For the bounding step and the beaming eye;
And all that beauty and life and grace,
So fondly cherished, retain no trace
Save these silent relies? Oh, nevermore
Will the grave to our arms the lost restore?
Oh, woe for love, when from all its store
It points to these tokens, and nothing more!
When the vacant hall and the silent chair
But echo the groans of its wild despair,
And from all the voices in earth and sky,
Comes back no word to its living cry,
Save the mournful echo-' Oh, nevermore
Will the grave to thy arms the lost restore?'
Oh, joy-far love, when it yearns no more
For that which the grave cannot restore!
When it upward stretches its drooping wings.
And in-darkness and sorrow still sweetly sings
Of the brightness and bliss of that better home
Where the lost are found, and no partings come;
Oh, joy for love, when its priceless store
There safe is garnered ever more!
<c02>
The Liberator.
RELIGION AND POLITICS.
A Discourse-delivered in the First Congregational Unitarian Church, Philadelphia, on Sunday, March 20th, 1859, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS, Minister;
'Unto whomsoever much is given, of him will be much required.' LUKE 12: 48.
I listened a few evenings ago, my friends, to an affecting recital of the sufferings and struggles of the people of Italy, a people given up a prey and a spoil to foreign and domestic despots. As the horrors of those prisons into which the noble men, still produced by that renowned land, have been thrown, were unveiled; as it was related how the prisoners were chained together hand and foot without respite for long years, and subjected to tortures so cruel, that families residing in the neighborhood moved away, to be beyond the hearing of the shrieks which those tortures called forth; when we were not only told of the immediate victims of this hellish tyranny, but were reminded also of the parents and children, of the wives, sisters and brothers of the victims, forbidden all access to them, and forced in utter helplessness to bear this sharp distress,-as all this indescribable misery was presented to our minds, what a gross insult did it seem to all human intelligence and human feeling, to call the sacred idea of Human Rights a political subject, having nothing to do with Religion! Offensive as it appears in view of such a recital, this representation is constantly and boldly made. And at this very hour, there are multitudes assembled for Christian worship over all this land of boasted light, who consider any allusion on this day, in our temples of Religion, to the great interests of human Freedom or to the wrongs of Slavery, as a departure from the religious uses of the Sabbath and the Church, and a downright desecration of both.
If it were indeed so, if it were a fact that Religion has nothing to do with human liberty, that it is no business of hers, whether human beings breathe God's free air, with the free use of their God-given limbs and thoughts, or whether they are confined in dungeons, lacerated by physical tortures, wounded by chains and whips, and driven to the shambles like cattle to be sold or slaughtered-if this is a matter with which Religion has no concern, then Religion has nothing to do with the dear Cause of human happiness, and it is worth neither the time nor the trouble that we take to maintain it in the world. Instead of being a matter of the deepest moment, it is childish trifling, unworthy of the attention of earnest and active men. How could we attach any value to Religion or religious institutions, if, in a religious point of view, it were a matter of entire indifference, whether men were acting the murderous part of oppressors, trafficking in human flesh, or were suffering the miserable doom of slaves, and if, when men were chained and tortured and slain by their despots, Religion had no word of condemnation to utter, no cry of sympathy!
But, friends, it tasks one's patience to argue this point. How can I bear to insult your intelligence and your humanity by implying that you need to have it made clear to you that Religion, speaking through her appointed teachers, has a right to denounce oppression in every form, public and personal! Has a right, do I say? Has a-right! It is its plainest duty,-a necessity is laid on us, if we would not betray the Religion we profess to the bitter scorn of the world,-a necessity is upon us to condemn the wickedness which treats human beings as brutes, stripping them of their sacred and inalienable rights. From my inmost heart I reject and abhor that thing falsely called Religion, which stands dumb in the presence of such outrages upon Humanity. No matter in what solemn garb it may be arrayed, what costly churches may be reared for its exercises, with what magnificence it may be upheld by the fashionable and the rich, it has my profound contempt. And in so saying, I take no credit to myself, as if I were peculiar in this respect, or had uttered any very elevated sentiment. I do not believe there is a man here present, unless every spark of human feeling be extinguished in his bosom, who, in his secret heart, does not feel precisely the same, does not know that that is a false Religion, a monstrous fraud upon man, a shameless mockery of God, that professes and maintains an absolute indifference as to whether the Rights of Humanity are observed or violated.
Thus believing, thus assured by an instinctive and irresistible conviction that you all recognize not merely the right but the sacred obligation of Religion, as it professes to serve God and love man, to concern itself with human rights and wrongs, it is a humiliating task to undertake to labor the point. And yet the cunning of human passions and interests, which are so constantly and so easily hoodwinking us with mere words, renders it necessary. I can only wonder that we can be so befooled. I wonder at the palpable inconsistency into which we allow ourselves to be betrayed by such shallow verbal devices.
Let it be that the subject of Human Rights is a political subject, that this is the proper name for it, that it has no other. What then? Does it follow that Religion must not touch it, because men have attached to it this designation? What are Human Rights? What are these two words but another name for the God-given power to live, to exercise the faculties of our nature as they were created to be exercised, to grow in knowledge and virtue and in Religion, without let or hindrance from our fellows? And what is the special office of Religion but to guide us in the way of life, and to cultivate our noblest powers? If, in things called political, there is no room for conscience, for rectitude, for honorable aims and dealings; if there is no exposure to falsehood, to dishonorable practices, to the betrayal of sacred trusts, to the sacrifice of manliness and integrity, why, then, Religion has indeed no business with politics. But the light of day is not plainer than that the morality and the religion of mankind are deeply involved in what are termed political concerns. In fact, there are no influences to which human beings are exposed, which are more corrupting than political influences, none that so degrade and harden men and make them base, none which more urgently require the counteraction of religious principles, faithfully applied to public measures and institutions. There is nothing upon which the well-being of men more vitally depends than a conscientious, religious reverence for the rights, and a profound sympathy for the wrongs of men: a reverence and a sympathy pervading all minds. This is what human history tells us over and over again.
What a vast amount of suffering, in every age of the world, in every region of the earth, is caused by the neglect or violation of human rights! This is what the recital, the other evening, of the struggles and oppression of Modern Italy impressed upon me most profoundly. How could any one help seeing where the root of all that wretchedness lay? When we were told of the excruciating tortures inflicted upon human bodies,-such as for instance, the running of sharp instruments between the nails of the fingers and the flesh, and the slowly wearing the life out under heavy chains, and when the vision was brought before us of those darkened and weeping homes, whose inmates were agonizing over the imprisonment of some father, brother, husband or son,-how could any thoughtful hearer help feeling of what indescribable importance it is that the people of that down-trodden land, the subjects of that horrible Neapolitan tyranny, should learn that Religion does not consist in counting beads and making the sign of the cross, but in justice, in freedom, in a faithful and brave Humanity,-that these are the natural stuff for the conscience, the staple of all real Religion? Ah! the misery of it all is that the poor people have been
<c03>
taught that Religion has nothing to do with politics. Mysteries and Politics, these are the two words, under the veil of which the devilish sorcery has been practised, by which men have been robbed of every sacred right, and the corroding chains of spiritual and civil despotism have been fastened on their souls. The same infernal magic it is attempted to practice in our land, in order to throw us into a death-like lethargy, so that wicked laws and oppressive institutions may flourish and spread. Thousands there are who have been so far stupefied by it, that they are duped by the wild dream of the sanctity of a Religion which neither fears God nor regards man.
O ye women and children, watched over by a tenderness that will not let the summer wind visit you roughly, embosomed in those dear homes, around which all tender loves cluster, far away from the great noisy arena on which, under the name of politics, the conflict is going on between the brutal passions of men and the holy rights of Humanity, O how my heart swells with unutterable prayer for the ability to make it plain to you, to write in burning letters on your very hearts and consciences, that you have no more manifest duty than to revere those rights, in the persons of the wretched victims of oppression, the women and children wronged and crushed. While you excuse yourself from this primal office of Religion, while you shut your hearts against your own flesh, on the miserable plea that it is a political matter with which you have nothing to do, know this, that by giving in to this monstrous fallacy, you are doing all you can, and it is not a little, to prepare the way of Oppression, and make its paths broad and straight, right into your own households, those paths which are reddened with the blood of the noble and the innocent. In vain do you plead that you hate injustice and slavery. If you loved them with your whole hearts, you could not serve them more effectually than you are now doing by silence and indifference. This is all that they ask of you. All that they fear from you is, that you should speak out and act out the abhorrence which they naturally inspire.
Because you occupy no public position and command no large sphere of influence, you would fain believe that it concerns neither you nor your Religion to take a hearty interest in human rights and wrongs. You might believe so,-there would be some show of reason for this persuasion,- the influence of public injustice and organized oppression never reached the still retreats of private life. But it is there, precisely there, within the quiet precincts of the domestic sphere, and among those farthest removed from the great official centres of political power,-it is there that the curses of war and despotism fall most heavily, it is there that human hearts are wrung till they bleed and break. It is mothers, it is wives, it is sisters, it is tender children, who are always the greatest sufferers. We are all too much in the habit o thinking that public evils, national sins, lie so far away from the private conscience and home, that as private persons we have nothing to do with them. It is a fatal mistake. Every instituted wrong shoots out influences, like so many living nerves to every part of the body politic, and the weaker parts are always sure to suffer the worst.
Such being the fact, the feeblest always being the victims of the strong, and the fact being vividly illustrated in the story of Italian wrongs, I would to God I could communicate to your mind the deep impression I have received of the folly and falsehood with which, under the pretence that Religion has nothing to do with politics, it is sought to render the private conscience insensible to the profoundly religious nature of Human Rights.
My friends, in vain has the inspiration of the living God given us understanding, in vain are we put in full possession of all the potent privileges of education, in vain is the mighty magic of the press- turning the world of human life into a God-written book, wherein he who runs may read the communications of Eternal Wisdom, in vain do we enjoy such bountiful means of spiritual growth, if our thoughts do not expand with a corresponding sense of power, if we still cling with childish dread of change to the narrow ideas which spiritual and political despots have set up as the unchangeable Truth, if we interpret Religion, the grandest principle and the most comprehensive, embracing all human interests, as a small occasional formality, and forbid it to take part, and a leading part, in settling the great questions of Humanity which the progress of the ages is bringing up. Unto us, how much is given, dominion over the mightiest forces of Nature! Physically, man is dilating to giant dimensions. He is converting the material universe into his tool and bauble. In the name of God, let him not remain a dwarf in those most intimate respects in which he is made to reveal the image of the Infinite.
Above all things, as we would not shame our intelligence, let us not be scared away by mere words from the consideration of things pertaining to our very life. As God may be glorified-and we are commanded to glorify Him-in our eating and drinking, as the highest motive that saint or angel can be moved by may be illustrated in such homely things as these, most assuredly the same divine rule of action may find room for its application in our social relations, and in the position that we occupy in regard to our brothers and sisters, enslaved, bought and sold.
If you would only imagine yourselves in their places, liable to have your parents, your husbands, your wives, your brothers and sisters, your children, torn from you and sold away into a hard bondage, with no hope of meeting again in this world, I think it would so stimulate your understandings that you would instantly see clearly through the absurd and inhuman fallacy which asserts that Religion has nothing to do with what the Slave Power, in order to hide and protect itself from condemnation, chooses to call politics. I know full well that were I a slave and miserable, forbidden to call my wife and my children my own, liable to be chained and whipped and sold, the voice that should speak pity and hope would be holier to me in its accents than the music of hymns and cathedrals, as sacred as the voice of an angel descending from God. In the eye that should be turned upon me with compassion, a light would beam, before which the light of the sun would grow dim. The hand that should be extended to loosen my chains-would it not thrill me like the touch of the Lord Jesus? In his most blessed name, what on earth have the teachers and professors of his religion to do, what are they here for, here, where that sacred blood has been shed for man, if not to fly to the relief of the oppressed, and stand and maintain the precious cause of human freedom, the outspoken opponents of all wrong?
But there were other thoughts that rose within me as I listened to the story of Neapolitan tyranny. I could not help feeling strongly that such things could never be, if this country were only true to its own solemn and public Declaration of Human Rights. That the perpetrators of all that cruelty and injustice deem themselves amply justified in crushing out every spark of liberty, is evident enough. What is liberty, in their estimation, but bloody and boundless licentiousness? They conceive of it only as another name for massacre and anarchy. It is not merely that it threatens the power which they possess, and, as they believe, directly from God. They may very honestly believe, also, that liberty menaces the order and the very existence of society likewise. It cannot therefore be doubted that all, who are giving their support to the established forms of arbitrary government, hold themselves bound to quench the fire of liberty, if need be, in blood, to keep no terms with it, to put it utterly out, even if it should require women and children to be shot down in the streets, and dungeons to be crowded with the noblest young men of the land.
<c04>
And is it strange that they think so? Is it at all to be wondered at, that they take such severe measures to suppress the rising spirit of liberty? Is it not very natural that that spirit should appear to them as the inspiration of the Evil One, an insane delusion, allowed in the mysterious providence of Heaven to seize men's minds, and, if not crushed, threatening to bring chaos back again? To the despotic power which now crushes Southern Italy, I suppose the volcano that marks that region, and that is ever sending up its menacing smoke, furnishes only a faint image of the terrible sentiment of freedom. How could it be otherwise? How can the advocates of imperial power look upon liberty in any other light than as a wild, disorganizing force, to which, when once allowed, full play, no limit can be put? Have they not always before them the terrible memory of the bloody frenzy into which the attempt to realize the idea of freedom threw the nation of France, the pale phantoms of a King and a Queen slaughtered, and a great company of the noble perishing on the scaffold, and the remembrance of God and Religion utterly renounced?
And when, from the revolutionary horrors of France, they cast their glances across the ocean to the new world, where, as it first seemed, the beautiful idea of Liberty was to become at last a beautiful fact, where it was declared in the beginning that all men are born free and equal, endowed with indefeasible Rights, such as Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness, when the despotic rulers of the old world, with the host of their retainers, look to this new world, what do they see? What is the amount of freedom which is here professed to be realized? What is the spectacle we present?
The thing which we call Liberty not only co-exists here with millions of human beings held in a bondage than which the sun has beheld none more abject, denied by law every human right, every sacred tie of, marriage, or of kindred utterly disregarded, bought and sold like brutes, and hunted and shot down like wild animals;-Liberty, as it here exists, not only quietly consorts with this inhuman servitude, it holds fast to the chains of the slave as to its very life. It finds no footing for itself but upon the prostrate body of the African. And it cries aloud that it can maintain its existence only so long as it is allowed to buy and sell, and scourge and torture men and women. It makes a law for States calling themselves Free, which abrogates the express commandments of Christ, and the plainest dictates of Humanity, forbidding, under pain of fine and imprisonment, food to be given to the famishing, or shelter to the houseless; and it pronounces this law the corner-stone of all Union and Peace. And it is even now gathering up its strength to reverse the law of the Most High, and to extend these horrible wrongs far and wide over the whole continent, and to legalize the traffic in human flesh.
Such is the character of the Liberty illustrated by this nation, which professes to rest upon the recognized Rights of Man. It is nothing but a horrible Despotism, rapidly throwing off all disguise. It is not worth one drop of Revolutionary blood. It is perfect madness to overthrow the established order of things in other and monarchical countries, if all that is to be realized is such a cruel mockery as this.
Is it any wonder that the kings and rulers of Europe, seeing what our great experiment of self-government has come to-an experiment tried under the most favorable circumstances-in a new world,-account themselves fully justified before God and their own consciences in meeting every tendency to revolution with the sternest resistance, in shooting down hundreds to save the millions from the terrible Phantom of Liberty, which would lure them to universal ruin?
We are shocked at the story of foreign oppression. The King of Naples seems to us nothing less than a crowned monster of cruelty. And yet, he would tell us, doubtless, just what all oppressors say: that we do not understand the matter, that what we denounce as inhuman is only a necessary severity whereby he saves his people from the bloody license called Liberty. And he, no doubt, is as greatly shocked in return at; the horrors of American slavery, now being published throughout the world, and overwhelming our boasted pretension to liberty with unutterable ridicule and shame.
Is it possible now that any thinking man can be so blinded by self-interest or pride as not to see that it is we who mock the world with our pretended Liberty, we who insist that Union and Public Prosperity can be preserved only by securing to one-half the country the most oppressive institutions under the sun, that it is we who insist that the right to buy and sell human beings is as sacred as the right to buy and sell horses and oxen, we who build our national edifice on the violated Rights of Humanity, the Fugitive Slave Law being the chief corner-stone,-that it is we who give strength to the arm and sharpness to the sword of foreign oppression, furnishing kings and despots with their strongest justification. It is we who have prepared the dungeons and forged the chains in which the noblest sons of renowned Italy languish. It is we who drive patriots and martyrs from home and country into weary exile. It is we who cause the tears of parents, wives, sisters and children to flow so bitterly. O how sadly we have disappointed the generous aspirations of our race for Freedom and Progress! We have blasted the hope of the world, and it lies withered under the feet of tyrants.
A few evenings ago, as I was requested, I introduced to a crowded assembly the lecturer of the evening, who spoke on the subject of Woman. With what earnestness and power he asserted the sacred rights of Humanity, those who heard him will not forget. On the same occasion, by request, I announced another Lecture to be delivered in the same place by a noble-minded woman from England, who asks sympathy for Italy, the native land of her husband. And there was yet another meeting which I was also requested to announce, a meeting called to enable another, an American woman with scarcely a trace of African blood, to buy herself out of slavery. What a striking combination of announcements! What a fitting, I might also say, what a providential introduction to a lecture on Woman! One woman comes to us from the other side of the Atlantic to plead for that great Cause in another land, in which the happiness of to many women,-mothers, wives and sisters,-is involved. And another, an American mother with her four little children, mutely holds out her arms to ns that we may take off her chains. From the first we hear the story of distant cruelty. The other is a living history, a present witness of our prejudice and inhumanity, of our guilt and shame.
Can such coincidences be, and we miss their significance? Can we any longer fail to perceive how our falseness, growing every day more glaring, paralyzes our influence, and excuses the tyrant everywhere? We are feared for our increasing strength, but the music of Liberty that was to charm the world is lost in the clanking of chains. We cannot speak a word for the great Human Rights which we are violating so grossly, and with such deliberation.
If the Liberty we proclaim, instead of being a lying vision, were a reality, if our social order protected the weak instead of crushing them, what tongue could describe, what mind measure the moral power with which we should rule and revolutionize the nations! It could not be described. It could not be measured.
If we are ever to possess that blessed power, it will appear first of all in the private heart, in our homes and in our churches. Here where we acknowledge our relationship to the Highest, we must learn to feel for the Lowest. Here where you come to bless God for your kindred and friends, for your parents and children, you can offer no true thanks save from
Rev. E H. Chapin.
<c05>
hearts glowing with sympathy for the parents and the children outcast, friendless, hunted and sold May God render us sensitive to the divine touch of Nature which make, the whole world kin. Think, friends, how Heaven has heaped you with blessings, and here and now, in silence and in prayer, give up your hearts to the ministrations of the Infinite Mercy. As you hope to receive it, that Mercy may you show!

THEODORE PARKER.
The New York Methodist Christian Advocate and Journal gives the following sketch of a lecture on ‘THEODORE PARKER AND HIS THEOLOGY,' delivered before the Young Men's Christian Association of Rockland, Illinois, by Rev. Dr. Foster, President of the North-Western University at Evanston, in that State. We publish this theological tirade of a self conceited bigot for the amusement of our liberal minded, truth-seeking readers.
The lecturer commenced with the statement that Theodore Parker is eminently a representative man, enjoying a false position, which affords him opportunities of doing immense injury and mischief. The object of his lecture, he remarked, was to put Mr. Parker in his right position, and to correct his errors. Going forward in his undertaking, he spoke of the Reformation of the sixteenth century as having been the second genesis to the race. Luther's coming was the day-dawn of liberty. But the light which he shed around him was more than the people could bear. As certain gases, when inhaled, exhilarate, so the truth put forth by Luther made the people wild. Revulsions are always excessive. In the frenzy of the reaction which followed Luther's work, there resulted a hostility to religion. Deism thus had its origin. It appeared first in the sixteenth century, in France. It had for its exponents many of the best educated minds outside the priesthood. Lord Herbert first proposed Deism to England. Hobbes, Wollaston, Bolingbroke, Hume, Owen, Gibbon, followed him. The contest between these and the defenders of the truth was masterly and imposing. On the Christian side stood Tillotson, Butler, Leland, Watson, Warburton, men so tall, intellectually and morally, that coming ages will continue to look back upon them as giants. Victory wavered for a time, but finally settled on the banner of Christianity. Deism retreated from the field. Error is not immortal, but it is long-lived and dies hard. So this evil system began by-and-by to revive. Hegel, Strauss, and others appeared as its advocates on the other side of the ocean. Hegel defines God as the ' entire process of thought, combining in itself the objective-(your correspondent lost the rest of this' mad rant of senseless learning,' as Dr. Foster called it.)
Modern infidelity has appeared under different forms, such as Atheism, Pantheism, Deism, and a sort of mongrel Christianity, baptized Theism, but at heart it is simply the French Deism of other times. It aims to reduce the Bible to a collection of mere fables, and to whip the prophets, the apostles, and the Savior out of the temple of truth. The advocates of this system say that the Bible and Jesus are the great idols of the world, the destruction of which would give Christianity a chance. They don't object to Christianity, but to the Bible and Jesus, to miracles, to prophecies, to the doctrine of man's fall, and the doctrine of redemption, and the doctrine of the Trinity, doctrines which they call' dreams of a rude age.' They love Christianity dearly; and as soon as they shall rid the world of its Bible and its Christ, they propose to give it a new Christianity. Newman, in England, and Theodore Parker, in America, are the principal living exponents of this skeptic system.
It was eighteen years ago that Mr. Parker began to be popular. His writings are now circulating in the German language, and in the French. Few of our countrymen are so well known abroad as he. He has a peculiar genius. His peculiarities are a sufficient guaranty of fame. As a speaker, he possesses singular power. There is almost a marvel in the magic of his manner. He sways, he captivates; his voice is husky, his gestures awkward and forced. He is wholly destitute of passion; jet out of his frozen, mechanical mouth, come words white hot. He sends tempests through his audience. Sometimes he rises to rare beauty. His sarcasm is bitter as the venom of ten thousand asps. He has not much pathos. As a writer, he is very fascinating. His style is epigrammatic, yet flowing. He treats his themes invariably with startling effect. He does not reason, he only announces. His originality is great. He makes many reckless assumptions, and handles sacred things profanely, yet his freshness; and intrepidity hold his audience spell-bound. He has hearty good will and imperial favor; and is so free from effort that one follows him as children follow a madman.
He throws his views in incoherent, though remarkable scraps. He is infatuated with the desire of originality. He appears wholly incapable of reasoning. He scarcely ever makes a well-sustained argument. He is not a safe guide of the public mind; yet he assumes that he ought to reign as reformer-general of the world. Like Don Quixote, he often says, foolishly, but always dares to say what he thinks, as well as what he does not think. His bravery makes him a popular idol. His zeal flames up against slavery. He hates slavery with all his heart. In his anti-slavery efforts his keenest lightning flash out. But he is too fanatical to achieve much of good in reform. He desecrates the very liberty he seeks to propagate. Even freedom bleeds in his embrace. His humanity is inhuman. He says so many good and true things that thousands run after him; but he is a missionary of evil, rather than of good. He loves to apologize for infidels and atheists. He sees good everywhere out of hell, excepting in Nazareth.
Mr. Parker began as a Unitarian clergyman; but he is now the most pronounced infidel of modern times. He is, nevertheless, a regular preacher. His published works (extracts of which were read by Dr. Foster) show that he regards the Bible as a human book, like the Principia. He says it contains numerous stories of miracles which could never have happened. He thinks the story of Samson to be the moat absurd. The narratives belong, in his view, to a fabulous age. No more respect had he for the New Testament. According to him, we are not to believe in miracles. It is absurd to hold that Jesus was without theological errors. Jesus's theology had many harsh notions in it.
Even Paine himself did not take more explicit ground against the Bible than does Mr. Parker. He never gets done spitting on the Bible, and making mouths at it. But the Bible still lives, and so he keeps pounding it every Sunday. He is a brave man; but he is a dishonest knave rather than a deluded man. He is an infidel, and yet claims to be a Christian. There appears to be a fathomless deep of burning hate in his heart against popular Christianity. But does he not know, at feast, ought he not to know, that he arrays against revelation, as insuperable arguments, things which have been triumphantly answered a thousand times? In this absurd unfairness is where his moral obliquity is most apparent. He uses statements with the greatest boldness, which he knows have been completely disposed of. He apparently assumes that the whole body of Christian evidence does not exist. He says there never was a miracle, and never will be. He thinks Christ was not without the stain of his times, and not without sins; ' for men without sins,' says he, 'exist only in the dreams of girls, not in real fact; you never saw such a one, nor I, and we never shall.'
What does Mr. Parker propose to give in the Place of the theology he discards and denounces? Well, he leaves us God, and man, and this material world. The more thoughtful will, no doubt, consider themselves under special obligations that be allows us as much as this. He also believes in and proposes a religion-that which is born in every man. There is, in his view, but one true religion, as there is but one ocean. Paganism differs from Christianity, not in spirit, or in the essence of religion, but only in theology. He proposes inspiration also, but not of the kind which Paul had. His inspiration is universal. He thinks we are all going to the truth. Men have always been going to the truth. There has been progress always. Jesus's inspiration was higher than Moses's; and, no doubt, this man thinks his own higher than Jesus's. The old theology is, in his view, passing away. It swings in the air at both ends. Mankind never stop; so they will not stop for their Christianity. And he exults in his vision of the state of the world, and of the fine men that will be when the existing theology of the Church shall have been swept away.
Mr. Parker's system is, essentially, the old French deism received. It is a system of mere announcements. It is a negative system. Its central idea.
<c06>
is the destruction of Christianity. All the truth it has, it has stolen from the very Bible it reviles.
The lecturer then closed with a peroration not less elegant than earnest, on the value, the power, the incomparable excellence, and the indestructibility of that sacred volume which infidelity has unsuccessfully fretted at through the ages.
An offset to the foregoing tirade, we publish the following trans-Atlantic estimate of Mr. PARKER:-
THE MUSIC HALL, BOSTON, U. S AND THEODORE PARKER. It was Sunday, and Theodore Parker was to preach in the Music Hall. I inquired the way to that place, but might have found it without asking; for a living tide from all quarters of the city flowed thither. I fell into the stream, and was carried right into the hall. It has an out-of-the-way entrance, hut inside is spacious, plain and sublimely simple. It is lighted by semi-circular windows at the top of the walls, has two narrow galleries, and, in the body, long rows of neat little oval backed blue stuffed chairs, joined together. On the platform was a very plain desk, on one end of which stood a vase of white water-lilies, on the other a vase of mixed flowers, and the desk surrounded by detached little chairs, all occupied by special friends and admirers. The audience had an intellectual cast more than common, and many of them sat reading the morning papers till the service should begin. I sit anxiously looking for the advent of Theodore; and when he does come, he bears not the smallest resemblance to my Theodore. Who could have dreamt that he was that bald-headed, white-hearted, snobby-featured, Socrates-looking, little old man! Ah, but only look at that large, long, bald head, sloping up to the organ of firmness. What a would of power is there! If he has the features of Socrates he has also the brain. The appearance of is still more increased when he opens his mouth, and speaks as if he wanted his teeth, but all seeming defects soon vanish. He gives out Longfellow's 'Psalm of Life,' and reads it with a force of meaning with which it was never read before. When that is sung, he prays in a style quite different from that of other preachers, wholly devoid of the hackneyed and cant phrases, and links earth and heaven with a chain of noble thought, in language unsurpassed for beauty and strength. His lecture was on the Evangelical Christ, showing what a monster the churches have made of the purist and manliest man, and how admirably they have succeeded in defeating the whole purpose of his life. But to convey a true idea of the effect of that sermon would be an undertaking that not even Parker himself might attempt. What conciseness! What force! What far-reaching thought and clenching argument in single sentences! It was like the elements all alive at once, moved by a God. Thought after thought flashed lightning! Period on period came in thunder.' Where were the snubby features, and the little man, now? Under the shadow of those beetling brows, and by a spell-bound audience quite unseen. Time after time I thought all present would break into peals of applause; but the sacredness of the day, or habit; perhaps, restrained them. They looked applause, however, and eyes that never knew each other before, now met, with beams of recognition. His sermons are written, but he scarcely appears to read, and his action seems to arise wholly out of the fervor of his eloquence. Sometimes his hand comes down with terrific force, but it is always accompanied with corresponding thoughts and words. In illustration of a passage, he had occasion to plucks water lily, which sanctified the whole vase, and as the conclusion, they were all carried always as relies by the audience. I may add, that, without any exception, it was the greatest treat I heard in the way of a sermon. People were loath to leave the scene of so much admiration, and even in the street they hung about for a long time after.-From an unpublished MS. of a visit to the United States, by R. L. -Liverpool Northern Times.

BREAD,
WITHOUT POWDERS OR YEAST.
'We have seen bread so prepared, and can testify that it was light, highly palatable, and very desirable.'-Boston Herald.
'The disuse of yeast, separates, soda, and all health-destroying mixtures in bread-making is <illegible> item that will recommend itself to every house-keeper.'-Boston Traveller.
'We recommend this work, because we know, from happy experience, that it gives directions how to make the best bread we ever tasted.'- Worlds Crisis.
This light, delicious bread (with flour and water only) can be prepared for baking in a few minutes, and may be eaten warm without injury. We <illegible> the above, with other receipts for healthful cooking &c.,) for 10 cents; cloth cover, 15 cents.
Your address merely, and one dime, will insure you, by return of mail, the above little work. Persons interested are invited to call and see this delicious bread at Temperance House, IS and 20 La Grange Place. February, 18.

IMPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal <illegible> and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington St., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in a out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for your-selves. October 8.

NOW READY
The Life of
JOHN H. W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE
OF THE
WASHINGTONIAN TEMPERANCE REFORMATION.
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful and indefatigable laborer in belief of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
All orders for the Book, or fur Agencies, should be addressed to the Publishers,
Fifty Thousand should be sold in six months.
It makes a handsome 12mo. volume of 420 pages, with several wood-cuts, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $1.
JOHN P. JEWWTT & CO.,
20 Washington street, Boston.
February 11. 4wis

MY PRICED
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
-OF-
Choice Fruit and Flowering Trees,
SHRUBS, EVERGREENS, ROSES. BEDDING-OUT PLANTS, &c.,
Is now ready, and will be mailed to any ad-Mass. Carriage of packages paid to Boston, or New York. M. B. WATSON,
Old Colony Nurseries, Plymouth, Mass.
March 18-6wis

FARMS.
GENTLEMEM who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of effecting sales. R.A. WILLIAMS.
No. 4 Wilson's Lane, Room No. 6
March 11- 3w

John Quincy Adams.
JUSE PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages, 'Twelve Messages from the Spirit JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,' through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington -first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through mediumistic agency.
Price $1,50. Jan 9
