THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for Ten DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, <Illegible> are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
Refuge of Oppression 
<c01>
A COPPERHED UPON CONGRESS 
The Washington correspondent of the Chicago <Illegible> in late letter, says:-
What a contemptible figure in history the present congress(<Illegible> will make! Neglecting the interests of the country, blind to the dreadful responsibilities that rests upon them, the republican majority have devoted their entire energies to the formation and prosecution of impracticable and chimerical plans for the Negro. The emancipation of four millions of slaves forms only a part of the visionary projects of the abolitionists, and constitutes only the first step in their programme. They have determined to raise the negro to an equality with the white people in all things. They have succeeded in making them the equals of our brothers and sons who are fighting the battles of the country. Laws have been passed which effect this. The conscription law, as passed by both houses of Congress, and now before the President for his signature, which it will surely receive, makes not the slightest distinction between white men and negroes. All are to be enrolled in one promiscuous list, and all are to be drafted alike. If the law is executed at all, the man of education and refinement will find himself standing in the ranks, touching elbows with his black servant, who the day before blacked his boots, or stood behind his chair at the dinner table. Both will be dressed and armed alike.
Laws have been passed, too, by this vile Congress, for the endowment of colleges and academies for the education of blacks in the District of Columbia, and for the transportation of the dirty, filthy creatures in the street cars, the same as white people. Surely this is enough for a beginning.
What then? The next step will be to confer up on the blacks the right to vote. Does any man doubt that this will long be delayed? As truly as the sun will rise to-morrow, this will be done, if the Republicans can effect it by legislation. And it is not at all impossible that such a pressure will be brought to bear upon our honest President that, before many months, he will issue a proclamation conferring upon them that priceless boon. He can do that with the same propriety, and with the same right, and with the same authority that he has issued any of his previous proclamations. Perhaps some of your readers will think that such a thing can never come to pass. But who would have believed, two years ago, that Abraham Lincoln and a Republican Congress would dare to violate the Constitution in the hundred ways in which it has been done? Who would have believed Mr. Lincoln would dare to proclaim all the slaves Mr. Lincoln would dare to proclaim all the slaves free, after his solemn assurance that he had no power and no intention to do so? Who would have believed that Mr. Lincoln would place the knife and the torch in the hands of infuriated blacks, and send thousands of them so armed into the interior of South Carolina to burn their masters in their beds, to cut their throats, to burn their houses, and to ravish their wives and daughters-as Greeley boats he has done? If Mr. Lincoln and his Republican Administration have not hesitated to do these things, surely they will not hesitate to empower the negroes to vote.
The next thing will be marriages between negroes and white women, which will be legalized by act of Congress. If there is no other way of getting such an act passed, some of the countless millions of money at the disposal of the President will be used to secure the election of black members of Congress. May we not look forward, indeed, to the spectacle of a Congress of mixed white men and negroes, t0 a Cabinet of which three members will be negroes, and to a negro President? It is true enough that the American people will never elect a negro President. But I demonstrated in a recent letter that the passage of the measures then before Congress, measures which have now become laws, would place in the power of the President the means of making whom he pleased his successor. And who would Mr. Lincoln be so likely to choose as his successor as an “American of African descent,” or, in plain words, a negro?.
A distinguished member of the administration remarked to-day, that it was very unfortunate for us that the revolution in Poland should have broken out just now. The reason why the members of the administration, and the administration organs, say so little about Poland is very evident. Poland is an example of an intelligent people ground down beneath the iron heel of a military despotism. The Polanders rebelled because their rulers were tyrants. They would have submitted to their rulers, if those rulers had given them the guarantees of their rights which were their rightful inheritance. Their rebellion was suppressed, and they were subjugated by military force. But was Poland conquered? Were the Polanders subdued? It has been necessary to keep strong military garrisons in every city of Poland ever since. And now the fires that have been smouldering so long have burst out. So it will be with the Southern States. Even if we should succeed in defeating their armies, in destroying their cities, and in making a desert of their country, all this would not restore the Union. We might suppress this rebellion; we might subjugate the South; we might exterminate the Southern people. But it would only serve to sow eternal hate in the bosoms of the Southern children. Years hence, after having kept up all the time an immense standing army, another generation of Southern people, the children of those we have exterminated, would rise in rebellion, and the scenes now being enacted in Poland would be enacted here. No, the Union can never be restored by war. Let the war, then, cease.

COPPERHEAD DEMOCRACY.
There was a meeting of "Democrats" at "the stone school house in St. Clair Township, Butler County, Ohio, “the other day, the official proceedings of which are published in the Dayton Empire. The following are among the resolutions adopted:-
“Resolved, That Abraham Lincoln is the Nero of America, and for his many crimes, misdemeanors, and flagrant violations of constitutional obligation, ought to be impeached.
Resolved, That the clergy of the present day are the devil's select and inspired representatives, preaching envy, hate, malice, rengeance, blood and murder, instead of love, charity, Christianity, and the doctrines of Christ, and hereby receive our unqualified and indignant rebuke.
Resolved, That we are in favor of an armistice and a National Convention, composed of delegates from all the States, to meet at such place as may hereafter be designated, to consider terms of a reunion of all the States; that being impossible, a reunion of the South and West at all hazards.
Resolved, That C. L. Vallandigham, our noble and fearless Representative in Congress, for his bold and manly opposition to executive usurpation and unconstitutional enactments, deserves and receives our warmest thanks.
<c02>
Resolved, That this government is a Democratic machine, and that none but Democrats know how to run it; and therefore we will vote for no man for no office, unless he gives positive proof that he is a sound, substantial Vallandigham Democrat.
Resolved, That Abraham Lincoln and his minions in power are using their utmost endeavors to centralize the Government into one ponderous Federal head, by obliterating State lines, passing bills for indemnifying the President for arbitrary arrests, and for enrolling the militia, &c., and we hereby denounce such an exercise of power as usurpation and tyranny.
Resolved, "That violence begets violence," and, accordingly, that spirit of mob law, which has again begun to manifest itself in several parts of the country, ought to be met by violence; and, therefore, we recommend bullets.
A motion that Vallandigham be the next candidate for President was unanimously adopted."
NEW JERSEY vs. THE GOVERNMENT.
The following are among the Peace Resolutions adopted by the lower house of the copperhead Legislature of New Jersey—38 to 13!
Be it Resolved, That it is the deliberate sense of the people of this State, that the war power within the limits of the Constitution is ample for any and all emergencies, and that all assumption of power, under whatever plea, beyond that conferred by the Constitution, is without warrant or authority, and if permitted to continue without remonstrance will finally encompass the destruction of the liberties of the people and the death of the republic; and, therefore, to the end that, in any event, the matured and deliberate sense of the people of New Jersey may be known and declared, we, their representatives in Senate and General Assembly convened, do, in their name and in their behalf, make unto the Federal Government this our solemn
PROTEST:
Against a war waged with the insurgent States for the accomplishment of unconstitutional or partisan purpose:
Against a war which has for its object the subjugation of any of the States, with a view to their reduction to territorial condition:
Against proclamations, from any source, by which, under the plea of "military necessity," persons in States and Territories sustaining the Federal Government, and beyond necessary military lines, are held liable to the rigor and severity of military law:-
Against the domination of the military over the civil law in Suites, Territories, or districts not in a state of insurrection:
Against all arrests without warrant—against the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus in States and Territories sustaining the Federal Government, "where the public safety does not require it"—and against the assumption of power by any person to suspend such writ, except under the express authority of Congress:
Against the creation of new States by the division of existing ones, or in any other manner not clearly authorized by the Constitution, and against the right of secession as practically admitted by the action of Congress in admitting as a new State a portion of the State of Virginia:
Against the power assumed in the proclamation of the President, made January first, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, by which all the slaves in certain States and parts of States are forever set free; and against the expenditure of certain moneys for the emancipation of slaves, or their support at any time, under any pretence whatever:
Against any and every exercise of power upon the part of the Federal Government that is not clearly given and expressed in the Federal Constitution-reasserting that "the powers not delegated to the United State by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.”
And be it Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of New Jersey believes that the appointment of commissioners upon the part of the Federal Government to meet commissioners similarly appointed by the insurgent States, to convene in some suitable place for the purpose of considering whether any, and if any, what plan may be adopted, consistent with the honor and dignity of the National Government, by which the present civil war may be brought to a close, is not inconsistent with the integrity, honor and dignity of the Federal Government, but as an indication of the spirit which animates the adhering States, would in any event tend to strengthen us in the opinion of other nations; and hoping, as we sincerely do, that the Southern States would reciprocate the peaceful indications thus evinced, and believing, as we do, under the blessing of God, great benefits would arise from such a conference, we most earnestly recommend the subject to the consideration of the government of the United States, and request its cooperation therein.
And be it Resolved, That his Excellency the Governor be requested to forward copies of these resolutions to the government of the United States, our Senators and Representatives in Congress, and to the Governors and Legislatures of our sister States, with the request that they give the subject proposed their serious and immediate attention.
And be it Resolved, That the State of New Jersey pledges itself to such prompt action upon the subject of these resolutions as will give them practical effect, immediately upon the concurrence or cooperation of the Government and Legislatures of other States.
DEMOCRATIC LOYALTY.
The following characteristic parody is being sown broadcast by the Copperheads of Connecticut in aid of Col. Tom Seymour's election.
WHITE SOLDIER'S SONG.
TUNE “John Brown.”
Tell Abe Lincoln that he’d better end the war,
Tell Abe Lincoln what we all came out here for,
Tell Abe Lincoln’t was the Union to restore,
CHORUS—As we go marching on.
Tell Abe Lincoln to send our Hero back,
Tell Abe Lincoln that we mean our Little Mac,
Tell Abe Lincoln to put him on the track,
CHORUS-As we, &c.
Tell Abe Lincoln to let the nigger be,
Tell Abe Lincoln that we don't want him free,
Tell Abe Lincoln that to this he did agree,
CHORUS-As we, &c.
Tell Abe Lincoln the Constitution is our guide,
Tell Abe Lincoln by the laws he must abide,
Tell Abe Lincoln to let his Proclamation slide,
CHORUS-As we, &c.
Tell Abe Lincoln and his woolly-headed crew,
Tell Abe Lincoln his suspension writ won't do,
Tell Abe Lincoln we are going to put him through,
CHORUS-As we, &c
Tell Abe Lincoln in Antietam’s bloody dell,
Tell Abe Lincoln where a thousand heroes fell,
Tell Abe Lincoln and his gang to go to h—,
CHORUS-And We’ll go marching home.
<c03>
Selections.
GEORGE THOMPSON,
AND HIS VINDICATION OF THE AMERICAN CAUSE IN ENGLAND.
The feelings and opinions of the people of England, in regard to the struggle in this country for the maintenance of free institutions against the uprising of a slave oligarchy, are no longer problematical. From one end of the kingdom to the other—in every considerable city, town, or village—popular gatherings are testifying, in the most emphatic manner, and with surprising unanimity, in laudation of President Lincoln, and in favor of the American Government; and also expressing the strongest abhorrence of negro slavery and all its confederate abettors. Neither the wily artifices of Southern emissaries on their soil, nor the mercenary efforts of purchased journals to mislead them, concerning the true issue between the contending parties, have availed aught. It is evident that Sharpe, and Wilberforce, and Clarkson, and Macaulay, and Buxton, did not labor simply for their day and generation. These sublime and inspiring manifestations are the voice of the British people to the British Government—a voice which that Government will not dare to disregard.
Of course, various causes and instrumentalities have conspired to produce this widespread and concurrent expression of British sympathy and support. Much of it is due to the speeches and writings of such men as John Stuart Mill, John Bright, Perronet Thompson, and Rev. Newman Hall. But it is not to disparage any of these efficient co-laborers to say, that to no one is so much credit due for this magnificent result as to GEORGE THOMPSON. Understanding the whole American question better than any other Englishman, having made himself familiar by thirty years’ investigation with all the facts pertaining to the rise, progress, nature, grasping power, haughty usurpation, horrible perfidy, and desperate aim for universal dominion of the slave power in this country, he has voluntarily consecrated his time, strength, and remarkable powers of speech, particularly for the last six months, to the work of enlightening his countrymen on the subject of the War. He has lectured with signal ability in every part of the kingdom—addressed tens of thousands of people—elicited multitudinous expressions of private and public condemnation of the Southern conspiracy, and of good-will toward President Lincoln and his administration—and performed an amount of labor, the value of which cannot easily be computed. This is the more noteworthy, inasmuch as Mr. Thompson's visits to this country, some years since, were attended with insult, persecution, and danger in every direction at the North; and he had much to remember which was not calculated to excite gratifying reflections. But conscious that, however misunderstood, misrepresented, or outraged, he was always the true friend of America, he has blotted out the past, forgotten all personal grievances, rushed to our rescue in the hour of peril, and secured to our side all that is worth having among those whose boast still justly is, “Slaves cannot breathe in England.”
The time has come, we think, when justice and gratitude alike demand of all loyal, freedom-loving Americans some expression or testimonial at their hands, indicative of their appreciation of the eminent service he has rendered to our Government in these perilous times.
In this connection, a brief biographical sketch of Mr. Thompson will be interesting to our readers.
He was born in Liverpool, June 18, 1804, and, consequently, is in the 59th year of his age. When two years old, he accompanied his parents to London, and has ever since made that city his abode.
In youth, he began to exhibit that debating and elocutionary talent for which he has since made himself famous. His attention being drawn to the struggle going on for the abolition of British colonial slavery, he offered his services to the London Anti-Slavery Society as a lecturing agent, was accepted, and by his electric eloquence immediately made so powerful an impression on the public mind as to induce the West India interest to send into the field, as its special champion, Mr. Peter Borthwick, remarkable for his audacity, unscrupulousness, and fluency of speech, whose mission it was to follow Mr. Thompson through the kingdom, and, if possible, drive him from the field. The combatants had their first encounter at Manchester—then at Liverpool, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other towns in England and Scotland—Borthwick ultimately retreating utterly discomfited, and unable to face the moral disgust and indignation excited by his course. Mr. Thompson acquitted himself with such extraordinary ability, and to such general acceptance, that the citizens of Edinburgh presented him with an elegant service of plate. A similar token of regard was tendered by the citizens of Glasgow.
The passage of the Abolition Act by Parliament, in 1833, was largely owing to the thorough rousing of the moral and religious sentiment of England by the powerful appeals of this orator. At that time, he intended to qualify himself for the English bar, and had he done so would unquestionably have attained distinction in his profession. But he was strongly solicited, in behalf of the American abolitionists, to visit the United States, for the purpose of aiding the infant cause of abolition in this country. Turning his back upon his well-earned popularity at home, and thus abandoning all hope of professional eminence, he accepted the overture, and sailed with his family for New York in August, 1834. On his arrival in this city—so prompt was the pro-slavery spirit to meet his advent—he was refused accommodations at every respectable hotel! From that time until his departure in December, 1835, he lectured in favor of Immediate Emancipation with indefatigable perseverance, intrepidity, and power, in various parts of the country, but chiefly in New England. He was branded as a paid emissary, sent over by the British Government to destroy the American Union, his pockets lined with gold! though it would have been difficult to have found a spare dime in them. Everywhere he had to encounter violence; paid abductors and even hired assassins were on his track, as hunters after a wild beast! But if his appeals had been heeded at that time, there had been no civil war now.
On his return home in January, 1836, a handsome subscription in honor of his services, at home and abroad was contributed by the leading philanthropists in the kingdom.
He immediately began agitating for the abolition of that pernicious remnant of West India slavery, negro apprenticeship; and had the satisfaction of seeing his labors crowned with success in 1868. For this service he received the thanks of Lord Brougham, in the House of Lords, on the 16th of July of that year. Himself one of the most eloquent of orators, Lord B. at a public meeting paid Mr. Thompson the following compliment:-
“I have always great pleasure in listening to Mr. Thompson, who is the most eloquent man and the most accomplished orator whom I know; and as I have no opportunity of hearing him where he ought to
<c04>
speak, inside the walls of Parliament, I am anxious never so lose an opportunity of hearing him. where alone I can, in a public meeting like the present.”
Mr. Thompson next espoused the cause of the oppressed natives of India, against the rapacity of the East India company. He assisted in the formation of British India Societies, and lectured extensively "on the condition, resources, and prospects of British India, and the duties and responsibilities to do justice to that vast empire.”
In 1841, Mr. Thompson entered the Court of Proprietors of East India Stock, and under the privileges of his new position powerfully vindicated the Rajah of Sattara—advocated the extension of the permanent Revenue settlement to the Upper Provinces —and opposed the Afghan war. Repelling the ungenerous insinuation, that he was the appointed and feed advocate of the dethroned prince, he nobly replied- “If the advocate of the Rajah, I am his unknown and unbought advocate. My name, if uttered in his ears, would be an unmeaning sound. I hope for nothing from his gratitude, as I fear nothing from the displeasure of those from whom I differ.”
Mr. Thompson next gave his advocacy to the anti-corn-law movement, in 1842, the triumph of which was greatly owing to his untiring exertions, as well as to the labors of Cobden, Bright, Wilson, and their associates. For the services thus rendered, he was presented with a piece of plate at Southampton, in the presence of four thousand spectators. The corn-law monopolists endeavored to secure him on their side by promising to put him in a position of pecuniary independence, and to advance any political object he might cherish! Of course he spurned the bribe, and held fast to his integrity.
In 1849, Mr. Thompson was elected a member of Parliament from the Tower Hamlets, though opposed by the whole influence, of the Government, and did good service by his voice and votes in the cause of reform.
In 1850, he made a recreative visit to this country; and though not designing to enter into the lecturing field, occupied his time mainly in lectures upon British India and American slavery.
Subsequently, he took a voyage to India, and remained there investigating the condition of the natives until his health broke down, when he returned home in a paralytic state, from which it was supposed he could not recover. After protracted helplessness, he gradually regained the use of his limbs, and has since been able to perform considerable labor, though not with his pristine vigor. The American straggle, however, seems to have rejuvenated his physical and mental powers, and his recent speeches have been characterized by his old eloquence and inspiration.
Last month, the friends of Mr. Thompson gave a soiree in his honor, at the Whittington Club, London, the Right Hon. Lord Teynham in the chair. The address to him said:-“
Especially have you renewed the admiration and esteem of countless friends on both sides of the Atlantic by the orations that during the last two years have so greatly helped to revive in England the old anti-slavery ardor, and to vindicate the great American people from the charges by which it is sought to gain British sympathy for the Southern slaveholding rebels. You have by these labors shown yourself the equal friend of both nations, and alike of liberty and peace. We earnestly trust you will live to enjoy the fullest reward of those priceless and disinterested services— live, not only to represent once more the English people in their national council, but to receive in Washington the thanks of a Congress gathered from all quarters of the Republican territory, and legislating for a commonwealth that contains neither a rebel nor a slave.”
We bring our sketch to a close by quoting the language of another: “May the God who has been his guide and protector hitherto, and thrown over him his shield in the hour of peril, and made him the honored instrument of achieving much in the cause of suffering humanity, still be his conductor and defence, and make him yet more abundantly honored and useful! And when at last he ceases to labor and to live, may the INDIAN and the NEGRO hold in equal and grateful affection the memory of the labors and triumphs of GEORGE THOMPSON!"
A GRATEFUL ADMIRER.
-N.-Y. Independent.
GEORGE THOMPSON.
The people have always had their own champions whom they have delighted to honor—the more especially if they have undergone suffering and calumny on their behalf. Among the chief of these true men—pioneers in the cause of human progress —must ever be ranked George Thompson. The soiree which on Wednesday night was held in his honor, coupled as it was with the presentation of an eloquent and appropriate address from the pen, we believe, of Mr. Washington Wilks, was a worthy expression of the feeling of gratitude and admiration which Mr. Thompson’s public services have excited among the masses of the British people. With the exception of Lord Brougham, who is almost the sole survivor of the illustrious band to whose efforts we owe the abolition of slavery and the slave trade, but who in his old age is painfully timid and vacillating, Lord Teynham is perhaps the only member of the Upper House who could, with perfect fitness, have been chosen to preside on this interesting occasion. Although an aristocrat in social position, he is yet thoroughly indentified with popular opinions, and has espoused with the ardor of youth, and at the same time with the sagacity and thought of mature age, the cause of Parliamentary reform — one of those movements in which Mr. Thompson has from time to time taken a leading part. Mr. Bazley, the representative of commercial Manchester; Mr. Sella Martin, a gentleman of color and a fugitive slave; and Professor Newman, the schoolman deeply versed in philosophic lore—all united, from their several points of view, in the same tribute of praise. The speech of Mr. Sella Martin must have been especially grateful to Mr. Thompson. That gentleman had a right to speak in the name of the four millions of American slaves, for only a few years ago he was one of their number—doomed, as it would seem, to a life of hopeless bondage. Mr. Martin declared that the name of George Thompson was enshrined in the affections of the bondsmen of America—that their benedictions rested upon him as the advocate of their cause, to whom, next to William Lloyd Garrison, they were the most indebted. One remark was made by Mr. Thompson in the course of his speech, which cannot sink too deeply into the minds of the young men of the present generation. He said that his one great aim had always been to base his advocacy of public questions upon a sound moral principle. Having satisfied himself of the principle, he felt that his cause rested on an immutable foundation. If this rule were always acted on, fewer erroneous opinions would prevail in the world. Men would become better citizens, and therefore truer Christians; and those beneficent objects to which Mr. Thompson has devoted his life would speedily advance to a successful issue. The meeting of
<c05>
Wednesday was an expression of British sympathy and good will; but we are sure that the American heart must be deeply touched by the service which Mr. Thompson has rendered to their cause in the present hour of trial. Twenty-five years ago, when the people of the United States, like many of our countrymen not long before, were laboring under that pro-slavery “infatuation” so well described by Mr. Sella Martin, he was subjected to much contumely and persecution on American soil; but the labors of the brave pioneer have at length yielded a fruitful harvest, and the Northern States are now leavened with the spirit of freedom. Mr. Thompson is magnanimous enough to forget and forgive the past; and believing as he does that the Union and Emancipation are synonymous terms, he has given to the North the whole weight of his disinterested and powerful influence. We have not space to enlarge upon the subject, but sure we are that, when the history of the past thirty years comes to be written, full justice will be done to Mr. Thompson’s self-denying labors in every great and noble work. He will not be the least among those of whom it has been said—
“The feather whence the pen
Was shaped that traced the lives of these good men, Dropped from an angel’s wing.”
—London Dial, Feb. 28th.
ANTI-SLAVERY AUTHORITY.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
In the Washington Library, Boston Atheneum, may be seen two volumes of anti-slavery papers collected and bound by the Father of our country. Let me lay before your readers the titles of the pamphlets thus preserved.
The smaller volume of the pair contains, 1st, an essay entitled “The potent enemies of America laid open, being some account of the baneful effects attending the use of distilled spiritous liquors, and the slavery of the negroes,” (rum and niggers in modern parlance,) “by a lover of mankind,” Anthony Benezet, “Philadelphia.” And the second paper is “Thoughts upon slavery, by John Wesley, M. A., printed in London and reprinted in Philadelphia, 1774.”
The larger volume is very handsomely bound, and labeled “Tracts on slavery.” On the inside cover we have the Washington arms, with a dove for the crest, and the family stars and stripes in the shield; the motto, “Exitus acta probat,” “the end proves the doings,” a very significant expression in view of “the end” now to be seen in our land, and “George Washington” on a plain, fair scroll. At the head of most of the pamphlets “G. Washington” is penned in his well-known, bold, round hand. The first paper is “a serious address to the Rulers of America on the inconsistency of their condition respecting slavery, forming a contrast between the encroachments of England on American Liberty, and American injustice in tolerating slavery.” Trenton, 1783.
No. 2 is “Debates in the British House of Commons, May 13, 1789, on the petitions for the abolition of the slave trade, Philadelphia, 1789.” No. 3 is “An essay on the impolicy of the African slave trade, by Rev. T. Clarkson, M. A., Philadelphia, 1788.” No. 4 is “An oration upon the necessity of establishing at Paris a society to co-operate with those of America and London toward the abolition of the trade and the slavery of negroes, delivered Feb. 19, 1788, in a society of a few friends assembled at Paris, at the request of the committee of London, by J. P. Brissot de Warville, Philadelphia, 1788. Translated by Charles Crawford” No. 5 is “A speech delivered at a free conference between the Honorable the Council and Assembly of Jamaica, November, 1789, on the subject of Mr. Wilberforce’s proposition in the House of Commons concerning the slave trade, by Bryan Edwards, member of the Assembly, Kingston, 1789, No. 6 is “An oration upon the moral and political evil of slavery, delivered at a public meeting of the Maryland Society for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery, and the relief of free negroes and others unlawfully held in bondage, Baltimore, July 4, 1791, by George Buchanan, M. D., member of the American Philosophical Society, Baltimore, 1793.” The committee voted unanimously their thanks to the author, and requested a copy for the press, with most emphatic approval and endorsement. The oration was dedicated to “The Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Esq., Secretary of State, uniformly marked,” says Dr. B., “by a sincere, steady and active attachment to the interests of his country.” We would venture upon a few extracts from this production:
“It is time to abolish these enormities, and stay such repeated insults from being offered to divine Providence. Some dreadful curse from Heaven may be the effect of them, and the innocent be made to Suffer for the guilty. What, will ye not consider that the Africans are men? that they have a human soul to be saved? that they are born free and independent? A violation of which prerogatives is an infringement upon the laws of God. What a distressing scene is here before us! America, I start at your situation.” One only of all the Union was then, remember, a free State! “Cruel and oppressive, she (America) wantonly abuses the Rights of Man. Americans, step forward! you have already diffused a spirit of Liberty throughout the World; you have set an example of heroism; and now let me entreat you to pave the way to the exercise of Humanity; an opportunity is offered to raise yourselves to the first eminence amongst mankind. Rouse, then, from your lethargy, and let not such torpid indifference prevail in your councils. Slavery, the most important enemy to your country, is harbored amongst you. It makes a rapid progress, and threatens you with destruction. ‘He that steals a man,’ (says Exodus,) ‘and selleth him, if he be found in his hand, shall sorely be put to death.’ Oh my countrymen, are there any of you who can con this solemn passage of scripture without trembling? ‘The Nation, to whom they shall be in bondage, will I judge, said God,’ and what that judgment may be is beyond the suggestion of mortals.”
Washington caused three other pamphlets to be bound up with these, all by Samuel Fish, of Connecticut—one on Peace and an Everlasting Union; one on the Certainty of Christ's Spiritual Reign; and one on Christ's Personal Appearance and Universal Kingdom. To the mind of Washington, they were in harmony with his Anti-Slavery pamphlets. 
What would he have thought, had he been told that anywhere, in after years, in oar Southern States, these volumes of his would have proved the death-warrant of any traveller who might happen to have them with him? C. F. B.
NEGROPHOBIA. In the Indiana legislature, prior to its adjournment, a bill to keep free negroes out of the State came up for action, and a copperhead named Claypool made a speech upon it, saying that it should be made to read like the dog law: “All negroes found at large without a license, or collar on their necks, should be killed.” The bill failed for the want of a constitutional majority.
<c06>
THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS AND MR. LINCOLN’S "EMANCIPATION POLICY.”
We have before us three numbers of the British Friend, a monthly journal published at Glasgow, and “chiefly devoted to the interests of the Society of Friends.” “The numbers are those for November, December and January. In each we find comments on the so-called” “emancipation” policy of President Lincoln, which it may be useful to quote at a time when such insidious efforts are being made to entrap the people of England into expressions of unqualified approval of the acts of the Federal Government. In an article in the November number, we find the following passage:- “We should hope there can be none among Friends, and but few among others who are with them, anxious for speedy abolition, who would advocate the further prosecution of the war, even were they certain of the object so dear to them being thereby secured. Desirable as that object unquestionably is, its accomplishment has been attempted at a most unwarrantable cost, on the supposition that the war had this end chiefly in view. This, however, we cannot persuade ourselves was what the originators of the conflict primarily designed; it was rather the restoration of the Union, no objection, of course, but satisfaction being anticipated should both objects be simultaneously obtained. Even now, pleasant as it would feel to give President Lincoln credit for it, we find a difficulty in persuading ourselves that his proclamation is the dictate of sound abolition principle; we rather fear it is only a political expedient designed to crush the South, and force it back into the embrace of the Union. Let the issue, however, be what it may in reference to the present struggle between Federals and Confederates, there appears in our view quite as much hope for the slave in the event of the recognition of Southern independence as in that of a restoration of the Union. In the latter case we imagine it would of necessity be accompanied by some compromise on the part of the North in favor of the ‘peculiar institution.’ On the other hand, were the Southern States to achieve their independence, they would have to trust entirely to themselves in maintaining slavery; they would no longer have a ‘Fugitive Slave Law’ to depend on, and the slaves knowing it to have become a dead letter, as also knowing that the sympathy of the whole Northern States would be for them, and not for their owners, would find an easy high road to freedom through simply stepping over the boundary line between the South and the North.”
Again, in the December number we read:-“The best of reasons induce many abolitionists in this country to withhold the expression of sympathy with the Federal States. As a party, doubtless, our American anti-slavery brethren sincerely desire that the war power may accomplish at last what other means have failed to do—and, if so over-ruled, the congratulations will be general—but it is impossible for abolitionists, from what we may call the British stand-point of view, to see that the war was undertaken for any other purpose than to suppress rebellion. This was, and is, the object of the Federal President and Government—the abolition of slavery with him and his coadjutors is entirely a secondary and very minor consideration. Our esteemed cotemporary, The Herald of Peace, of 1st ult., sets this matter in the most convincing light, coinciding entirely with the view which was taken on the same date in these pages. In the January number, the writer deals with a letter received from a Friend in New Jersey, who complains that the Friends in England have given the North ‘the cold shoulder.’ This accusation is met in the spirit which breathes through the extracts we have already quoted; and our cotemporary adds:-‘The heavy complaint against the British Government we also consider entirely groundless. In the way of trade, we apprehend the munitions of war are as likely to be supplied by our countrymen to the North as to the South, in the same way precisely as Americans would do, and have done, when similarly situated.’”—Glasgow paper.

RECONSTRUCTION IMPOSSIBLE.
Alluding to the deceptive peace movements of certain Northern and Western reconstructionists, the Richmond Examiner says:-
“The Northern Democrats ask now that, with the frivolity of children, the two communities should ignore the past, should treat the tremendous events of the last forty years as trifles; and with a debt of two or three billions of dollars incurred in mutual slaughter, should shake the bloody hands of each other, and be brethren once more. The thing is not possible. It would be barbarous, corrupt, and wicked. Who but brutes could shake hands and be friends with the slayers of brothers and companions? Probably half a million of men on both sides have fallen as victims in this frightful war. Are each community to throw off the habiliments of mourning, to forget their dead, and revel in mutual amity over the graves of the slain? The spectacle would disgust the world; Heaven would be shocked at the impiety of the scene. Honorable peace is always to be desired. War should not be prolonged one moment from mere sentiments of revenge. But political union and social amity with the slayers of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen would be an indecency revolting to every virtuous, pious, and chivalrous instinct of human nature.”
The Richmond Enquirer says:-
Ten gentlemen in Albemarle county declare themselves willing to admit certain Northwestern States into the Confederacy, even without slavery; but at the same time do not deny that they should prefer to have all our Confederate States “characterized by similar institutions.” The ten gentlemen do not advert to the fact that these same Northwestern States are not asking admission into our Confederacy, but on the contrary waging a barbarous war against us to force us into theirs. We believe that the ten gentlemen must be in possession of diplomatic news which has not come to us. They must have received overtures from some distinguished man, woman, or child. Something of great importance must be going on. It is not fair to keep us in ignorance in this sort of way.
That United North—both East and West—is still rushing in upon us round all our frontier; there is no abatement, no remission. Every morning their bugles, answering one another along a line of two thousand hired, wake five hundred thousand hired ruffians of all nations to their daily industry of ravage, and burning, and slaughter. The East and West vie with one another, and their rivalry is, which shall carry their detested flag deepest into the heart of our land. But in this rivalry the Northwest clearly has the advantage. Its troops have done us more harm than those of the Northeast. At any rate, now, at the hour we write, the whole of our confederacy is compelled to strain every nerve, and use and waste every resource, and place every available man in the field to resist that united North, and prevent it from reducing us to slaves and beggars.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Now, just in this state of things, some confederate citizens begin to urge that 
one of those two sections of our Northern foes-namely, the Northwest-should be gently argued with and tenderly entreated. These citizens are disgusted and alarmed if any one speaks harshly of the Northwestern people-against Down-easters we may rail as we please, call them damnable fanatics, vile abolitionists, fraudulent Yankees, and nobody will complain. But if you use an expression which might wound the sensibilities of the Northwest, people cry hush! You will repel them; you will change them from friends into enemies. Assuredly this would be a bad change; for, if they slaughter their friends, they would undoubtedly devour their enemies.
And when we ask the meaning of all this, we are answered that there is reason to believe the Northwest is tired of the war; is disgusted with the Lincoln administration; is awake to the fact that, as the South cannot be conquered, she had better be conciliated; is electing Democratic Legislatures, and sending mysterious emissaries to scatter over the South vague hopes and cheering rumors which are important, if true.
And what then? Truly we are glad to bear all this; it bodes evil to our enemies, and, therefore, augurs good to us. But what precisely are we to do in the matter? No one advises that our armies, who are in face of those Northwestern troops, should lay down their arms or should run away. On the contrary, it is agreed on all hands, we suppose, that our troops must still oppose a certain degree of resistance to armed invasion. But the specific thing we are invited to do, is to show to that section of our enemies some marks of friendship, some desire to cultivate friendly relations with them; and above all things, not to wound their feelings by unkind observations. Further, it is urged that our government should go so far as to enter into negotiations with-
not the governments of those States, for they will negotiate with us only through the cannon's mouth-but with private politicians, individual stump orators, and other obscure, unauthorized persons. In the meantime, it seems to be thought desirable also that unauthorized persons on our side (like these ten of Albemarle) should offer to admit the Northwestern States into our Confederacy-and they, all this while, arc are not asking to be admitted, and not listening to any terms except submission of the rebels.
GREAT EMANCIPATION DEMONSTRATION IN LONDON.
We have already stated that, in addition to the tremendous meeting held a short time since in Exeter Hall, London, to sustain the American Government in its struggle to suppress the Slaveholders' Rebellion, another demonstration took place in St. James's Hall, in that city, on the 18th ultimo-the floor, platform, orchestra, balconies, and highest galleries, being crowded almost to suffocation. Mr. WILLIAM EVANS presided, whose able speech on the occasion we now give, as well as that of the Rev. W. LANDELS.
The Chairman, on presenting himself to the meeting, was warmly greeted. He said: Ladies and gentlemen, there is, happily, no longer reason that I should put the same question to you that I did at Exeter Hall. I there asked that vast assemblage whether really the feeling of hatred of slavery was dead in this country. The response which was given on that occasion has reverberated throughout the length and breadth of the land, and must have convinced those who imagined that there was a lull in the public mind, that though the feeling might appear dead, it only slept. (Cheers.) The response that we have had from the various parts of the country also show that the old hatred of that colossal wrong is as intense in the hearts of the pet was in the days when the present Earl of Derby introduced into the House of Commons his famous measure, which declared that the name of slavery should be erased from the statute-book of Great Britain. (Loud cheers.) Why, we have been in existence only two or three months, and what has been the effect? Meetings have been held in every metropolitan borough and in every large town in England; associations have been formed in the midland counties, and in those hives of industry-Lancashire and the West Riding of Yorkshire-and in fact in all parts have spontaneous meetings en held, calling upon us to send deputations, and urging us to do everything we could to encourage and assist them in their own spontaneous and local efforts to show their hatred of slavery. (Hear, hear.) Gentlemen, this very night there is a large meeting at Liverpool-(cheers)-there is a large meeting at Manchester. (Renewed cheers.) And when I speak of Manchester, I must not omit to mention the name of a gentleman there, to whom we are greatly indebted Mr. Potter-a name well known to you, who with his friends have held one of those great meetings in the Free-trade Hall, which have produced so great an effect throughout the country. It was a meeting mainly composed of working men, and showed the interest that class has taken in this question. (Hear, hear.) We are greatly indebted, I say, to our friends in various parts of the country who have taken this active part in producing this state of excitement; but we are also indebted to those who may be called our enemies, who are our detractors, but who really have served our purpose well. (Hear, hear.) And chief of these permit me to name the London Times. (Hisses.) Gentlemen, do not hiss it; it has served us well, for its article declaring that slavery was consonant with Scripture has been worth a month's agitation. (Cheers.)
A voice-Three groans for the Times! (Groans.) 
The Chairman: I cannot omit to mention that name which was honored amongst us, and I hope will be honored again-the name of Earl Russell-who has used expressions in this matter unworthy of his name. (Cries of “No,” “Yes, yes.” and cheers.) That noble lord has spoken of this rebellion of the South being for independence. (Hear, hear.) Independence If there is any meaning attached to the word, it means freedom. (Hear, hear.) And what freedom is there, or attempted to be maintained in the South, where there are 4,000,000 of slaves? (Cheers.) For what tyranny is so oppressive, what! despotism so cruel as that which keeps in chains 4,-000,000 of men? (Interruption caused by a person in the body of the hall. ) Allow me to calm that gentleman's mind by using the words of the poet:-
“No sea swells like the bosom of a man set free,
A wilderness is rich with liberty.”
(Cheers.) But what liberty is there in that horrid and discreditable system which confines 4,000,000 of men, depriving them of the power or right of education, denying them liberty, property, or rights, and causing them to hold their wife and children at another’s pleasure? (Shame.) I feel we have no longer occasion to argue this question. It is a foregone conclusion, for all our enemies, all our detractors, and all those who shilly-shally and find devices and excuses for not assisting in this great movement, and by saying they are not friendly to slavery.(Hear, hear.) Why, I was one who took an active part in the great free trade movement, and I remember that the leading papers of that day. the Times and others, said we were a set of selfish manufacturers who sought for their own selfish purposes to carry out the freedom of commerce. (Question, and cries of “Order.”) There is an amusing gentleman on my left, who is desirous of making himself conspicuous. (Laughter and cheers.) By and by, perhaps he will change his mind. (Hear, hear.) Gentlemen, I have another cause to mention why we are so successful, but it is one I can only name with a feeling, in a degree, of pity-it is the lamentable exhibition which has been made by your Lord Mayor. (Hisses.)
A voice-”That was a mistake.”
The Chairman: I cannot help alluding, very briefly, to a document I hold in my hand, which is a remonstrance from the women of England, against the continuance f slavery in the United States of America. Cheers.) In remonstrating against the continuance of slavery in America, 500,000 of our countrywomen use these words to the people of the United States:-"We appeal to you then, as sisters, as wives, and as mothers, to raise your voices to your fellow citizens, and your prayers to God, for the removal of this affliction and disgrace from the civilized world.” (Cheers.) Who signed this remonstrance?(Cheers.) The wife of Lord Palmerston—(Cheers) the honored wife of the Duke of Argyll, the Duchees of Sutherland, and the Lady Mayoress. (Hear, hear.) The wife of the then Lord Mayor signed a remonstrance to the people of America that it was a disgrace to them to continue slavery, and now the Lord Mayor of the present day makes us remember the quotation of the poet:-
“Man dressed in a little brief authority,
 Plays such fantastic tricks before high Heaven
 As make the angels weep.”
(Loud cheers.) Above all the parties who have
<c02>
been named as friends of ours, let us never forget the attitude which the working men of this country have assumed. (Cheers.) With that intuitive knowledge and perception of what is right and due to themselves, their principles, and their country, they have taken the true stand on this question. It is said over and over again, that the North and South can never come together again, so to great is their hatred. Why, those who have been there as I have, and have known how intimate were the domestic relations between the families of the North and the South, would see that as soon as the sole cause of this fearful quarrel is over, there will be a union and a friendly and kindly feeling exist among them. (Hear, hear.) Take, for instance, President Lincoln—the honored name of President Lincoln. (Cheers.) His wife has a brother in the rebel army. Take General McClellan. His wife comes from the South. Crittenden, whose name is so familiar to you, has a son in each army fighting against each other. The commander of the Merrimac had a brother in the very ship that he ran down; and throughout the whole of the States of the North and the South, you will find the families so closely knit together that were but this monstrous wrong removed, this slavery taken away, as I trust it will be, they would be good friends, the country would be stronger and more powerful than ever. (Cheers.) In my travels throughout the United States, I visited a tribe of Indians. I met the chief, and being anxious to know what view he and his tribe took of this tremendous conflict, I questioned him. He looked at me with that fixity of gaze which characterizes the denizens of the woods, and he said this, which I shall never forget, and it was the only answer he would deign to make—" Sir. the black man has a soul as well as we have." (Loud cheers.) We begand the anti-slavery movement, and it was our example and our teachings that taught the Americans the course they ought to take. And when the consummation had come—(hear, hear,)—when the cruel wrong must be redressed, and when the South felt it so strongly that they thought it necessary to separate in order that they might maintain and perpetuate slavery, then it was that this country appeared for a time to be apathetic in regard to a question in which before it felt so deep an interest. It was that which encouraged the South and their friends to believe that we had changed our minds. (Hear, hear.) I will do the Southern slaveholders this justice, that with them there is no shilly-shally pretence, but they come in a manly manner before the world, and declare they are fighting for slavery. (“No,” “ Yes," and cheers.)-And if I am not mistaken in what I have heard of Mr. Mason, I believe if the question were put to him whether he believed that slavery was right, he would declare that he would maintain that it was consistent with the Bible, that it was a part of his religion, and that he would never give his sanction to any mode of obliterating it. (Hear, hear.) I am proud to have the opportunity of showing that we in this country, who are interested in America, in her institutions and associations, are true to those principles which in times past we advocated so earnestly, so strongly, and so well, and that when we see the conflict is come, we do not desert them, but notwithstanding our desire not to interfere with the domestic concerns of other countries, we do not hesitate to express our feeling in favor of humanity, and our desire to see slavery extinguished forever. (Loud cheers.)
The Rev. W. LANDELS said—This meeting had been convened to plead the rights of 4,000,000 of men and women, and to liberate them from the condition of mere goods and chattels. Such a cause as that deserved the sympathy of the great body of the English people.
The question to be discussed that night was, whether the success of the North was likely to lead to the emancipation of the slave. If the question were narrowed to that issue, he thought a great good would be gained. Suppose the South achieved independence, would that achievement lead to emancipation? (No, no.) How was it possible that the South, who declared that slavery was the corner stone of their State fabric, would emancipate the slave if they achieved independence? The leaders of the Southern party were most likely to know their own mind on the question, and it might be well for those who asserted so confidently that the South was sure to emancipate when it was independent, to refer to some of the utterances of the Southern statesmen. Had they retracted at all the principle they announced immediately after secession? (Cries of “No, no.”) Had they shown any sense of their repentance for their manifold sins against the poor negro? (No, no.) Mr. Mason had an opportunity of speaking at the Mansion House the other day, but did they find in his utterances any sympathy for the negro race? (No.) Did he appear burdened with the load of his own manifold sins against that downtrodden and oppressed people? (No.) And yet they were told that, as soon as they were independent, they would emancipate their slaves. (Laughter.) They might as well tell him that when the devil had full swing, he would cease to do mischief. (Cheers and laughter.) Their policy was far more like cold-blooded assassination—as might be seen from reading the report which appeared in the papers of yesterday, of eighteen negro cooks, men and boys, who were found on board Federal transport ships, being taken into a field and shot down there in cold blood. (Loud cries of “Shame!”) Aye, and when two poor men, who had leaped into the water to save their lives, were seen clinging to the keel with only their heads above water, the Southern soldiers—the chivalrous soldiers of the South—did they attempt to rescue them? No; but they placed their muskets so close to their heads that when they fired, their skulls were shattered. (Shame, shame!) It was also said that when the South was independent, diplomacy would work wonders—the Federal Government would no longer go between the Southern Confederacy and other nations, and; this nation, dealing directly with the Confederacy, would through their remonstrances compel the South to treat kindly, and ultimately to emancipate their slaves. It was a very hopeful theory, but where were to be found facts to justify such a conclusion? Diplomacy had been dealing directly with Spain long enough, and slavery still existed in Cuba. Diplomacy had dealt with Brazil, but had not succeeded in abolishing slavery there. The greater its magnitude, the more difficult it was to abolish slavery. It had so many ramifications extending throughout the community; and if diplomacy had failed in the case of Cuba and Brazil, he asked, was it likely to succeed in the more difficult work of abolishing slavery in America? (Hear, hear.) As far as they could, reason from ascertained facts, it seemed far more likely that the Southern success would increase the arrogance of the demands of the slaveholders, and in the course of a few years slavery, increasing at its present ratio, would number, not four millions, but, eight millions of slaves. The question would then assume a more terrible form, so that the longer the question was allowed to remain unsolved, the more difficult its solution would become, and the more fearful the consequences that were likely to follow from it. Lord Russell ventured to say that the worst possible issue of this conflict would be the subjugation of the South by the North. With all deference to his lordship, he ventured to suggest a possible solution which was worse still than that. Suppose the Northern army to be defeated—suppose the Democrats taking their place, and coming to terms with the slaveholding South, and suppose they had a slaveholding power enthroned at Washington with all the resources of the nation employed for the defence of the propagation of slavery, what would follow? Why, the moral ruin first, and then the material ruin of that mighty nation would be the inevitable result. (Cheers.)
The Lord Mayor had invited Mr. Mason to the Mason House, to afford him an opportunity of insulting this country by insinuations against the British Government, and he had the grace to apologise so far for what he had done by maintaining that he had a perfect right as chief magistrate to invite to his table distinguished strangers from any country. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Mason was unquestionably a distinguished stranger. Distinguished for what? For a life-long hostility to England, and as the most determined and uncompromising advocate of slavery, and the most ruthless enemy of the slaves. (Hisses.) Such was the man whom the Lord Mayor of London desired to honor. (Renewed hisses and laughter.) Mr. Mason was the author of the Fugitive Slave Bill. (Groans and hisses.) The Lord Mayor of London delighted to honor Mr. Mason. Oh, men with sisters dear, men with mothers and wives, can you help saying shame, eternal shame to the Mansion House of London? The maledictions of 10,000 slaves and the hatred of free-born and true-hearted 
Englishmen rest on that Mansion House while it dares to spread its table for such “distinguished guests”! (Loud cheers.)
The meeting was also addressed by Professor. NEWMAN, NEWMAN in a very effective manner.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers i. e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863-that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.
THE LINES DRAWN.
In the nature of things, there can be but two sides in any moral controversy. It is an affront to common sense, and an insult to the Divine Majesty, to say that both liberty and slavery are right; or that liberty is partly right, and slavery is partly right, and both are partly wrong; or that it is fanaticism to be wholly in favor of liberty, and wholly against slavery. Such talk is to confound all moral distinctions, and to place on the throne of the universe, with equal authority and equal claim to obedience, God and the Adversary. In vain, from the earliest period of the world till now, has the attempt been made to find a half way resting-place between right and wrong, good and evil. “If the Lord be God," said the prophet of old, “serve him; but if Baal, then serve him.”
Whoever worships the one, dishonors the other. “Ye cannot serve God and Mammon,” said Jesus.
In the issue presented by slavery, there are only two parties-those who are for upholding it, and those who are for its extinction-the Abolitionists on the one hand, and the slaveholders on the other. These understand, and, to a certain extent, respect each other-i.e., on the ground of consistent and uncompromising action. They wear no mask, propose no compromise, deal in no cant, desire no truce. If the Declaration of Independence states the truth when it says that “all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty,” say the slaveholders, then the abolitionists are wholly justified in demanding the immediate and total abolition of slavery: but that Declaration is a tissue of absurdities. If slavery is right in Virginia or Georgia, say the Abolitionists, then it cannot be wrong in Massachusetts or Ohio: but it is a grievous wrong, a fearful outrage, an impious usurpation, wherever it exists.
On one side or the other of these contending parties must the people stand. There is no middle ground to be occupied, either as a matter of policy or as a mark of wisdom. If the slaveholders are right in rejecting liberty, the Abolitionists are wrong in opposing slavery-and vice versa. The former are as humane, as honest, as pure-minded, as just, as their slave system will allow, or any other class of men in a similar position can be. They employ none too many bloodhounds to hunt their flying fugitives, none too many drivers to extort uncompensated labor, none too many yokes and fetters to keep their victims in bondage. Their slave code is none too rigorous. They must steal, lie, defraud, debauch, flog, mutilate, brand, manacle, thumb-screw, torture, and occasionally burn the victims of their oppression. The Abolitionists ever stand ready to defend them against the charge of being needlessly tyrannical and cruel, as slaveholders.” Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?" Therefore, because slavery is what it is, and because it makes slaveholders what they are, by an unerring law, is it proved to be a curse and crime, in comparison with which every other sinks into insignificance, and which imperatively demand its immediate annihilation. Every element in it is evil, every feature of it is evil, and nothing pertaining to it can bless or benefit either master or slave, or has any right to claim exemption from instant destruction. Of course, the guilty robbers of the poor and needy at the South find it easy and convenient to brand this as fanaticism, but they know for what base purpose they bring this monstrous charge, and that they are utterly without excuse for their conduct.
Still, we cannot but respect and appreciate the un-blushing, straightforward, deflant, indomitable course of these “traffickers in slaves and the souls of men," compared with the prevaricating, shuffling, sneaking, slimy conduct of their Northern tools and lickspittles. And they, in turn, are frank to confess their appreciation of the brave, uncompromising Abolitionists of the North, and their profound contempt for the very men who have never hesitated to do any dirty work required of them hesitated to do any dirty work required of them in behalf of slavery. Read what the Richmond Dispatch of the 15th inst. says on this point:
"Between the two classes of our mortal foemen at the North, there is little to choose. One is commercial and the other crazy. If the latter are more cruel and devilish in their loth, the former are more persistent and systematic in action. If we had only the lunatics to deal with, we might hope for a lucid interval, or possibly that their insanity might vary its form. But of the commercial classes we can entertain no such expectations. They have invested their money in the war, and they intend to get it back, if they send every dollar they have left after that which is gone.
If we were called upon to say which is the worse man, Wendell Phillips, who is the embodiment of Massachusetts anaticism, Edward Everett, who represents its conservatism, or Caleb Cushing, its politician, we should find no difficulty in a reply. We have infinitely more respect for Wendell Phillips, or any honest fanatic, than either of the others.
The fanatic has principles—such as they are—whilst the commercial class has no principle whatever but selfishness. If it is opposed to abolitionism, it is because the success of abolitionism would be fatal to trade. Could conservatism be convinced that freeing slaves would increase the production of cotton, it would be converted in an hour into the very genius of universal emancipation. We dread and detest such an enemy as this more than honest abolitionism. We despise and execrate Edward Everett and Caleb Cushing more than Phillips or Garrison. No man of honor could take Everett or Cushing by the hand—the latter especially. If there be a negro in the South as degraded as Cushing, he ought instantly to be freed, and sent to Massachusetts.”
A NEW AND STRIKING DESIGN.
THE DAWN OF LIBERTY. Dedicated to the 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers. By Dr. WILLIAM RIMMER.
In this spirited design, Dr. RIMMER has given new proof of the great truth, that the true artist is always prescient, and seizes the ideas which are to lead the world. In the mustering of negroes into our military service, he finds not only a numerical addition to our forces, but the advent of a new reign of Justice, which will give moral vigor to our consciences, and new courage to our hearts.
The picture represents the monster already thrown down beneath the palmetto, but struggling to rise again. Four soldiers, with uplifted spears, take the solemn pledge of eternal warfare against him. Their shields bear the sacred emblems of hope—faith, religion, and light—for the hope of liberty is in these great guiding stars. The sun just rising illuminates a figure of Justice on the right of the picture, and throws the principal figures into strong relief. This clear illumination of the whole scene is one of the great merits of the picture: the consecrated warriors seem”to walk in God's holy light for evermore.”
We shall not now stay to note defects. The enthusiasm of the hour for the noble band who are going forth amid such perils, and our delight at its beautiful expression in art, prevented our looking for what colder critics may find.
Photographs of the picture are for sale at Williams & Everett’s; and the generous artist will devote a portion of the receipts of its sale for the benefit of the regiment, under the auspices of the Executive Committee. C.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
SLAVERY-ITS ORIGIN, INFLUENCE AND DESTINY.
BY THEOPHILUS PARSONS. Boston: William Carter & Brother. 1863.
This is a philosophic dissertation upon Slavery and the Rebellion, by a gentleman of conservative feeling and sentiment, who discusses the most momentous question of the age with, all possible composure, and divests himself of every symptom of moral sensibility in his treatment of it. It appears to have been carefully written: indeed, Mr. Parsons never allows himself to write in a hurry, his style being habitually smooth and circumspect.
We have, first, a definition of what is slavery. Its foundation is described to be the power of controlling any man without his consent and concurrence:—
"The absolute ownership by one man of another man, as it exists at the South, is only the perfection and consummation of this principle.” It is not simply coercion. Thus—
"It is one thing to be able to say to a man, Work for me on the terms which I offer, or starve, leaving it to him to starve if he chooses, and a very different thing to have the right to say to him, Work for me on my terms or no terms, because I command you. These two things differ in essence; they are as different as non-slavery and slavery. The phrase in our Constitution, ‘held to labor,’ marks the distinction between one who is held to labor, and one who is persuaded or induced to labor. This phrase is, as it was intended to be, an exact definition of a slave.”
The clause of the Constitution here referred to has never been construed by the people or the courts adversely to the right claimed by every master to recapture his fugitive slave in any part of the Union; though, here and there, an individual has attempted to prove that it has, and was designed to have, no reference whatever to persons held in bondage. They have argued, that the term, ”held to labor,” necessarily implies a contract between two parties. But Mr. Parsons—himself a Law Professor at Cambridge, and the son of the most eminent jurist New England has produced—avers that ”it is, as it was intended to be, an exact definition of a slave.” Such is the judgement of the nation.
Our author thinks the idea, that the legal rightfulness of slavery is itself a wrong, ”scarcely existed upon earth until a few generations ago.” We believe, on the contrary, that those who have enacted slavery—we are sure that those who have been its victims by legal force—have from the first, instance to the last perceived the utter wrongfulness of the act, though the former have refused to hear the voice of reason or the monitions of conscience. The right of every man to himself, as against the claim of ownership by another, has always been self-evident, however persistently denied, whether among the civilized or the barbaric.
It is claimed for our fathers, that when they bent themselves to the work of giving form and order to our nationality—
"They selected those whom they thought their best and wisest, and commissioned them to confer together, and discover the fundamental rights for which all law exists, and which underlie and sustain and promote all social good; and the principles from which these rights forever flow. And then to devise the best forms and rules for a government which should forever acknowledge and secure these rights by a constant observance of these principles. And the fabric in which all this is contained and expressed and defined, they called a Constitution. Then it stood, the child of their own will; embodying the best wisdom they had; and resting on the consent of all. There it stood, and, thank God, there it stands.”
There are two historical facts which conclusively disprove this claim. The first is, that, antecedent to this, our fathers, in their Declaration of Independence, proclaimed to be SELF-EVIDENT “those fundamental rights for which all law exists,” and, therefore, they needed not to select any of their number to discover those rights. The other fact is, that the Constitution was made more with reference to the reconciliation of conflicting material interests and institutions, than to protect the rights of human nature, without regard to distinctions of race or climate—the Union of all the States being the primary and paramount object, no matter at what sacrifice of principle. Mr. Parsons admits this in the following paragraph:-
“Our national constitution recognizes and protects slavery. It does so; and it was made to do so for a sufficient reason. When our fathers framed it, they found slavery not only existing, but universally diffused; stronger in some places than in others, but wholly absent almost nowhere. They found also, that wherever slavery existed, there co-existed with it some knowledge of its character, and something of the fear and of the dislike that character should inspire. Three courses, and only three, were open to them. To abandon the purpose of a union of the whole. To violate the fundamental principle of consent, and try what could be done by compulsion. To accept the fact of slavery as it stood with all its concomitants, and its probable future, with the hope that truth would gradually prevail over falsehood, good over evil, and freedom over slavery. They chose the last of these alternatives, and they chose wisely and well.”
Now, so far from choosing wisely and well, by this course they entered into ”a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,” to their own shame and condemnation; the fearful consequences of which this guilty nation is now reaping. We do not understand the ethics of this writer, nor perceive any logical coherency in his reasoning. Slavery at the South, as we have already shown, he defines to be “the absolute ownership by one man of another man” hence an impious usurpation of the sovereignty of God, and the total extinction of all human rights. So slip-shod is his morality, so fast-and-loose his sense of justice, that he finds “a sufficient reason” why such comprehensive iniquity should have been allowed “recognition and PROTECTION in the Constitution” namely, otherwise the Union could not have been formed! And what were the laws of God, or what the claims of our common humanity, in comparison or importance with the formation of such a Union! It is the old Jesuitical subterfuge, “The end sanctifies the means.”
But—says our author—“a conflict at that time between freedom and slavery in this country would not have been safe.” Is such a conclusion the legitimate product of the Revolutionary struggle? Such a conflict is in the nature of things, and by no compromise of men can those elements be reconciled which are in eternal antagonism to each other. It was, indeed, delusively sought to be avoided ”at that time,” as though Divine Justice could be circumvented with impunity. In the face of this terrible retribution, our author reiterates his preposterous assertion—“The conflict would not have been safe. Our fathers did well and wisely in not exciting it. They left it for a future day. It has come in our day.” Yes, it has come now, because of their moral cowardice, their disregard of principle, their distrust of a God of unchangeable rectitude, their predominating selfishness; and having thus sown the wind, they left it for their descendants to reap the whirlwind—a whirlwind of fire and blood, of woe and desolation, on a scale of unparalleled magnitude. If the same experiment were made a million times over, precisely the same bloody consequences a million times over would follow. Yet, while conceding that the Constitution gives ”protection” to slavery, and that the rebellion is solely because of slavery, and that the rebellion is solely because of slavery, Mr. Parsons expresses the singular belief that the Constitution is ”the best possible instrument through which slavery may be exterminated in the best time and way”. Adherence to an instrument which gives ”protection” to a system which is ”the sum of all villanies”, is the wisest course to pursue in order to effect the overthrow of that system! Strange logic and incomprehensible morality!
Mr. Parsons is particularly shocked in view of ”the godlessness of that spirit of reform, which is so powerful among us”. How such a spirit can be godless, we are unable to conceive, unless God himself is hostile to reform; and we submit that the accuser is not competent to set up for a moral teacher or reformer, after such specimens of his ethical philosophy as we have given.
Notwithstanding its moral blemishes, this pamphlet is thoroughly loyal and hopeful in spirit, goes for the most vigorous prosecution of the war, and sees in the suppression of the rebellion the downfall of slavery.
<c05>
A GLANGE BACKWARD.
The impending attack upon Charleston and the approach of Saint Sumter's Day ought to quicken the memory and the conscience of every supporter of the peace conspiracy who is possessed of these faculties. For ignorance ”gross as a mountain,” or treason equal to the blackest, alone can falsify the event of the 12th of April, 1861. We may neglect the wholesale robbery, perjury and breach of trust prior to and necessary to the open appeal to arms on the part of the South; neither this generation, nor the next, nor all succeeding, can make the shot of Beau-regard right and the answering shot of Anderson wrong. If on that day the Government, and the nation by which, in accordance with the laws, it was established, were foully and violently assailed; and if the right of self-defence which is universally claimed for the individual, belongs in an equal measure to a people and a State; then the initial act of the war in the harbor of the Palmetto City decided irrevocably the nature of the entire conflict, and left justice forever perched upon the banner of the North.
Whoever would have us believe that the war of today is different in kind from that inaugurated two years ago, must prove that the South has desisted from her original design,—symbolically exhibited in her attack upon Washington,—and fights no longer for mastery, but only for mere existence. True, her, struggle now is for the latter, simply because she must live before she can subjugate, and the North has thus far baffled her every thrust; but let the marines believe that the spirit of slavery is altered or alterable. Neither can it serve in Heaven, (a free republic,) nor reign in Hell by the side of Heaven. A gulf must separate, and one of no less dimensions than the ocean itself. Secession is a myth, like the desire of the Confederacy to be “let alone.” If the South triumphs, she means to push her social barbarism to the lakes and the St. Lawrence, and to the shore of the Pacific. Without dominion, there is nothing in slavery to resist the growth of civilization, enlightenment, humanity. Virtue, give it time enough, must outrun vice, turn upon it, encompass it, crowd it to its utter most, besiege, sap, and at last undermine it. Therefore have we witnessed and shall ever behold an irrepressible conflict between liberty and slavery,—each fighting because it must, but the former strong in the hope of prevailing at the last, the latter conscious that it can only postpone destruction.
The nature of the war, then, is unchanged; it is still a war of self-defence. Whether we aim at Vicksburg or at Richmond, whether we battle at New Orleans or at Antietam, we of the North are but parrying the blows of a relentless, implacable assailant. Peace will come when the aggressive force is beaten down and forever disarmed. Till then, it is synonymous with suicide. The war does not cease to be justifiable, necessary, inevitable, because it is protracted longer than could be desired, or is conducted differently from the wishes of many. As well condemn the victim of an highwayman's assault for delay in drawing his weapon, and for clumsiness in employing it. Is, then, the thief and assassin right? Grant that the pistol had better have been drawn five seconds earlier, and the bullet have pierced the heart that only scratched the flesh; does the continuance of the struggle for life become a crime in him to whose throat the murderer still clings?
The complaint is frequent, as well as rightful, that much wealth and many lives have been wasted in this conflict. The North does indeed mourn thousands who should have been preserved to their country and their friends; yet this, as we have just seen, does not change the nature of the war, nor the attitude of the combatants. Fight we well or ill, we must fight, as on that April day; and because we must, if we would live, we were right then, and are right now. ”But,” cry some, ”the Government is the murderer of every soldier who falls in battle.” Even an Abolitionist may be tempted into this utterance, justly indignant at the hesitation to grapple with slavery. But we must ever remember, that in our republic the people and the Government are convertible terms. That which is not of the people, is not Government; but that which is created by the people, and sustained by them in its peril by voluntary enlistments on an heroic scale, is inseparable from them in a question of responsibility. It is not the President, his Cabinet or his Generals, who must be made to bear the burden of the misconduct of the war; but the people, who, when Fremont was silenced, supported the President's action by enduring it—the people, who preferred Lincoln's policy to Hunter's—the people, who have submitted to every act in the interest of slavery, and but lukewarmly seconded those directed against that system—-the people are almost wholly and alone to blame for misspent life and meant. No Chief Magistrate has shown himself so desirous of being told his duty by his constituents—so little eager to be a leader, and so very ready to be a representative, mouth-piece, instrument. The people of the North,—and herein lies the punishment of their past offences against their fellow-men,—have slaughtered their own sons and made desolate their own hearthstones. In their hands has been and is the management of the war. Had they done their duty in the morning, the darkness of noon-day had not been theirs. Yet they see that the struggle must go on, and that the lives which have been squandered must be saved by a still further sacrifice. Deliberately, though shudderingly, they pass the law which is to constrain them to their duty. When the conscription act has been put in force, will they still avert their faces from God and the negro? W.P.G.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for April, is out with its usual promptness, and a rich table of contents—as follows:—On the Vicissitudes of Keats’ Fame; A Spasm of Sense; My Ship; Betrothal by Proxy; Resignation; The Flag; Wet-Weather Work; Golden Wedding; The Silurian Beach; Coralie; Sojourner Truth, the Libyan Sibyl; American Horticulture; The East and the West; Personal Reminiscences of the late Henry Thomas Buckle; Cavalry Song; No Failure for the North; Reviews and Literary Notices. Among the writers are Mrs. Stowe, Mrs. Howe, Gail Hamilton, Prof. Agassiz, J.R. Lowell, Theodore Winthrop, Donald G. Mitchell, and the Country Parson.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for March contains the following articles:—Dr. Doyle; Professor Wilson; The Immortality of the Brute World; Prison Discipline in England; The Canonization of the Martyrs of Japan; Democracy on Trail; Latest Phases of English Feeling; Review of Current Literature.
HARPER’S MONTHLY, for April, presents the following varied table of contents:—Another African Hunter; A Few Days in Moscow; The Widow Thorn's First Marriage; Romola, (by the Author of Adam Bede); My Thanksgiving; Fifth Avenue; For Better, for Worse; A Queen's Day; My Mysterious Foe; The Home and the Flag; My Sermon before the Mayor; Some Secession Leaders; Louis Napoleon; Victor Hugo in Exile; The Grand Idea; A Gossip about Novels; Kitten; The Master Key; Monthly Record of Current Events; Literary Notices; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer.
[For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, Boston.]
THE REBELLION RECORD, Part, XXVIII., Monthly Edition, continues the inestimable labor of preserving history while it is making. The division, ”Rumors and Incidents,” will afford posterity a taste of the current atmosphere of these days; while the ”Documents” are as indispensable now as they will be hereafter, and are alone worth many times the prices of the book. The present number is in addition adorned with two steel portraits of Maj. Gen. Geo. H. Thomas and Maj. Gen. E.A. Hitchcock, U.S.A
PETERSON’S LADIES’ MAGAZINE for April is embellished with numerous engravings of art and fashion, and contains its usual miscellany by original contributors.
[For sale by A. Williams & Co.]
<c06>
MORAL INSPIRATION WANTED.
While the emancipation proclamation of President Lincoln has proved a master-stroke of policy in dispelling the black cloud of foreign intervention which threatened so seriously to complicate our difficulties, its immediate effect upon the slaves has not been so apparent. True, it has drawn the line between loyalty and treason at the North more distinctly, and made the issue a clear one. The fangs of the Copperhead, which were so dangerous when he struck at Liberty from the tangled grass, are now comparatively harmless, as he writhes in the open path. Advancing loyalty will find it easier now to crush with its heel the serpent’s head.
But the slaves have not risen en masse to fight for fee our flag, nor do the high wayshihgways of Massachusetts yet swarm with eager recruits. Why should they?
To Europe, before the proclamation, American politics were necessarily a maze. No wonder that our contradictory, paradoxical position blinded the eyes of freedom-loving Englishmen to the real nature and tendency of our grand struggle for equal rights. But today, thanks to the proclamation alone, Great Britain rocks from end to end with demonstrations of sympathy for the North. The historic act of January was gathered, as it swept across the Atlantic, a moral impetus and grandeur which awakened an immediate and enthusiastic response. Starting from our shores as the dictate of a selfish expediency, it touched the strand of Albion, transmuted into a sublime edict of Justice.
To the old world there is a moral inspiration in the act which we cannot catch. We live too near our Kentucky President to suspect him of any possible impulse which could raise him for a moment to the ideal height of a great principle. That a nation can be roused to enthusiasm by the moral force of an appeal to abstract, eternal right, is a fact undreamed of in his philosophy. Such an idea seems to him transcendental and utopian. He counts numerical majorities, and watches the tricks of parties, unmindful of the force which makes and moulds them.
How different such a man as Garibaldi! Whether he appeals in behalf of struggling Italy, Hungary, or Poland, he thrills the hearts of men everywhere. He has abiding faith in man’s nobler nature, which lifts him out of self into heroic deeds. No wonder that men.
-"have loved him so, followed him, honored him,
Lived in his mild and magnificent eye,
Learned his great language, caught his clear accents,
Made him their pattern to live and to die!”
Of a kindred nature is Fremont. The moral enthusiasm of the nation is kindled by him as by no other man. His words and deeds electrify. Romance and Poetry will one day delight to weave their charms about his name, when the stupid men who keep him inactive now are forgotten.
What we want is not more men, but leaders who comprehend the power of ideas. What is there in the attitude of our government to inspire the slaves with confidence and love? How wonderful that they do not rush at once to the inviting arms of Halleck and Banks, those nightmares who are weighing down our Union cause!
Why should we fight with our right hand bound behind us? The inspiration which a general like Fremont would give an army is ignored, but in reality it makes the preponderance of opposing numbers count as nought. The rebels are wiser than we in this respect, and yield to Stonewall Jackson, the idealist, the place of honor in the forefront.
And in the Cabinet, do we not need the same inspiration which is so essential in the field?
“Ah! Seward, Seward, quaete dementia cepit!” You whose inspired words once taught the nation the true path to greatness, whose statesmanlike breath of vision never lost sight of the immutable and permanent laws of justice, who led us from the sordid, grovelling politics of slavery into the presence of the divine statutes, far above those human expedients ”to circumvent God” which we called laws, must you too grasp the muck-rake like the rest! When, under the free heavens, upon the broad prairies of the West, you were wont to speak, your words found a welcome and response in every Christian New England home. But the closeness of the Cabinet atmosphere seems to have stifled your conscience and paralyzed your heart, and over your pictures which we were once proud to count among our penates, we have written ”ICHABOD," and have dismounted them from the place of honor.
Moral inspiration the nation hungers for to-day. Let not the men who possess it be allowed to remain inactive. The names of the true heroes must be reiterated with unwearied pertinacity. To forget those who have suffered for the slave is to forget the slave himself. And until Fremont, and Phelps, and Butler, are reinstated in their usurpers’ places, and atonement for injustice made, the petitions of the faithful must weary the ears of power into the necessity of reparation.—W. L. G., JR.
FIGHTING FOR THE UNION.
DORCHESTER, MARCH 23, 1863.
The winter is past, the seasion of Congress is ended, and we, as a nation, are not saved.
At the close of a three months session, Congress has enacted a comprehensive and sweeping conscription law, and, for war purposes, appropriated hundreds of millions of dollars; thereby putting into the hands of the Executive the immense resources of the country, both of men and of money, in the hope and expectation that the rebellion will be suppressed, the authority of the Government established, and peace and prosperity restored to a distracted, anxious, and long-suffering people. A consummation most deroatly to be wished, indeed, but, in the present aspect of affairs, not likely to be realized, in any short time.
In my view, there is not the slightest prospect of a permanent and an early peace. In the procession of events, such a blessing may be in store for those who shall come after us, generations hence. But, for ourselves, we cannot improvise the conditions of such a peace. They imply a radical and thorough transformation of the views and purposes, the spirit and temper, which pervade and animate the thirty millions of people, rulers and subjects, who constitute this nation. It must necessarily be a long and arduous work, for it pertains to every man and woman in the land; while it can be done only by those who feel and acknowledge the necessity and importance of it, each in his appropriate sphere. It is ours to ”labor and to wait.”
To change a nation of tyrants, with millions of slaves, into a nation of high-minded, honorable men, is not the work of a day. Nay, for that end, the earnest and uncompromising Abolitionists have toiled for thirty years; yet no one sees the goal toward which they press; and they find themselves, it may be, only at the threshold of an intermittent thirty years” war.
Conscious of right, they labor on, ”bating no jot of heart or hope.” Sustained by an unfaltering trust, their lives are pledged to ”liberty’s defence.” They know that the conflict is mainly a moral one; and, girding themselves with the sword of the Spirit, contend against ”principalities and spiritual wickedness in high places.” Their mission has been to revive and keep alive the spirit of freedom in the land. And, as teachers of truth and preachers of righteousness, they constitute a force, and exercise a power in the land, hardly less constant and reliable than gravitation itself.
In tenacity of purpose and devotion to freedom, they are the legitimate successors of the puritans; but with this difference: they proclaim and maintain the negro’s right to life and liberty, as no less sacred than their own. They thus simply reaffirm a portion of the Declaration of Independence, and to them it is mainly owing that the physical force of the nation is again summoned to its support.
But while I write, throughout one half the land, from an infernal brood, of Erebus and blackest midnight born, Rebellion stalks abroad, and boldly shouts defiance Indeed, for nearly two years.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the insurgents have contemned the constituted authority of the nation, and, by strategy and fraud and feats of arms, successfully defied its power. That armed Rebellion we confront to-day. The foe remains as malignant, as desperate and defiant, if not as strong, as ever. The contest hangs in even scales; at least, so thinks the Secretary of State; who "trusts" that we shall succeed, that the Union will survive the conflict, the nation "live."
Doubtless the rebels are the rightful subjects of the United States Government. Instead of being allowed, therefore, to withdraw, at their own option, and assume exclusive jurisdiction of the best half of the nation, they should be held to their allegiance, at whatever cost of blood or treasure, and compelled to submit to the Constitution and laws, which they have helped to ordain and enact. To say otherwise were, at the demand of traitors and plunderers, basely to give up, for slaveholding purposes, those vast and beautiful regions, which have been acquired, or greatly extended, by the common resources of the country, and should, therefore, be retained for national and common purposes; to become, if need be, the chosen habitations of the swarming myriads of the vigorous North and West, which, in coming time, may go over and possess the land, and maintain therein the right of the majority to rule.
The Union, if there was any, has been shattered. The severed members exist, but obstinately refuse a readjustment. Two years of trial and determined strife have not sufficed for that purpose. Month after month they have been shattered and driven asunder more and more.
“For what can war but endless war still breed,
Till truth and right from violence be freed?”
War is indicative and provocative of discord, not of harmony. Conquering a peace only shows which party, on the whole, is the stronger; the weaker choosing to submit rather than contend to its further injury, or utter ruin.
“In vain doth Valor bleed,
While Avarice and Rapine share the land."
Union of men or of States is no arbitrary thing. It is not made, it grows. It springs from, or rather consists in, harmony of views; in unity of interest, unity of purpose and desire. Not unfrequently it is prompted by a sense of common dangers and sufferings. 
Toiling together for a great and glorious purpose, as our fathers did in the Revolutionary struggle; contending, side by side, even unto blood, for justice, liberty and law, as we wish our brothers to do in the present one, may indeed cement and strengthen a union between those who make common cause against a common foe. But a fierce and murderous conflict between factions of the same body politic must inevitably wax fiercer and fiercer, until one party or the other succumbs. The victor will of course bear away.
In the present struggle, it is the tyrants who rebel. Our rebels, when they found they could no longer tyrannize over us, and use the resources of the country for their own selfish purposes, virtually abandoned the controversy and quit the field. Quit the field, did I say! Nay! they broke faith with the nation, violated the most solemn compact they could make, seized and claimed one half the common domain, and when their claim was disputed, insolently demanded to be let alone, and have maintained their claim by force.
Worse than all, by representations, true or false, they have done their utmost to bring us into conflict with foreign powers. Forgetting, or putting in abeyance, the Monroe doctrine, of which they have been the most strenuous advocates for the last forty years, they have sought foreign intervention. A recognition of their claim, by France or England, or both, would present us the alternative of acknowledging their independence, or, besides contending with rebels and traitors at home, engaging, at the same time, in a war with two of the most maritime, and therefore the most formidable powers of Europe. They wait to be conquered.
With a foe so treacherous, so desperate and defiant, and so strong, any attempt at conciliation would be folly; any show of concession virtually a confession of weakness, inability to cope with or subdue them. They must be battered, and hammered, and pounded into submission-literally ground to powder, their organism destroyed, before the solvent of discussion can be brought to bear upon them.
Thus disintegrated, they may, from economical, moral and social considerations, in the spirit of justice for all, be moulded into new forms of order, and, with other portions of a republic devoted to freedom, move on with something of the harmony of the spheres.
Such a consummation, as I have said, is yet a great way off. They only are "freemen whom the truth makes free." Let the Abolitionists abide in the work whereunto they have been called. Their field of labor is with the National Guards, the People. The conflict deepens, the field widens. At no distant day the border States may be open to them. From Maryland and Missouri they hear the earnest cry, "Come over into (our) Macedonia, and help us!"
But, first of all, and most to be desired, let them do their best to remove the vis inertia and malignant forces of the North; to inspire and rouse in the people of New England, with those of the Middle and Western States, an earnest and determined purpose to hold the rebels to their allegiance, and conquer a peace.
They must go one step farther–must help them to "conquer their prejudices," and, in the name of justice, liberty and law, to maintain rightful jurisdiction throughout all the land, among all the inhabitants thereof. Then shall the end come. The gigantic evils, against which they have been contending, will be done away. The grosser despotisms of the South shall cease, and Humanity, on this continent at least, will have taken a step forward.
A new era will have commenced, an era of organization and construction. A Union will be possible–a Union broad enough, we trust, to embrace every man and woman in the land –a Union of all, for the protection of all-a Union, in which every individual will feel that his life, his fortune, his honor, are pledged for the protection of the life, the rights and honor of every other–a Union, too, embracing and covering the whole country, in which the humblest individual may truly and proudly say. This is my own, if not my native land–a Union, in fine, whose aim and purpose shall be, to secure and promote the physical, intellectual and moral welfare of the whole people; to rear upon its soil a race of “Men-high-minded Men."  These constitute a State. H. W. C.

LETTER FROM PORT ROYAL.
ST.HELENA ISLAND, PORT ROYAL, S. C., March 14, 1863.
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-As this is an interesting moment in this region, I fancied that you would like to read a few words from one on the spot, touching the progress making among the colored people here, yet on their passage from slavery to freedom. 
Each day is adding to the stock of evidence which observing men are inclined to think shows the capacity of the negro for freedom. No man with humane feelings can be here-long without becoming absorbed in this problem. Contact with these poor, ill-treated people, in the spirit which seeks for their good rather than their evil qualities, is sure to refresh the mind with hope for the future. Only the querulous will complain who look at the surface. No man of common sense expects to see a highly gifted race of mortals spring all at once from the brain of slavery. A peck of corn a week from childhood to the grave, a back calloused by the lash, a brain always crowding toward the spine, with spirits crushed, and bitter despair brooding over all, are not productive of high mental culture or neatness of person. 
None can say what sorrows may lie hidden in the undiscovered future of these people. No one can tell, either, under the chance which freedom should give, to what elevation in the social, moral and intellectual scale they may be capable of attaining. All the friends of humanity demand is this chance. Let God and nature and their own efforts achieve the rest.
<c02>
Only the God who made them has aught to do with the question of their comparative capacity as a race. Our first duty is to cast off their chains; and the second is, as good will and opportunity will have it, to lead them up to the temple of rational liberty. Only by patient temper and firm but slow step can this path be trod. Not in a year or a series of years can we look for great results, only for signs of promise. Let each day bear in its bosom its own events; soon they will be history. The historian can accept the facts as he finds them, and explain their meaning in the spirit of a just philanthropy. Great expectations or undue despondency, as we contemplate the character of these people in their career for many years to come, will not do. Much of their wrong-doing must necessarily be charged to their former condition. Customs and habits, if bad, will cling to them for a long time. We can afford to weep over their infirmities, and to rejoice at their progress upward, and we will, for it is good for us as well as for them. We, the people, the nation, must return to them tenfold, if necessary, for the untold wrongs we have done them, now knowing we were in the wrong. In Heaven’s name, let no peace ever come of this terrible contest, which shall not make its first condition, justice to the enslaved!
Go ahead, brave-hearted friends, ye Thompsons and Phillipses, in England and here! Your work is not yet finished; keep up your end of it; to free the minds of white men, and to show that freedom is not incompatible with good economy, or mental or moral endowment; while those who labor among the freedmen furnish you with the evidence of the soundness of your theories.
It is very plain that the government, at least in this region, is doing all it can in the right direction. Its agents here are trying to lift the people from their former condition of hopelessness to habits of cheerful thought and industry. The work of preparation for the new condition upon which they have entered is going on. The last year furnishes no test of their capacity. They were suddenly deserted by their old masters, and immediately surrounded by new difficulties, which only bewildered. They suffered much in body and mind, and could not at once fully see who was friendly to them. There was good reason for this. But then, this experience was useful to them. It taught them that freedom did not mean idleness. They soon found that they must work or starve. This lesson they seem, with a few exceptions, thoroughly to have learned.
They see pretty clearly now that they are thrown upon their own resources, and it is pleasant to see how readily they accept the fact. They are growing hopeful and self-reliant, and there is an increasing self-respect among them. They now look for work, and expect the necessary compensation. They begin to understand more of the family relation and its responsibilities, and they appreciate in a remarkable manner the efforts of teachers to instruct their children. Warm in their affections, strong in their local attachments, and more fully comprehending the real nature of home and its industries, they crave something more permanent than the Government designs for them this year, viz., the privilege of cultivating a small amount of land allotted them for their own subsistence, together with the opportunity to raise cotton for pay.
They are much worried to know what it is intended to do with them. They long to be permanently located, and would be willing to work hard for means to buy land to settle on. If this could be brought about by the encouragement of Government, work would no doubt be done with a will which would surprise us. Improved methods of cultivation would soon be introduced, with the result of greater variety and abundance of product. To this end, the Government seems to be shaping its policy. The late sale of Port Royal lands resulted in the reservation of about two thirds for Government purposes. All lands reserved for agricultural purposes can be divided and sold in small lots to the negroes. Should this be done, the people would become at once landowners and permanent settlers in new homes.
While I write, there comes an order from the "Major General Commanding," requiring “every able-bodied freedman in this department, between the ages of eighteen and fifty years, who is capable of bearing arms," to be "drafted into the service of the United States." It instructs the Superintendents of plantations to assure the "colored men that a stern military necessity requires that the order shall be rigidly enforced." The Superintendent is expected  to address himself to the freedmen’s “reason, sense of right, their love of liberty, and their dread of returning to the rule of their late masters, to induce them to come forward without further compulsion, and take part with their brothers now in arms in the great struggle which is going on, and which, if successful for us, will secure to them their liberties." The order alludes to the elevating moral influence which will be exerted upon the character of those who fight for their freedom, and to the liberal pay which the Government proposes to make, "in addition, for their services.”
What success will attend this proposed effort to induce the men to come forward, voluntarily, will soon be known. There are reasons why they should not volunteer so readily, and many why they should. My epistle is getting too long. More at another time.
Yours, very respectfully,
FREDERICK J. WILLIAMS.

LETTER FROM L0UISIANA.
FORT ST. LEON, (La.) Feb. 28,1863
MR. GARRISON:
SIR—I send you two dollars for the Liberator. If you can send me the numbers as far back as the 1st of January,‘63, I should like them. I am anxious to get Mr. Phillips’s late speeches. I received a copy of the Tribune with Mr. Phillips’s Cooper Institute speech in it; and can assure you that it was read by the officers and privates of the First Louisiana Colored Regiment with eager interest. Send me some anti-slavery tracts, if you can, and I will make good use of them. Gov. Andrew sent out some copies of the President’s Proclamation, and I have been busy in circulating them. I shall labor in the cause of human freedom as long as I have life and strength. Every day that I remain in the South convinces me more and more of the great injustice of slavery. I will never hold my tongue while this great moral and social evil holds a foothold on this continent. Should God spare my life to return to the North, I will there attack it as manfully as I now fight against it upon its own soil.
Go on in the good work you have in hand, and generations shall yet bless your name, and feel proud that there was one who dared to stand up for an unpopular idea, and do battle through long years for the oppressed and down-trodden.
We who wait in this unhealthy place, longing for the time when we may be permitted to enter the field and prove our patriotism, feel that we are laborers in the good cause, though our names may never be remembered or recorded as having part in this great struggle for freedom in America. In a few days I hope to write you something touching the colored troops, that you may think worth printing.
Please send the paper directed to me at New Orleans, La., not forgetting to put on the name and number of the regiment.
In haste I am, yours very truly,
J. T. PAINE,
Surgeon 1st Regt. Louisiana Native Guard.
OFFICERS FOR NEGRO REGIMENTS. We understand that officers for three negro regiments have already been designated at New York, and that others will immediately receive their commissions. These officers will proceed South, within a week or two, to assume their respective commands. It is thought that under the conscription orders of Gen. Hunter, a sufficient number of black soldiers will be obtained to form at least half a dozen regiments. Of their bravery no reasonable doubt can be entertained.
<C03>
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES TO THE WORKINGMEN OF LONDON.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, Feb. 2d, 1863.
To THE WORKINGMEN OF LONDON:
I have received the New-Year's address which you have sent me, with a sincere appreciation of the exalted and humane sentiments by which it was inspired.
As those sentiments are manifestly the enduring support of the free institutions of England, so I am sure also that they constitute the only reliable basis for free institutions throughout the world.
The resources, advantages and powers of the American people are very great, and they have consequently succeeded to equally great responsibilities. It seems to have devolved upon them to test whether a Government established on the principles of human freedom can be maintained against an effort to build one upon the exclusive foundation of human bondage.
They will rejoice with me in the new evidence which your proceedings furnish, that the magnanimity they are exhibiting is justly estimated by the true friends of freedom and humanity in foreign countries.
Accept my best wishes for your individual welfare, and for the welfare an: happiness of the whole British people. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

THE CHEROKEE NATION ABOLISHES SLAVERY AND REPENTS OF SECESSION.
CAMP BLUNT, Arkansas, Feb. 26th, 1863.
The Cherokee National Council has just adjourned. It convened in the Delaware District, Cherokee Nation, a few miles from Camp John Ross, where Col. Phillips camped the 3d Brigade, to guard its proceedings.
The result of this Legislative Assembly is the most significant and instructive. The members of the body were elected nearly two years ago. They are the old Legislature—the Legislature that was coerced into an ordinance of secession by the rebel army.
The first act of the Legislature was to repeal the ordinance of secession, which was done unanimously. The next act was to deprive of office in the nation, and disqualify all who should continue to be rebellious or disloyal to the United States Government. The Courts and other legal business of the nation will go on as heretofore the moment the country is peaceable enough to warrant it. Some acts were passed relative to expenditures of Cherokee funds.
A law was enacted appointing a delegation to visit Washington, about the military and civil affairs of the nation, and this delegation was authorized to abolish slavery in the nation should Congress extend the same privilege as to the national border States. This was to be a remunerated emancipation, hanging to the clause of a bargain. But this could neither meet the wishes nor the notions of the Cherokee legislators. Captain Bird Geitz, somewhat noted for fighting the rebels in the mountains before he joined the Federal service, a full-blooded Indian and good lawyer, framed a bill for unconditional emancipation. He introduced his bill with a fine speech, and was eloquently supported by Captain James Vann, Lieut. Col. Lewis Deming, and others.
The argument was this: “That slavery had precipitated this peaceful, happy and glorious nation in war. Slavery was responsible for all the ills that had befallen the Cherokee people and the country. That President Lincoln had struck at the head of the monster in his emancipation proclamation, and that it behooves every patriot and statesman to sustain the President, and meet the issue. That without this there was no peace for our distracted country.”
A few clung to the hope of emancipation with compensation, and urged the losses of the people already, but the majority urged that the bill ought not to be so clogged. If the Government chose to pay the loyal, very well, but they would leave such a necessary act as the abolition of slavery to no contingencies, and no one should do it for them. It was their work. To the question that “free negroes would crowd in, &c." Lieut. Colonel Deming made an eloquent reply, in which he said that, awakened by the grandeur of this struggle, the Cherokee nation could solely afford to do right, and look for God’s blessing on our cause, if a million of refugees should flock to it.
Nothing could be more instructive to us as a nation, than this simple and great action of the Cherokee people. We boast of ourselves, of our intelligence and shrewdness, yet debate and cavil at this late day over selfish interests that have betrayed us, and base prejudices that have led us to ruin. Surely, God in His infinite wisdom has raised up these people to rebuke those who still fight against the providences of God.
When the history of this great rebellion and of this nation is written, the Cherokees shall make no mean figure. Under the leadership of Col. Phillips, they fought desperately at Newtonia and Cane Hill, and have distinguished themselves in every battle of the South west, this last season. They have fought fearlessly and bravely, second to no other troops, even while their families have suffered untold misery and disaster, and now they come cheerfully up to offer the slavery of their nation to the cause of Liberty and Union. "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear."

LEVEE IN AID OF THE COLORED REGIMENT.
Last evening a subscription levee was held at Chickering’s Rooms, for the purpose of supplying the 54th Regiment with an outfit similar to that of other Massachusetts regiments. There was a large attendance, including many ladies. Hon. Thomas Russell presided, and after explaining the object of the meeting, introduced Mr. Wendell Phillips, who said the colored regiment was entitled to liberal aid, and should be tenderly and generously welcomed into the service. These men whom we are now enlisting were three years ago chased into their houses, beaten, bruised, and half dead, while to-day one of the very men who led the attack implores the Senate to make him a Brigadier General. If any man asks if the slave will fight or work, tell him no-no, thank God-the slave will not, but the black man will.
But why should the emancipated slave work? The only marks of freedom he ever saw were idleness-why should he not desire it? God has given us the lesson of the Revolution and of 1812, and now he crowns it with the lesson of 1863, when the nation hangs on the brink of Niagara, held back by a black hand. Ought we not to bless it? But a short time since, Robert Toombs said he would yet call the roll of his slaves upon Bunker Hill-not very near it to-day-but, instead of it, a Massachusetts boy calls the roll of his regiment almost within hearing distance of Toombs’s plantation. Massachusetts is nearer wiping out Georgia than our sister State is to annihilating us.
Lieut. Col. Hallowell of the 54th regiment said the men of that regiment were very much, in every respect, like white soldiers. The ranks had been open for three weeks, and 350 men had been sworn in and were now at Readville. He closed by inviting such of the audience as were disposed to come out and visit them.
Mr. J. H. Stephenson, treasurer, reported that he had received $686.75 from private subscription, prior to the meeting, including $100 by letter, from a citizen interested in the movement.
Ralph Waldo Emerson was introduced, and in the course of his remarks he said the hostility of races is a uniform fact, and the only way of reconciling it is by a closer acquaintance between the opponents. We have kept the black man down until his name has become a synonym of all that is low and degraded. But finally the Government has decided to organize negro regiments, and Massachusetts is endeavoring to do a part, and elevate this hitherto oppressed race to a position where they may strike for their rights. The speaker thought there was no doubt that the black man would make a good soldier.
Rev. Dr. Neale spoke of the change of sentiment noticeable in Washington within a few years in relation to slavery.
Rev. Father Taylor was the last speaker. He thought the country was now getting into a condition to conquer the rebellion.
The levee was a great success, both socially and financially, and will have a good influence in favor of the regiment.-Boston Traveller, March 21st.
PAYING OFF THE BLACK SOLDIERS, &C. A letter writer from Hilton Head, March 8th, says:-
“At last the paymaster has arrived. Three thousand negroes in the Commissary and Quartermaster’s Departments are being paid off. The amount paid to them will reach $30,000. Many of these poor fellows have been waiting for their money until it seemed to them as if they were not much better off with their Northern than their Southern taskmasters. The sight of clean, fresh Treasury notes in their own hands, to be disposed of according to their own inclinations, has, however, dispelled all doubt and gloom, and a more cheerful, hopeful, satisfied set of beings, I think, cannot be found upon this continent. 
It is quite an amusing spectacle to see these poor creatures crowding around the paymaster’s office. But one negro of the entire number can read or write, and that is the Rev. Archibald Murchison, the negro pastor of whom I have written you before.
In olden times when negro slaves were employed by the Government, they were registered as Dick, and Tom, and Jim, &c.: but now the United States is indebted to Richard Jones, Thomas Pope, and James Smith, and not to Mr. So-and-so, owners of Dick, Tom, and Jim. The negroes are proud of their titles. They walk up and answer to the name of William Pope, &c., with almost as much assurance as their masters could have done three years ago. The only mystery connected with the whole operation of receiving payment is that of signing their names, or rather making their marks. They are generally told by the clerks to touch the top of their pens; but as two-thirds of them don’t know the top of the pens from the top of the chairs upon which the clerks are sitting, are quite as likely to touch one as the other.
<C04>
KIDNAPPING CONTRABANDS.
NORFOLK, Va., March 9, 1863.
The boys of the 99th Regiment, New York Volunteers, stationed at Deep Creek near here, have been charged for some time with incontinently capturing stray contrabands whenever a fair opportunity offered, and selling them to parties who run them South. The 99th being engaged in outside picket duty, of course had excellent facilities for pursuing their infamous business. No certain persons could be identified in this matter, until recently an intelligent mulatto came one day to see the Provost Marshal, stating he had been so captured and offered for sale by soldiers of the 99th, and had escaped. While detailing his story, one of the soldiers engaged in kidnapping him came into the Provost’s office. The men recognized each other: the soldier tried to escape through the crowd which always fills the room during office hours. He succeeded in reaching the street, but before night, he and another who was also engaged with him, were secured and are now in jail. This colored man was born free, and brought up some twenty-five miles from Norfolk, in North Carolina. Several of the old residents of Norfolk bore testimony of his honest, industrious character, and yet on his way home from market he was seized by these two soldiers, bound, gagged, thrown into his cart, driven to the line, and offered horse, cart and man, for three hundred dollars. During the making of the bargain, all hands stepped into a building by the roadside, for drinks, leaving their victim lying in the cart with his hands tied behind him. They had unbound his feet for the purpose of examining his limbs, and ungagged his mouth for the purpose of examining his teeth and guessing his age. During their short absence, he managed to work out of the cart to the ground and run. Evening had come on, and favored by darkness he eluded his enemies and made his way to a place of safety, leaving with the kidnappers his horse, cart, several dollars’ worth of groceries he had purchased in town, and his watch and some fifty odd dollars in money they had robbed him of when they bound him. The watch and a portion of the money was found upon the prisoners when arrested. I am glad in being able to state that the conduct of these men is looked upon by the soldiers very generally in its proper light. Even men and officers of the 99th express the utmost abhorrence of such barbarous and inhuman outrages. The colored people of the South have shown such loyalty to our Government that it is past comprehension how soldiers of the same can, not only so entirely ignore it all, but actually kidnap and sell the very men who are always willing, ready and anxious to give them all information and help in their power, and that is by no means small or of little consequence. The rebels are reported 20,000 strong near here, and their friends say they promised to recapture Norfolk by the fourth of this month. We “don’t see it."-Correspondence of the Fond du Lac (Wisconsin) Commonwealth.
KIDNAPPING IN SOUTHERN INDIANA. We learn that recently a pretty extensive business is being done by certain parties in Kentucky and Indiana, in the way of kidnapping free negroes and contrabands, and carrying them into Kentucky for sale. Two or three free negroes have lately thus been kidnapped from this vicinity, and, we are informed, taken into Kentucky and sold into slavery. We hear, also, that a large number of contrabands, gathered up at Cairo and other points, have been transported through this State, contrary to all law, (under pretext that they were the property of loyal Missouri owners, who feared an emancipation law in that State,) and taken into Kentucky and sold again into slavery.
It is bad enough to steal a negro slave; but it is infinitely more outrageous to kidnap men born free, than those freed by due process of law, and sell them into slavery. The authorities of Indiana should at once look into the matter, and see that the laws of the State are no longer violated by the outrageous proceedings of these kidnappers. Some of the gang are said to be residents of this city, others reside at Louisville, Owensboro', and other towns reside at Louisville, Owensboro’, and other towns in Kentucky and Indiana. The matter demands immediate investigation.-New Albany (Ind.) Ledger.
AN OUTRAGE. On Saturday, the 7th inst., application was made to Walter S. Cox, one of the late Fugitive Slave Commissioners of this District, for a writ to arrest a negro man, claimed as a slave by a furniture-dealer on Seventh street, named McGregor. The writ was issued, and the negro arrested and spirited away by a deputy marshal of the District. The negro, at the time of his arrest, and for a long time previous, had been employed about the city, and was looked upon as a free man. He was captured by our forces in Virginia about the time of the first Bull Run battle, since which time he has been living here. The outrage is more glaring in view of the fact that the bill abolishing the District Courts passed Congress on the 3d of March, and received the President’s signature on the 5th; yet the writ was issued on the 7th-two days after the existence of the Court and the functions of its officers had ended. The case merits the attention of the military authorities.-Washington correspondence of the New York Tribune.
A DEDHAM Boy SOLD INTO SLAVERY. From reliable information received on Wednesday, it is ascertained that Charles Amos, a bright, colored lad, about 16 years of age, a native of this town, and his cousin, a lad of about the same age, who formerly lived at Jamaica Plain, have been sold into slavery. The two boys went out as servants to some of the officers in the Massachusetts 42d Regiment, and at the capture of Galveston were taken by the rebels and sold into slavery. What a commentary upon the boasted civilization of the age is this enslavement of free born Northern men! We hope that some of our brave Dedham boys, whose patriotism does not lie on the surface, will speedily avenge the terrible wrong inflicted upon their little townsmen.-Dedham Gazette.
THE ASSAULT UPON NEGROES IN CANADA. We find the following additional particulars of the recent brutal demonstration at Oil Springs, Canada West, in the Detroit Free Press:-
“A riot of a serious character occurred here on Saturday night, owing to a grudge against the colored people. The rioters, to the number of 80 or 100, assembled at the east end of the town, chose a captain, and then marched to the dwellings of the negroes. On arriving at their destination, they ordered the negroes to leave town; and, before they had time to obey the order, the mob commenced their work of destruction by destroying the furniture belonging to the negroes, and then fired the houses, of which four were destroyed, and beating any negro they could catch. Detective McKain swore in a number of constables, and succeeded in capturing three of the rioters. It was reported that one negro was killed, but it is now denied. One is badly hurt. The others ran to the woods and escaped. Great excitement still prevails here."
The Montreal Commercial Advertiser says:—
“Oil Springs has been indulging in an eruption of negrophobia; and this odoriferous neighborhood yesterday disgraced itself by an emute directed against the colored inhabitants, whose houses were destroyed, and themselves driven to the woods. As those who have sustained losses have their legal remedy against the municipality, it will find this kind of amusement more expensive than profitable. We trust the Government will take care that the aggressors are brought to exemplary punishment."
THE DETROIT RIOT. A meeting has been held in Detroit, in behalf of those who have suffered by means of the late disgraceful riot in that city. Speeches, bitterly denunciatory of the rioters, were made, as well as liberal subscriptions for the relief of the injured and homeless. The rioters were -all white men. A number of them are now in jail.
ONE OF THE VICTIMS. One of the colored men killed by the mob in Detroit was a fugitive slave who had acquired a good character by his honesty and industry, and who had labored hard to earn enough to purchase his wife and children, who are still slaves in Virginia. He had nearly acquired the needed amount, when he was murdered. His savings were all consumed by the fires kindled by the mob.
The Assembly of New Jersey has passed a bill, providing that any negro or mulatto coming into that State, and remaining ten days therein, shall be transported to Liberia, or some island in the West Indies where slavery does not exist; and authorizing the Governor to pay the expense, not exceeding $50, in each case arising under the act.
SIXTEEN THOUSAND BLACKS IN THE REBEL SERVICE AT CHARLESTON AND SAVANNAH. Robert Small, the negro pilot who brought the gunboat Planter out of Charleston harbor, and delivered her into our possession, has received information which he has imparted to our officer at Port Royal, to the effect that the rebels have ten thousand blacks at Charleston, and six thousand at Savannah, who have been taught to handle guns, and are employed in working on the fortifications. The most exact discipline is enforced among them. Small says he has not the least doubt that the negroes, by thousands, and tens of thousands, will flock to our lines the moment we have taken Charleston, and penetrated the interior a few miles. Charleston, he thinks, must be totally destroyed in the approaching conflict.
Small states that the firemen are all negroes, and members of a secret organization, pledged to strike for their freedom when an opportunity arrives. He has asked permission to accompany the land force of the expedition, feeling assured that, in less than ten days, he can have ten thousand blacks, fully armed, who will be of more service to us in South Carolina at this time, than an equal number of white soldiers.
<C05>
THE EXPEDITION TO JACKSONVILLE.
The Boston Journal has a letter from the squadron that carried the colored regiment to Jacksonville,. which gives some account of operations there. Jacksonville was taken on the 10th. The letter says:-
“The town is picketed, and guards placed for all necessary protection. The negroes report a small force of rebels stationed eight miles from here. The Colonel proclaims to every colored man he meets that they are free, and it is pleasing to witness the effect upon them. I am of the opinion that the rule of the last General here was altogether too pleasing to Secesh for the good of our cause, as they speak of him in the warmest praise.
THURSDAY, March 12.-Yesterday we had sharp skirmishing. The rebels endeavored to dislodge us from the town, but I am of opinion that they went away with much greater respect for free negro soldiers than they ever conceived of having. The enemy attacked our pickets on Tuesday night, and were repulsed; with how large a force, it is impossible to say. At about 8 o’clock Wednesday morning, a force of 200 cavalry made an attack on Cos. A and B of the 2d regiment, stationed west of the town, near the railroad. They came round upon the left flank of Co. A to the front in a half circle, poured a terrific volley in upon our men, completed the circle and gave us another fire, while Co. A got in only one volley in return, which did, however, fearful execution. Their surgeon was shot through the forehead, and fell dead. Capt. Hoit, Co. A, and Capt. Apthorp, Co. B, retired a short distance, and formed into line, and waited the reappearance of the enemy.
In a short time, a force of two hundred infantry appeared in front. Capt. Hoit mistaking them for our own men, withheld his fire, (which, if given at the proper time, would have been perfectly murderous,) until they filed toward the woods. The rebels at the same time poured a deadly fire into our men, which threw them into a slight panic. But they returned the fire with effect, as several were seen to fall. One man from Co. A was killed, and two wounded, one severely and two slightly. As the enemy filed toward the woods, Col. Montgomery, who was in front, was brought in direct range of the fire, and fell upon his face until the shot passed over. He remarked that "it was the hottest fire he ever was under."
We can account for three killed and ten or fifteen wounded among the rebels, and probably their loss is greater, as they carried away their dead and wounded. We have lost one man killed and two wounded. We have ten or fifteen prisoners, among whom is Lieut. Driscoll, formerly of the U. S. army, a son-in-law of Floyd."
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. The fourth commencement of Dr. Lewis’s Normal Institute for Physical Education was celebrated in Tremont Temple, Wednesday evening, last week, before a vast audience. Hundreds of people who presented themselves were unable to gain admission. The exercises consisted of an exhibition of Dr. Lewis’s system of gymnastics, by a class of twenty ladies and gentlemen; speeches, presentation of diplomas to fifteen gentlemen and seven ladies, the valedictory, &c. John D. Philbrick, Esq., addressed the audience. He was followed by Dr. Lewis. The speeches were interspersed with gymnastic exercises.
Mr. Tyler, of Dr. Lewis’s class, who, we understand, has made gymnastics a profession, and is about to proceed to Europe in the exercise of it, spoke the valedictory, which was an interesting speech, tracing the history of gymnastics, and arguing the paramount importance of physical education. The mention of the names of Horace Mann, Rev. T.W. Higginson and Dr. Winship, was greeted with hearty applause. The approbation by the audience of the system of gymnastics exemplified at this commencement was unequivocal and hearty, and the compliments showered upon Dr. Lewis by the speakers must have been to him a source of much gratification.
TEMPERANCE CONVENTION. At the Temperance Convention in Tremont Temple, Boston, last week, ninety-five towns were represented by forty-seven divisions of the Sons of Temperance, seven of Good Templars, and one Temple of Honor, by 395 delegates. On Wednesday evening, a meeting was held in the Representatives Chamber, and a Committee was appointed to prepare and forward a “ memorial to those in authority" on the subject of their personal example and influence on total abstinence. Rev. A. A. Miner and Wendell Phillips spoke, urging the importance of establishing a Metropolitan Police for the city of Boston. Another speaker, Rev. Edwin Thompson, of Walpole, in the morning session, said the simple question was whether the grog shops should appoint the Police, or the State.
THE DIPLOMATIC DINNER. A Washington correspondent says-“ To-day, for the first time since the organization of our government, one of the negro race is to be the recipient of the highest social courtesies. Secretary Seward is to entertain Colonel Romaine, the Haytian Minister, and he has invited to meet him members of the Diplomatic corps, of the Senate and of the Cabinet. By the etiquette which governs diplomacy, the Haytian, being only a charge, will not have the post of honor at table, which will be given to Lord Lyon and M. Mercier, but he will, nevertheless, meet the other distinguished guests as their equal. The world moves-that's what's the matter."
George Francis Train appears to be hounded from one city to another in the West. The last that was heard of him he was at Alton, Illinois. There the officers followed him, and had it not been for a friend who was intimately acquainted with the bystreets of the city, he would have been arrested. They both mounted one horse, and in this plight-Train behind-they dodged around in the darkness-it was night-till a friendly hay-stack received them to its fragrant bosom. In the language of a local penny-a-liner, “securely the dashing orator lay, all covered with hay, dust and hay-seed.” The Democrats have dropped him altogether. They are hungry for martyrs, but Train is too much of a fool to serve them in this capacity.—Roxbury Journal.
WENDELL PHILLIPS’S Lecture on “Toussaint L'Ouverture" is printed in full in the New York Tribune. We are sorry that the only portion of it copied by the Boston press is its concluding paragraph, which is not a fair specimen of the production. On reading it, the opinion which we formed when we heard it from the speaker’s lips two years ago is fully confirmed, namely, that it is the most magnificent specimen of eloquence to which any man of the present generation has given utterance. We say this entirely aside from the ideas conveyed in the lecture, as regards the correctness of which there will be a wide variance in public opinion.—Roxbury Journal.
READINGS FROM THE POETS. Under this title, Madame Louise de Mortie gave, in Mechanics’ Hall, last evening, an entertainment far surpassing in excellence any similar one ever given here. She came almost unannounced and unknown, and quite surprised the not very large audience by her rich, full and musical voice, the exquisite skill with which she modulated it, and the fire and pathos which she infused into all her pieces. Her reading of Whittier’s  “Astraea,” and several other warlike and patriotic pieces, was intensely thrilling, and he must be cold indeed, who could listen to them unmoved. We hope that the meagre result of last evening’s entertainment will not deter her from reading here again under happier auspices, for we feel sure, from the interest she excited last evening, that another time she would be greeted by a thronged house.-Lowell Citizen and News, March 19.
A CASE IN POINT. A great deal is said about the extravagance of the War Department. The Nashville Union, in criticising this fault-finding spirit, calls attention to the fact that the Utah expedition, which consisted of 10,000 men, and lasted but a few months, cost $6,000,000. At the same rate, the cost of the present war, with nearly a million of men, would up to this time have been seven billions of dollars!
Loyal meetings continue to be held through the Northern cities, and the best spirit prevails in all of them. Ex-Governor Wright, of Indiana, and Johnson, of Tennessee, have made earnest speeches in Philadelphia, New York, and Brooklyn, and contemplate going at once to Connecticut to take part in the canvass against the copperheads in that State. Messrs. Brady and Van Buren, too, in New York, continue their efforts on the stump, and are constantly widening the gulf which separates true men from traitors, in the Democratic party. The reaction has fairly set in, and the loyal sentiment of the country is every day strengthening.
Erastus Brooks, in a letter to the New York Express, says the administration has made two important discoveries within sixty days. The first is that white men will not fight to free the negroes, and the second is that the negroes will not fight to free themselves. This is a copperhead lie.
An explosion took place, a few days ago, at Dupont’s powder-mill, Wilmington, Del., which resulted in the instant death of fifteen persons, and the wounding of two others. The explosion shook the earth for 33 miles.
The flour carried by the George Griswold to Liverpool was to be made into 100,000 pound loaves, and distributed among the Lancashire operatives.
Since the successes of the African soldiers in Florida, the War Department has had a perfect stream of petitions pouring in from officers who desire to be transferred to the command of such soldiers.
<C06>
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THE FIFTY-FOURTH (COLORED) REGIMENT.
I have received the following sums in aid of the 54th Regiment in addition to those previously acknowledged, viz:-
Mrs. Mary E. Stearns, $100; Mrs. Wm. J. Loring, 10; Mrs. R. S. Waterston, 10; James. T. Allen, 2; Miss osgood, 3; Sergeant Stockbridge, 1; Wright & Potter, 10; Joseph and Thankful Southwick, 5; P. R. and Ruth H. Morrill, 5; Miss Henrietta Sargent, 5; a Friend, 2; J.; B. Dow, 10; Geo. S. Hale, 5; Dr. LeBaron Russell, 20; Mrs. T. C. Wales, 10; J. A. Higginson, 25; Wm. Cumston, 100; Peter Smith, 50; Fraternity Benevolent Sewing Society, 25; E. Wright, 5; Helen Porter, 10; Edward Atkinson, 10; Twenty-eighth Congregational Society, 25; Theodore Otis, 20;George Atkinson, 20; A. Plumer, Jr., 25; HON. James Savage, 50; W. P. Atkinson, 5; David Lee Child, 5; J. Dean, 5; Miss H. E. Cheney, 1; Samuel May, 20; Mrs. May, 20. Also at the meeting at Chickering’s Hall on Friday evening, 20th inst., the following sums, viz:— 
Miss A.T.Q. Parsons, 1; Anna Whitney, 5; Rebecca Bradford, 5; Mrs. James M. Robbins, 10; R. W. Lord, 10; C.W. Pierce, 5; Mrs. Littlehale, 5; Anna S. Cowing, 3; Walter Cowing, 5; REV. J. T. Sargent, 1; Elisa Francis, 5 ; M. S. Scudder, 3; Edmund Jackson, 10; Josiah Quiney, Jr., 10; Prof. Agassiz, 5; George T. Garrison, 2; Lucy B. Mclntosh, 1; Mr. Francis, 5; H. W. Wellington, 10; Nathaniel Call, 5; T. Burnham, 1; Henry Pigeon, 10; F. King, 10; Mrs. King, 10; Sarah F. King, 5; George p. Bradford, 4; J. D. Crossman, 1; Frederick W. G. May, 10; F. A. Green, 10; Mrs. E. Whitney, 20; S. W. Whitney, 5; B. F. Dwight, 10; William Claflin, 25; Hon. J. G. Palfrey, 5; N. H. Whiting, 2; L. H. Whiting, 2; Mrs. O. Howes, 25; Miss Wells, 1; Miss Greeley, 1 ; J. A. Lane, 10; E. Hamilton, 5; James Tolman and wife, 10; Samuel May, Jr., 10; E. G. Lucas, 5; Geo. Bemis, 25; J. Thompson, 1; T. M. Hathaway, 1; H. S. Adams, 2; J. Carlton, 1; Le Roy sunderland, 2; T. Cushing, 10; W. S. Robinson, 5; Thomas Russell, 5; Mrs. Page, 10; Mrs. R. H. Neale, 5; Miss D. Weston, 2; Lucia Peabody, 1; Lucy Goddard, 3; W. P. Garrison, 2; J. Sawyer, 10; A. Folsom, 5; Mrs. Hudson and Miss Ware, 5; J. S. Dwight, 5; Otto Dresel, 6; Anna Loring, 5; S.C. Atkinson, 1; Addie F. Norcross, 1; Miss E. D. Knight, 2; J. R. Manley, 5; J. W. Danforth, 20; Mrs. James W. Stone, 10; Charles H. Dorr, 10; C. Wellington, 10; C. W. Slack, 5; N. W. Bridge, 5; T. H. Lord, 5; W. P. Hondlette, 5; G. W. Morton, 5; W. H. Kinsman, 5; B. F. Burgess, 5; Samuel Welteh, 5; H. Loring, 5; F. H. Henshaw, 5; W. P. Bowles, 5; H. S. Kimball, 5; A. Boyden, 5; C.H. Adams, 3; G. B. B., 2; Samuel Hunt, Jr., 2; F. H. Underwood, 5; sundry friends, names not given, $130.05.
The thanks of the Committee are due to the ladies and gentlemen who so kindly furnished the music for the meeting on the evening of the 20th inst., to Messrs. Checkering & Co., for the gratuitous use of their Hall, and to Thomas G. Whytal for flowers. 
J. H. STEPHENSON, Treasurer, 
For the Committee.
12 Arch Street, March 23.
 
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Mer-cantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o'clock, A. M., on Daniel’s youth, early piety, and promotion; and the elements and advantages of early piety generally.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in EAST PRINCETON, Sunday, March 29th, at half past 10 A. M., and 1 P. M.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
OBITUARY.
REESE C. FLEESON, lately one of the editors of the Pittsburgh Daily Dispatch, died on the morning of Monday, the 16th inst., in the fifty-first year of his age. For two years past he had suffered greatly from sickness, so that death, which he never feared, proved a relief. From his early manhood he battled heroically for human rights, and ever proved himself an earnest and efficient reformer. Of an impulsive temperament, he was rapid in his decisions and always ready to confess an error when convinced that he had made one, but he never abandoned a good cause in which he was conscientiously engaged. Educated in Mississippi, he raised his voice against the injustice and inhumanity of American slavery many years ago, when such testimony was sure to involve him in the loss of political and social position. The taunts of demagogues and the threats of Pecuniary disaster could not move him; he was ever true to freedom as the steel to the star. Reese C. Fleeson was born in Pittsburgh, on the 13th of February, 1813. Soon after his birth his father removed to Natches, and afterwards to Woodville, where he was appointed Cashier of the Mississippi Bank, where the deceased was educated. Jefferson Davis was one of his schoolmates. In Woodville, Mr. Fleeson received a classical education, which was completed in Philadelphia in 1828, before entering the office of his uncle, Wm. H. Fry, publisher of the National Gazette. His cousins, J. R.and H. B. Fry, have long been known as leading bankers in Philadelphia, and another, William H. Fry, Jr., as one of the editors of the New York Tribune. In the office of the Gazette he mastered the art of printing. After the death of his father-in-law, the Rev. Mr. Black, he assumed the editorial management of the Westmoreland Intelligencer. In 1836 he removed to Pittsburgh, and was for a time in the office of the Gazette, then edited by his uncle, N. B. Craig (recently deceased). Under the auspices of the first Anti-Slavery Society, the Christian Witness was issued by Wm. H. Burleigh, now one of the Wardens of the Port of New York, and Mr. Fleeson was a frequent contributor to its columns. He was afterward conected with the Spirit of Liberty, the Washington Bann and the Evening News. In 1841 he received the appointment of Postmaster, under Gen. Harrison’s Administration, and retained the position until his uncompromising hostility to President Tyler’s policy led to his removal.-New York Tribune.
The Chillicothe (Ohio) papers announce the death of the Hon. FREDERICK GRIMKE,late one of the judges of the Supreme Court of Ohio. Judge Grimke was an elegant scholar, a learned jurist, an honest man. He published a few years ago an interesting work on Governments. He was a brother of the late Thomas S. Grimke, of South Carolina, one of the most accomplished and eloquent men of the age. He lived more than three-score and ten years a most exemplary life. Without solicitation on his part, he was elected a Supreme Judge by the Legislature of Ohio, and the duties of that exalted position he discharged with inflexible integrity. He has bequeathed $2,000 toward defraying the expenses of publishing his works, copies of which are to be given to the Congressional Libraries. Mrs. Theodore D. Weld, of New Jersey, a niece of the deceased, is remembered in his will-Ibid.
Hon. John W. NOEL, member of Congress from Missouri, died in Washington last Saturday, quite suddenly. He was a warm supporter of emancipation measures, and one of the ablest and most liberal of the Border States Representatives. He was a member of the 36th and 37th Congresses, and was re-elected to the 38th.
Major General E. V. SUMNER, recently appointed to the command of the Western Department, died at the residence of his son-in-law, at Syracuse, N. Y., on Saturday, March 21st, of congestion of the lungs, after an illness of only five days. He had been in the army forty-three years. His last words were, "God save my country, the United States of America."
Adjutant HENRY P. BOWDITCH, son of Dr. Henry I. Bowditch, of Boston, was killed at the recent cavalry fight at Kelley’s Ford, Virgina. He was a young man of unusual promise and greatly beloved, and his loss will be deeply lamented by a wide circle
At the Alms House, in South Danvers, on Wednesday, the 11th inst., Miss SIBYL SWINERTON, at the advanced ago of 93years 16 days. She was, we believe, the last survivor of the slaves who were made free in Danvers, in accordance with the principles of the Constitution of Massachusetts, adopted in 1780.-Salem Observer. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
poetry
For the Liberator.
THE VISION.
"In anticipation of the impending assault of the various Federal armies, Jeff. Davis has issued a Proclamation for a day of Fasting and Prayer.” –Telegram, March 2d.
Ye who glory in the scorning
Of Jehovah’s faithful warning,
Lift to Him again your shocking 
Prayers of vile and hateful mocking!
He who, through your righteous seeming,
Knows the soul to be blaspheming;
He whose breath the land can darken,
From His throne may stoop to barken.
From the realms of your alliance,
Reared and held in His defiance,
From this altar of your rearing,
Pray unto His weary hearing.
Pray to Him that ye may better
Strengthen every link and fetter.
His forbearance overtasking,
He shall answer to your asking.
Aye! pray on in your derision!-
For I see a glorious vision.
Not from such unhallow'd places,
Turn to Heaven the pleading faces;
Unto Him alone revealing
The great agony of feeling.
Praying,-not from lips of lying,-
For His righteousness undying;
Praying to Him to deliver,
Safe across His peaceful river.
From the wilderness of anguish,
Where they lie in chains and languish
I behold Him safely leading
All the poor that come with pleading;
From your wrath in safety bearing
All the weak and the despairing;
From their degradation raising
These poor millions for His praising.
He whose ends were never thwarted,-
He hath winnowed and assorted!
I behold “His chariot nearing"-
Woe to all who mock unfearing!
Then, pray on, in your derision,
And fulfill the glorious vision!
Ye who under righteous seeming,
Raise the prayers of foul blaspheming!
Ye who glory in the scorning
 Of Jehovah’s awful warning!
Even as Pharaoh’s host was smitten,
So your final doom is written!
St. Johnsbury, Vt. F. B. GAGE.
From the Sabbath Recorder.
1863.
Eighteen hundred sixty-three-
Hail! thou Year of Jubilee!
Welcome messenger of God,
Come to break oppression’s rod;
Come the prison doors to ope,
Bid despairing millions hope;
Come to wash out Slavery's stain,
In the blood of thousands slain;
Come, the hope and joy of years,
Though thou com’st in blood and tears;
Come to say “good will to men”-
(“Peace on earth” shall come again,
When the woe of Slavery’s past,)-
Peace shall bless the earth at last.
Though the tempests rage and roar,
Clouds shall part, and storus be o'er;
In the heavens the bow is set,
Though the rain is falling yet.
Eighteen hundred sixty-three-
Bless the Lord, thy dawn we see!
Year for which we hoped and prayed,
Thou hast come, though long delayed.
Sound thy trumpet loud and clear,
Till the farthest slave shall hear!
Sons of God! whose joyous shout 
At creation sounded out,
When the stars together sang,
And the spheres with music rang,
Shout again! lift up your voice!
In this work of God rejoice!
Praise the Lord! while angels sing,
Let the earth with anthems ring.
Eighteen hundred sixty-three-
Long will men remember thee;
Thou wilt shine on history’s page,
Like a star, from age to age;
May the years throughout all time,
With thy notes of freedom chime;
Swell the song of liberty,
Till earth’s bondmen all are free.
“Saith the Lord, I will arise,
For the opprest-the needy’s sighs;
Him in safety will I set
From the puffing tyrant’s threat."
God is speaking by our woe,
Saying, ”Let my people go!"
Lead them, Lord, and make them free;
Bring them through the bloody sea;
Let thy fiery pillar light
All their pathway through the night,
Till the host is overthrown,
‘Neath whose eruel power they groan;
Till in safety they shall stand,
Firm in freedom’s promised land.
Eighteen hundred sixty-three!
Glorious may thy record be;
Ere thou bidst the world farewell,
Echo Slavery’s funeral knell.
May the deed which blessed thy dawn,
Bring us peace, ere thou art gone.
Blessings on our President-
Hero of the great event;
Long shall live his honored name,
Graven on the brow of fame.
May no ill betide the pen 
Which records such good to men.
In the nation's changing tides,
When some other man presides,
God forbid that one should rise,
Who shall freedom’s cause despise,
Or reverse the great decree,
Which declares the bondman free!
Ne'er may time’s tempestuous waves
Backward roll a race of slaves!
Liberty! O win thy way;
O’er the world extend thy sway;
Till the kingdoms’ neath the sun
Shall be gathered into one;
Kings and thrones before Him fall,
Who is King and Lord of all.
Pealms 12: 5.
Milton, January, 1863.
TILL DEATH.
Two hands held in one clasp,
Two hearts bound in one chain,
Two bosoms beating warm,
Loving, beloved again.
Two smiles of fervent faith 
On each caressing cheek,
Two voices soft and low
As whispering angels speak.
Two figures kneeling glad
Before the sacred shrine,
Two vows of mutual love
Exchanged in sight divine.
Two coffins, side by side,
Beneath the daisied sod,
Two spirits dwelling in
The perfect rest of God.
<c02>
THE CONNEOTIOUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER VI.
THE TWO VALLEYS.
From that region of varied, peaceful beauty, where every inch of soil bears evidence of the cooperation of intelligent man with teeming nature; where the farm, the factory, the highway, broad, firm and levelled, the carefully constructed bridge, the interlacing pathways for steam below and lightning above, the trim hedges and substantial fences and walls, the stately villa and the lowliest cottage—where every material characteristic gives testimony that the hands which labor are one in organism with the head that thinks; that he who tills the soil legislates for it as well; that it is his; his to make more valuable for present profits and the future occupancy of his children— where the number and commodiousness of the school-houses bears witness to the invitation extended to all to share the advantages they offer; and the well-ordered tone of life, manners and conversation, the unresting printing-presses, the crowded lyceum-halls, and thronged libraries, assert, emphatically, that the invitation is now here disregarded; where churches as numerous, embodying every expression of faith, rise side by side, in silent but eloquent annunciation of the great Christian result of universal culture and progress, freedom of thought and speech—where civil order characterizes the neighborhood, and domestic order the household. From this region of refined, home-like beauty, whose mountain brows seem formed to wear, forever, the seven-hued halo of God’s peace-promise above the storm; yet where the great vicarious atonement was amply made, when the blood of heroism and helplessness and innocence stained tomahawk and scalping-knife, and fed the midnight flame, to expiate the wrongs done by cupidity and injustice to an ignorant and confiding race—where, too, the Bruti of the seventeenth century found a wilderness shelter from the deed, which, with lips of blOod, declared once more to the awed and listening ages that thought, opinion, worship, are the great Commonwealth of Humanity, and own NEVER, and tolerate not long, monopoly, by mitre or crown or title or oligarchy. From this Valley, leaning back in its memories on facts such as these; standing firmly in its present, a most amazing evidence of what free labor and free culture will accomplish with a wilderness in two centuries; looking forward to a future, when, from every corner of the habitable globe, shall come the voice of grateful acknowledgment for motives and principles and enterprises, which, emanating hence, have urged on the health, hope, happiness of a world; from this charming Valley, resting under the smile of God’s Providence just in proportion as its activities have been in harmony with His will, I take my carefully-heeding, candid companion, the reader, to another—more grand, more extended, more picturesque, more affluent in natural fertility, beneath a sun more genial, and skies more soft and warm.
Look on this region in its marvellous grandeur and beauty—from where the Potomac and Shenandoah”at the moment of their junction rush together against the Blue Ridge, rend it asunder, and pass off to the sea,” to where the mountain again asserts its supremacy, and at one stride bridges Cedar Creek and its immense ravine, at an altitude fifty-five feet greater than stupendous Niagara can boast; from the summit of the Peaks of Otter to the ”Gnome King’s Palace" in the depths of Weyer’s cave, what
scenes of surprising wonder and worth, distributed over a tract of country that was the theatre of some of the most romantic events in the life of the nation's Father and his associates; that was baptized in blood by some of the most tragic scenes of the Period of Indian warfare. Nowhere on this Western Continent, I venture to assert, can be found more objects of absorbing interest, from the hand of nature and the heart of memory, than here; yet how are they to be reached? Where are the prepared highways and conveyances for travel? the hotels for refreshment and rest? Where are the evidences that one is in the most fertile and available section of a country distinguished for its almost miraculous achievements in the arts of civilization, and at a period when material successes are the very exponents of the age? Is it reverence for undisturbed nature that stays the eager step and holds back the far-reaching hand of progress? When every form of physical enterprise receives urgent invitation and certain promise of almost fabulous reward for exertion, in the aspects of climate, scenery and soil, whence this inaction? Is it, indeed, the pause of holy awe in presence of the sublime and lovely? Read the testimony which answers this, from one whose illustrious name has been given to the surroundings of one of these magnificent displays, which he has adequately described:—”This scene is worth a voyage across the Atlantic; yet here, as in the neighborhood of the Natural Bridge, are people who have passed their lives within half a dozen miles, and have never been to survey these monuments of a war between rivers and mountains, which must have shaken the earth itself to its centre." True, this was written some time ago, but if the facilities for travel have not greatly increased, it is philosophical, at least, to suppose that the demand has not. No, no; this is not pause, but stagnation; not the deep, un rippled breathing of profound emotion, but the torpor of in animation. A few statistics shall close this descriptive parallel between my two beautiful Valleys, and then I will again lift the curtain on the living drama.
The state which holds in its bosom that part of the Connecticut Valley which contributes to the topography of my tale, has an area of seven thousand eight hundred square miles; that which embraces the Valley of the Shenandoah stretches over sixty-one thousand three hundred and fifty-two square miles. The former supports a free population of one million two hundred and thirty-one thousand and sixty-five; the latter, one million one hundred and five thousand one hundred and ninety-two. By the census of 1850, the annual expenditure for educational purposes in the former was one million four hundred and twenty-four thousand eight hundred and seventy-three dollars; that of the latter, eighty-eight thousand five hundred and twenty. The former had, in public libraries, six hundred eighty-four thousand and fifteen volumes; the latter, eighty-eight thousand four hundred and sixty-two. The exports of the former amounted to twenty-eight millions one hundred ninety thousand nine hundred and twenty-five dollars; those of the latter, to four millions three hundred seventy-nine thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight. The imports of the former reached the round sum of forty-five millions one hundred thirteen thousand seven hundred and seventy-four dollars; those of the latter found expression in eight hundred fifty-five thousand four hundred and five. Do you say these are mere statements of fact, not cause? One fact more shall give you the cause of all. The poet has beautifully said for Massachusetts, in saying it for all New England—
“No slave is here; our unchained feet
Walk freely as the waves that beat
Our coast."
The census gives Virginia nearly five hundred thousand slaves! Yes, Negro Slavery dropped its poison into that garden of the West the same year that the yeast-plant of Freedom surged up from the sea on to the sterile rocks of New England's coast.
In that substantial, respectable looking shire-town of Frederic County, Winchester, in the neighborhood of London Street, and overlooking the remains of the Fort built, at the direction of Washington, to protect the inhabitants of that region from the incursions of the French and Indians, stood, thirty years ago, a stately and commodious mansion, which it is agreeable to our present purpose to call the Berkeley Mansion. It was owned and occupied by a wealthy landholder, a direct descendant of one of the oldest and most aris
<c03> 
tocratic Virginia families. Three children, two sons and a daughter, were the legitimate inheritors of his name and estate, while the inmates of the mansion were largely increased by an indefinite number of household slaves. At the period we become especially interested in this family, two events of importance had just transpired; the return of the oldest son, Frederic, from the Virginia University at Charlottesville, where he had completed his college course; and the admission into the circle, a few months prior to this, of a fair, young, highly accomplished lady from Massachusetts, in the capacity of Governess to Miss Alice Berkeley. The next two events which it particularly concerns this narrative to mention were the ordination of Mr. Frederic Berkeley to the Episcopal ministry, directly following his Theological course at the Seminary in Fairfax County; and his marriage with Miss Helen Herman, the charming Governess from the Valley of the Connecticut,. These were the parents of the Rev. Hugh Berkeley, a gentleman already introduced to the reader.
Miss Herman, now Mrs. Berkeley, was an orphan, with but one near relative, a brother, as fair and gifted as herself, but lacking stability of character. Indeed, his waywardness had often been a source of 

great anxiety to his gentle and doting sister. This anxiety had been allayed, however, the year previous to her entering upon her first duties in the Berkeley family, by his becoming engaged to a young lady much respected and beloved by his sister, and through the influence of that lady’s friends connected with a highly respectable and flourishing mercantile house in Boston. Little did Helen dream that she herself would open a way to the frustration of all these promising plans. 
One important portion of the landed property of the senior Berkeley was a Tobacco Plantation on the borders of Fairfax county; this, by the division of the estates following the death of that gentleman, which occurred the very year of his eldest son’s marriage, came, with the mansion at Winchester, into possession of Frederic. Neither his education nor tastes fitted him for the trust; his brother and sister were provided for by more Southern plantations; the young clergyman was ready, on any reasonable terms, to drop the uncongenial burden from his hands.
Precisely at the time when the Rev. Mr. Berkeley was revolving plans for this release, Mr. Edward Herman came on a visit to his sister. The enterprise charmed the erratic fancy of that still untamed nature; the conditions of sale were such as came within the possibility of purchase on his part; and, to the entire surprise of all his Northern friends, and the great grief of one, at least, as we shall see, in one week the Boston merchant was transformed into the Southern slaveholder. But the fair blossom, found in the pure air of his native valley, which he had confidently believed his own, could not be transplanted to Southern soil; all the instincts of the free, fragrant soul recoiled from it. Like the May Flower (trailing arbutus) of her native groves, she could have smiled upon her Edward from among the snows of the winter of adversity; could have filled with light and joy a cottage-home, although lowly as the moss-bed at the roots of the centenarian trees of the forest; but she could not share, even with him, luxuries purchased by injustice and oppression. No, the promised bridal must be deferred; this mad enterprise had been undertaken rashly and without consideration—he would soon weary and rid himself of it—then heart and arms were open to welcome him, the past all forgiven and forgotten. Thus reasoned and hoped and promised the sweet Kate Kent, daughter of an older brother of the maiden ladies of that name twice alluded to in the preceding pages; thus hoped but never realized; she paled and paled, then ceased like music. The career of Edward Herman, and its more immediate results, will form the subject of the next chapter.
Meantime, the self-reproaching and penitent Mrs. Berkeley devoted herself to repair, as far as possible, the wrongs she imputed wholly to herself. Life was saddened forever, here below, but it was also sanctified by holiness in every deed and word. The seeds of that New England scourge, consumption, were not long latent in her constitution. She continued here long enough to see the pet object of her desire, a Northern education for her only child, successfully entered upon, with the blessed assurance added, that the principles of the Declaration of Independence were the vital principles of his being.
In a few years, the father contracted a second marriage with a lady of Southern birth and sympathies, and from that time Hugh felt that New England was his home.
TESTIMONY OF ALEXANDER H.STEPHENS.
RASPBERRY MOUNTAIN, (Pa.) March 1,1863.
Who is Responsible for the Civil War? —A Complete Vindication of the North by the Vice President of the Confederacy of Kidnappers.
Dear Garrison:
The enclosed extract from a speech of Alexander H.Stephens, in the Convention that took Georgia out of the Union, January, 1861, I have used the past year in lecturing, and in private conversation. It silences all Democratic allies of kidnappers and traitors in the North. The great argument used by them in New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana and Illinois is, that the North had invaded the rights of the South. Stephens brands them all as liars. He charges the civil war, with all its horrors, solely on the South. He leaves the traitors not a shadow of an excuse. If you deem it of value, and pertinent to the present hour, print it, that all may see his opinions. He declared on the floor of the Convention, called to vote Georgia out of the Union, and plunge it into the impassable and bottomless gulf of secession, anarchy and ruin—
“That this step once taken, could never be recalled; and all the baleful and withering consequences that must follow, (as they would see,) will rest on the Convention for all coming time. When we and our posterity shall see our lovely South desolated by the demon of war which this act of yours will inevitably invite and call forth; when our green fields of waving harvests shall be trodden down by the murderous soldiery and fiery car of war sweeping over our land; our temples of justice laid in ashes; all the horrors and desolations of war upon us; who but this Convention will be held responsible for it? and who but him who shall have given his vote for this unwise and ill-timed measure, (as I honestly think and believe,) shall be held to strict account for this suicidal act, by the present generation, and probably cursed and execrated by posterity for all coming time, for the wide and desolating ruin that will inevitably follow this act you now propose to perpetrate?
Pause, I entreat you, and consider for a moment what reasons you can give that will even satisfy yourselves in calmer moments—what reasons you can give to your fellow-sufferers in the calamity that it will bring upon us? What reason can you give to the nations of the earth to justify it? They will be the calm and deliberate judges in the case! and to what cause or one overt act can you name or point, on which to rest the plea of justification? What right has the North assailed? What interest of the South has been invaded? What justice has been denied? and what claim founded in justice and right has been withheld? Can either of you to-day name one governmental act of wrong, deliberately and purposely done by the government of Washington, of which the South has a right to complain? I challenge the answer! While, on the other hand, let me show the facts, (and believe me, gentlemen, I am not here the advocate of the North; but I am here the friend, the firm friend and lover of the South and her institutions, and for this reason I speak thus plainly and faithfully for yours, mine, and every other man's interest, the words of truth and soberness,) of which I wish you to judge, and I will only state facts which are clear and undeniable, and which now stand as records authentic in the history of our country.
When we of the South demanded the slave trade, or the importation of Africans for the cultivation of our lands, did they not yield the right for twenty years? When we asked a three-fifths representation in Congress for our slaves, was it not granted? When we asked and demanded the return of any fugitive from justice, or the recovery of those persons owing labor or allegiance, was it not incorporated in the Constitution? and again ratified and strengthened in the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850?
But do you reply that in many instances they have violated this compact, and have not been faithful to their engagements? As individuals and local communities they may have done so; but not by the sanction of government; for that has always been true to
<c04>
Southern interests. Again, gentlemen, look at another fact: when we have asked that more territory should be added, that we have asked that more territory should be added, that we might spread the institution of slavery, have they not yielded to our demands in giving us Louisiana, Florida and Texas, out of which four States have been carved, and ample territory for four more to be added in due time, if you by this unwise and impolitic act do not destroy this hope, and, perhaps, by it lose all, and have your last slave wrenched from you by stern military rule, as South America and Mexico were; or by the vindictive decree of a universal emancipation, which may reasonably be expected to follow.
But, again, gentlemen, what have we to gain by this proposed change of our relation to the general government? We have always had the control of it, and can yet, if we remain in it, and are as united as we have been. We have had a majority of the Presidents chosen from the South; as well as the control and management of most of those chosen from the North. We have had sixty years of Southern Presidents to their twenty-four, thus controlling the Executive department. So of the Judges of the Supreme Court, we have had eighteen from the South, and but eleven from the North; although nearly four-fifths of the judicial business has arisen in the Free States, yet a majority of the Court has always been from the South. This we have required so as to guard against any interpretation of the Constitution unfavorable to us. In like manner we have been equally watchful to guard our interests in the Legislative branch of government. In choosing the presiding Presidents (pro tem.) of the Senate, we have had twenty-four to their eleven. Speakers of the House, we have had twenty-three, and they twelve. While the majority of the Representatives, from their greater population, have always been from the North, yet we have so generally secured the Speaker, because he, to a great extent, shapes and controls the legislation of the country. Nor have we had less control in every other department of the generals government. Attorney-Generals we have had fourteen, while the North have had but five. Foreign ministers we have had eighty-six, and they but fifty-four. While three-fourths of the business which demands diplomatic agents abroad is clearly from the Free States, from their greater commercial interests, yet we have had the principal embassies so as to secure the world-markets for our cotton, tobacco and sugar on the best possible terms. We have had a vast majority of the higher offices of both army and navy, while a larger proportion of the soldiers and sailors were drawn from the North. Equally so of Clerks, Auditors and Comptrollers filling the Executive department, the records show for the last fifty years that of the three thousand thus employed, we have had more than two thirds of the same, while we have but one-third of the white population of the Republic.
Again, look at another item, and one, be assured, in which we have a great and vital interest; it is that of revenue, or means of supporting government. From official documents, we learn that a fraction over three-fourths of the revenue collected for the support of government has uniformly been raised from the North.
Pause now while you can, gentlemen, and contemplate carefully and candidly these important items. Look at another necessary branch of government, and learn from stern statistical facts how matters stand in that department. I mean the mail and Post-Office privileges that we now enjoy under the general government as it has been for years past. The expense for the transportation of the mail in the Free States was, by the report of the Postmaster General for the year 1860, a little over $13,000,000, while the income was $19,000,000. But in the Slave States the transportation of the mail was 14,716,000, while the revenue from the same was $8,001,026, leaving a deficit of $6,115,735, to be supplied by the North for our accommodation, and without it we must have been entirely cut off from this most essential branch of government.
Leaving out of view, for the present, the countless millions of dollars you must expend in a war with the North; with tens of thousands of your sons and brothers slain in battle, and offered up as sacrifices upon the altar of your ambition,—and for what, we ask again? Is it for the overthrow of the American government, established by our common ancestry, cemented and built up by their sweat and blood, and founded on the broad principles of Right, Justice, and Humanity? And, as such, I must declare here, as I have often done before, and which has been repeated by the greatest and wisest of statesmen and patriots in this and other lands, that it is the best and freest government—the most equal in its rights—the most just in its decisions—the most lenient in its measures, and the most inspiring in its principles to elevate the race of men, that the sun of heaven ever shone upon.
Now, for you to attempt to overthrow such a government as this, under which we have lived for more than three-quarters of a century—in which we have gained our wealth, our standing as a nation, our domestic safety while the elements of peril are around us, with peace and tranquility accompanied with unbounded prosperity and rights un assailed— is the height of madness, folly and wickedness, to which I can neither lend my sanction nor my vote."
This is a full vindication of the Abolitionists, the Republicans, and friends of freedom in the North. No Democratic traitor among us dares to meet the facts stated by Stephens. Had I the means, this extract should be put into a tract, and sent broadcast over Pennsylvania, New York and the West. It has settled the minds of thousands, to -my knowledge. Print it, if you can, that the Webbs, Thompsons, Brights and others in England may get it, and by it be able to silence all those who cast the blame of this civil war on the North. The extract is a proof that the South is the aggressor, and the North is acting in self-defence—in the way that England and all Europe and America declare to be right. It was after making this speech in that Convention, that Stephens was bought up by the kidnapping traitors by an offer of the Vice-Presidency of the Confederacy of Corsairs.
Yours, for Universal Freedom,
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
TO THE FRIENDS OF RELIGI0US FREEDOM, INQUIRY AND PROGRESS.
Rev. L. A. Sawyer, translator of the Scriptures, is establishing a congregation in Boston on the broadest basis of religious freedom and catholicity, the untrammeled investigation of the character, authority and teachings of the Scriptures, and of all religious and moral truth, and the pursuit and practice of all right and noble doings, free from sectarian narrowness and imposition.
Mr. Sawyer is a believer in religious discovery and advancement, and claims for reason and conscience their just supremacy and normal exercise, unfettered by ancient tradition or popular custom and opinion. He entertains the highest respect for the Scriptures as historical documents, books of information and instruction, and monuments of the opinions and experiences of the past in long lines of progression, but rejects entirely their infallibility as equally erroneous with the kindred dogma of the infallibility of the church and its hierarchy, over which were fought the great battles of the Protestant Reformation, and equally injurious and oppressive. He embraces and teaches Christianity as a system of truth and righteousness, independent of all books, Christian or Jewish, and resting on the same immutable and eternal foundations of experience and reason as the sciences and liberal arts.
Believing that the age calls for the utmost diffusion of this higher, broader, and more profound view of Christianity than has been prevalent heretofore, and that there is ample room and scope for it in Boston, we commend this cause to the liberal consideration of the friends of Christianity, and solicit subscriptions in its behalf. Those who desire to see superstition dethroned, the human mind emancipated from the bondage of traditional errors, true spiritual enlightenment attained, and practical righteousness with its infinite blessings substituted for empty ritualism, will hail the undertaking with high satisfaction, and be glad to lend it a helping hand. Conservators of popular errors, in all religious orders, will naturally oppose it, and create a necessity for union and cooperation among its friends. Besides the favor solicited above, we invite such as can, to join us with their families, and strengthen the cause by their personal participation in its duties and blessings. Many can do it to their advantage, and give new impulses to Christian knowledge and culture.
Our meetings are held at 10 1-2, A. M., at Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4; and the attendance of strangers and others is respectfully invited. Seats are free.
The above was adopted by the congregation, and ordered to be printed and circulated, and subscriptions solicited.
L. TILTON, Chairman.
J. WESLEY DODGE, Secretary.
Boston, March 15, 1863.
<c05>
HOW A GAME MAY BE SPOILT.
It is wonderful how a game may be spoilt, by people who have their heart in the business. Now here is Congress, after volunteering the loss of two hundred thousand lives in hopes of avoiding it, consents to reply to a rebellion in support of African slavery, by raising an African army upon the rebels. Hard work and much contest there was, to arrive at so much of what might have been supposed the first dictate of public honor and individual good sense. But even then the thing must be spoilt in the baking, like the prophet’s uninviting operation. Would not sensible men, or at all events men strong enough to put down the opposite, have looked about them, and seen how the same kind of thing had been done before? At all events to the extent of avoiding unnecessarily mingling their dish with loathed ingredients.
There were two great examples for their use. The conduct of the English in raising Native troops in India, and black regiments in the West Indian colonies. In both these cases there was the jealousy of race and color. But the English Parliament did not take into its special care and keeping the putting forward these jealousies in the way that should be most damaging to the end designed. The English Parliament is not the weakest assembly in the world; it has a very tolerable notion of going the way to do what it takes in hand.
It was never part of the English policy to raise troops to be commanded by officers of Indian extraction. Not the son of a Maharajah was invited to enter the army list as Ensign in a company’s regiment. There was a distinct organization of Native officers with the rank of Native Captain and Lieutenant, besides what may be called non-commissioned; but they all rose from the ranks. They held very respectable positions. It was etiquette to ask them to sit down; at least, he was a pig that did not. Considerate General officers appointed the senior Native officer one of their aides-de-camp. His I caste prevented his joining in many of the offices of an aide-de-camp; but he enjoyed an otium cum dignitate in the General’s tent or ante-chamber. The native officers did a great deal of the duty of their regiments, while the white were storing up health under shelter; and they rode a pony on the march. They had good pensions, and were understood to live greatly respected when their powers of service failed. The great wonder was, that they did not yield to the temptation of taking charge out of the white officers’ hands; but they did not. On examination, the extent to which all the higher springs of discipline were in the hands of Europeans would be sufficient to account for it.
But the English were never simple enough to parade the disabilities under which their Indian officers or troops were to labor. It is very doubtful, or rather it is not at all doubtful, whether the most exalted of Native officers had distinct authority to recommend to an English recruit to keep step, and not get in the way of his neighbors. But nobody was foolish enough to dilate upon the fact. Wisdom, it would seem, goes by longitude; for the latitudes are not very different.
In the black regiments in the West India colonies, the same good sense is displayed. It was never intended that they should be other than commanded by men of European birth, at least in the present generation. Whether it is written in the book of fate that the descendant of some dark Othello is to be gazetted to her or his Majesty’s commission of Ensign in the-West Indian regiment, is among the secrets time will show. But nobody is such a goose as to talk about it now; and still less if it were the moment for an important movement dependent on such description of troops.
No force of white men can carry on war in a hot country, without at least an equal force of country muscle to help. The babes who pretend to campaign in the southern States will find this out in time; with the addition, that theirs was the only side that admitted of the aid. Lost battles must be their teachers; misfortune is the only tonic for their case. Everybody knows who and what it must come to; but good blood will be shed like water first. The object in thus dabbling with the matter in America was to play into the hands of the correspondents who are to say to us, “A colored man is not allowed to be an officer; therefore join heart and hand in selling his daughter to prostitution."
Of one thing let every body be assured,—that England is thoroughly sick of the attempts to involve her in a common foolery. The rough handling the Lord Mayor has just received for undertaking to patronize the Fugitive Slave Law in the person of its reputed author, is the evidence of the day. The same civic authority, in his capacity of candidate for the House of Commons,” abhorred the ballot.” Will the power of putting two and two together never descend upon the ordinar of manhood?
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
—Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser.
FOREWARNED.
The enemy have armed a portion of our slaves to destroy us, and however weak and futile this expedient of their war against us may be, it makes all the officers of their army fight with halters around their necks. All who may be captured by our troops will, according to the President’s Proclamation, be turned over to our State tribunals, as instigators of insurrection in the State, to be tried for their lives. The Governor of the State will demand their delivery, for the enforcement of the laws of the State.
We presume not a man of them doubts, under such circumstances, what will be their fate. They will be hung in broad day, as sure as the day of their sentence arrives. All the officers of their army must come out to fight us with this result before their eyes.
No man will willingly go into an enterprise involving such consequences, but from the sternest motives of self-interest and patriotism. These exist in the troops of the Confederate States. They fight for their country—their homes—their wives and their children. Death to them is far preferable to a submission to the rule of remorseless abolitionists. But it is not so with the troops of the United States. They fight only for a fanaticism they despise, or for money, or ambition—the lust of lucre, or the lust of power. Will any man, for these, voluntarily enter battle, with the distinct understanding that for him there is no hope in imprisonments, no chance for mercy from his foe, if that foe is triumphant?
All that is necessary for the achievement of our perfect independence is active military preparation, and nerve and statesmanship in diplomacy. But there is as much danger to the cause and to the future destiny of the South from false or feeble statesmanship in the close of the war and settlement of our relations with the non-slaveholding States of the North and with Europe, as in the war itself. We can control our destiny for independence and prosperity. Wise views and firmness are the qualities needed. Compromises have ever been our bane.-
Charleston Mercury.

GENERAL BANKS AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF.
The following is the conclusion of a business letter written to Governor Andrew by Major General Banks:—
I notice in the papers of the North, a report that certain regiments, or detatchments, or soldiers of my command, have been ordered or permitted to return to their masters, against their will, to stand guard over, and to flog the slaves in this department. It gives me pleasure to be able to say that it is without foundation or justification. In fact, in statement and in implication, it is utterly and infamously false.
As it is made a reproach to Massachusetts, that such orders are given by one of her citizens, desire to say to you, the Chief Executive Magistrate of the State, having had many of her unsurpassed regiments under my command, that I bear constantly in mind that I am a son of Massachusetts; and grateful as the remembrance may be to me and mine, I have yet greater satisfaction in the fact that as an officer of the army of the United States, following the instructions of the President, and the laws of the land—
I have never performed, or permitted, or passed without its appropriate censure, any act inconsistent with my duty, with the spirit and principles of the people among whom I was born, or that justly interpreted, would not meet their approval, without party distinctions.
Our country has many sorrows, and has yet to encounter many natural trials—none greater than those engendered by wanton and wicked perversion of truth. In the hands of strong men, the truth alone is an adequate remedy for all evils. It aids every cause, and supports all men. If the people of Massachusetts pant for greater sacrifices of blood
<c06>
MARCH 27.
and treasure than they have made, and yet must make, in the defence of their great cause, let them foster a national spirit of wanton and shameless mendacity. It will open an abyss, deep enough and dark enough to swallow all the children that may spring from their loins for unnumbered generations.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
A PROCLAMATION
FOR A DAY OF
Fasting, Humiliation and Prayer.
By and with the advice and consent of the Council, I do hereby appoint THURSDAY, the second day of April next, to be kept and observed by the people of Massachusetts as a day of Public Fasting, Humiliation and Prayer. 
The venerable examples of our fathers, by whom this annual religious observance was established in our Common wealth, invites us to maintain this fit solemnity. But much more does a due sense of human dependence, unworthiness and shortcoming, summon us as a people not less than as individuals, in a spirit of humility, self-denial, and supplication, to bow before the Infinite Ruler of all the Earth. Recalling our minds from every vain pursuit, from the desires of ambition and gain, from the contemplation of ourselves and all private and personal objects or ends, let the occasion be consecrated by penitential confession, by the purification of our hearts, and by the renewal and enlivening of our trust in God, who is the source of all life, and help, and salvation.
Let our Fast be made acceptable before Him, by seeking to follow the great humility of Our Lord, whose Cross and Passion are especially commemorated by so many believers at this season of the revolving year; and by the fervent purposes of sincere hearts to conform the laws and the practices of our country, and to conform our life and conduct as a people, to the Gospel He taught, and the spirit of His example upon earth. 
Let us make a common supplication for all needful blessings upon the work of honorable industry, upon the seed time and the harvest; that we may be made plenteous in every work of our hands, in the fruit of our cattle, and in the fruit of our land, for good; that the sea may yield up to us its hidden treasures, and the springs of the earth may not dry; that the poor may be saved from want, and the rich fulfil the duties of their stewardship; that the hand of labor may not be idle, nor the widow and the fatherless be neglected; that all the means of useful learning may be continued and enlarged, and that all tender and kindly influences ”may drop as the rain into all hearts, distilling as the dew, as the small rain upon the herb, and as the showers upon the grass;” that God would comfort the sorrowing, strengthen the weak, encourage all who falter in the work of Duty, soften the grief’s and bereavements of war, make clear the dim vision of all our unbelief, purify our Nation; that He would give Victory to our arms, Peace to our country, and Liberty to all the people, “leading us in the way which is hewn out for the ransomed to walk in, where the vulture’s eye never saw, and the lion’s whelp never trod.” 
Given at the Council Chamber, in Boston, this twelfth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-seventh. JOHN A. ANDREW.
By his Excellency the Governor, by and with the advice and consent of the Council.
OLIVER WARNER, Secretary.
God save the Commonwealth of Maussachusetts!
BARBARISM IN ILLINOIS.
The Whiteside (Ill.) Sentinel says the following official notice is posted in the Post-Office and other public places in the City of Carthage, Hancock County, Ill. It is a practical exemplification of the Illinois Black Laws. The notice reads as follows:-
PUBLIC SALE –Whereas, The following negroes and one mulatto man were, on the 5th and 6th days of February, 1863, tried before the undersigned, a Justice of the Peace within and for Hancock Co., Ill., on a charge of high misdemeanor, having come into this State and county, and remaining therein for ten days and more, with the evident intention of residing in this State, and were found guilty by a Jury, and were each severally fined in the sum of $50, and the judgement was rendered against said negroes and mulatto man, for $50 fine each, and costs of suit, which fines and costs are annexed opposite to each name, to wit:
 Age. Fine. Costs. 
John, a negro man, tall and slim, about 35 $50 $ 33.17 
Sambo, a negro man, about 21 50 32.17
Austin, a negro man, heavy set, about 20 50 30.10
Andrew, a negro man, about 50 30.33
Amos, a negro man, about 40 50 29.67
Nelson, a mulatto man, about 55 50 30.07
And whereas, Said fines and costs have not been paid, notice is therefore given that the undersigned will, on Thursday, the 19th day of February, A.D. 1863, between the hours of 1 and 5 o’clock, P. M., of said day, 
at the west end of the Court-House, in Carthage, Hancock county, Illinois, sell each of said negro men, John, Austin, Sambo, Andrew, Amos, and said mulatto man, Nelson, at public auction, to the person or persons who will pay the said fine and costs appended against each respectively for the shortest time of service of said negroes and mulatto. 
The purchaser or purchasers will be entitled to the control and services of the negroes and mulatto purchased for the period named in the sale, and no longer, and will be required to furnish said negroes and mulatto with comfortable food, clothing, and lodging during said servitude. The fees for selling will be added on completion of the sale.
Carthage, Feb. 9, 1863. C.M. CHILD, J.P.
The above was furnished us by an old resident and well known citizen of this county. What a libel on civilization to place such an enactment upon the statute book of a professedly free State! Can any lover of justice read the above, and not feel the blush of shame mantle his cheeks? Is it not a disgrace to humanity to permit such a law to remain on our statute book? 
Lewis’s Normal Institute
FOR
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
This Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. Three eminent medical men teach in the departments of Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent. to Ladies. Two courses during this year–the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July. 
For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked out the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.–D. B. Hagar, Pres. of the American Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.–Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute. 
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.–Miss May, valedictory at the first Graduating Class. 
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis’s institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any schoolroom with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into our schools. –Extract from a speech delivered at the second Commencement of “Lewis’s Normal Institute,” by J. D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.
JOHN S. ROCK,. ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
No. 6, TREMONT STREET,:: BOSTON.
