THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advances.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PRILLIPSPHILLIPS, EDMUND QUNINCY, EDWINDQUINCY, ENDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countryman are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.37. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1701.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
O’CONNELL’S LETTER ON SLAVERY.
Honor forever to the memory of Daniel O’Connell! In talents, in love of country, and in virtue, he was the most distinguished Irishman of his day. His services, his greatness, can never be forgotten. What would Ireland be now only for him? Let Catholic emancipation, and all its splendid, important consequences, answer the question. His name is a synonym for great oratory, for intrepid, unflinching, successful patriotism, for the most eminent heroic before spirit, and for private worth never surpassed in excellence. When he died, Ireland’s star fell to the ground, and has not yet reascended. 
All the abolition papers are now making all the fass their fanaticism can urge, in regard to an antislavery letter which the Liberator wrote to an Irish Democratic Committee, in Cincinnati, in 1843. From ’43 to ’63, the letter was kept in abeyance by the Chairman of the Committee. Its publication is owing to the fact that its holder has become a rabid Abolitionist. In a moment of phrenzy, under the disease of "nigger on the brain," this gentleman gave it to the Abolition editor of the Catholic Telegraph. Thus it has seen the light.
This letter has all the characteristics of its author: force of reasoning, eloquence, abuse in all the shapes of irony, open invective, and direct accusation,-high Catholic spirit, and exalted, irrepressible, uncompromising love for human freedom. It is a great, a formidable, an overwhelming revolutionary letter. It exceeds in power anything ever written in this country against slavery. The abolition compositions of Greeley, of Sumner, of Chase, of Phillips, of the Beechers, and of all others in the land afflicted with "nigger on the brain," sink before it in every eminent consideration. It may be pronounced the best contribution yet made to anti-slavery literature.
But there are reverses to every picture-there is one great deficiency in this celebrated epistle. It disregards the Constitution of the United States. It urges the whole North, and especially all Irishmen in America, to emancipate the negro, despite the fundamental law of the nation. Nothing can be more reprehensible than this. It is radicalism of the worst-of the most revolutionary description.
O’Connell put a lasting blot on his character as a great constitutional lawyer by enforcing it. The history of our Constitution tells that it could not have been formed without the acknowledgement of slavery, and, ipso facto, it does acknowledge it. The North made this Constitution freely with the South. Such being the case, what right has the North to break, of itself, the Constitution? No right whatever. When two merchants make a partnership, has either of them, alone, the right to violate the terms of the partnership? Plainly he has not. If such a right existed, partnership would be an absurdity.
It is an essentially in contracts that neither party can violate them at his whim. Contracts imply good faith on all sides. No contract is an exception to this rule; and the Constitution of a country being the highest contract possible to be made, is super eminently above all exception to it. Contracts may be altered, but by both parties acting in their freedom. There is no other legitimate way to change them but this: any other course would be injustice, that should be rightly resisted to the last. In the case of the Constitution of a country, any other course would be revolution, which it is lawful to meet with equal violence. Slavery is a bad thing. But that is not the point: our Constitution, which was an absolute necessity, could not have been formed without admitting it "ipso facto;" it is in the Constitution; and to change the Constitution, both parties to it-that is, the North and the South-must be in united, free operation. O’Connell passed over this fundamental principle. His enthusiasm for freedom blinded his understanding, and he taught one of the most unfortunate errors ever broached. 
Let our people keep their reason. If O’Connell were alive now, he would bitterly lament the composition of his letter. His regrets for negro bondage would then give way to deep sorrow for the useless slaughter of hundreds of thousands of men-for the rupture of the grandest Republic ever formed. We rejoice that his letter did not appear along time ago, for in that case he would be more guilty than he is as one of the authors of the awful and terrible war that for two years has been ravaging and rending this magnificent country-the prosperous home of such multitudes of Irishmen-and which, for years to come, will be desecrating, destroying, subverting, ruining. 
Let our people keep their reason. Abolitionism, whether taught by the illustrious Daniel O’Connell, or by the fanatic Horace Greeley, is revolutionary. Is not this war-this dire, this pestilential, this Heaven-provoking war-the result, in the main, of Abolitionism?
Let our people keep their reason. They are citizens of this country, according to the UNION and the CONSTITUTION. To both their fidelity must be ever true. Is not infidelity to both the cause of the war? They cannot but perceive this. It is fidelity to both, and nothing but fidelity to both, that will restore us to our once peaceful and glorious position. O’Connell did not understand our Constitution. His speeches on American slavery in Conciliation Hall were, as far as America was concerned, lawless, revolutionary harangues. Against the American Union and Constitution, he should never have opened his mouth. The plainest Irishman here understood his duties to his new country much better than O’Connell could have told him. It is an honorable-a most honorable thing for our people in the United States, that they have ever been Democratic in their political views-that is, not negrophilists, but true citizens to the UNION and the CONSTITUTION-which, alas! are now not very triumphant! Let no Irishman be led away by the authority of the great ornament of his nation, in this matter. He was never in the North; he was never in the South; he had no comprehension of our political character; with the fanaticism of abolitionism he was unacquainted; and about the history and the law of our Union and Constitution, he knew nothing. His revolutionary abolition letter proves all this. Let all this be remembered; and let the sentiment and the action of us all be for our UNION and CONSTITUTION, above all men-whether O’Connells or Greeleys-that ever lived.-Boston (Irish) Pilot.
Highly important! A "nigger" has been blackballed by the Worcester Sons of Temperance.-Boston (Democratic) Post. 

EPIGRAM FOR SYRACUSE.
"The Repubs a new name have adopted," cries Mike
To his Lincolnite neighbor, a rural Ten Eyck-
"They call themselves ‘Union’-now what does it mean?
The same thing, for instance, which our fathers had seen? 
Or is it (to drop inuendo and figure)
A ‘more perfect Union’ of white man and nigger?"
<c02>
Selections.
DANIEL O’CONNELL ON AMERICAN SLAVERY AND THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Extract from a speech delivered by Daniel O’Connell at a meeting of the Loyal National Repeal Association, in Conciliation Hall, Dublin, Sept.29th, 1845:
I have been assailed for attacking the American institution, as it is called, negro slavery. I am not ashamed of that attack-I do not shrink from it. I am the advocate of civil and religious liberty all over the globe, and wherever tyranny exists, I am the foe of the tyrant; wherever oppression shows itself, I am the foe of the oppressor; wherever slavery rears its head, I am the enemy of the system, or the institution, call it by what name you will. (Great cheering.) I am the friend of liberty in every clime, class, and color:-my sympathy with distress is not confined within the narrow bounds of my own green island-no, it extends itself to every corner of the earth-my heart walks abroad, and wherever the miserable is to be succored, and the slave to be set free, there my spirit is at home, and 1 I delight to dwell in its abode. (Enthusiastic cheering.) It has been asked, What business has O’Connell to interfere with American slavery? Why, do not the Americans show us their sympathy for our struggles? and why should we not show a sympathy in efforts for liberty among themselves? "(Cheers.) But I confess I have another strong reason for desiring to abolish slavery in America. In no monarchy on the face of the earth is there such a thing as domestic slavery. It is true, in some colonies belonging to monarchies, slavery exists; but in no European country is there slavery at all-for the Russian serf is far different from the slave of America, and there fore therefore I do not wish that any lover of liberty should be able to draw a contrast between the democratic republic of America and the despotic States of Europe. (Hear, hear.) I am in favor of the democratic spirit, and I wish to relieve it from the horrors of slavery. (Cheers.) I do not wish to visit America with force and violence-I would be the last man in the world to consent to it. I would not be for making war to free the negro-at least, not for the war of knife, and lash, and sword; but I would be for the moral warfare-I would be for the arms of argument and humanity to procure the extinction of tyranny, and to hurl contempt and indignation on those who call themselves freemen, and yet keep others in slavery. I would bring elements of that kind to bear upon the system, until the very name of slavery should be regarded with horror in the republic of America. (Cheers.) 
In the year ‘25, when I left my profession and went over to England, there was an anti-slavery meeting, at which I was present and spoke; and afterwards, when I went to Parliament, another meeting was appointed, greater in magnitude. The West India interest was 27 strong in the House of Commons-the Algerine bill was carried through the House by a majority of 19-therefore the emancipation bill was in the power of the West India interest. But when they sent a respected friend of mine-the Knight of Kerry-to me, to ask why I did not take a certain course with regard to it, what was my answer? "I represent the Irish people here, and I will act as the Irish people will sanction. Come liberty, come slavery to myself, I will never countenance slavery, at home or abroad!" (Cheers.) I said I came here on principle; the Irish people sent me here to carry out their principles; their principles are abhorrent of slavery; and, therefore, I will take my part at that anti-slavery meeting; and though it should be a blow against Ireland, it is a blow in favor of human liberty, and I will strike that blow. (Cheers.) So far was I from cultivating the slavery interest, that I adopted that course, though I regretted to lose their votes. But I must do them the credit to say, that I did not lose them. They acted nobly, and said they would not revenge upon Ireland my attack upon them. (Cheers.) Let them blame me-in America let me be execrated by them-let their support be taken from Ireland-Slavery, I denounce you yon wherever yon are! (Loud cheers.) Come freedom, come oppression to Ireland-let Ireland be as she may-I will have my conscience clear before my God. (Cheers.) 
They were told that the speech he made in that room would put an end to the remittances from America, and that the Americans would not again contribute to the funds of the Association. If they should never get one shilling from America, his course was plain, his path was obvious. He was attached to liberty; be was the uncompromising hater of slavery wherever it was found. (Cheers.)
Extract from a speech of O’Connell, at a special meeting of the Loyal National Repeal Association, held in the Corn Exchange, Dublin, May 9, 1843:-
They say that the slaves are worse treated since the cry of the abolitionists has been raised in their favor, as it has made their masters more suspicious of them, and more severe against them; but has that any weight with me? How often was I told, during our agitation, that "the Catholics would be; emancipated but for the violence of that O’Connell!" (Laughter.) Why, one of the cleverest men in the country wrote a pamphlet in 1827, in which he stated that the Protestants of Ireland would have emancipated their Catholic countrymen long before, but for me, and fellows of my kind"; and yet, two years after, I got emancipation in spite of them. (Cheers.) But it is clearly an insult to the understanding to speak so. When did tyranny relax its gripe merely because it ought to do so? (Hear.) As long as there was no agitation, the masters enjoyed the persecution, of their slaves in quietness;’ but the moment the agitation commenced, they cried out, "Oh, it is not the slave we are flogging, but we are flogging through his back the anti-slavery men." (Laughter.) But the subject is <illegible> serious for ridicule. I am afraid they will never give up slavery until some horrible calamity befalls their country; and I here warn them against the event, for it is utterly impossible that slavery can continue much longer. (Hear, hear.) But, good Heaven! can Irishmen be found to justify, or rather to palliate, (for no one could dare attempt to justify,) a system which shuts out the book of human knowledge, and seeks to reduce to the condition of a slave 2,500,000 human beings;-which closes against them not only the light of human science, but the rays of divine revelation, and the doctrines which the Son of God came upon the earth to plant! The man who will do so belongs not to my kind. (Hear, hear.) Over the broad Atlantic I pour forth my voice, saying, "Come out of such a land, you Irishmen; or, if you remain, and dare countenance the system of slavery that is supported there, we will recognize you as Irishmen no longer." (Hear, hear, and cheers.)
I say the man is not a Christian,-he cannot believe in the binding law of the Decalogue. He may go to the chapel or the church, and he may turn up the whites of his eyes, but he cannot kneel as a 
<c03>
Christian before his Creator, or he would not dare to palliate such an infamous system. No, America! the black spot of slavery rests upon your star-spangled banner; and no matter what glory you may acquire beneath it, the hideous, damning stain of slavery rests upon you, and a just Providence will sooner or later avenge itself for your crime. (Loud and continued cheers.) Sir, I have spoken the sentiments of the Repeal Association. (Renewed cheers.) There is not a man amongst the hundreds of thousands that belong to our body, or amongst the millions that will belong to it, who does not concur in what I have stated. We may not get money from America after this declaration; but even if we should not, we do not want blood-stained money. (Hear, hear.) If they make it the condition of our sympathy, or if there be implied any submission to the doctrine of slavery on our part, in receiving their remittance, let them cease sending it at once. But there are wise and good men everywhere, and there are wise and good men in America,-and that document which you have read, Sir, is a proof, among others, that there are; and I would wish to cultivate the friendship of such men; but the criminals and the abettors,-those who commit and those who countenance the crime of slavery,-I regard as the enemies of Ireland, and I desire to have no sympathy or support from them. (Cheers.)
Extract from a speech of O’Connell, delivered at an Anti-Slavery meeting in London, in 1829:-
Of all men living, an American citizen, who is the owner of slaves, is the most despicable; he is a political hypocrite of the very worst description. The friends of humanity and liberty, in Europe, should join in one universal cry of shame on the American slaveholders! "Base wretches," should we shout in chorus-"base wretches, how dare you profane the temple of national freedom, the sacred fane of republican rites, with the presence and the sufferings of human beings in chains and slavery?" I say unto you, slaveholders of America, and the press will convey it to you almost as swift as the wind, that God understands you; that you are hypocrites, tyrants, and unjust men; that you are degraded and dishonored; and I say unto you, dare not to stand up boasting of your freedom or your privileges, while you continue to treat men, redeemed by the same blood, as the mere creatures of your will; for while you do so, there is a blot on your escutcheon which all the waters of the Atlantic cannot wash out.
Extract from a speech of O’Connell, at a meeting of the British Anti-Slavery Society in 1831:-
My claim to be heard on this occasion is included in one sentence-I am an Abolitionist. (Cheering.) I am for speedy, immediate abolition. (Renewed cheers.) I care not what caste, creed, or color, slavery may assume. Whether it be personal or political, mental or corporeal, intellectual or spiritual, I am for its total, its instant abolition. (Great applause) I enter into no compromise with slavery. I am for justice, in the name of humanity, and according to the law of the living God.
The time has now come when every man who has honest feelings should declare himself the advocate of abolition. He who consents to tolerate crime is a criminal; and never will I lose the slightest opportunity, whether here or in the legislature, or any where else, to raise my voice for liberty,-for the extinction of slavery. (Great applause.) Humanity, justice and religion combine to call upon us to abolish this foul blot. But it is not England or Britain alone that is stained with this crime. The democratic Republic of America shares in the guilt. Oh! the inconsistency of these apostles of liberty talking of freedom, while they basely and wickedly continue the slavery of their fellow-men, the negroes of Africa! A republican is naturally proud and high-minded, and we may make the pride of the North American republicans the very weapon by which to break down slavery; for, if the example of England were gone, they could not, in the face of the world, continue the odious and atrocious system one moment longer. (Cheers.)
Extract from a speech of O’Connell, at the World’s Anti-Slavery Convention, in London, June, 1840:-
I will now turn to a subject of congratulation; I mean the Anti-Slavery Societies of America-those noble-hearted men and women, who, through difficulties and dangers, have proved how hearty they are in the cause of abolition. I hail them all as my friends, and wish them to regard me as a brother. I wish for no higher station in the world; but I do covet the honor of being a brother with these American Abolitionists. In this country, the Abolitionists are in perfect safety; here we have fame and honor; we are lauded and encouraged by the good; we are, smiled upon and cheered by the fair; we are bound together by godlike truth and charity; and though we have our differences as to points of faith, we have no differences as to points of this point, and we proceed in our useful career esteemed and honored. But it is not so with our anti-slavery friends in America: there they are vilified, there they are insulted. Why, did "not very lately a body of men-of gentlemen, so called-of persons who would be angry if you denied them that cognomen, and would even be ready to call you out to share a rifle and a ball-did not such " gentlemen " break in upon an Anti-Slavery Society in America; aye, upon a ladies’ Anti-Slavery Society, and assault them in a. most cowardly manner? And did they not denounce the members of that Society? And where did this happen? Why in Boston-in enlightened Boston, the capital of a non-slaveholding State. In this country, the Abolitionists have nothing to complain of; but in America, they are met with the bowie-knife and lynch law! Yes! in America, you have had martyrs; your cause has been stained with blood; the voice of your brethren’s blood crieth from the ground, and riseth high, not, I trust, for vengeance, but for mercy, upon those who have thus treated them. But you ought not to be discouraged, or relax in your efforts. Here you have honor. A human being cannot be placed in a more glorious position than to take up such a cause under such circumstances. I am delighted to be one of a Convention in which are so many of such great and good men. I trust that their reception will be such as that their zeal may be greatly strengthened to continue their noble struggle. I have reason to hope that, in this assembly, a voice will be raised which will roll back in thunder to America, which will mingle with her mighty waves, and which will cause one universal shout of liberty to be heard throughout the world. Oh, there is not a delegate from the Anti-Slavery Societies of America but ought to have his name, aye, her name, written in characters of immortality! The Anti-Slavery Societies in America are deeply persecuted, and are deserving of every encouragement which we can possibly give them. I would that I had the eloquence to depict their character aright; but my tongue falters, and my powers fail, while I attempt to describe them. They are the true friends of humanity, and would that I had a tongue to describe aright the mighty majesty of their undertaking! 
<c04>
MASSACHUSETTS AND SOUTH CAROLINA.
From the Worcester Spy.
The swash-bucklers have vapored and bragged, have scorned and reviled the "damned Yankee pedlers," and "mudsills," and "greasy mechanics," whose fathers were the "canting" Puritans of the Mayflower, and gentlemen from the beginning. More than thirty years ago, South Carolina Hayne rose in the Senate, on the great question of "the right of a State to nullify; and, as the representative man of his State, he vituperated, and spat upon, and scorned, and insulted the glorious old Bay State. It was the first flash and murmur of the gathering storm, but Webster’s great eyes quenched his lightning, and flashed annihilation upon him, and the thunder of his eloquence, as it swept over the audacious Southern, and wrecked him into immortality, was like the thunder-of the sea, learned by the Massachusetts Senator on his Marshfield beaches.
In 1846, Judge Hoar was sent by Massachusetts to South Carolina, to test in the courts the constitutionality of the law to imprison our citizens in South Carolina jails, for no crime but the color of their skin; to see if a colored sailor could of right be taken from his vessel, and shut away in a cell during the time the vessel remained in a Southern port. The man, whose name was a synonym for integrity and honor, took his daughter, and went down to the city of Charleston, to that Southern hospitality, to that Southern chivalry, to those "high-bred gentlemen"-forsooth! And how did they receive him? They gathered-a raging, brutal, furious mob-against him, and drove him out with indignity and insult, and in fear of his life.
Eight years ago, Charles Sumner was struck 1down in the Senate-chamber, by that same brutal and cowardly "chivalry." They thought thus to insult Massachusetts through one of her truest and noblest sons, but it is impossible for the base to insult the noble. "The civilized world heard of that foul deed with abhorrence and disgust, but the barbarism of South Carolina had taught her nothing better than to glory in her shame. She applauded and feted the instrument of her disgrace, presented him with canes unnumbered, and at last buried his fetid body, in all the dishonor of her praise, under a lying heap of marble.
Year after year have these things gone on, but the day of reckoning has come at last, a terrible retribution knocks at her ocean doors. Justice has put on "her robes of hell-fire," and in the thunder of cannon, in the flame and smoke of battle, Carolina is called to her account. Has not Nemesis always following closely on the heels of sin, come up with her at last? Is it not poetical justice that, Massachusetts men are investing Charleston, and forcing her nearer and nearer to a sure surrender? That Beauregard, who performed the mighty exploit of taking Sumter against a half-starved handful of fifty-six men, should now be forced to defend it in vain, and see its walls crumble before his eyes, dafter two years granted to him to build his fortifications and plant his batteries? That Carolina’s indictment, "First to begin the war; first to shut up the Federal courts; first to withdraw her members from Congress; first to pass the ordinance of secession; first to lay hands on Federal property; first to fire on the national flag; "should be written in fire, sealed with the precious blood of heroes, and carried forward to judgment and punishment by the hands she has most despised? Yes, does it not pass poetical justice, and become divine, when we see the wronged and oppressed race transformed into valiant soldiers, and rushing with invincible courage against the very walls that protect their house of bondage, becoming, in God’s hands, the house of their deliverance? The thunder of cannon; the dropping of shot into the very heart of rebeldom; the flight of the inhabitants; the gathering closer and closer of the iron-clad fleet; the noble endurance, the sublime courage, the grand self-sacrifice exhibited before those walls, all whisper the prophecy, " Charleston is taken!" What vengeance shall be taken on the wicked rebel State? What price shall be exacted for all her wrong and insult? The wrath of the Lamb is kindled at last, and, lo! the vengeance shall take the form of blessing! She has shut out light, and we will punish her with a flood of it., She has barred her doors against northern intelligence and discussion; she has frightened strangers into being deaf and blind; a northern gentleman walking in the streets of Charleston has been followed by the police for days, under the suspicion of being an abolition agent, and only an accident saved him from arrest and imprisonment; it was unsafe for a traveller to have a northern newspaper in his pocket. And now all this is changed! Where the army goes, newspapers go with them-"pestilent abolition journals," sufficiently outspoken to drive all the patriarchs mad in the neighborhood. These papers have been issued in Virginia, the Carolinas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Kentucky, and Tennessee, and the negroes have learned to read them! We will punish Carolina by giving northern newspapers, of the freest kind, to all her people, to uplift and enlighten them.
And finally, as the bitterest of all punishments, we will bless her barbarism with the gift of free schools. The music of northern school-bells shall be heard through all her borders, ringing a benediction to the outcast and the poor. The gospel of ignorance has been preached there long enough. Yankee schools, Yankee books, Yankee civilization, have been sneered and railed at long enough. This has constantly been the cry of the South:-
"That it detested schools, of all wicked things in this wicked world-that spelling promoted infidelity, and that reading made men fanatical-that popular ignorance was public safety, and popular enlightenment public peril-that the smaller the number of the educated class, the greater was the stability of the political body,. See what common schools have done for the North! See what newspapers have done for New England! See how the art of printing has promoted unbelief and scepticism, and the incontinency of the married and single, until all New England is no better than a very bad Sodom- while we!-well, if you want pure, inflexible, and inimitable virtue, and enlightened, uncompromising, and rational religion- you must look to us."
Now we will punish them with the blessing they despise, and sweeping out the filth of their house, force them to a higher plane of living, force them to see the dignity and blessedness of labor, force them to acknowledge the value of civilization over barbarism; and bring them forth from their house of bondage into the light and glory of permanent prosperity and peace.
The song of our fleets and armies, as they advance to this blessing of punishment, and punishment of blessing, should be:-
"The Day of the Lord is at hand, at hand!
Its storms roll up the sky:
A nation must fall for its wickedness-
For its curse of slavery.
But the night is if darkest before the dawn
When the pain is sorest the child if is born.
And the Day of the Lord at hand!"
<c05>
"Gather you, gather you angels of God-
Freedom, and Mercy, and Truth;
Come! for the earth is awake in her might
And alive with the vigor of youth!
Wisdom, Self-sacrifice, Daring, and Love,
Haste to the battle-field, stoop from above
To the Day of the Lord at hand!"
"Gather you, gather you, hounds of hell-
Famine, and Plague, and War;
Idleness, Slavery, Cant and Misrutle,
Gather and fall in the snare!
Hirelings, Seymourites, Bullies and Knaves
Knaves Crawl to the battle-field-sneak to your graves
In the Day of the Lord at hand!"
"Who would sit down and sigh for a lost age of gold,
While the Lord of all ages is here?
True hearts will leap up at the trumpet of God,
And those who can suffer can dare.
Each old age of gold was an iron age too,
And the meekest of saints may find stern work to do
In this Day of the Lord at hand!"

PARADE OF THE COLORED BATTALION.
The First and Second Colored Companies of Heavy Artillery made a street parade this afternoon.
So much interest has been manifested in the movement which has resulted in the formation of these fine companies, that a somewhat extended notice of them may not be devoid of interest. It is probably well understood that the failure to raise the Sixth Regiment of colored men, the order for which was issued about a year ago, was owing solely to the want of cooperation by the War Department in Washington. The conservatives were shocked and the army was indignant at this attempt to let this be anything but "a white man’s war." The past year, which has been so fruitful of great events, has given us greater wisdom, and disabused us of our prejudices against colored men as soldiers. They have had an opportunity to display their manhood, and they have stood the test of heroes. We are beginning to recognize the black man, and now our white armies welcome the brave black regiments. 
Massachusetts has put forth her 54th regiment, and followed it by the 55th, both colored, and both counting towards her quota of troops called for by the President. Rhode Island now follows Massachusetts, which she ought to have led. The result is we have lost from our State many men who have gone to swell the quota of another. The naval recruits taken from the State within the year have also considerably diminished our colored population. 
It was under these circumstances that Governor Smith, ventured to urge for authority to raise a single battery from the limited colored population here, the order for which was issued on the 29th of last month, and its management entrusted to a well-known anti-slavery man and a friend of the colored race. The success has more than equalled the most sanguine expectations of the enthusiastic, and silenced all the croakings of the unbelievers, and to-day, in less than a month since the, order was issued, the first company of nearly one hundred and fifty men has been mustered into the U. S. service; the second is equally full, and a large nucleus for a third is already in camp. 
As the first company is to go on immediate duty to Dutch Island, a street parade of both companies was decided upon, although from want of drill it would be made at the greatest possible disadvantage. It was only yesterday that the second company received their muskets, so that the utmost allowance should be made for inevitable imperfections in discipline and drill.
The column was under command of that popular and efficient officer, Major Viall, formerly the commander of the Second Regiment, R.I.V. The first company was under command of Capt., Thomas Fry, formerly a Lieutenant in the Third Regiment Heavy Artillery, and the second under command of that staunch anti-slavery man and veteran soldier, Capt. Henry Simon.
The appearance of three hundred muskets in our streets, in the hands of as many sturdy, stalwart black men, was a novel sight in Providence, and we are sure it was looked upon with unusual interest. In the ranks were men well worthy of a better notice than we shall be able to give them. Look, for instance, at the two Freeman boys at the right of the line in the first company. Peter, the file leader, is a splendidly formed man, huge, muscular and powerfully built. Charles Freeman is his equal in all that goes to make up the physical man. Though they are of the same name, and fashioned after the same colossal mould, they are in no other way relatives. Peter is from the border and from slavery. Charles is of Rhode Island stock, and hails from Bristol. Jeremiah Noka, who is not much inferior, and stands near the right, is also a noteworthy specimen of a Rhode Islander. He is one of the two purest which a modern intermingling of the African blood has left to us of the once all-powerful tribe of Narragansetts. His fine shape, his decided Indian cast of feature, his general and winning smile, his generous expression, inevitably recall toe the memory of the lost Narragansetts. Sergeants Jenkens and Howland, of this city, are well known and capable men, and well-drilled soldiers.
Corporal George Black is a fine, manly fellow, well worthy of his place. He was drafted, bat but was too anxious to go to make an effort which every white man does to get exempt. By a little friendly aid, however, he procured it on the ground of a dependent widowed mother, and at once volunteered, and so became entitled to the State bounty. So many-of our Providence colored men are so well drilled that there is as large a surplus of competent men for non-commissioned officers as there are of applicants for the commissioned ones. Sergeant Charles A. Jackson of the second company was the first man to enlist in the first company.
He worked so long and so industriously to fill the ranks of the first, that he lost his chance for preferment in it, and was transferred to the second, where he became Orderly Sergeant. There are many other excellent men in both of these companies, some fine scholars, many excellent penmen, a vast proportion of superior moral worth, and they are nearly all trusty and faithful men.
Though furloughs have been and are freely given, none have violated their promises. They are not quite satisfied with the prospect of a Dutch Island campaign, and are ready for rougher work; for they feel that they have, as one of them expressed himself upon enlistment, "a debt to pay.” A considerable familiarity with these hitherto neglected and despised men has tended to increase the writer’s respect and confidence in them, and he gives this willing tribute of praise, confident that all others who know them as well will accord them no less. Providence Journal.
Gen. Banks is enforcing the draft in Louisiana, making no distinction between white and black. The thing disgusts the rebel sympathizers, but they will either have to pay their $300, get a substitute, or join win in the tanks. It is said that there are now a dozen negro regiments, organized, and a part of Banks’ command.
<c06>
SHALL THE DEMOCRACY BE RESTORED TO POWER?
Not long age, a Democrat sat m in the President’s chair. In early life he had been a Federalist, and declared that if he had one drop of Democratic blood in him, he would open a vein with his penknife, and let it out. But being a place, hunter, and seeing the Democratic party gaining power, he joined, and got what he Sought- sought-office. Being President, he had reached the highest round in the ladder of his selfish ambition; being an ingrained traitor, he naturally attracted to himself those of similar propensities. Bold, had men occupied a place in his cabinet. The national capital was the den of Democratic thieves and plunderers. While honest men slept in security, or were busy with the industrial pursuits of peaceful life, unprincipled politicians plotted for the overthrow of the government. The President looked on, and smiled approvingly. Before him, Aaron Burr, a Democratic Vice President, attempted to destroy the government, contrary to law. Before him, John C. Calhoun, another Democratic Vice-President, attempted to overthrow the government, contrary to law. This time, the traitors were to have the aid of a Democratic President himself. So Floyd stole, and the balance hid. When all was ready, all the Democratic members of the Senate and House of Representatives left their places to to go South, and inaugurate the rebellion, contrary to law, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to their solemn oaths. John C. Breckinridge, another Democratic Vice-President, greatly aided the traitors in their hellish work. He presided in the Senate-he took the oath as a Senator at the very time he was secretly meeting with his co-traitors, under the cover of said-midnight darkness, to plot for the overthrow of the Constitution that he had sworn before God to protect and defend.
Every seceded State was Democratic at the time -presided over by Democratic at the time-presided over by Governors, and carried out by Democratic politicians. The instigators and the leaders of this rebellion have all been prominent men in the Democratic party. Jeff. Davis, Lee, Stonewall Jackson, Breckinridge, Wise, Beauregard, Letcher, Hill, Longstreet, Rhett, Tombs, Benjamin, Mason. , Slidell, Bragg, Twiggs, Price, Van Dorn, Keitt, Buckner, Hunter, Hind-man, Marshall-all Democrats, and held high positions in the party. Democrats fired upon the Star of the West, and Democrats beleaguered Fort Sumter! Who is it that leads the rebel army, gives tone to public sentiment, and "fires the southern heart," in the revolted States? Who is it, today, in the North, that is shooting enrolling officers, resisting the conscription law, mobbing drafting officers, sympathizing with the rebels, excusing their crimes, palliating their sins, and for giving their treason? Who are they? 
The question concerns every man and every patriot. Shall the men who have been guilty of all this rain, misery, grief, and suffering, be again restored to power? Shall the hands that have been impotent for any good, be again entrusted with the reigns of government? Shall the same men who have well nigh ruined the Republic, be deputied to restore harmony and to reconstruct the fabric which they themselves have destroyed? Not yet.

DANGER IN RECONSTRUCTION.
Rumors are in general circulation, and receive credence, that in several of the rebel States a large party exists which aims at a reconstruction of we the Union, and a readmission of these States to its privileges. It is not easy to decide on the degree of faith to which such rumors are entitled. There is an in evident despair of success in many parts of the Confederacy. There is a wide-spread discontent with the policy pursued by the rebel government. There is a growing conviction that the rebellion was badly planned, and urged on false pretences by ambitious leaders; and that it has yielded none of the good results so confidently predicted. So much at least is evident from the general tone of the leading journals in the Confederacy. 
There are many signs, also, of movements in North Carolina, and Tennessee, and Louisiana, and Mississippi, having in view the restoration of these States to the Union. A few more brilliant Federal victories at Charleston and Mobile, in Virginia and the Southwest, will precipitate these movements beyond the power of the rebel authorities to withstand them, and we may soon, have official petitions from several States, asking on what terms they may resume their status in the Federal Union. 
We confess our own apprehensions of peril at this very point. There are practical questions of great importance which must then be settled, and it is well for thoughtful men to be prepared for them in advance. Is the Union still an broken, and do the rebel States still constitute integral parts of it, as if there had been no rebellion? If they resume their old connection, will they be entitled to all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution? Have any of these rights been forfeited by the rebellion, and can they be held without an infringement of the Constitution? These are all important questions, on which the public opinion of the North is at variance, and which can be finally settled, we presume, only by the decision of the Supreme Court.
It is quite certain that the Proclamation of the President, if admitted to be the law of the land, puts these questions at rest. He has declared freedom to all slaves within the borders of the rebel States; and if his Proclamation is legal, no power under the Constitution can re-enslave them. They are forever free, and their descendants; and if the rebel States return to allegiance, it most be with this distinct understanding. They entered into the rebellion will fully, to extend slavery over the entire national domain. If they fail, they most submit to the natural penalty, the abrogation of the institution In whose interests they rebelled. When they became belligerents, they assumed a new relation to the national government, and must abide by the consequences of their own act. It is very evident that after a violent struggle to over throw the Constitution, they cannot, at their own pleasure, turn about and invoke its protection. Under its shield they were formerly secure, and there was no power in Congress, or in the Executive, or min the Northern States, to harm their favorite institution. Had they chosen to remain in the Union, slavery might have been perpetuated for centuries, with no one of its links broken, or its guaranties revoked.
But having chosen to precipitate the nation into war, they forfeited the protection which made them secure. Having become belligerents, they incurred all the hazards to which belligerents are an exposed; and the Supreme Court, in the case of the Hiawatha, decided that the national authorities had the same rights and powers against them as against foreign belligerents. The Constitution protects citizens, not enemies; and when a citizen becomes an enemy, all the privileges and immunities be formerly enjoyed by its provisions are forfeited. The President has acted with this understanding. He has declared free the slaves of all belligerents against.

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal, institutions, and SLAVRRYSLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITIED UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVRRSAL EMANCLPATIONUNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES…... From the instant that the slaveholding States because the <Illegible> of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONORESS CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVSSYEVERY WAY IN WATCHWHICH IT CAN BE INTEERYMESD WRRSINTEREFER WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken are destroyed, to the caption cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether is be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to away<illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ORON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF TES, THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory,"-.J.Q.ANAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the Union, and if the Union is again restored under the old Constitution, this action cannot be revoked. The only question in the case, as it seems to us, is whether such an act is rightful against belligerents, and that must be settled by the law of nations, not by the American Constitution.
No one familiar with the history of oar country can doubt that many public men, and a large party in the nation, will consent to re-establish slavery, as soon as rebel States sue for peace and promise allegiance. The friends of freedom and justice must, therefore, be prepared for the issue. To re-enslave men once declared free would be an outrage of right, and an offence against God admitting no apology.- It would expose the nation to the just scorn of the civilized world. If the Supreme Court should decide that the Proclamation, as a belligerent act, has no authority, then, indeed, the whole question of slavery is re-opened. But if it decides, as we believe it must, that as a belligerent act it was just and right, then it must stand in its full force, and without concession or abatement.
Nor should it be forgotten that, even as a question of expediency, it is desirable that slavery be forever abolished That institution has been the only cause of variance between the North and the South. It has given rise to all the bad blood in both sections. It has compelled a conflict between rival civilizations. There can be no permanent union of sentiment and aim while it remains intact. If it be restored, the old struggles will be again revived. If it recover power, the few slaveholders, as of old, will rule the thousands of voters in their respective States. If it be re-instated, there is no hope that the poor whites, so long held in ignorance and subjection, will ever rise in the social scale, and become intelligent citizens. No citizen of the North should deliberately expose the nation to these great perils, by consenting to the return of rebel States with all the rights possessed under the old Constitution.
Freedom has been decreed as one of the belligerent rights of war. It cannot be revoked, unless the act be pronounced unconstitutional. Till that time, let the rebel States understand that if they return to loyalty, it must be as free, and not as slave States. If they are ready to return, under such conditions, every loyal citizen will give them a hearty welcome.-Watchman and Reflector.

SHORTER CATECHISM OF NEGRO EQUALITY.
Who said that all men are created equal? Thomas Jefferson, the Father of Democracy.
Who gave the negroes the right of suffrage in New York? The Democratic party.
Who presided over the Convention which gave this privilege to negroes? Martin Van Buren, a Democrat.
Who afterwards elected Martin Van Buren to the Presidency of the U. S.? The Democratic party.
Who married a negro woman, and by her had mulatto children? Richard M. Johnson, a good Democrat.
Who elected Richard M. Johnson Vice President of the United States? The Democratic party
If President Van Buren had died, and Richard M. Johnson had become President, who would have become the Democratic mistress of the White House? The same negro woman.
Who made the negro a citizen of the State of Maine? The Democratic party.
Who enacted a similar law in Massachusetts? The Democratic party.
Who gave the negro a right to vote in New Hampshire? The Democratic party.
Who permitted every colored person owning $250 in New York to become a voter? A General Assembly purely Democratic.
Who repealed the laws of Ohio, which required negroes to give bonds and security before settling in that State? The Democratic party.
Who made mulattoes legal voters in Ohio? A Democratic Supreme Court, of which Reuben Wood was Chief Justice.
What became of Reuben Wood? The Democratic party elected him Governor three times, and he is still a leader of the Democratic party.
Who helped to give free negroes the right to vote in Tennessee, under her Constitution of 1795? General Jackson.
Was General Jackson a good Democrat? He generally passed as such.
Who with the above facts, and many others, staring them in the face, are continually whining about negro suffrage and negro equality? The Democratic party.
All these things were done by Democrats, and yet they deny being in favor of negro equality, and charge it upon the Republicans-just like the thief who cries stop thief the loudest.-Johnstown Tribune.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN’S LETTER.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S letter to the Springfield Convention is literally full of words of pith and moment. Every sentence is stamped with the individual peculiarities of the writer. Shrewd, frank, quaint, concise, dispassionate, it betrays throughout the inspiration of the vigorous and penetrating common sense which distinguishes the character of the man. At thousands of homely and patriotic firesides this plain and honest talk to the people will have more influence than if its thoughts and sentiments had been expanded into elaborate periods, and set off by rhetorical artifices. It is full of those pithy sentences which go directly to the heart of the subject discussed, and which abide in every mind they once enter.
In one passage towards the close, the simple diction rises naturally into indignant eloquence. It is that where, speaking of the time when we shall have an honorable peace, a peace which “will come to stay, and so come as to be worth the keeping in all future time," the President says: “Then there will be some black men who can remember that, with silent tongue and clenched teeth, and steady eyes and well-poised bayonet, they have helped mankind on to this great consummation, while I fear there will be some white men unable to forget that, with malignant heart and deceitful speech, they have striven to hinder it."
Mr. Lincoln in this pregnant sentence vividly contrasts the heroism of the negro troops with the meanness of their copperhead defamers. The record will pass into history, and the historian will be puzzled to state it in fitter phrase than the President's In a comparatively short time, those who have tried by “deceitful speech" to blind the people to the true issues of the hour, who have taken for their hero such a worthless demagogue as Vallandigham, and whose sympathies are not with loyal patriots venturing their lives on the battle-field, but with skulking traitors who are aiming to give our soldiers a stab in the back, will have cause to regret that their memories are not as treacherous as their conduct.-Boston Transcript.
The President's letter to the Springfield Convention is one of the soundest and most satisfactory documents he has yet written. It is evidently his own in every particular. The ideas are his, and the style is unmistakably that of Abraham Lincoln, and no one else. The letter puts to rest all doubts as to the President’s position. He adheres to the proclamation in its letter and in its spirit, and fixes himself immovably upon the platform of Freedom which nearly a year ago was inaugurated by himself. Not withstanding the homely style of the document in question, its argument is cleverly and ably put. There is a vein of shrewdness in the President’s nature, which, joined to a remarkable simplicity and honesty of character, enables him to influence effectually the minds of the great mass of the people, and is the key to the strong popularity which, despite his errors of policy, he undoubtedly has. We never felt more like uttering, “God bless Abraham Lincoln!” than at this moment. If our President is slow in taking a position, he is firm after the point is reached. He does not belong to those who step backward. And we believe to-day there is not in the nation a firmer, more earnest and reliable supporter of the great idea of Freedom for all men under a Republican government than is our Chief Magistrate.-Roxbury Journal.
It will be seen that President Lincoln takes no step backward, but will maintain fully the policy enunciated in his Emancipation Proclamation. “God helps those who help themselves,” “and the promise of freedom being made must be kept.” So says the President, and we honor him for the declaration. The question of emancipation is argued fully, fairly, and honesty, not as a politician would argue it, but as an honest man who has the good of the country alone at heart. We need not commend the perusal of this letter. Its plain statements of what the President conceives to be his duty, and that he means to perform it, will give him additional claims to the support of every loyal man.—Chester (Pa.) Repub.
<c02>
THE PRESIDENT POSITION.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, August 31st, 1863.
Hon. James C. Conkling:-
MY DEAR SIR:- Your letter inviting me to attend a mass meeting of unconditional Union men, to be held at the capital of Illinois on the 3d day of September, has been received. It would be very agreeable to me thus to meet my old friends at my own home, but I cannot just now be absent from this city so long as a visit there would require.
The meeting is to be of all those who maintain unconditional devotion to the Union; and I am sure that my old political friends will thank me for tendering, as I do, the Nation's gratitude to those other noble men whom no partizan malice or partizan hope can make false to the Nation’s life.
There are those who are dissatisfied with me. To such I would say:- You desire peace, and blame me that we do not have it; but how can we attain it? There are three conceivable ways: First to suppress the rebellion by force of arms. This I am trying to do; are you for it? If you are, so far we are agreed. If you are not for it, a second way is to give up the Union. I am against this; if you are, you should say so plainly. If you are not for force, nor yet for dissolution, there only remains some imaginable compromise. I do not believe that any compromise embracing the maintenance of the Union is now possible.
All that I learn leads to a directly opposite belief. The strength of the rebellion is in its military-its army. The army dominates all the country, and all the people within its range. Any offer of terms made by any man or men within that range, in opposition to that army, is simply nothing for the present, because such man or men have no power whatever to enforce their side of a compromise, if one were made with them. To illustrate:—Suppose refugees from the South and peace men of the North get together in Convention, and frame and proclaim a compromise embracing a restoration of the Union, in what way can that compromise be used to keep General Lee's army out of Pennsylvania? General Meade's army can keep Lee's army out of Pennsylvania, and I think can ultimately drive it out of existence, but no proper compromise to which the controllers of General Lee's army are not agreed can at all affect that army. In an effort at such compromise we should waste time, which the enemy would improve to our disadvantage, and that would be all.
A compromise to be effective must be made either with those who control the rebel army, or with the people first liberated from the domination of that army by the success of our army. Now, allow me to assure you, that no word or intimation from the rebel army, or from any of the men controlling it, in relation to any peace compromise, has ever come to my knowledge or belief. All charges and intimations to the contrary are deceptive and groundless; and I promise you that if any such proposition shall hereafter come, it shall not be rejected and kept secret from you. I freely acknowledge myself to be the servant of the people, according to the bond of service in the United States Constitution, and that as such I am responsible to them.
But, to be plain, you are dissatisfied with me about the negro. Quite likely there is a difference of opinion between you and myself on the subject. I certainly wish that all men could be free, while you, I suppose, do not. Yet I have neither adopted nor proposed any measure which is not consistent with even your view, provided you are for the Union. I suggested compensated emancipation, to which you replied that you wished not to be taxed to buy negroes. But I had not asked you to be taxed to buy negroes, except in such a way as to save you from greater taxation to save the Union exclusively by other means. You dislike the emancipation proclamation and perhaps would have it retracted. You say it is unconstitutional; I think differently. I think the Constitution invests its Commander-in-Chief with law of war in times of war. The most that can be said, if so much, is, that slaves are property. Is there-has there ever been any question that by the law of war property both of enemies and friends may be taken when needed, and is it not needed whenever taking it helps us and hurts the enemy? Armies the world over destroy the enemy’s property when they cannot use it, and even destroy their own to keep it from the enemy. Civilized belligerents do all in their power to help themselves or hurt the enemy, except a few things regarded as barbarous or cruel. Among the exceptions are the massacre of vanquished foes and combatants, male and female. But the Proclamation as law is valid, or is not valid; if it is valid it cannot be retracted any more than the dead can be brought to life.
Some of you profess to think that its retraction would operate favorably for the Union. Why better after the retraction than before the issue? There was more than a year and a half of trial to suppress the rebellion before the proclamation was issued, the last one hundred days of which passed under an explicit notice that it was coming, unless arrested by those in revolt returning to their allegiance. The war has certainly progressed as favorably for us since the issue of the proclamation as before. I know as fully as one can know the opinion of others, that some of the commanders of our armies in the field who have given us our most important victories, believe the emancipation policy and the aid of colored soldiers constitute the heaviest <illegible> yet dealt to the rebellion, and that at least one of those important successes could not have been achieved when it was, but for the aid of black soldiers. Among some of the commanders holding these views are some who have never had any affinity with what is called abolition, or with Republican party politics, but who hold them purely as military opinions. I submit their opinions as being entitled to some weight, against the objections often urged, that emancipation and arming the blacks are unwise as military measures, and were not adopted as such in good faith.
You say you will not fight to free negroes. Some of them seem to be willing to fight for you; but, no matter; fight you then exclusively to save the Union. I issued the proclamation on purpose to aid you in saving the Union. Whenever you shall have conquered all resistance to the Union, if I shall urge you to continue fighting, it will be an apt time then for you to declare that you will not fight to free negroes. I thought that, in your struggle to save the Union, to whatever extent the negroes should cease helping the enemy, to that extent it weakened the enemy in his resistance to you. Do you think differently? I thought that whatever negroes can be got to do as soldiers, leaves just so much less for white soldiers to do in saving the Union. Does it appear otherwise to you? But negroes, like other people, act upon motives; why should they do anything for us, if we will do nothing for them? If they stake their lives for us, they must be prompted by the strongest motives, even the promise of freedom; and the promise being made, must be kept.
The signs look better. The Father of Waters goes again unvexed to the sea—thanks to the great Northwest for it. Nor yet wholly to them; three hundred miles up, they met New England, Empire, Keystone and Jersey, hewing their way right and left. The sunny South, too, in more colors than one also lent a hand. On the spot their part of the history was jotted down in black and white. The job was a great National one, and let none be banned who bore an honorable part in it. And while those who have cleared the great river may well be proud, even though that is all, it is hard to say that anything has been more bravely and better done than at Antietam, Murfreesboro', Gettysburg, and on many fields of less note. Nor must Uncle Sam’s web feet be forgotten: at all the water’s margins they have been present, not only in the deep sea, the broad bay, and the rapid river, but also up the narrow, muddy bayou; and wherever the ground was a little damp, they have been and made their tracks.
Thanks to all for the great Republic, for the principle by which it lives and keeps alive for man’s vast future! Thanks to all!
Peace does not appear so distant as it did. I hope it will soon come, and come to stay, and so come as to be worth the keeping in all future times. It will then have been proved that among freemen there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet, and that they who take such appeal are sure to lose their case, and pay the cost. And then there will be some black men who can remember that, with silent tongue and clenched teeth, and steady eyes and well poised bayonet, they have helped mankind on to this great consummation, while I fear there will be some white men unable to forget, that with malignant heart and deceitful speech they have striven to hinder it. Still, let us not be over sanguine of a speedy, final triumph. Let us be quite sober. Let us diligently apply the means, never doubting that a just God in His own good time will give us the rightful result.
Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11,1863.
THE FLAG NAILED TO THE MAST.
Our nation has made a long step forward in its course toward victory. The letter of President Lincoln to the Springfield Convention is as suspicious of successful progress, and as significant of a settled policy on the part of the administration, as the Emancipation Proclamation itself. As far as it goes, it is hearty, thorough, satisfactory. Even if we creep slowly onward, hereafter as heretofore, it is now made certain that we are creeping in the right direction, and that Abraham Lincoln intends to proceed in that direction.
Some such assurance as this letter affords had come to be very much needed. For six months after the Proclamation of January 1st, so tardy and so imperfect were the measures taken to make that decree effective, and so many demonstrations of a neutralizing character were made or permitted by the administration, that doubts necessarily arose whether it was intended to operate otherwise than as a threat. It was bad enough to leave so many Generals at liberty to drive away slaves who came with the offer of their services against the rebels, and even to return such to their enraged masters; it was yet worse for the Executive to leave such cruelty unpunished, and to let it be understood that each commanding officer might favor or obstruct, at his pleasure, the natural operation of the decree of freedom. It was bad enough to refrain from expressly addressing the slaves with words of encouragement and promise, and with directions what to do and where to go, to make their assumption of freedom most beneficial to the government and the country; but it was far worse to give them directly, through Gen. Banks, the shameful orders with which that officer was charged, utterly nullifying the Proclamation for present purposes as far as that Department was concerned. And when, lastly, the President preferred to draft unwilling white men to recruit his armies, instead of speaking the few words of hospitable invitation, at once just and politic, which would have brought hundreds of thousands of colored men to serve joyfully as soldiers as long as the war should last, this, more than all, gave countenance to the lying representations of Northern traitors that the Proclamation was to be, wholly or in part, recalled. There was some reason to fear that a man who excused himself for doing justice, on the ground of military necessity, might, in changed circumstances, avail himself of the same plea for perpetrating injustice.
Now, Heaven be praised! this danger is forever past Mr. Lincoln has evidently taken courage from the movement of Northern people in the direction of freedom, and is relieved from the fear that movements of his own in that direction would fail for want of popular cooperation. He now declares, in a tone more affirmative and decided than ever before, his purpose to stand by the policy of enfranchisement, as far as the enforcement, of the Proclamation. And he not only speaks positively in regard to the things intended, but he gives, in a homely and straight-forward manner, incontrovertible reasons for taking that course. He appeals to the heart and common-sense of the people; and this frank assumption of a position clearly right, just and wise, (as far as it goes,) is suited not only to give that people a confidence in his future administration unfelt before, but to excite a real popular enthusiasm in his favor. Old Abe is now, more than ever, trusted, honored and beloved in the North.
Congratulations on the present, however, must not make us forgetful of the work yet to be done. Unless we all, both President and people, make further use of the right means, we cannot secure the desired end. Let all who are not already assured of the absolute necessity of extirpating the root of our evils, the cause of the rebellion, the cause of the war, the system of chattel slavery, ponder the following pregnant sentence in the President’s letter:-
“Peace does not appear so distant as it did. I hope it will come soon, and come to stay, and SO COME AS TO BE WORTH THE KEEPING IN ALL FUTURE TIME."
Shall we accept any plan for the settlement of our difficulties which leaves in our soil, ready for further germination, any portion of the root of those difficulties? Shall we not take warning by the fatal over-confidence of our revolutionary fathers, who assumed that slavery would die out of itself, and might be left unnoticed? As the armies of the Republic advance, as the strength of the enemy fails, it is of the utmost importance that Northern men and women should understand that no further toleration of involuntary servitude can be permitted. Let us now really take measures to “establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.” And let us recognize the utter abolition of American slavery’ not only as indispensable for these purposes, but as the indispensable pre-requisite  “IN ORDER TO FORM A MORE PERFECT UNION."
Let our next experiment in popular government not make this insane attempt at amalgamation of liberty with slavery. Let us commence a fair trial of freedom, for all, and political and civil equality for all. And, since the government has shown a disposition to heed the requests and meet the wishes of the people, let us recognize our duty, as Abolitionists, to continue to instruct that people in the necessities of this great crisis. No time was ever more important than the present for setting forth true principles and right measures for the abolition of slavery. Hear and help the anti-slavery lecturers; subscribe for the Standard, the organ of the American Anti-Slavery Society; sign the anti-slavery petitions to the coming Congress, and give the people of your vicinity an opportunity to sign them. Work while the day lasts, that liberty in this country may have a permanent and perennial day.-C. K. W.

NEGRO EMANCIPATION.
On Tuesday evening, August 18th, a crowded audience assembled in Spencer Place Chapel, Goswell-road, London, to hear a lecture by George Thompson, Esq., on the question, “What has the American War done for the Negro?” The proceedings were under the auspices of the Emancipation Society.
The Rev. P. Gast, having been called to the chair, made an appropriate address, and introduced George Thompson, Esq., who was warmly greated by the meeting.
The lecturer opened his address by reprehending in the strongest terms the conduct of those conductors of religious journals who had given circulation to the pro-slavery manifesto issued by clergymen in the Southern States. Every friend of the negro in America was in favor of the course pursued by the Federal Government. The successful results of emancipation in the West Indies would follow everywhere when such a policy was carried out. No one was better fitted to enjoy the fruits of liberty than the negro. He had the same passions and feelings with ourselves, and was, moreover, singularly docile. Had his Maker intended him for a slave, he would have given him capacities adapted to that condition. As a soldier, he had at Port Hudson and other places exhibited the most undaunted bravery. The lecturer concluded a long and eloquent address, during which he was warmly applauded, by calling on J. Gorrie, Esq., to explain from a large map the progress of the Federal arms. This was done by Mr. Gorrie, with great clearness and ability. Calls being made from all parts of the meeting for Mr. Wilks, that gentleman animadverted upon the legal and moral wrong perpetratted by those Englishmen who fitted out vessels of war to prey upon the commerce of a great nation with whom we were at peace.
A vote of thanks to the chairman and lecturer having been proposed, was carried by acclamation, and the proceedings terminated.
<c04>
THE AMBULANCE QUESTION AGAIN.
Senator Wilson has written another letter upon this subject, repeating his statistics (which nobody had questioned) of the number of ambulances, horses and drivers, provided under the present arrangement, and again grossly misrepresenting Dr. Bowditch’s position.
One of these instances of misrepresentation is where Mr. Wilson undertakes briefly to sum up the case as follows:-
“The whole matter is narrowed down to the simple question whether detailed officers and men who have had months of experience shall be set aside, and officers appointed and men enlisted for the Ambulance Corps."
This is an utter perversion of “the simple question” raised by Dr. Bowditch, namely, the inquiry whether an ambulance system, appointed and regulated by the same power which appoints and regulates other departments in the army, and having officers and men enlisted and retained for this special service, would not be more uniform, efficient and satisfactory in its operation than the present plan of leaving this important arm of the service to be attended to or not at the will of Corps Commanders.
After minutely detailing the arrangements of the Ambulance corps as at present constituted, Mr. Wilson says-
If this system is faithfully administered, it cannot fail to be efficient.”
Dr. Bowditch’s points are these two, that the present method often fails of being “faithfully administered,” and that it would gain increased efficiency by being placed on a different foundation.
By the frequency with which Mr. Wilson refers to a dismissal of the persons who have now gained a certain amount of experience in the ambulance service, and to the enlistment of “new and raw recruits,” as the thing now proposed to be done, he seems to consider this his most effective statement. It is inexcusable in him to represent Dr. Bowditch as asking, or as having ever asked, for such a change as this. It was only an inference of his own, and an unauthorized, inference, when he stated it and dwelt upon it in his previous letter. But now that Dr. Bowditch has expressly said that no method of introducing the new system has been proposed, or thought of, other than its gradual engrafting upon or taking possession of the other, the repetition of such statements by Mr. Wilson is a deliberate misrepresentation.
An ambulance system is an arrangement for the conveyance of wounded soldiers from the battle-field to the hospital, and for the best possible care of them in the interval between. Below I give one case in which the deficiencies of the present, arrangement were covered by the vigorous and active exertions of the Sanitary Commission, thus preventing an immense amount of suffering, and no doubt saving many lives of our wounded after the terrible battle of Gettysburg. I find it in the Sanitary Reporter of August 15th, in a letter dated ”Washington, July 23d, 1863,” addressed to the Executive Committee of the Sanitary Commission by its Secretary, Frederick Law Olmsted:-
“On the 6th, the branch railroad to Gettysburg, which had been broken up by the enemy, was so far repaired as to allow a train to approach within a mile of the town. By the first train which came over it after the battle, two car loads of most valuable goods were sent by the Commission, and two or more went by each succeeding train for a week. The wounded now began to be brought from’ the field to the railroad for removal to fixed hospitals elsewhere. As they arrived much faster than they could be taken away, they were laid on the ground exposed to the rain, or to the direct rays of the July sun, without food. This having been anticipated and provided for by the Commission’s agent in Baltimore, on the second day the Commission had a complete relief station, on a large scale, in operation, at the temporary terminus of the railroad. It consisted of several tents and awnings, with a kitchen and other conveniences. From that time to the present, from one to two thousand wounded men have been fed at this station daily, and from one to two hundred furnished with beds at night.”
Of course, there will be emergencies in war which no foresight can provide for. Of course, there will be much suffering after a great battle which no care can relieve. To have many hundreds of wounded men laid on the ground, exposed to sun and rain, and without food, for several days and nights, on the passage, between the battle field and hospital, is not a satisfactory arrangement. In this case, the necessity of aid was “anticipated and provided for” by the volunteered benevolence of the Sanitary Commission. We want an Ambulance System which shall anticipate and provide for such cases.
Mr. Wilson admits that—”As an original question, it might have been better to enlist than to detail men.” Dr. Bowditch thinks, and gives good reason for thinking, that this should still be done. And his idea is, that the best available skill, in the army and out of it, in the present ambulance arrangement and out of it, should be first enlisted and applied to this, as their regular employment, under the authority of Congress; and next, that improvements should be made upon this beginning as fast and as far as practicable.- C. K. W.
We see no occasion for personal or partizan feelings in this discussion. No one can doubt the humane regard of Henry Wilson for all the soldiers wounded in the service of freedom and their country; and Dr. Bowditch is to be highly commended for his philanthropic desires and efforts to secure the best possible treatment for all who are stricken down upon the battle-field. But it is evident from the facts in the case, as presented by Mr. Wilson from official sources, that there is and has been a much better ambulance system in operation than the original letter of Dr. Bowditch recognized; and this is confirmed by the following letter from Mr. Wm. A. Hovey.-Ed. Lib.
HEADQUARTERS U. S. SANITARY COMMISSION, 1st Corps, Army of the Potomac, Aug. 31,1863.
MR. EDITOR:—In some of the Boston papers which reach us here in the army, I observe much discussion concerning the Ambulance Corps, and the question is asked, “Have we an ambulance system?” Having seen the practical working of the existing “system” at Gettysburg and upon the march to this point, I propose, for the information of your readers, to give you its organization in detail.
Each regiment of infantry in this army is allowed three two-horse ambulances, each of which has a driver and two attendants or stretcher-bearers. These men, together with a mounted sergeant in command, are detailed from the regiment to which their ambulances are assigned. If one of these men is sick, he is sent to the hospital, and a new man detailed in his place. Thus the complement of the corps is constantly kept up.
The ambulances belonging to the different regiments of a brigade are brought together and placed in charge of a second lieutenant, who is detailed from one of the regiments comprising the brigade to which his ambulance belong. Those belonging to the several brigades of a division are in charge of a first lieutenant He receipts for all ambulances, wagons, horses, mules and other property under his charge, and is responsible for it to the Government.
The three divisions of ambulances belonging to an army corps are in charge of a captain, who is a member of the corps commander’s staff, and is responsible to him and the Medical Director for the efficiency of the corps.
Each ambulance has two stretchers, and two water casks which are kept filled with fresh water. It may sometimes occur that this duty is not properly performed, but such would be the case under any system. Each ambulance has constantly on hand a proper supply of concentrated beef, crackers, tin cups, spoons, and other necessary articles. These are locked up and the keys kept by the brigade surgeons.
On the march, each division of ambulances moves in the rear of the command to which it is attached, and picks up such men as fall sick by the wayside.
We have an ambulance system.
It is not perfect, either in its conception or execution, but it is being daily improved in both. It is the only organization in the army whose strength is constantly kept up to the number of men assigned it. The system of detail upon which it is founded alone makes this possible.
If Dr. Bowditch has any doubt of the efficiency of the ambulance department of the First Corps, let him visit it and see for himself. I think I can guarantee that the officers in charge will do all in their power to facilitate his enquiries. He may share my tent and table until his inspection is complete.
WM. A. HOVEY,
Agent San. Com. 1st Army Corps.
<c05>
FLAG PRESENTATION AT CAMP WILLIAM PENN.
Last week a flag was presented to the colored troops encamped at Chelton Hills, near Philadelphia. The flag was the gift of the friends of the troops, and a large number of ladies and gentlemen, who had left the city in a special train for their accommodation, were on the ground. The troops were paraded prior to the presentation, and their muscular frames elicited the admiration of those who witnessed the drill. They were then drawn up in line in the centre of the camp facing the south, and the flag was presented to them. It was a beautiful banner made of the finest silk, with the American eagle in the front; over it the words, “FREEDOM FOR ALL,” and under it the inscription, “Sixth United States Colored Troops.” On the reverse was, “Presented by the colored citizens of Philadelphia.” Its dimensions are six feet square.
Mr. Jacob E. White was the. first speaker. He alluded to the history the colored men were making for themselves in the present war. High upon the scroll of fame they were writing their names. Any post of honor is available if the effort for its securing is but put forth. Not by simply looking on, but by active participation, and by marching forward to the battle-fields of the nation. The colored man’s time is now; and by striking with a firm, strong hand for the privileges offered in the present hour, the black man’s nationality will be secured for all coming time.
Robert Purvis, Aid-de-camp to Major Steams in the recruiting service, was then presented to the troops. His. address was brief and pointed, and was received by the soldiers with marked deference. It was as follows:-
Soldiers of the Sixth United States Infantry: I have been selected as the representative of those who have procured for you this beautiful banner, to transfer it unto your charge; and on their behalf this splendid guerdon, this glorious emblem of freedom, I present, through the commanding officer of the post, to you. You will prove yourselves worthy of the gift; you will see that the flag of your country suffers no dishonor at your hands. I am fully satisfied that the loyalty, prowess and devotion of the colored soldiers will take care of the interests committed to them by the country. What are the facts? Let Milliken’s Bend answer. Said Adjutant Gen. Thomas, “The negro soldiers repulsed the enemy; to the brave black men we are indebted for the possession of that important post” Let Fort Wagner answer! Led by the noble and heroic Colonel Robert G. Shaw, no men fought more bravely, no soldiers bore in hospitals their wounds more patiently. Let Port Hudson answer! Let no one who reads the official report of Major-General Banks, bearing testimony to the valor of colored soldiers, dare to scruple and say the black men will not fight, unless he belong to that tribe of the meanest of all God’s creeping things, the copperhead.
Soldiers, in this momentous struggle between freedom and slavery, in other words, between a true democracy and a tyrannical despotism, I thank God that the Government, from a sense of duty, and therefore in the exercise of its highest wisdom, recognized your manhood, and evidences it by calling on you to share the sacrifices necessary to establish the doctrine of equal rights.
“Stand to your faith, America!
Sad Europe, listen to our call!
Up to your manhood, Africa,
This flag floats over all.
Pure as its white our future see,
Bright as its red is now our sky,
Fixed as its stars is now our faith
That nerves our hearts to do or die.”
Taking the flag in his hand, Mr. Purvis extended it to Col. Wagner, saying, “Receive this standard,” and then, turning to the troops, concluded with—
Soldiers, under this flag let your rallying cry be for God, for freedom and our country. If for this you fall, you fall the country’s patriots, heroes and martyrs.
The flag was received by Col. Wagner commanding the post. Advancing in front of his men, he waved the flag aloft, saying:—
Mr. Purvis, Ladies and Gentlemen—It affords me pleasure, indeed, to receive this magnificent standard this day presented to the Sixth Regiment of the United States Colored Infantry. It will never be disgraced. Wherever the soldiers of the Sixth Infantry go, they’ will with honor uphold and defend this banner. There are two regiments of colored troops now at Charleston, who left this city, and they have sustained the reputation of their race by the conduct displayed before Fort Wagner. The soldiers to whom this flag is committed will be found true as they were true. They will follow it to victory, or, falling, they will fall only when the flag falls with them. We will uphold it and preserve it; protect its honor and maintain its supremacy against all who would injure its folds.
Mr. John Bowers followed Col. Wagner. He addressed the troops, referring to the manner in which the blacks had left friends, kindred and home, and volunteered when the bounties and pay of the whites were denied.
Col. Wm. H. Maurice then delivered the closing address.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
CAMP OF THE 33D MASS. YOU, BRISTOW STATION, (Va.,) Sept. 3d, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON,—Since I wrote you last, we have been resting in summer quarters. Since Lee was allowed to escape across the Potomac, we have marched down to the Rappahannock, and have held the line from that river to Washington on the railroad. Our cavalry has had repeated encounters with the enemy, but the infantry has done no fighting of moment since the battle of Gettysburg. The soldiers were eager to follow up that victory, and break up Lee’s army at Hagerstown. They would have fought with resistless vim, if hurled upon the wasted rebels while trying to cross a swollen and angry river. But, with divided opinions on the part of his corps commanders, Gen. Meade hesitated to assume the responsibility of an attack, and the opportunity slipped by unimproved. Still, I feel no disposition to criticise, nor does the country at large. The battle of Gettysburg was planned and fought so skillfully, and so much hung in the balance to turn against us, and against the nation, if Lee had gained the victory, that all feel profoundly grateful for that splendid triumph. And our country has reason to thank, not only Gen. Meade and other officers who did their duty nobly and fearlessly during those three days of fierce conflict, but lasting and earnest gratitude is due the private soldiers who stood, through that whole fight, a wall of fire between a deadly foe arrogant and resolute, and their country’s life. The soldiers felt that the possession of our national capital by the rebels, and the recognition of the Southern Confederacy by European powers, would follow the triumph of Lee at Gettysburg. And they fought like veteran heroes. It was against thinking bayonets that Lee hurled his troops, those first three days of July. The school-house, the lecture-room and the press had educated the Federal soldiers, so that they understood the full magnitude of the hour. Thank God that their patriotism and valor were sufficient for the occasion! I wish the deluded men of the North, who are led astray by the vile copperheads, and through ignorance oppose the draft and denounce the Administration, could have witnessed that battle, and seen how fearlessly the soldiers exposed themselves to danger of mutilation and death—how freely they poured out their blood—to save their country from the ruin in which the slaveholders seek to involve her. Every honest man with a spark of patriotic love in his soul would go forth from such a spectacle with bitter detestation of those unprincipled demagogues, who precipitated the riot in New York to prolong the war, and, if possible, prevent the overthrow of the rebellion by the Union armies. The hatred felt by the soldiers towards these men is intense, as they will be sure to find out when the war is over, and the army returns. Aaron Burr shut himself out of the social pale by the suspicion of treason;
<c06>
Benedict Arnold found himself infamous because he was a traitor; and so I could name men in New York and Massachusetts, who will soon find themselves destested and shunned, because they will stand convicted before the country of treason to the Government and Constitution in aiding the Slaveholders’ Rebellion, by opposing the only possible means of suppressing that rebellion.
It has been evident from the first, that we could put down the rebellion only by the overthrow of slavery, its cause and support. President Lincoln, at length convinced of this, and honestly, resolved to save the country from disunion, issued his Proclamation of Emancipation. It was the first blow struck in the right direction. It saved us from intervention, and struck terror to the hearts of the rebellions slaveholders It led inevitably to the next step,-the arming of the slaves to fight for us, for the Union, and for their status as free citizens. “The slaves are cowards, and wont fight!” “The slaves are savages, and will murder and destroy if they are armed!” “Arming the slaves will excite the wrath of every Southern man, and unite the whole South in an irresistible onslaught upon the North!” Such were the prophetic utterances of the whole copperhead press, and of all their leading men in the Northern States. Still, an army of negro soldiers has been raised, brought into the field, and hurled against the enemy. We have the testimony of General Banks, General Blunt, General Gillmore, and in fine, of every eye-witness of their actions at Hudson, Milliken’s Bend, James Island, and other places, that they are brave, as much so as the bravest and best. They have shown themselves our peers as soldiers, under fire, and rushing into the deadly breach, In all fatigue duty, such as attends a protracted siege, they have shown far more endurance under the hot southern sun than our white soldiers. They have taken hold of every work assigned them with willing hands and cheerful hearts. They have shown themselves, amenable to discipline. They stand, to-day, before the country, as brave, patient, obedient, humane, reliable soldiers. They have won comradeship with the whole Union army. We welcome them as comrades, as fellow-citizens, and we are ready to see one or two or three hundred thousand of them uniformed and armed as soldiers and American citizen, in this war for the salvation of the Fatherland.
I rejoice in the assurance that the continuance of slavery is rendered impossible, by the arming of the slaves. And, surely, nothing short of the entire extinction of slavery can justify the loss of so much precious blood in this cruel war. Let freedom be its end, and justice our motto henceforth, and we are repaid a thousand fold for all our sacrifices in the bright future opened before us.
Alas, for poor unhappy Lawrence! what fearful desolation the border ruffians of Missouri have brought upon her! Quantrell was a leader in the raids upon Kansas in'56 and'57. He is a reckless, drunken slave-trader, and a fit person for the guerrilla work of the slaveholders. I have no doubt that his company was made up mainly of the drunken rowdies, who, is the days of Pierce and Buchanan, tried to do the voting for the people of Kansas. By the way, what do the copperhead journals say of that raid? Suppose a troop of black soldiers should perpetrate such a deed, what would they say?
Among all who perished in that cruel raid, I particularly regret the loss of General Collamore, whom I had learned to love and respect as one of the truest, and best, and noblest men in Kansas. May Lawrence be helped to rise again to a new and stronger life from the ashes of this ruin!
Truly yours, DANIEL FOSTER.

THE DEATH-STRUGGLE AT HAND-SOUND THE ALARM!
CAPE ANN, Sept. 1, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON-Some time ago, I put the following question, in writing, to one of the most prominent members of the present Congress, and one who, during the past session, did as much, perhaps more, than any other man in the House, to lay before the nation the true and only issue, of any account, in this civil war now raging with bullets, and to call attention to the only cure:-“Is the Proclamation of January 1, 1863, the fixed law of the republic? So far as the Government is concerned, are the slaves made free by that decree ‘henceforth and forever free’?” I have just received the following reply:-
“In answer to your question I say, the President’s Proclamation is law, and must be so held by the people and our Federal Courts. On this we are to have the fight with the pro-slavery hosts when the war of arms is ended; and we should be very alive getting ready. There is danger, and we must sound the alarm at once. I am doing it here. We must not allow the politicians to persuade the President to make himself a liar before God and the world; and if all earnest and true men will be diligent and faithful, there is no danger.”
The writer of the above is a lawyer of the first standing in the State in which he lives; and for twelve years, in all his relations with national and State politics and legislation, his speech and his action have been for freedom and free labor, and against slavery and slave labor.
Slavery is the only cause, and abolition the only cure, of this rebellion and civil war. There is no other cause; there can be no other cure. The conflict of bullets may cease between the North and South; but if every traitor should yield to-morrow, the rebellion would not be put down, and the civil war be ended, unless slavery is abolished. I know the Democratic party, as it now exists in the North, is in sympathy with the rebellion, because it is in favor of the repeal of the law enacted by the president Jan.1st, 1863, as the military head and representative of the Republic.
To plead for the perpetuity of slavery is to plead for the perpetuity of the rebellion and civil war. This was the position of Lewis Cass, at the commencement of the rebellion, as he told me in October, 1861, in these words: “Slavery is the cause; and if peace should be restored to-day, without removing the cause, war would break out again to-morrow.”
He that seeks the triumph of the pro-slavery Democratic party at the coming election of this fall, and in the coming Presidential election, is a traitor to freedom and free labor, to God and the republic. He votes for the enslavement and disfranchisement of the laborer. He would hand over the free laborers of the nation to the lash of the slave-drivers.
The war of bullets must end. Shall the trainers be restored to and sustained in their usurped, God-insulting and man-imbruting claims as slave-breeders and kidnappers, and the Constitution altered to suit their slave-breeding conveniences and propensities! This question is to be settled in the coming presidential conflict of ideas and ballots.
May God, in pity for the earth’s toiling millions, arouse the entire North to see and meet the crisis! Let every friend of freedom, of free labor and free institutions, sound the alarm, and relax not their efforts till the law of January 1, 1863, be recognized as the law of the land!. Save the President from making himself and the republic “liars before God and the world!”
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for September was published on Monday. The contents are-1. Tertaliau and Montanism 2. The Reality of Fiction. 3. Rome in the Middle Ages. 4. Zschokke's Religious Meditations. 5. Henry James on Creation. 6. Loyalty in the West. 7. Altar, Pulpit, and Platform. 8. A Month of Victory and its Results. The 9th articles contains thirty-three pages of carefully written and discriminating notices of Current Literature. It is a very interesting number.
Mr. M. D. Conway writes to the Star, stating that it is true that he has been drafted in America, but that he has paid the commutation money, and therefore is at liberty to remain in England. He is, he says, not able to go to the war, having sustained an injury to his eye at an early period.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
UNNOTICED TRAITS IN REFORMERS.
ORANGE, (Mass.,) Sept. 4, 1863.
MR. WALCUTT:
DEAR SIR-It is not often that a writer has a “face” to ask to have an article transferred from one paper to another, but I now address you to squarely request you to “manage” to get the following short piece, taken from the Trumpet and Freeman of August 29th, just past, inserted in the Liberator.
Truly yours,
L. HOLMES.
REV. GEORGE TRASK.
BY REV. LUCIUS HOLMES.
The “wide world” is not usually acquainted with more than one or two traits of living reformers. It did not know that Luther was genial, that Melancthon was gentle, that Wilberforce was companionable. I fear that my first sentence gives the “world”, too much credit. It is very liable to have distorted impressions of the whole character of the man or woman who contends against its errors. To the imagination of many, he or she is monstrous, or strange, or at least queer. By and by, it will be known that Garrison is a polished, dignified gentleman, and not an infield; that Phillips is a deliberate speaker; that C. C. Burleigh is a grand logician, and S. S. Foster mighty is appeals to conscience, &c. It is only within a few months that I have been accustomed to meet limitation clergymen and laymen, who had arrived at the information that Universalists actually hold to the Christian religion! How must our denominational fathers have been regarded by the “many”! 
The above is a reflection that possesses our mind as we hold in our hand a set of tracts from the Anti-Tobacco Tract Depository, Fitchburg. “Many” have heard, or heard of, Rev. George Trask. Well, some think him blunt and singular. There may be sensible individuals who fancy him a little deranged. See Acts xxvi.24. There are those who acknowledge he is doing good, bluntly or not. How many know he is esteemed a good citizen; that he is a man of marvelous industry and perseverance, of enterprise, extraordinary intellectual power, and felicitous wit! Take one of his tracts;-consider what it is to do, whom it is to reach, and if it be not fitted for its work. If any one doubts whether he has any power in a literary point, let him read some of his “appeals”. I would instance that one designed to persuade J. B. Gough to give his attention exclusively to the temperance cause.
But I will take space only to say a word or two more, and merely on the point of wit. A while since, I was away from home, and called to make efforts that somewhat tasked my mental powers. When the duty was accomplished, I bethought me what I should read to rest and divert my mind-to act as an alterative, as H.W. Beecher has expressed it. I am so constituted, that though fond of some forms of mirthfulness comic representations such as we generally see, only disgust me. It occurred to me to take out of my valise the fresh looking, well printed publications Mr. Trask had given me on the cars, the day before. I first read in the Anti-Tobacco Journal for March and April, 1863, commencing with the “Campaign of “53”. I was amused, pleased, edified. I enjoyed the style—the laconicism of laconics. I laughed heartily over what seemed to me genuine wit. The pictorial illustrations in this and other tracts came in for their share of admiration. I rested fast. To be sure, I was not silly in my disposition to laugh. I tried reading to my intelligent host and interesting family, and we looked at the illustrations together. They were affected “in like manner,” and some of them more than myself. Were not space in the Trumpet so precious, I would try to justify my impressions to the reader by quoting abundantly.
We venture to predict that the “depository” will be “rummaged” hundreds of years hence, when the great Anti-Tobacco victory shall have been consummated, by hungry literati and plodding antiquarians, who shall find “brilliants” where we customarily recognize only the ploughshare of reform. Heaven bless Rev. George Trask, and multiply his friends! 

ANTIOCH COLLEGE.
This institution has, from its very beginning, offered equal advantages of education to all who chose to come and be benefited by the instruction there given. It makes no distinctions of sex or color, but invites all to come and gain that knowledge which may make them useful members of society, and elevate their souls above all that is gross and worldly. Not only do the faculty and the regulations of the institution offer these advantages to all, but there is such a spirit of liberality prevailing among students and people, that all many enjoy these advantages without persecution. There is no institution East or West where equal rights are so fully secured as at this. None where there is such devotion to liberal principles, such earnest effort to promote the cause of liberty and human equality.
The history of the financial affairs of this institution is well known; at present, there is pressing need that something should be done to raise an endowment fund. Will the liberal people of this country allow this institution to die for want of funds? Practically this is the only institution in the land from which sectarianism is excluded, which makes no invidious distinction in regard to color, and which gives equal advantages to men and women. Such an institution can do more for the upbuilding of the cause of human rights than all the lectures and conventions we have had for the past ten years. Can Anti-Slavery people and Woman’s Rights people make a better use of their money than to endow this institution, with the full understanding that it is ever to remain free to all—that within its limits there is to be “ neither Jew nor Greek, neither bond nor free, neither male” nor female.” It is time for some of the most liberal minds in the country to take this matter in hand. B.

LATEST FROM CHARLESTON-MORRIS ISLAND EVACUATED—CUMMISGS POINT CAPTURED-SUMTER STILL HOLDS OUT.
The Richmond Enquirer contains the following:—
CHARLESTON, Sept. 7. Morris Island was evacuated yesterday afternoon. The enemy had advanced their sappers up to the moat of Wagner, and it being impossible to hold it, Beauregard ordered its evacuation, which took place at night. The enemy hole Cummings Point, in full view of the city. Heavy firing is now going on between our batteries on Sullivan’s Island and Fort Moultrie and the Monitors.
The Richmond Whig of the 8th has the following:-
CHARLESTON, Sept.7. The bombardment was kept up without intermission all day yesterday, and far into the night. About 150 of our men were killed and wounded at Wagner and Gregg. The attempt to assault Gregg was repulsed before the enemy had completed their landing. Great havoc is supposed to have been made in the enemy’s boats by our grape and canister.
Before evacuating Forts Gregg and Wagner, we spiked the guns, and withdrew noiselessly in forty, barges. Only one barge, containing twelve men, was captured.
All quiet this morning.
CHARLESTON, Sept. 7, noon. A dispatch from Major Stephen Elliott, commanding at Fort Sumter, announces that a flag of truce demanding the surrender of that Fort has just been received from Admiral Dahlgren by Lieut. Brown, of the steamer Palmetto State. Gen. Beauregard has telegraphed to Major Elliott to reply to Dahlgren that he can have Fort Sumter when he takes it, and that in the meantime such demands are puerile and unbecoming.
8, P. M. At 6 o’clock, P. M., the Ironsides and Monitors approached Fort Sumter nearer than usual, and opened a hot fire against it. Our batteries on Sullivan’s Island, including those of Fort Moultrie, replied heavily. The firing is still going on.

CHATANOOGA IN OUR POSSESSION! 
CINCINNATI, Sept. 9.Gen. Crittenden’s division of Rosecrans’ army took possession of Chattanooga to-day. The enemy evacuated yesterday, retreating South.
<c02>
COLONEL SHAW.
The correspondent of the New Bedford Mercury, writing from the Fifty-fourth Regiment at Morris Island, thus speaks of this young officer’s manner just before the assault on Wagner:—
The last day with us, or I may say the ending of it, as we lay flat on the ground before the assault, his manner was more unbending than I had ever noticed before in the presence of his men; he sat on the ground and was talking to the men very familiarly and kindly; he told them how the eyes of thousands would look upon the night’s work they were about to enter on; and he said, “Now, boys, I want you to be men!” He would walk along the line, and speak words of cheer to his men.
We could see that he was a man who had counted the cost of the undertaking before him, for his words were spoken so ominously, his lips were compressed, and now and then there was visible a slight twitching of the corners of the month, like one bent on accomplishing or dying. One poor fellow, struck no doubt by the Colonel’s determined bearing, exclaimed as he was passing him, “Colonel, I will stay by you till I die,” and he kept his word; he has never been seen since. For one so young, Col. Shaw showed a well-trained mind, and an ability of governing men not possessed by many older or more experienced men. In him the regiment has lost one of its best and most devoted friends.

STEAM RAMS FOR THE REBELS.
The Daily News of the 26th publishes the following memorial, which was sent from the Committee of the Emancipation Society to Earl Russell on the 25th, and the Daily News editorially calls upon the government for prompt interference in the matter:
“TO THE RT. HON. EARL RUSSELL, &c., &c.: 
The Memorial of the Executive Committee of the Emancipation Society humbly showeth:
That your memorialists desire to call your lordship’s attention to a subject of very grave and pressing importance. Your memorialists have learned that certain persons, regardless of the proceedings already taken by her Majesty’s government to stop such practices, have equipped vessels of a very formidable kind which are about to sail from England to make war upon a nation with which this country is at peace, and a people very nearly allied to us by ties of friendship and commerce. In particular, your memorialists are informed, and earnestly call upon your lordship to make immediate investigation into the fact, that two powerful iron plated steam rams which for some time have been in preparation in the Mersey by the builders of the Alabama, are now almost ready for sea; that the vessels are equipped and armed with steel prows and turrets, and are intended for the purpose of committing hostilities against the government and people of the United States of America. One, it is believed, will sail on or about the 27th of this present month of August, and it is to be received by the Confederate war vessel “Florida,” now hovering off the British coast for the purpose. Another iron-plated war vessel, destined for the same service, is approaching completion in the Clyde. In view of what her Majesty’s government has already done in the case of the suspected gunboat “Alexandra,” and of a statement by your lordship that you believed the Foreign Enlistment Act sufficient to stop these dangerous practices, your memorialists cannot doubt that the law will be enforced against the persons and vessels concerned, in a spirit of loyalty and good faith to an allied nation struggling for constitutional freedom and emancipation against a rebellion of slaveholders.
May it, therefore, please your lordship to order prompt investigation into the circumstances above detailed, and if necessary for this purpose, to stop, in the mean time, the departure of the war vessel which is ready to sail, and to apply the law with vigor to prevent hostile acts against a friendly power contending for human freedom.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
W. EVANS, Chairman.
P. A. TAYLOR, Joint Treas.
W. T. MALLESON, Joint Treas.
F. W. CHESSON, Hon. Secretary 

RESPONSE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN TO THE MANCHESTER ADDRESS.
The following communication has been received by Mr. Thomas B. Potter, of Manchester, in reply to the letter addressed to the President of the United States, enclosing the address and other documents adopted by the Anti-Slavery Conference held in Manchester on the 3d of June last:
“DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, July 25, 1863.
SIR:—I have had the honor to receive from the Rev. Dr. Massie and the Rev. Dr. Rylance your address in the name of a large public meeting which was recently held at Free Trade Hall, in Manchester, to the President of the United States, together with papers which constitute the accompaniments of that communication. These papers have been submitted to the President of the United States, and I am charged by him to inform you that he has read them with the most lively satisfaction, and with a profound sense of the obligation which the reverend religious pastors in France and the reverend religions pastors in Great Britain have laid upon the world by their correspondence with each other, and their common address to the Christian ministers and pastors throughout the United States. The proceedings of the meeting at Free Trade Hall, and its address to the President, touchingly and admirably harmonize with the sentiments which pervade the correspondence before mentioned.
The parties in these proceedings will readily understand that the attempted revolution in the United States sensibly affects this Government, and American society itself, in many ways which it has not fallen within the province of those parties to examine. While the interests thus naturally, and not improperly, overlooked in Europe furnish the strongest possible motives to the people of the United States for suppressing the insurrection and maintaining the constitutional government received at the hands of their fathers, the President readily accepts and avows, as an additional and irresistible motive, the suggestion made by the friends of our country in Europe, that the success of the insurrection would result in the establishment, for the first time in the history of the human race, of a State based upon the exclusive foundation of African slavery.
I have the honor to be, sir,
Your very obedient servant,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
Thomas Bayley Potter, Esq., Manchester, England.”
THE DEMOCRATIC STATE CONVENTION AT WORCESTER. The State Convention of the remains of the late Democratic party was attended at Worcester on Thursday of last week by 1,500 delegates, representing 267 towns. The following nominations were made: —For Governor—Henry W. Paine of Cambridge; Lieutenant Governor—Thomas F. Plunkett of Pittsfield; Secretary of State—Frederick O. Prince of Winchester; Treasurer—Nathan Clark of Lynn; Attorney General—Theodore H. Sweetser of Lowell; Auditor—Moses Bates of Plymouth. The Convention was not enthusiastic, except when the names of General McClellan and Horatio Seymour were mentioned; and it was noticeable that the former was applauded not as a successful soldier, but because he was “a, martyr to the tyranny of the Administration.” Not one of the principal speakers expressed any desire that the war should be carried on, and their only references to it were lamentations over what it had already cost, for nothing was said of the victories we have gained, or the prospect that it would soon come to a successful termination.
SHELLING CHARLESTON. The Charleston papers say that when General Gillmore shelled that place, twelve 8-inch shell fell into the city, thirteen in all having been fired. Several of the shells flew in the direction of St. Michael’s steeple, and fell either in the vacant lots in the burnt district, on King street, or more generally struck in the centre of the streets. At the corner of Queen and Rutledge streets, an 8 inch shell tore up the plank road, and dug a large hole in the ground. Another entered the warehouse, corner of Hayne and Church streets; it entered the roof and exploded in the upper story, making a large opening in the brick wall of the Medical Purveyor’s storehouse, next door, scattering things in great confusion. Some loose straw or packing was set on fire by the explosion, but was extinguished with little effort.

At the great Union meeting at Springfield Ill., the following resolution was adopted:-
Resolved, That the Emancipation Proclamotion of the President is, in the opinion of this meeting, both legal and constitutional and cannot be either rescinded or withdrawn, nor can the slaves emancipated by it be again reduced to slavery.
We had an excellent Anti-Slavery lecture at the Baptist vestry, Thursday evening, by Aaron M. Powell, of Ghent, New York. It reflects little credit upon the intelligence and patriotism of our citizens, however, to be obliged to say that but EIGHTEEN persons were present to listen, to it, two of whom came five miles to attend the meeting. If a ball had been announced in the place instead, or a “Jim Crow” exhibition, who does not know that it would have been well attended? —Hyannis Messenger.
WRITE OFFICERS OF BLACK REGIMENTS. The Washington Republican says: “The rebel authorities have expressed a willingness to exchange all prisoners except the white officers of black regiments. They would not condescend to entertain such an insulting proposition.”
<c03>
THE COPPERHEADS AND THE LATE INVASION OF THE NORTH.
NEW YORK, 4th. The Times of this morning prints the following statement: 
Having just returned from the city of Richmond, Va., where I have been over one year, I wish you would give the following publication: 
I have, during my stay in Richmond, made the intimate acquaintance of J. Lane, a Captain in the Confederate army, son of Gen. Joe Lane, of Oregon, who is well-informed, and who assured me that the late invasion of the North by Generals Lee and Morgan were made upon the earnest and undoubted representations of that “true Southern man,” Vallandigham, who assured President Jeff. Davis and his Cabinet, that the North was ripe for a revolution, and only awaited the appearance of the Southern army to proclaim for Jeff. Davis, and forsake Lincoln. Mr. Vallandigham’s representations were corroborated by the tone of the majority of the Northern journals, who surely would not denounce the Administration so boldly, except by the assurance of having the masses strongly in their favor.
I have sent a copy of this note to the Cincinnati Enquirer. Respectfully yours,
(Signed)
HENRY REINISH.
The rebel conscription in Mississippi is, by taking away all the able-bodied white men, creating a spirit of insubordination among the slaves. A New Orleans letter to the St. Louis Democrat says: 
“In the great tragedy of war, it is now evident that Jeff. Davis is cast for the part of Brutus, and will die upon his own sword. His sweeping conscription, instead of strengthening his cause, is filling his people with the most terrible apprehensions. Private advices from the interior of Mississippi, which seem to be entirely trustworthy, indicate a reign of terror there, through a vast part of the State, in consequence of the insubordination of the negroes. The merciless conscription of the rebel government has taken away all the able-bodied white men, young and old, and left the women and children to the protection of the negroes. How strange it is that husbands should leave their families to be protected by their property! This property, with the galling wrongs of generations upon its head, at last sees an opportunity of realizing its fondest dreams of freedom—a subject on which it has only been allowed to dream. In short, the blacks are at last the master—they are in such a majority, they can rule without fear of consequences. They refuse to work; spend their time in idleness and lawless pursuits, and the whites are fleeing to Georgia, taking with them such goods as they can carry, and such negroes as will go with them. How true it is that curses still come home to roost!”
EDWARD EVERETT ON EMANCIPATION. Mr. Edward Everett, in a letter to Rev. Dr. Elliot, of St. Louis, in relation to a sermon on the ordinance of Emancipation passed by the Missouri Convention, remarks:-
“I have myself no doubt that, like the apprenticeship system in the British colonies, the ordinance will, at the instance of the slaveholders themselves, long before 1870, give way to another of immediate emancipation. But whether it does or not, Missouri is, from this time forward, substantially a free State, and will, I doubt not, enter upon that career of prosperity for which her magnificent position and unsurpassing resources so admirably fit her.
”When I look back to the controversy which grew out of the attempted restriction on the admission of Missouri into the Union in 1820, and on the folly which dictated the repeal of the Missouri Compromise in 1854, and then consider that the people of Missouri, assembled in convention in 1863, have decreed that after 1870 all slaves then in Missouri shall be free, I am awe-struck with the visible tokens of an overruling and an interposing Providence.”
GOOD TALK. Gen. Rosseau, a Kentuckian by birth, and a pro-slavery man by education, recently made a speech in Philadelphia, in which he expressed his creed in a few words, as follows:-
“The slaves had been the means of furnishing sustenance, strength, and provisions to the rebel armies, and wherever the strength of the rebels is found, it is to be hit in the head. As to equality, there is no necessity to discuss that. It makes a negro a white man’s equal to free him. It does not make a mule a copperhead’s equal because he lets him out of the stable. The speaker did not come to fight with negroes, but, if placed where they could whip the rebels, he deemed them quite as good as secessionists or copperheads, either.”
EVIDENCE OF MAL-TREATMENT. Mr. Wesley Humphrey, a surgeon of the army at Corinth, Mississippi, in a published communication in relation to the maltreatment and abuse to which the colored race has been subjected, says: 
“I have been selected as the surgeon of the regiment of African descent, now forming here, (not all black by any means,) and during the past week had occasion to examine about 700 men in a nude state, preparatory to being mustered into the United States service; and I then saw evidences of abuse and maltreatment perfectly horrifying to relate, that must be seen to fully understand the abuse to which they have been subjected. I think I am safe in saying that at least one-half of that number bore evidence of having been severely whipped and mal-treated in various ways; some were stabbed with a knife, others shot through the limbs, some pounded with clubs until their limbs were broken.”
A SLAVE CAPTURES HIS OWN MASTER. Among the incidents of the fight worthy of note was the capture of a rebel soldier, by a darkey, who was his master three months ago. The Texan was caught in a tight place by one of Col. Leib’s men, who cried out to him, “Hold on, dar, and put down your gun, or I’ll shoot.” The rebel surrendered unconditionally, but after identifying his captor, said to one of our officers that he protested against being held as a prisoner by his own slave. “It’s good enough for you,” said the officer; “that’s just the man to guard you. And Jim, (addressing himself to the soldier,) if he don’t behave himself, shoot him down.” The chivalrous southerner was very indignant, and his wrath effervesced in a series of “G—damns,” which fell upon the ears of the “intelligent contraband” without effect. The dusky warrior kept a close eye upon his prisoner, but refused to hold any conversation with him, or answer any of his questions as to when he enlisted, or how he dared to level a gun at his master.
EMANCIPATION PROGRESSING. It is such a common occurrence for the slaves of rebels to run away from their masters in this county, that we have considered it of too little importance to even notice in our columns. But a stampede took place about two weeks ago, that we cannot forbear mentioning. Two of the most valuable negro men, belonging to E. K. Sayre, the rebel delegate from this county to the State Convention, ran away from him, each one taking with him a fine mule. Poor Mr. Sayre, he has our deepest sympathies in his sad “bereavements”—and may he bear up under it like a man! Don’t cry, Mr. Sayre, it will all come out right a hundred years hence. You believe in gradual emancipation, Mr. Sayre, but it appears you have little influence over your darkies—some of them at least go in for immediate emancipation without compensation, but with transportation. Do you see it, Mr. Sayre? 
THE COPPERHEADS IN THE LAST CONGRESS. One of our exchanges says that, out of one hundred and fifty votes cast in the House of Representatives on the bill for paying the soldiers in the field, the following were the only nays: Clement L. Vallandigham, of Ohio, now candidate for Governor of Ohio; Benjamin Wood, of New York, reflected Representative to Congress; H. C. Burnett, of Kentucky, expelled from the House of Representatives for treason, now in the rebel army; Elijah H. Norton, of Missouri, who ran from his home, and is now in the rebel army; John W. Reid, of Missouri, expelled from the House of Representatives for treason, and now, or lately, in the rebel army.
Emancipation in Russia proceeds peacefully and successfully, in spite of all opposition. Schools are opened everywhere for the children of the peasants, and Russia will soon have an educated population. A correspondent of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society writes from Moscow: “I have seen frequently the leaders of the serf emancipation movement, both in Moscow and St. Petersburg, as well as in the interior. I visited the estates of Prince Cherkessy, one hundred miles south of Moscow, in the Government of Tole, and I was delighted with all I saw and beard. It shows, without any doubt, that a great and pacific revolution has been accomplished in Russia, the effects of which are calculated to be of great utility to the cause of the peasantry throughout the world.”
We notice that all the copperhead papers have told us that Vallandigham has left the hotel where he has been boarding, and gone elsewhere; just as though the rascal’s whereabouts, if restrained from deviltry, was of any consequence! But the Toledo Blade says that the “circumstances” which the landlord of the Canada hotel assigned for sending Vallandigham away were “that since he had been there, he had driven away the custom of all Americans of any standing; that those who came to see him were ‘roughs’ and rowdies, who injured the reputation of his house by their drunkenness and rowdyism.”
<c04>
QUANTRELL AND THE ILLINOIS “DEMOCRATS.”
A correspondent of the St. Louis Democrat says:-
“Quantrell, the Kansas assassin, was in Springfield, Illinois, on the 17th of June last, at the great Democratic mass meeting, and was also closeted with, some of the leading Democrats of the State on that day. He fully approved Singleton’s twenty-third resolution, which was submitted to him before it passed the meeting.”
The resolution here referred to was one of the most infamous adopted by the Convention.
The body of General Collamore, one of the victims of the late atrocious massacre at Lawrence, Kansas, reached Boston on Wednesday, 2d inst., and was buried with military honors, on Thursday. The services were held in Dr. Gannett’s church, and were of an unusually impressive character. A detachment of the Independent Cadets performed escort duty, and the remains, were conveyed to Mount Auburn for Interment.
At the church were present the widow of Gen. Collamore, with his children and other relatives; also His Excellency Governor Andrew, with several members of his military staff; Surgeon General Dale, and several of the Council.
ST. LOUIS, Sept 6. Five gentlemen, composing the Relief Committee of Lawrence, make the statement that the despatch recently sent from Kansas City to the Associated Press, asserting that a large amount of goods and money, and a number of horses taken by Quantrell, had been recovered and returned, is unfounded. Of the horses stolen, only three have been returned, and the value of the merchandise recovered will not exceed $100.
The list of victims at Lawrence, as it now stands, foots, up 137 killed, 22 wounded, and three missing. It is thought the killed will reach as high as 150. A number of bodies were completely burned up.
LEAVES WORTH, Aug. 29. In behalf of the sufferers by the Lawrence massacre, we make this statement and appeal. The loss of life already reported by the press is substantially correct. The loss of property exceeds a million and a half. Hundreds are homeless and destitute. The business portion of the city is entirely destroyed, together with nearly a hundred dwellings. Leavenworth and the neighboring cities have already contributed largely, but much assistance is yet needed. Aid can be sent to Peter T. Ridenour, Chairman Relief Committee, Lawrence, Kansas.
(Signed)
A. C. WILDER,
M. J. PARROTT, 
NELSON MCCRACKEN, 
H. J. ADAMS, 
Leavenworth Committee.
Bion Bradbury said in the House of Representatives, on the 12th of March, 1862, “I will go further, and say that if this rebellion be not speedily crushed, if the conspirators against the Government obstinately protract this war, if, as our armies move south-ward, MILITARY NECESSITY strikes the fetters from the bondmen, it will occasion me no regret.”
In 1863, only one year, Bradbury has turned his coat, and regrets considerably, if not more.—Maine State Press.
A gentleman who was present at the Democratic Convention held at Alfred a short time since, says, in a communication to Zion’s Herald, “It was really interesting to see and smell the spirit manifested on that occasion.” One spirited old man declared that “every d—d minister should be hung,”—said “he had twenty pounds of lead, three horns of powder, ten guns and a plenty of caps all ready.” There were four speakers, Messrs. Sweat, Wells, Wiggin and one other. Not a word was uttered against Jeff. Davis or secession, but Abe Lincoln, women, ministers, niggers and black Republicans had to take it pretty fully and foully. Mr. Wiggin said, “I counsel resistance to the conscript act and administration to the bitter death, till the last drop of blood is spilt,” and then tried to dodge by saying, “at the ballot box.”-Press.
DEATH OF JOHN B. FLOYD. The Richmond Dispatch announces the death of the rebel General John B. Floyd, at Abingdon, Va. He was the most odious of rebels before there was any rebellion, and the part he has played since the birth of the Confederacy has done little to redeem his public character. One by one the chief originators and props of the rebellion are passing away.
DEATH OF LUTHER BRADISH. Hon. Luther Bradish, formerly Lieutenant Governor of R. I., died at Newport on Sunday morning, 30th ult. His age was eighty years.
A strange and melancholy coincidence has been noted in the family of McCook in their connection with the war. His youngest son Charles was killed at the first battle of Bull Run, on the 2lst day of July, 1861; his son, Colonel Robert McCook, was killed on the 21st day of July, 1862; and the father himself was killed on the 2lst day of July, 1863.
Hon. Greene C. Bronson died at Saratoga the 2d inst.
The celebrated Rev. Dr. Raffles, of Liverpool, is dead.
ANTI-SLAVERY NEWSPAPERS IN THE SOUTH. Anti-slavery newspapers are now published in Middle, Tennessee, South Carolina, and Louisiana. Another is to be immediately started in Mississippi. Mr. Montgomery, who, for months past, has been an exile from his home, announces his intention to commence the publication of a paper in Vicksburg, to be called the “Vicksburg Union,” the object of which will be to advocate free labor in the South, and the uprooting of slavery. Success to all such enterprises!
On Saturday last, while the 3d Indiana cavalry were engaged in a skirmish, Major Clure seeing a hale looking eldish gentleman in a door by the roadside, halted and enquired: “Which way did the rebel cavalry go that passed here a moment since?” “Sir,” was the reply, “I am under parole to the Confederate Government to tell nothing I see. But, sir, my name is John Minor Botts as devoted a Union man as the world can find. I put no ‘ifs’ ‘or’ buts’ in the case.”
Mr. Vallandigham’s organ seems to be the London Times. That journal has come out for him strongly as a representative of the principles of constitutional liberty. The people of Ohio will be somewhat puzzled to understand the qualifications to rule over them of a candidate whose residence is in Canada, and whose official journal is in London.
A new kind of cotton has been found in Cuba, growing on a vine. It is not very fine, but white and strong, and it is thought will thrive where other kinds will not flourish.
A concession has been granted by the Russian Government to some English houses for a railway from Moscow to the Crimea. The work will extend over several years, and the total capital will be above £20,000,000.
A motto for Vallandigham Democrats, expressing their position exactly: “Freedom of speech for treason and rebellion, but no freedom of speech against slavery.”
The Richmond Dispatch wants the Charleston warehouses filled up with Yankee prisoners of war, so that they may be slaughtered when Gen. Gillmore shells the city, in retaliation for daring to bombard Charleston.
Governor Buckingham, of Connecticut, has written a letter stating that the colored conscripts from that State are being transferred to the colored battalion now forming in New York, and also that he should like to have one or more companies of volunteers formed to join the battalion.
Thaddeus Stevens—a very good authority—is of the opinion that the payment of $300 by a drafted man is precisely the same as furnishing a substitute—it clears the payer for the entire term of three years, and during that term be cannot be again liable to draft.
Theodore Tilton, Editor of the New York Independent, is drawn as a conscript in Brooklyn.
The notorious C. Edwards Lester, author of “Glory and Shame of England,” who was arrested the other day for traitorous conduct, has been discharged as innocent of anything, except “laboring under a temporary absence of mind not uncommon among frequenters of the Washington hotels.”
Gen. Burnside has actually interrupted the line by which the rebels have hitherto drawn their supplies from the Southwest. His occupation of Kingston, East Tennessee, cuts off from Richmond all the Southwest, except by a circuitous and tedious route along the sea-coast.
Gen. Fremont, it is stated, has succeeded in adjusting all the difficulties heretofore surrounding the Mariposa grant, and has settled all his California business, which leaves him over a million and a half dollars worth of property.
Surgeons of colored regiments, receive the same rank and pay as surgeons of white regiments. They have to pass the same examination by the same board, and no men are commissioned in anyway inferior to like officers of white regiments. Applications, are made to surgeon General Hammond.
Fred. Law Olmstead, formerly of Hartford, and late Secretary of the Sanitary Commission, has been appointed Superintendent of the Mariposa Mining Company, of California, at a salary of ten thousand dollars a year.
Gen. Meade thinks the war will soon be at an end, if the ranks of the army are speedily filled. His language is-“end us our men, and immediately.” All copperheads will please take notice.
<c05>
SPEECHES OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips Boston: James Redpath.
Among the books long promised, there has been no one more inquired after than the Speeches of Wendell Phillips. The circumstances which delayed their publication are of little consequence now; the fact is all, for that seems providential. Had these powerful and peculiar utterances appeared in any former period, they would have found fit audience and full admiration in a circle of disciples, and among a class of sympathizers; but they would not have spread widely among the people. Nothing less than the Slaveholders’ Rebellion could prepare the way for their national reception. That the war has given such rapid and irresistible instruction, one has but to compare our present political policy with this clear thinker’s grand ideals. Only a very short time ago, Mr. Phillips was held, by the stump-orator class and their multitudinous followers, to have wholly impracticable opinions; now they are adopted in presidential proclamations, and are organizing victory. Though few heed his daring and enduring denunciations of the great sin of the age, while the mere appearance of peace was possible, yet when the South arose in arms against Liberty, men remembered more and more kindly his devotion to the cause of freedom, and now he is widely and enthusiastically recognized as the prophet of the time. He prophesied long to a disbelieving, and even a deriding generation; but the time has at length come when the doubters as well as the scoffers of the truths which he promulgated are getting to be regarded as traitors. This shows a marvellous revolution in political sentiment, and it is one that will not go backward. In fine, the government is advancing—and advancing because it has ventured to follow the directions of this imperial reformer. Such is the high position which Mr. Phillips now holds in the councils of the country. Although these speeches are unrivalled in aptness and affluence of illustration, and in epithets that burn deeper and mark more ignominiously than a branding iron, it is their forming and guiding influence which gives them that immortal beauty which will yet call forth the admiration and gratitude which become a nation purified and preserved through a tremendous and terrible trial.
As a specimen of the publishing art, this volume is admirable. The engraving which fronts the title page gives the features of the author in their forced repose;—for the glance of friendship, or the grace and glow of the great orator, we turn to memory’s vivid page.—Taunlon Union Gazette.
The author of this volume has acquired a very high reputation as an orator. His speeches and lectures have been listened to by multitudes with pleasure, whether they have always agreed with his views or not. Many have felt and expressed a strong desire to have them in a permanent form, that they might read and have them for reference. But during the many years he has been before the public, this desire has never been gratified till now.
The first speech he delivered that created a sensation was in Faneuil Hall, in 1837, on the murder of Lovejoy; on which occasion the venerated Dr. Channing, and George S. Hillard, Esq., gave eloquent addresses, in support of resolutions in condemnation of that outrage. This speech of Mr. Phillips is very appropriately the first in the volume, and seems to be peculiarly fresh, and cannot but be read with peculiar interest by true American patriots in these times. We here give the concluding passage:
”I am glad, Sir, to see this crowded house. It is good for us to be here. When Liberty is in danger, Faneuil Hall has the right, it is her duty, to strike the key-note for these United States. I am glad, for one reason, that remarks such as those to which I have alluded have been uttered here. The passage of these resolutions, in spite of this opposition, led by the Attorney General of the Commonwealth, will show more clearly, more decisively, the deep indignation with which Boston regards this outrage.”
Some one has said that eloquence never can be written. There is truth in this remark; but we think that this volume comes as near as any we have seen, of being an exception. The speeches here are not of artistic construction, and the author probably had not the slightest expectation, when he uttered them, that they would ever be given to the public in a permanent form. But we think the best judges will acknowledge, that they are eminently adapted to the eye, and must take their place in the permanent literature of that class to which they belong, of which we Americans have so much reason to be proud.— Cambridge Chronicle.
We understand that Drake Brothers are now ready to furnish the “Lectures and Speeches of Wendell Phillips.” They are the sole agents of this work for Kansas.
We advise those who desire to have a correct understanding of the great questions of Freedom and Slavery, to purchase this book. We have been a reader of the speeches of Phillips for near twenty years past, and at times we thought him most too radical in his views, but the events of the past few years have proved that it was only the most radical men who had any just conception of the nature of that institution, which has sought the life of our nation, and astonished the world by its atrocities.
This book is filled with the grandest thoughts that ever occupied the human mind, dressed in a style unsurpassed, if equalled, either in elegance or force, by any orator of this or any previous age; and what renders it of peculiar interest to every progressive mind is, those thoughts are the living, burning truths for which God is preparing the hearts of men, through the instrumentality of fire and sword.
The price of the book is $2.25. We intend to send for the book immediately, and will send for any one who desires it.—Manhattan (Kansas) Independent.
We hope soon to notice more at length the handsome volume containing the speeches and writings of Mr. Wendell Phillips, together with that remarkable movement in the public mind of which they are perhaps the finest representative. As literature, they are by general acknowledgment the very best examples we have of forensic oratory,—in thought clear as crystal, keen and ready in wit, in style polished to the last perfection that belongs to compositions of this class. As historic documents, they are the living record of some of the most marked phases in public events and in the temper of the popular mind, for a period ranging over five and twenty years. But their interest in either regard is subordinate to their unique and peculiar value, as examples of the highest order of moral truth, and the intensest moral conviction, brought to bear, with courage perfectly unflinching, and absolute consistency of aim, upon the discussion of the most momentous, disputed, and difficult questions at the bar of the general conscience. Nothing less than a consciousness of perfect fidelity to such an aim would excuse the tone of severity and the keenness of personal attack painfully frequent in these pages; or that temper approaching to bitterness and scorn, in which men and things are dealt with that vary at all from the strict line of right as conceived by Mr. Phillips. Personally, he is as we know, in the highest degree courteous and magnanimous to a sincere opponent. And the asperity of tone that fills many of these “Cassandra prophesyings” (as they are called), with the trying position into which it brings the utterer of them towards large portions of the community, we have regarded rather in the light of a sacrifice exacted by a certain scrupulous severity of conscience, than as the trick of a debater, or the morose habit of a self-appointed critic. When the personal acerbities and resentments shall have been softened down by time, we are sure that no record of this period of controversy will be reckoned more honorable, or more highly prized.—Christian Examiner for September.

RECRUITING IN THE SOUTH.
Within the lines of our armies are many thousands of colored men, healthy, strong, and unemployed. Beyond our lines, but within our reach, are a hundred thousand more, who unwillingly labor for the support of the rebellion.
The Government is prepared to arm these men, and to place them where they can do much for themselves and for us. But the system of recruiting for the regular army was adopted for a small force, and, when unaided by the State, it is slow.
The deficiencies of this service it is proposed to remedy by agencies established by the contributions of patriotic citizens. These agencies will be solely for co-operation with the government for the more rapid advancement of the recruiting service; for obtaining acclimated men for the increase of the army by the use of such means as will induce them to offer themselves to the Government. The Committee will undertake nothing which to not sanctioned by the Commanders of Departments, by the laws of civilized warfare, and by the laws of the land.
The undersigned have been appointed by a larger committee to solicit subscriptions for this object, and they request that those who will take part in orwarding it should send their contributions to Mr. RICHARD P. HALLOWELL Treasurer, No. 98 Federal street, Boston.
J. M. FORBES, Executive Committee.
A. A. LAWRENCE, Executive Committee.
S. G. WARD, Executive Committee.
MARTIN BRIMMER, Executive Committee.
THOMAS RUSSELL, Executive Committee.
J. H. STEPHENSON, Executive Committee.
LE BARON RUSSELL, Executive Committee.
Boston, Sept 7, 1863.
<c06>
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.-The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov, 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No.10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.’
THE FIFTH “COMMENCEMENT” of the Normal Institute for Physical Education will be celebrated at Tremont Temple, on the evening of Monday, Sept. 14, 1863, beginning at precisely 7 1-2 o’clock.
The Class of Graduates will be much larger than on any previous occasion, numbering more than Forty Ladies and Gentlemen, and representing nearly every one of the Free States.
ORDER OF EXERCISES.
I. Free Gymnastics’.
II. Exercises with the Wand.
III. Mutual Help Exercises.
IV. Series of New Feats with the light Dumb Bells. 
V. Exercises with the Gymnastic Ring.
VI. Presentation of Diplomas. 
Dr. Dio Lewis, the Principal of the Institute, will conduct the exercises.
The Gymnastic Exercises will be executed by the ladies and gentlemen of the Graduating Class, in full gymnastic costume.
One lady and three gentlemen—members of the Graduating Class—will deliver addresses, each of five minutes.
Gov. ANDREW will preside; and the music—vocal by the Class, and Instrumental by the Pianist of the Institute—will be good.
An admission fee of 25 cents will be charged, for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission. This is done, in part, to avoid, if possible, the unmanageable crowd of the last “Commencement,” and, in addition, to contribute something to a most deserving charity.
THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY (John’s and Asa’ s) will give a series of spirit-stirring Concerts at the Meionaon, in Boston, commencing on Monday evening next, Sept. 14th, and continuing through the week. In addition to their inimitable vocal powers, they deserve crowded houses for the invaluable services they have so long and so heroically rendered the cause of Liberty and Right.—Ed. Lib.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver an address on the state of the country, in the Unitarian Church, at NEPONSET, on Sunday next, at 3 o’clock. P. M.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at 
Dennis, (Mass.) Friday, Sept. 11.
Yarmouth, Sunday, Sept. 13.

DIED,
On the 6th of August, of congestion of the brain, at the residence of his father-in-law, Thomas Hambleton, ELIAS WEAVER, aged 32 years, Professor of Natural Science in the State Normal School at Millersville, Pa.
Our beloved friend, so early and suddenly removed from our midst, was a native of Lancaster Co., Pa. In early youth, his thirst for knowledge, and unusual progress in study, indicated the possession of talents of no ordinary character.
In 1855, he became a teacher in the Normal School at Millersville, which position he occupied till the time of his death. During all this time, he was a close student, and, as a teacher, was known to the many hundreds of pupils who have been under his instruction, as well as the large circle of friends who witnessed his labors, as faithful and devoted to his trust. His early death has left a blank that will not soon be filled.
After the battle of Gettysburg, he, with others from the vicinity of Lancaster, was early on the field, where (a friend writes) “he labored constantly, day and night, to relieve the suffering that surrounded him. No one could be more assiduous in the good work, with no thought for himself.” The exposure there endured induced the fever that terminated his life. Although quite ill, so great was his desire to relieve the suffering, that he intended starting for York with further supplies) on the 30th of July; but that morning found him unable to rise, and that day one week he was numbered with the dead. His large and active brain caused him, even in the delirium of fever, to talk much on moral and scientific subjects. He was conscious of the progress of the disease, and aware of the result. He has left a wife and child, aged parents, sisters, and a large circle of relatives and friends, deeply to mourn his early death. Those who knew him know how truly good he was. His sympathies were enlisted in every cause that would lead to the advancement of the human race, whether in breaking the bonds of the oppressed, or in raising the ignorant, degraded and erring to a higher life. Thus governed in all his actions by what he believed to be right, he led the life of a true Christian; and we are consoled by the belief, that though he has left his earthly home amid such trials and tribulations in the land, he is in communion with the angels, and enjoying the higher life of spirits made perfect.
E. H.

BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE.
A New Book of Thrilling Interest.
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER, 
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEX ANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor.
THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the war has produced. Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom, were Hardee, Bragg, and Beau regard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and traveled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night 250 miles; was fed by Negroes in part, and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when within thirty-five miles of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a chained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illustrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist—every lover of his country —every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts as they actually occurred.
The author has not only succeeded in making a narrative of exciting interest, but has ingeniously interwoven in the book many original and eloquent arguments in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war against Rebellion and Oppression.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 285 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered. 
Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1, post paid, with particulars to Agents.
NOTICES OF THE PRESS. 
No narrative of personal adventure which has been published since the war begun, equals this in interest. The account he gives of the treatment of himself and his fellow prisoners exceeds anything we have heretofore read.—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. 
The Captain’s graphic account of affairs in the South, during his long captivity there, will be read with great interest. The introduction is by Rev. Alexander Clark, which is sufficient in itself to warrant a large sale.-Philadelphia Daily inquirer.
Address all orders to 
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher, 
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia. 
Sept. 11—1t
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 2,1863 .
For particulars, address 
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, 
July 31. West Newton, Mass.
THE UNAVAILING CRY: A Sermon for all Times By Rev. Alexander Clark, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor.” Just published—price 10 cents, post-paid .
Address W. S. & ALFRED MARTIN, Publishers, Sept, 4. 606, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
AMERICAN SLAVERY.
DEDICATED TO UNION MEN.
Wipe out the blot! Wipe out the spot!
Jehovah’s sword is flaming high!
Wipe out the blot! Out out the rot!
In its own venom let it die!
It is the scorpion girt by fire;
Self-kindled are the flames that spread;
In its own ire let it expire,
Its own sting rankling in its head!
Wipe out the spot! Wipe out the blot!
The parricidal, horrid thing!
For him be not a freeman’s lot
Who’d back to life the monster bring.
On to the long predestined end,
The march of time is moving now!
As sweeps the surge events converge
To rend the veil from Freedom’s brow.
Wipe out the spot! Wipe out the blot!
The only stain our banner shows:
O! who has not bewailed the lot
That heaped on us the bondman’s throes!
We stand for all our country’s laws;
But now that they have rent the chain,
Who backward draws from Freedom’s cause,
Let him not rank with men again!
The worm that eats the root is found;
The surgeon’s knife is at the sore;
Shall health abound? the tree grow sound?
Or, conscious, wither as before?
It is for life! and ours the tale
To sound to ages yet to come:
Shall fiends prevail? Shall Heaven fail?
The answer leaps e’en from the dumb.
The cancer dries the vital flow
While one polluting root remains;
And even so, no healthful glow
Can spread where Slav’ry clogs the veins.
Behold the curse! Its desp’rate bands
Are shaking now the sacred base
Where Freedom stands with clenched hands,
And sinews strained, to save her race.
Let no man fear! Our Eagle yet
Will cleave the clouds and ride the wind:
Though Slav’ry fret, its star be set—
His flight shall leave that night behind!
Still brighter smiles shall dress the soil
Where sugar, rice and cotton grow,
And freedmen’s toil shall know no foil,
Though black or white his color show.
Wipe out the blot! Wipe out the spot!
Jehovah’s sword is flaming high!
Wipe out the blot! Cut out the rot!
In its own venom let it die!
New York, August 22, 1863. B. T. J.
N. Y. Evening Post. 

SUMTER!
I.
Sumter silenced! How I wonder 
If ‘t is true, and no sad blunder!
Silenced, shattered, crushed asunder!
Sumter captured! Let it thunder
O’er the land and o’er the ocean!
Let it sweep in grand commotion
Up the rivers to their fountains,
O’er the valleys, prairies, mountains,
O’er the plains and deserts glowing,
O’er sierras ever snowing,
Down where tropic gales are blowing,
Down bright streams to sunset flowing,
Til1 from ocean unto ocean 
Sweeps the rapturous commotion—
Sweeps the mighty acclamation
Of a great triumphant nation,
And with twenty million voices 
Half a continent rejoices
O’er the sure and glorious token
That Rebellion’s power is broken!
II.
Sumter fallen! God is holy!
God, who hears the poor and lowly—
Hears and answers, soon or slowly—
From his heavenly habitation
Saw our sin and tribulation,
Heard our contrite supplication,
Sent us succor and salvation!
Blessed be God’s name forever!
Let the golden gateways sever!
Let the swelling, bursting paean
Fill the opal empyrean!
Let the adamantine arches
Tremble as the anthem marches
Up the everlasting river,
Up to God, the glorious Giver,
God, almighty to deliver!
Let the harpstrings leap and quiver!
Let the crystal columns shiver!
Let all earth, all heaven endeavor!
BLESSED BE GOD’S NAME FOREVER!
III.
Blessed be God’s name forever!
Never, never, never, never,
Shall another slave-dominion
Stretch o’er earth its midnight pinion!
Hear, O Earth, through all this battle,
Hear thy broken fetters rattle!
Shout, O Earth! Sing, child and mother!
Wife and husband, lover, brother,
Through this land and every other!
Shout and sing, through all the nations,
Through all human habitations!
For, though ours the tears and slaughter,
Ours the brave blood poured like water,
Ours the shame, the sin, the sorrow,
Yours shall be the golden morrow!
Yours with us, though ’round us closing,
Banded tyrants stand opposing;
God’s great hand, o’er all disposing,
Still all good shall save and cherish,
Till all evil fall and perish.
GEO. LANSING TAYLOR.
-N. Y. Tribune.
The following tribute to Thoreau, by Miss Louisa M. Alcott, of Concord, (Mass.) is in the finest vein of the old English poets.
THOREAU’S FLUTE.
We, sighing, said, "Our Pan is dead;
His pipe hangs mute beside the river;
Around it wistful sunbeams quiver,
But Music’s airy voice is fled.
Spring mourns as for untimely frost;
The bluebird chants a requiem;
The willow-blossom waits for him;-
The Genius of the wood is lost."
Then from the flute, untouched by hands,
There came a low, harmonious breath:
‘For such as he there is no death;-
His life th’ eternal life commands;
Above man’s aims his nature rose;
The wisdom of a just content
Made one small spot a continent, 
And turned to poetry Life’s prose.’
Haunting the hills, the stream, the wild,
Swallow and aster, lake and pine,
To him grew human or divine,
Fit mates for this large-hearted child.
Such homage nature ne’er forgets,
And yearly on the coverlid
’Neath which her darling lieth hid,
Will write his name in violets.
To him no vain regrets belong,
Whose soul, that finer instrument,
Gave to the world no poor lament,
But wood-notes ever sweet and strong.
O lonely friend! he still will be
A potent presence, though unseen,-
Steadfart, sagacious, and serene;
Seek not for him,-he is with thee."
September Atlantic.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE.
No. IV.
By REV. JAMES A. THOME.
Believing, as we do, that this most degraded of people has been enviable rank among mankind, and contribute a noble nationality to the world, we cannot doubt that Divine goodness will yet bestow on the human brotherhood this rich donation of a type of man, peculiar, and, peradventure, pre-eminent. The whole human family, every kindred, people and tongue, destined to a realization of the primal unity of mankind, has an interest in the development and elevation of the multitudinous negro race. If the other continents have conspired to plunder Africa of her children, and keep her a terra incognita, may we not trust that the Lord is preparing for Africa the sweet revenge of enriching the western nations with proofs of a superior mold of manhood? This, surely, would be godlike. We presume not, however, to forecast the methods of the All-wise; but we do confidently commit the future of the freed people "unto Him who is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think." "For this cause we bow our knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant them, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man; that Christ may dwell in their hearts by faith; that they, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend, with all saints, what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that they may be filled with all the fullness of God."
What, then, do we see, looking into the future, from the stand-point we now occupy? We see the love of God, with justice on one side and mercy on the other, lifting up the downcast, dignifying the despised, clothing with the attributes of manhood the merchantable chattel. We see the long-suffering patience of the Lord vindicating its silence, and crowning its processes of discipline with the rich results of a ripened race, who shall be the glory, as they have been the shame, of mankind. Already God has opened the highway of advancement to the freed people, and what earthly power can close it? "Behold, I have set before them an open door, and no man can shut it. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee."
3. We take another stand-point. We view the future of the freed people from the point of our own obligations, and ability to help them.
The ability of the American people, of the government, of the churches, of the good, the learned, the opulent, is immeasurable; and the obligations are no less. By all the injuries we have inflicted on them in their enslavement; by all the robberies we have perpetrated on their bodies and souls, their persons and progeny; by all the blood-bought spiritual blessings we have withheld from them; by all the acknowledged civil birthrights we have denied them; by all the chains, and stripes, and mutilations, and tortures, even unto death, we have visited upon them hitherto; in which enormities WE, THE PEOPLE, are implicated, we may measure the extent of our obligation to be their benefactors henceforth. The vast national debt we are accumulating, by means of the civil war, is trivial compared with the moral debt we have been rolling up, through all our history, by our oppressions of the negroes. These are sacred bonds, which cannot be repudiated, nor indefinitely postponed. Almighty justice holds us to their discharge, and the time has come to make first payments. And is not God preparing us, by the sobering discipline of our national struggle, to meet these maturing obligations? Is he not humbling the hearts of the people, changing their feelings, softening their prejudices, developing moral principle, enlisting humane sympathy, and so disposing the nation for the work his providence is devolving upon heart and hands, that it shall be performed, " not by constraint, but willingly, and of a ready mind"?
Is not the Holy Spirit rousing the energies of Christians, and concentrating their attention on these victims of their past neglect? Have God’s people been "verily guilty concerning their brother, in that they saw the anguish of his soul, when he be sought them, and they would not hear"? Ah, yes! And grievously are they now suffering the punishment of their sin, in the sacrifice of their young men on the bloody altars of war! All the churches are in mourning; every family apart! In all the land is there "a voice beard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning." And the end is not yet Still the sword devours! For the unutterable atrocities of slavery is the wrath of God upon us so fearfully. Yet will he not utterly consume us in his sore displeasure. For the righteous that are in the land, for those who have long sighed and cried over these abominations, and who bear the mark of mercy in their foreheads, will the Lord spare the nation; and for the sake of these freed people, who need their help. In penitence, and devotion to the claims of these sable sufferers, will lie the remission of the plagues of Heaven on our guilty nation. The Lord is now calling his servants into the field his providence is so signally opening among the freed people. With a voice of authority and love he says: Enter this needy and promising field! Be coworkers with me in elevating these liberated captives! 
He charges his people to devise liberal things for those poor, whose unpaid toil has made the nation rich; whose "sinews, bought and sold," have made the country strong. These uplifting services will the good God exact largely from the American people. He will tax the high and the low; he will lay the nation under tribute to further this great enterprise. Mighty men shall be nursing fathers, and honorable women shall be nursing mothers.
We cannot overestimate the results of such endeavors, when the tide of a contrite nation’s good-will shall set toward the freed people; when the masses shall be turned from injustice, oppression and prejudice, to pity and succor; when the leading minds, no longer confessing that they "feel no interest in the negro," shall glory rather in owning that they feel for him, as they know God does. What will be the fostering influence of the American churches, when their evangelical efforts, which have reached every quarter of the heathen world, and every destitute settlement in our own country, shall be proportionally directed to these new objects, with a recognition of their paramount claims?
What will not earnest prayer accomplish for those who, in their bondage, were so generally neglected in the church prayer-meetings, monthly concerts, and sanctuary supplications, when they shall be rolled as a special burden on the hearts of the importunate, with all their wants, interests, hopes and prospects as freed-men? While those intercessors, who have long pleaded in their behalf, and have prevailed against their chains, will be encouraged to pray for their growth in Christian manhood, the greater number, who have been, by late events, enlisted in the cause of the negro, will remember him at the Throne of Grace. Already he has a place in the daily prayer-meeting, from which he was formerly excluded, and in the devotions of worshipping assemblies, which, not long ago, would not have tolerated prayer for the oppressed. Aye, God is waking his saints, his priestly people, to bear this cause before the Throne of Grace. This is, in the highest degree, hopeful. Great blessings overhang those for whom the Holy Spirit moves the elect to cry unto God, day and night. We are persuaded that there is no subject which now engages the supplications of the righteous so absorbingly as the future of the freed people. We confidently expect abundant answers. As an aged contraband, bowed with the burdens of ninety-five yean of slavery, recently said, in
<c03>
a school examination, at Memphis, "De Lord has let down de window of heaven for our salvation."
What will not a chastened patriotism, tried in the fires of civil war, do, when it shall be seen that the future prosperity of the country is conditioned on the just and generous treatment of the negro?
What will not the spirit of missions and of revivals undertake and achieve for these hungering and thirsting souls, for whom, hitherto, "no man has cared"?
What will not pious teachers, in the spirit of self-denial, do for the enlightenment of these untutored beings, by patiently teaching them to read the Bible, that "precious treasure" which even Christian masters have withheld? What will not the civilizing forces of the country do for these apt, imitative, observant learners? What will not the laboring classes do, when, dismissing their ungenerous antipathies, they admit the freedmen to the competitions of honest industry, and set them on a footing of self-support? What will not the women of America, the matrons, the housekeepers, the cultivated women do, when, "conquering their prejudices," they condescend to instruct the negress, liberated from the cotton-field, "the shovel and the hoe," in the domestic arts, and to introduce these victims of indiscriminate concubinage to the purities of lawful wedlock? What will not the devotees of the liberal arts do to quicken and foster the native genius of this gifted race? The future of our freed people glows before us, when we view it as the resultant of so many cooperating agencies. It is dependent on our goodwill, on our liberality, on our magnanimity. What will it not be, if we come forward nobly, and meet our obligations in full?-if we cause our good works to abound over our past evil treatment? Bright must be the future of a people so befriended. Limits can scarcely be assigned to the improvement of a capable race who, leaping forward to the echo of their falling shackles, commence the onward march under the lead of a free Christian people. The sympathies and enthusiasms inherent in the American heart, employing the rich resources of the land, will work all but miracles in so humane a cause as the elevation of down-trodden millions.
Thus have we, from three several stand-points, regarded the future of the freed people. We have believed that in no other way is it possible to attain to satisfactory apprehensions on this question, which so profoundly interests the American people just now. It were frivolous to speculate, without any guiding principles, on what isto become of the negroes, when slavery shall be no more? It were fruitless, however friendly the intention, to assert, dogmatically, that they are destined to coexist with the whites in this country for generations to come. We may have to infer this, logically, from the incontrovertible principles which foreshadow the future of the freed people. It were hardly less than presumption to predetermine, as too many seem disposed to do, the removal of the liberated blacks from the country, on any assumption of incompatibility, or what not. We would humbly commit to the hands of the Almighty Providence the disposal of this perplexing problem.
In our discussion we have purposely avoided the impertinent adventuring of any conjectures touching sundry details which a vain curiosity would pry into. Prophecies, and principles, and providences, are ours to study, apply, and interpret; but "the secret things belong to the Lord our God."
During the thirty years of our warfare with the Slave Power, while we have not ceased to proclaim the duty, and safety too, of immediate emancipation, we have disclaimed the possession of a wisdom adequate to shed any light on the sequences of emancipation. The old, standing question: "What will you do with the negroes after you get them free?" we have persistently declined to answer. The outcry of AMALGAMATION we have not labored to silence. The bugbears of insurrection and irruption we have, indeed, tried to dispel, by reason and by ridicule, seeing they were and are essentially foolish. If any fears of these have lingered in the public mind, they must have been effectually dissolved by the uniformly peaceable and commendable conduct of the contrabands within our lines, and of the liberated slaves in the District of Columbia. We have ample pledges, in the good behavior and industry of the hundred thousand freed people, that personal liberty may be safely extended to all the enslaved.
Brethren and fellow-countrymen! Providence has committed to us a great work. It is no less than to fulfill a glorious prophecy! It is to lift up the prostrate sons of Ethiopia; to arouse their dormant powers, to put sight into their seared eyes, to clothe their bare being with the habiliments of a well-furnished manhood. It is to evoke the capabilities of a mysterious race; to encourage those, whom centuries of wrong have depressed, to start in the forward race; it is to make a people out of cattle, a power out of nothing; to demonstrate their humanity, and our own. No age has furnished such a task; no people have enjoyed such a chance to vindicate humanity. Coming ages look down upon us. Ancient seers charge us to verify their predictions. Ethiopia waits on our ministrations. War has battered down the brazen gates of oppression, and laid open the Field. Presidential proclamations have cleaved the waters before us. God utters his voice, summons his volunteers, calls for co-workers. ALMIGHTY PROVIDENCE CARES FOR THE NERGO. Who of us will be godlike?
We have a present, urgent task, a humble one, a hard one—to minister to the necessities of the freedmen. But to do this wisely and well, we must have just final aims. Adequate conceptions of the ultimate future of the freed people must give us inspiration and direction in the self-denying labors which their intermediate future is about to devolve upon us. They cry now for help in their sore need, for supplies in their sheer destitution, for light in their deep darkness. They have nothing save freedom! They are nothing but men. Body and soul—nothing else! It doth not yet appear what they shall be. We have, however, the sure word of prophecy illuminating their future. Let us take that light as we go down to their low estate. Let us bear in mind what manner of persons they are destined to become, that we may properly esteem and worthily serve them in this time of their humiliation. In the opening field among the freed people lies the main mission of American Christians hereafter; and in the faithful performance of this mission lie the safety and weal of our nation, from this time forward. We cannot get rid of these duties by getting rid of the negroes. If this were practicable, it would be criminal, shameful, ruinous. If it were industrially expedient to alienate this trained labor-force, it would be forbidden by every consideration of piety and humanity. The freed people are bound to us, and we to them, by hooks of steel. The question is not, Do we need their help? but, Do they not need our help? We have hitherto held them to service, and would not let them go; now they hold us to service, and God will not let us off. Think of their unpaid toil for the American people during scores of years! Their extorted labor has supplied us with cotton, hemp, sugar, rice, turpentine, tobacco, for consumption and commerce. They have earned wealth for the whites, while they have been penniless; "as poor, yet making many rich." They have kept no book account with us, but "their angels" have. Long scores are down against us. Payday is coming! We must wipe out these scores. We must make this poor people rich, as they have made us; not by becoming, in turn, their bondmen, but their benefactors. Their claims are Heaven’s calls. The voice of this people is the voice of God to us. We shall not be destroyed by the rebellion, for we have a debt to pay, a duty to perform, to help the freedman achieve his destiny; to prepare him to glorify God. Because Ethiopia lives, we shall live also. Because her children among us have a future, we shall have a future. In exalting them, we shall magnify ourselves. In securing their liberties, we shall fortify our own. Thus doing, we may hope that when their star mounts, our star will not sink. Thus acquitting ourselves, we may trust that when Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands unto God, we shall stretch out our hands also, in emulous offerings and concordant praise.
<c04>
A CHAT WITH A FUGITIVE.
This morning, I opened my eyes on the sunshine—a sight rare enough in old Massachusetts, of late, to make me rise with unwonted alacrity.
"I’m dreadful glad you’ve come back, James; you’ve been gone so long, the weeds have grown up taller than the flowers."
"It’s allers so, ma’am, in these rich gardens when it rains so. I can work for ye to-day, jis as well as not."
On the matter of his absence, he evidently meant to "keep himself to himself."
James, the colored man of all work, of our neighbor Dr. Harding, across the garden, had disappeared early in the morning of the day following the Cooper street riot in Boston. The night before, he asked Dr. Harding if he had not been drafted—saying, "They told me a colored man was drafted in town." "Oh, no, you are not drafted," was the reply; "I heard all the names read, and yours was not among them." He then asked for his month’s wages, saying, "I want to go into town, and investigate it in the morning." Night came, and next night, but no James. We grew anxious.
"He had not heard of the riot when he went off," said the doctor’s wife, speculatively; "I think he went into Boston, and got frightened, and hid himself somewhere, be is so timid; or somebody scared him about the draft here. I’ve been up in his room, and I fancy it looks sort of picked up more than usual; and I didn’t see anything of the flute he always has round, that seems to be so much company for him; it may be he has gone among his Quaker friends, down to Maine, or somewhere." So, trusting he was at some safe station on the Underground Railroad, waiting till order was restored, and the negro man and woman and harmless child might again walk the streets of our Northern cities, protected by the majesty of the law, we rested; and the weeds grew, while more than two weeks went by. I put my head out of the window. "How do you do, James? I am glad to see you back. Where have you been all this time?"
"O, I went over to Lynn to see some friends. I felt sick in here,’ putting his hand on his stomach, "before I went away; and when I got over there, I found I must stop, and take some medicine. So they doctored me up."
I have often seen the man in the garden since my return, and have been the recipient of many polite inquiries for my health. I determined to have some talk with him to-day; so I began to open the way at the breakfast table.
"I mean to pick the currants for jelly, this morning; not wait till the not is low, only to be caught by a shower, as I was yesterday."
"You can’t—it is going to rain again. Don’t you see how dark it is? ’Tis such ketchin weather lately, there is no chance to do anything out doors. The weather hasn’t behaved decently the last six weeks; it’s a wonder where so much rain comes from. I went out to the grapery the other day, and it poured down so I could not get in for two hours. You needn’t think of picking currants to-day."
"But, aunt, the jelly must be made. People tell me it is growing late for currants; they won’t’ jelly well,’ if the currants are too old."
"Nonsense, child! I always let my currants hang on the bushes till they are dead ripe; and my jelly is good enough for anybody."
"Is the grass much wet from last night’s rain?"
My aunt keeps up old-fashioned habits.
"Oft from the lawn she brushed the early dew," will be a testimonial peculiarly grateful to her spirit, whenever the time for such testimonial shall arrive—(" O, king, live forever!") and she answered briskly,
"No, child, the wind blows so hard, ‘tis almost dry, now."
So, after breakfast, I put on my hat, took a tin pail and went into the garden, where James had already made a terrible onslaught on the weeds in the straw berry bed. As I passed under the arbor, a vine of the Hartford Prolific brushed its heavy clusters across my forehead. It seemed, even in early June as if those vines never would open their spicy blossoms to the air.
"We shan’t have any open air grapes this year unless we have late frosts."
"Do late frosts ripen the grapes, aunt?"
"You know what I mean, child!"
The clusters seem to have grown miraculously this sultry weather. I stopped to admire their green translucence.
"It seems as if grapes was prettier to look at when they’s growin out doors than when they’s under glass," said James.
"So the oriole, swinging on that willow bough, is pleasanter to the eyes than the canary in the cage," I added, giving freer expression to the sense of the beauty of freedom in all things working in the soul that had known the crampings of bondage.
"What did you think of the riots, James? Were you frightened much by them?"
"No, miss, I wasn’t frightened of ‘em." Thinks I, now our folks will see what comes o’ lettin the Catholics and the Jews have their own way in everything. "Why, they’re so deceitful, ye never can trust‘ em; ye never know what they’re about I told our folks so in Boston ten years ago. ‘They’re snakes in the grass,’ says I, ‘and ye’ll find it so, if ye don’t look out; they’ll rule our country, the whole on it, and they’ll rule us, Yankees as well as colored people,’ says I.’ Ye don’t know ‘em up here as I know’ em down in South Caroliny,’ says I,’ or ye wouldn’t trust ‘em. They’ll get all the power in their own hands, if ye don’t look after ‘em.’"
Here he fell to work cutting down the witch grass and clover on the borders of the walk with his hoe, spitefully, as if he saw in every blade and leaf the strong dark features of a Jew, or the fair, ruddy, much despised Celtic face of some Southern master.
Meanwhile, I picked industriously from the currant bush under the ben-apple tree, till I was finally moved to comfort him by the gift of a couple of red astracans that had fallen early; mellow and toothsome, but not yet bursting the glowing rind with their mealy richness.
"Why do you think the Catholics got up the riots, James? The priests did their utmost to quell them."
"O, they’re so deceitful, ye never can tell what they mean. The native Americans isn’t half smart enough for ‘em, and they’s pretty smart, too! These forriners allers wants to get the power inter their own hands; its power, power, power they allers tries to get, and allers has tried to get everywhere. They own half the South, now, and they own the slaves, too. The Irish isn’t poor as they is here: they is rich, the most on ‘em, and the Dutch, and the German, and the Jews, and the French, and the Spanish, they all own slaves, and they’re all alike. They aint no sort o’ friends to the colored people; they all want to keep ‘em in bondage forever. They aint like the Yankees, no how"-(I drew back my hand with a jerk from a nettle in the currant bush)-" they haint no sort o’ feelin with us. And they’ve all got friends over there in Europe, waitin to come over, and get power, and manage everything. They’d keep us all in bondage; Yankees and cullured people, too. There’s some o’ the Yankees aint good friends to us, but there is more of ‘em as is than there used to be."
I had been conscious of the sound of singing from a stable over the way; deep, strong, men’s voices. The leading voice was a returned soldier’s. The words of the chorus rang out just then clear and loud, on the morning air. "We’re marching along, We’re marching along." James didn’t appear to hear it; he went on:-"They say we’ll all come up, and crowd inter the North, if we’s made free. Why, we don’t want to come here; we’d rather stay at the South where our home is; that’s our home, and we love it. I don’t want to live up here. I’d go back to-day, if I could have my freedom; It’s freedom I’m after."
"Your people have ‘done wondrously ‘in this war, James. Not only have they raised the credit of the race by their bravery in battle, but by their fidelity and truthfulness as guides to the Union army. Our
<c05>
soldiers have always told me they could trust them when in the enemy’s country."
"Yes, they’ll see what our people are! They used to say we want of no account; but they’ll see, they’ll see! The South never’ll be taken care of till we have it; we’ll take care of it, and we’ll defend it, too, for we love it, and we feel a pride in it!"
"Were you born there?" I asked, for his complexion forbids all suspicion of the faintest drop of Caucasian blood.
"Yes, I was born in Charleston, on King street."
"And your father?"
"My father was born in Tennessee, and my grandfather was raised in Virginny. They used to raise slaves for all the South, there; ‘twas a hot-bed of ‘em; but my sister has told me that our great grandfather, or some o’ his posterity, (James does not own a Webster’s Unabridged,) came from the coast of Guinea. But, laws! we don’t want to go to Africa; we don’t want to be colonized; we wouldn’t be contented any mor’n you Yankees ‘d want to be sent to England where your first parents came from."
My mind ran quickly through our Genealogical Record, (for we have one in which the virtues and honors of the family name are duly set forth for the emulation of the descendants, and every hint of bars sinister, suicides and mental infirmities, are as properly excluded. Thank Heaven! I never heard even a tradition of dishonesty among us!)—from the first of the family name recorded here, who "came to this land with the apostle Elliot, lived a godly life, went through much affliction by bodily infirmity, and died leaving a good safr (savor) of godliness behind him," down to the present broad-shouldered supporters of the family dignity; and I wondered how we would affiliate with our brethren on the banks of the Avon. Have their minds been able to thread the mazes of American polities? Should we give each other hard raps on the noddle at our first meeting? I looked up at the sky, too; the clouds were scattered, leaving it clear and blue, and I felt no hankering for the drizzling skies of the ocean across the water. Half unconsciously, I repeated the words of the Prophet-Leader of Israel: "Ye shall inherit their land, and I will give it unto you to possess it; a land that floweth with milk and honey. The Lord your God hath given you this land to possess it: ye shall pass over, armed before your brethren—all that are meet for the war!" (To be concluded.)
BEYOND THE LINES: or, A Yankee Prisoner Loose in Dixie. By Captain J. J. Geer, `late of General Buckland’s Staff. With an Introduction by Rev. Alexander Clark. Philadelphia: J. W. Daughaday, Publisher, 1308 Chestnut Street. 1863.
We gave a favorable notice of this thrilling narrative in our last number. Here is a portion of Chapter IX.
About two o’clock, we ventured to leave the swamp, and strike out for the low hills, and travel through the pines. It was the 20th of June, and a long day to us. We had scarcely entered the pine forest, when we saw eight men with guns, on the lookout for us, some of whom we had previously seen on the same errand. We instantly retreated to the swamp, yet not before we were discovered. The dogs were instantly put on our track, and in order to break the scent, we again sought the swail, and waded in water to our knees. We passed through the densest portions of the brake, where it stood thick and tall, forming, in places, an almost impenetrable wall of stalks, which we carefully adjusted behind us. After several hours of this cautious traveling and covering our way, we were obliged to lie down among the swamp palm-leaves for rest. We could distinctly hear the baying of the bloodhounds in search of our track, but we felt pretty well assured they would not be able to follow it The next morning found us wet and weary, and quite chilled by the dampness of our bed. We thought to make our way out to the pine hills, but had hardly concluded, to hazard the attempt, when we again heard the hounds nearer than before. We then penetrated yet further into the tangled cane-thicket, for it had become a welcome retreat for us. By patient endurance we again baffled our enemies, only, however, to find ourselves threatened with starvation. We tried to catch fish, but failed. We were even "unlucky" in our attempts to take frogs from the swail with our hooks. Our forlorn situation can better be imagined than described. Cold, wet, hungry, weak from exposure, heart-sick with disappointments, and, worse than all, pursued as criminals by those who should have befriended us, we were almost ready to despair, and lie down to die in the midst of the dismal swamp. I felt that indeed strange changes had occurred in my life; for, only a few months before, I was a free man, surrounded by the kindest of friends, happy in my cottage home, or in my pastoral walks among the peop1e whom I loved. But now I was compelled to flee for life, half clad and half starved, to the heart of a watery wilderness! From our covert of shade we watched the sun go down, and felt the quiet night coming on. Oh! dreary evening! sunless, hopeless, comfortless, and dark 1! thy memory haunts me still! But we lost not our confidence in God. We knelt in the black water, and prayed. And down through the still night—down through the deep darkness—down through the dense cane-brake —down to our prostrate souls afar in the solitude, came the Blessed Comforter, and we took courage. We thought of the old Jews, compelled to wander about in sheep-skins and goat-skins. We trusted in Elijah’s and Elisha’s God, and remembered that Daniel had dwelt safely in the den of lions. We were so completely thrown upon God’s mercy, that our faith was stronger than ever. We felt that God was nearer in the shadows than in the sunshine— that in bowing in the water of the swamp to pray, we placed our lips nearer to the Infinite Ear than if we worshipped in temples or on the mountain.
We spent the entire day, the 21st of June, in! this bog. When night came, we tried again to sleep, but were annoyed by a new enemy—a legion strong—the pestiferous mosquitoes. During the night, our attention was attracted by a sound like the driving of a stake. We arose, and cautiously reconnoitered in the direction from which the noise proceeded. To our surprise, we came upon a small corn-field, containing about two acres, surrounded by a rude fence of pine poles. We trembled at the thought of being so near a human habitation; and after pulling a few stalks of the young corn to eat, we hastened into the thicket, and traveled on. The roots of the corn, cleansed and salted, were eaten with a relish. The sound which had arrested our attention proved to be that produced by an insect of the beetle species, and the painful stillness and solitude of the place served to make it more impressive than it would otherwise have been. The North Star was our only guide; and shaping our course by its uncertain light, we again resumed our journey. We had not traveled far, however, until we became completely bewildered in the cane-brake. The-sluggish water spread on every side, the thick cane and underbrush so mingled and commingled, that it was impossible to move in any direction. Again we concluded to tarry for the daylight; and breaking a few cane-stalks, and laying them on the ground near a mossy log, for a bed, we tried to sleep. We were frequently disturbed in the night by prowling animals, but none of them was so terrible to think of as our human pursuers. Judging it best to guard against all surprises from man or beast, we agreed to sleep and stand sentinel alternately until morning. Thus we relieved and rested each other that memorable night.
It was a welcome day-dawn to us. For two hours I had stood guard over Collins, watching the stars mirrored on the smooth waters about our feet, and it was a glorious sunrise to us that chased the shadows and images away, and flooded our gloomy retreat with the light of morning. Again we started onward, taking the sun for our guide. The water grew gradually more and more shallow, and the brushwood thicker. Berries became scarcer, and our sufferings from hunger increased with every step. We were that day wandering weary, footsore, and heart-heavy, where in all probability human foot had never trod before:
"In the dark fens of the dismal swamp,
The hunted Yankees lay;
We saw the fires of the midnight camp,
And heard at times the horses’ tramp,
And the bloodhounds’ distant bay.
"Where hardly a human foot would pass,
Or a human heart would dare,
On the quickening turf of the green morass,
We crouched in the thick and tangled grass,
Like wild beasts in their lair."
<c06>
On we pressed, amid the wild voices of the dark cane forest. Our progress was slow. By-and-by, as we came upon a mossy log, we tarried, and tried to rest our aching heads. We soon fell asleep, being overcome by fatigue. I dreamed of my loved ones at home—of watchful eyes and praying voices in our behalf. I saw the old familiar hill-slope before my cottage door, the orchard, the fields, and, better than all, the friends of other days, and myself among them—all happy at the old homestead in free Ohio Some hovering angel must have come and held the picture before my eyes, for I was in raptures of delight! Suddenly I was aroused from my slumbers by the tread of some animal, I knew not what. As I stirred, it hastened into the dark foliage, and was gone. I awakened my comrade, and told him it was morning. He was surprised to think he had slept so long, and both of us were greatly refreshed. Again we prayed, and pressed onward for home and friends, and for a sight of the Stars and Stripes, We had decided on keeping steadily on in a south easterly course until we reached some point on the sea-coast then in our possession. The sun beamed hotly over our heads. We traveled as fast as possible all day, hoping that we might find some negro none else in that region were human beings—and through the aid of slaves get something to eat, for we were actually starving. We captured a frog that day, and divided the precious morsel between us, with thanksgiving. At night we lay down, but hunger and faintness prohibited repose. We longed for morning. We gazed upward to the twinkling stars, praying them to speed faster through the firmament, and let the sun arise. At length the blushing morn appeared. I hailed it as the dawn of an eventful day, for now we must seek and obtain food, or perish in the swamp. The idea of falling into the hands of our enemies chilled our very <illegible> We thought to die alone, and "let the dead bury the dead" in the wilderness, rather than suffer our selves to be recaptured and tortured to death by inches, to gratify the jeering, jabbering multitudes. But the day was come when something more must be ventured for life’s sake. At last dawn came, and we fell upon our knees, and asked for wisdom and direction in the hour of need. Rising comforted and strengthened, we changed our course, and pressed forward, expecting to emerge from the cane-brake and find a plantation where there were slaves. The undergrowth was so dense that we could with difficulty make about one mile per hour. The day was fast passing away, and so was our strength. At about three o’clock in the afternoon, we sat down almost in despair, and held a council, when we de-decided that nothing but the hand of the Lord could deliver us. Again we bowed ourselves before Him, and rose refreshed both in mind and body. Our steps were elastic, our hearts gladdened, and we hurried onward, under the conscious protection of God.
Suddenly, I heard the barking of a dog not far distant. We paused and listened. It was not a bloodhound. Collins, being a little deaf from the effects of terrific artillery-firing at Shiloh, did not, at first, catch the sound. Now we knew that help was near. We quickened our pace, and in a few minutes heard the voices of some negro men. A few steps further, and we came in sight of a cotton field, which we approached by walking in the water of a small brook that flowed in that direction. With great caution we neared the field, in which there were twenty-five negroes at work ploughing cotton. Most of the men looked old and toil-worn. While we were reconnoitering our ground, I observed as old, gray-haired man nearing the fence with his furrow, and when he paused a moment to scrape his plough, before returning across the field, I rapped on a rail, which instantly drew his attention. When I caught his eye, I beheld an intellect and a sympathy languaged there which gave me hope. I approached the old man with trembling step and faltering voice, I know, for there was danger of communicating with some excitable and treacherous slave—although such are rare cases—yet I ventured to speak to my wondering auditor. I approached that cotton-field, half famished as I was, with many of my Virginia prejudices against the negroes, for I had been taught to regard them as unreliable and stupid. But I felt that death was in the swamp, and life might be in the cotton-field.
"Well, uncle," said I, "I am traveling through your country, and I am very ragged, as you see. I don’t wish to call on white folks in this condition, and I am very hungry. Could you get me something to eat?"
"Oh, yes, massa! God bless you! all you want; but go back! go back!" he continued, waving his hand, as if to hurry me back to our hiding-place; "go back, massa! they’s after you wid de houns and de horses! Do you see dat ole cabin up dar, in dat field? To-night, just at ‘leven o’clock, come to dat cabin, massa, and I’ll gin you all de supper you want. Now, go back! go back, massa!"
"Uncle, you won’t bring anybody with you, will you?"
"Why, God bless you, massa, I know you! I knows you!
"Now, uncle, what do yon know about me?"
"Why, you’s one of dem Yankees dat broke away from Macon prison, massa. I knows you! God bless you!"
"Well, uncle, don’t tell that to anybody, will you?"
"Tinks I tell anybody, massa, when all I’s got in dis worl’ depends on ye? No, no, massa! But go back! go back, till ’leven o’clock! mine, now, massa!" and he started after his plough, for by this time the other hands were approaching. I went back and reported the prospects to my comrade. We concealed ourselves in the thick brush to await the appointed hour. Just at dusk, the slaves unhitched their mules, finished up their rows, and started for their cabins, singing:
"We’ll soon be done wagging with the crosses,
We’ll soon be done wagging with the crosses,
We’ll soon be done wagging with the crosses,
And wing, and wing, and wing, with the angels,
And den wing with the angels,
In the New Jerusalem!"
It was weird, eccentric music, but really the most thrilling I had ever heard, as it rose through the still evening air in rich, mellow accord from the voices of the whole company of slaves returning to their humble homes for supper and rest. I thought how little the people in the North knew about these crosses! and I silently but fervently prayed for the day to hasten when all these weary ones might find the liberty for which they sang and suffered.
The hours passed slowly away, but at length the appointed hour of eleven o’clock drew nigh. We left our retreat, and advanced with the utmost caution, until we came within thirty yards of the cabins. when we lay down in a briar path to watch for whatever movements might occur. For a few minutes we were kept in suspense, not feeling fully satisfied whether friend or foe might advance to meet us. Soon, however, the faithful old negro came to the designated trysting-place. He was evidently alone. He walked round and round the cabin, looking and waiting for us, and on seeing us not, seemed greatly disappointed. When we had assured ourselves that no one was with him, and that he was true, we arose from our concealment, and walked to the cabin. He was rejoiced to see our confidence in him, and was as thankful to give, as we were to receive, the rich repast he had prepared for us. Our supper consisted of corn-bread, smoked bacon and boiled cauliflowers. He also brought us a bottle of sweetened water. What a feast! Never did I partake of food with such a relish. We received it as directly from the hand of Him who "heareth the young ravens when they cry." Being assured by our old friend that we were perfectly safe, we tarried after supper several hours, conversing on the state of our country, and receiving advice as to the manner of proceeding on our journey. As the venerable man talked to us, telling us how to escape to our homes and friends, sharing his sympathies and his means with us poor destitute wanderers, my old prejudices of caste were entirely obliterated. Beneath that dark brow was the mind of a man, and within that slave’s bosom beat a brother’s heart. I could have embraced him as my father. 
The fugitives wandered on, enduring almost incredible hardships, till they reached a point within 35 miles of Darien, when they were recaptured, and taken back to Macon.

A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF
OIL CARPETING,
-AND-
ROOF CLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A. FOLSOM S. P. FOLSOM BOSTON 
