THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper. Viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
Y. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO.9 BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1576.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
ADDRESS OF THE WORKINGMEN OF MASSACHUSETTS.
The workingmen of Massachusetts, assembled in Faneuil Hall, send greeting to their brethren throughout the United States: It is the right of a free people, who are misrepresented and misgoverned by those in power, to take counsel together of each other for the redress of their grievances.
The beloved Union of thirty-three States has been broken, and we must not fear to inquire into the cause of this great wrong, nor to seek its redress. We believe the chief cause to have been that the people, North and South, have been deceived and betrayed by politicians and office-seekers.
The Father of his Country, in his Farewell Address, counselled us to beware of the ”misrepresentations of designing men who would excite jealousies and heart-burnings by geographical discriminations of Northern and Southern, and by misrepresenting the opinions and views of other districts of the country."
His wise and prophetic warnings have been forgotten and disregarded. The South have been taught to believe that the North hate them, and are pledged to trample upon their rights and destroy their property; while the North have been taught that the South hold them in hatred and contempt, and are united in a hostile plan of aggression upon their liberties.
If these are the true feelings of our countrymen, a restoration of the Union is impossible in ”a government which derives its just powers from the consent of the governed."
It is in vain for politicians to tell us that secession is illegal. Seven States have seceded already; and if the citizens of those States are united in their determination to leave the Union, no laws and no force can compel them to remain.
We very well know, that if the freemen of Massachusetts were united in the determination to leave the Union, because they felt that they had been wronged by years of hatred and aggression on the part of the other States, then neither the force of laws nor of arms could bring them back to a government in which they believed liberty and equal rights were impossible.
Our forts might be taken, our commerce destroyed, our towns burned, as they were during the Revolution, but our free race could never be held as a conquered people. Our Southern brethren are of the same blood as we are, and we feel that if force could bring them back into the Union, they would be fit only to be he bondsmen of their own slaves.
Since coercion is unwise, unjust, and impossible, we must look to other means for the restoration or the Union, and we believe that those means are in the power of the people. Between the people of the States, there can be no misunderstandings, it they can but be brought together.
We believe that the first duty of the people, South and North, is to put away forever those designing politicians who have deceived the people, and brought this danger upon the country.
We appeal to our brethren at the South to deal with their traitors at home, the sowers of sedition, who endeavor to mislead and misrepresent them.
We, on our part, will do our best here at the North to expose and to put down forever the mischief-makers who have sown discord between the States, and brought our country to the verge or civil war.
We see plainly that the ceaseless falsehoods which have misled the South as to our true feelings, and the rash and wicked deeds which are charged upon our whole people, are due to a small but active and unscrupulous party of Abolitionists, who have adopted every disguise and joined every party in order to accomplish their evil purposes.
They were Whigs among the Whigs, and they joined the coalition party against the Whigs. They have joined the Free Soil party, and they have joined the American party, and they finally have joined the Republican party. And they have betrayed them all.
We believe that now their power is at an end, because their disguise of philanthropy is thrown off, and their purposes are at last known; and we do earnestly appeal to all patriots, and all honest men at the North, to pledge themselves to an unending hostility to the principles and plans of the Abolitionists, for the following reasons:-
Because they undermine religion, and openly deny the authority of the Holy Word of God, which is the rule and guide of our faith.
Because they proclaim that our cherished Constitution ”is an agreement with death, and a compact with hell."
Because they avow that, for sixteen years, they have plotted the destruction of the Union, and desire now to complete their work.
Because they publicly boast that they have always had secret societies organized to resist the laws which the people have made, and all are bound to obey.
Because the blood of the murdered Batchelder, brutally murdered in the Court House of Boston by a mob of Abolitionists, teaches us the object of these secret societies, and shows what Abolitionists mean by benevolence and love of man.
Because the bells of the New England churches which the Abolitionists tolled on the day of the just execution of John Brown, proclaimed their hatred of the Union and their sympathy with his wicked raid, and with his murder of peaceable citizens of Virginia.
Because their pretended love for slaves a thousand miles away is but hypocrisy. If they loved mankind, and would prevent sin, and suffering, and wrong, they could find here at home objects more than sufficient for the exercise of all their assumed virtues. But their philanthropy is mere deception-their affected sympathy is selfishness-and their feigned love for the slave, a cloak for their insidious designs.
For these, and for many other reasons, we appeal to all good citizens at the North-Republicans and Democrats, Union Men and Americans-to see to it, that henceforth the pest of Abolition shall, under no disguise, be tolerated in their counsels.
But to the Republicans we appeal most earnestly, to avow their open hostility, because the Abolitionists have, for their own purposes, deceived the South, and taught them to believe that all Republicans are Abolitionists.
Let this be a war not of force, but of opinion; a contest of reason against fanaticism, of patriotism against treason; and, before many years, the name of Abolitionist will be remembered only with contempt, and its dishonest efforts to obtain power a subject of derision.
In the hearts of the people of Massachusetts there is not, nor ever has been, any feeling of hatred for the South. Our brethren do not understand how a few active and unscrupulous men can appear to have so much influence. The truth is, that the workingmen care little for the strife of political parties and the intrigues of office-seekers. We regard them with the contempt they deserve. We are weary of this question of Slavery; it is a matter which does not concern us; and we wish only to at-
<c02>
tend to our business, and leave the South to attend to their own affairs, without any interference from the North.
Only in the hour of danger do we step forward to demand and enforce our political rights. And now that we are obliged to come forward for the sake of our country, we learn with profound astonishment, from the confession of the great party leaders, that the question which divides and distracts the country, as to whether slaves shall or shall not be admitted in the Territories, is a mere quarrel about an abstract opinion; and that, in ten years, only twelve slaves have been domiciled in the Territories of New Mexico. Well may the people say that they must come forward to protect themselves from the politicians.
But the workingmen of the United States have other duties than to put down the treasonable designs of the Abolitionists. It is in our power to save the Union, if we will but be united. Let us forget, then, forever, that we have been Whigs or Democrats, Republicans or Americans, or Union men, and let the symbols and platforms and passions and prejudices of party be discarded, never to be recalled.
Let us not quibble about words, or stand obstinately upon slight differences of opinion, like our Representatives, who dignify their perverse obstinacy with the name of principle,-but, disregarding all other objects, unite earnestly, honestly and heartily to preserve the Union. 
Let us form throughout the land associations of workingmen, whose only platform shall be, Liberty and Union, and equal rights to all.
If our present Congress does not, without delay, propose satisfactory amendments to the Constitution, we can petition our respective Legislatures, and upon the application of the Legislatures of two-thirds of the States, Congress must call a Convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution. In a Convention called by the people, the rights of the people will be safe.
To our brethren in the South we appeal, to disregard everything but the voice of the people. The Senators of Massachusetts insult us, when our respectful petitions are presented in Congress, and our Legislature disregards the wishes of the citizens. But the power remains in our hands, and we shall soon have the privilege of exercising it; and the people, dumb so long, because accident has placed the powers of representing them in unworthy hands, will speak for themselves-the people, of the North speaking earnestly, honestly and frankly to the people of the South.
If our Southern brethren choose to return to the Union, we will give them a sincere and hearty welcome, and endeavor to protect them in their rights. If they prefer to cast their lot with us no longer, we will bid them ”go in peace," and we will endeavor to secure to ourselves the blessings of liberty and independence in our own government. We wish no Union but a Union of friendship, not of force; no associates but those who remain with us of their own free will.
The free people of the North will never sanction the unjust and delusive plan of coercion, nor seek in force or civil war the remedy for the present dangers to the Union. We will never consent ”to bear arms against our country, or to become the executioners of our friends and brethren."
Let the advances which we make, frankly and boldly, be met in the same spirit, and the Union may yet be saved.
To our brethren in the South we also say that we love the Union, because, in the words of Washington, ”it is the palladium of our political safety and prosperity,-the main pillar in the edifice of our real independence; the support of our tranquillity at home, our peace abroad; of our safety, our prosperity, and of that very liberty which we so highly prize."
We have loved the Union as the costly inheritance which a noble race of patriots have handed down to a nation of freemen; sealed with the blood of the bravest of the brave, it was the bright coronal which crowned the suffering, and sorrow, and strife, and despair, of seven weary years of desolating war.
Our Father in heaven visibly protected it by his guiding hand. In fear and in hope, in battle and in death, and in the victory that swallows up death, our ancestors suffered, and sorrowed, and died to win it; and Washington gave it to us with his blessing.
It is the golden chain that binds the past to the future, linking together the darkness of that long night, and the promises of the cheerful dawn, and the glories of the noontide of prosperity. 
It is the bond of brotherly kindness; for your glory was our glory, your race was our race, your people was our people, your God was our God.
No mountain-peak along our coast but has its memories,-no ancient river but has its monuments -no shore but has its sacred dust,-and the grass grows green over a thousand graves once red with blood, now perchance shed in vain. We have loved it with the unselfish love of childhood, when our cheeks glowed and our hearts beat quick as we were told of its marvellous history; we have loved it with the thoughtful love of manhood living not in vain, but living for wife and child, and home, and liberty, and country; we have loved it as the day-star of civilization-the pledge and promise of liberty-the hope of the exile in every land; religion has lent its sanctities to it; the sweet charities of home and kindred have made it holy; and the poor and oppressed have given it their benediction.
May God in His infinite mercy save the United States of America!
Mr. Wilder came forward, and said:-
In connection with the address which has been read, I have some resolutions here for the consideration of this meeting, and move their adoption. The resolutions were as follows:
Resolved, That we tender to the Hon. John J. Crittenden our sincere thanks for the manner in which he received and presented to Congress the memorial of twenty-three thousand citizens of Massachusetts, and for the eloquence which he vindicated them from the unworthy aspersions which were cast upon the intelligence of his constituents by the Hon. Chas. Sumner, the Senator of Massachusetts.
Resolved, That we respectfully request the Hon. John J. Crittenden to act for Massachusetts, as well as for the great State of Kentucky, and to present in the Senate the foregoing address, as embodying our reasons for the respectful petition of this meeting, that Congress will propose such amendments of the Constitution of the United States as will satisfy the Border States, and restore tranquillity to the country.
Resolved, That copies of the foregoing address and of these resolutions be transmitted to the Legislatures of the thirty-four United States, whether they now consider themselves in or oat of the Union, and to all Conventions and assemblies of the people, North and South, with the respectful request that they may be received in the same spirit in which they are sent, and that they may be read and placed upon record as the voice of the Workingmen of Massachusetts, assembled in Faneuil Hall.
The mention of Mr. Crittenden's name was received with great cheering, and three-groans for Charles Sumner.
<c03>
Selections.
SPEECH OF SENATOR SUMNER.
In the United States Senate, February 12th, Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky, having presented a petition in favor of his scheme of compromise from 23,230 citizens of Massachusetts, the Hon. Charles Sumner addressed the Senate as follows:-
These petitioners ask, as I understand it, for the passage of what is familiarly known as the Crittenden propositions. Their best apology for this petition is their ignorance of the character of these propositions. Had they known what they were, they never would have put their names to that petition. Those resolutions go beyond the Breckinridge platform, which has already been solemnly condemned by the American people. They foist into the Constitution of the United States constitutional guaranties of slavery which the framers of that instrument never gave-which Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Patrick Henry, and John Jay, if we may credit the testimony of their lives and opinions, would have scorned. Had any such propositions been made the condition of union, this Union never could have been formed. Mr. Madison told us in the Convention, that it was wrong to attempt to put in the Constitution the idea of property in man; but these propositions propose to interpolate that idea, and, practically carrying it out, they run a black line on the latitude 36 deg., 30 min., and give constitutional protection to slavery in all the territory south of that line now belonging to the Re-public; and to make the case still more oppressive, and still more impossible to be received at the North, they make it applicable to all the territory hereafter to be acquired; so that the flag of the Republic, as it moves southward, shall always be the flag of slavery, and every future acquisition in that direction shall be Africanized, and that by virtue of the Constitution of the United States. That is about enough, in this age of civilization. But this is not all. Still further, they insist upon guaranties to slavery in the national capital, and in other places within the Federal jurisdiction. Nor is this all. As if to make it especially offensive to the people of the North, and to the people of Massachusetts, they propose to despoil our colored fellow-citizens of their political franchise, a long time secured to them by the institutions of that honored Commonwealth. Sir, it is for these things that these petitioners now pray. They insist that they shall be interpolated in the Constitution of the United States. I have an infinite respect for the right of petition, and I desire always to promote the interests, and to carry forward the just and proper desires of my fellow-citizens. But I must express my regret that these gentlemen have missed the opportunity, after uniting in such numbers, of calling plainly and unequivocally, as savers of the Union of their fathers, for two things-two things all-sufficient for the present occasion, and with regard to which I should expect the sympathies of the Senator from Kentucky. First, the Constitution of the United States as administered by George Washington, to be preserved intact and blameless in its text, without any tinkering or patching. And, secondly, the verdict of the people last November, by which Abraham Lincoln was elected President of the United States, to be enforced without price or faltering. There is a ground upon which every patriot and loyal citizen of the land can stand, and he has over him then the Constitution and the flag of his country. You had better have that, sir, than any scheme, device, jugglery, or hocus pocus called a compromise. On such ground, all men who really love the Union and the country can take their stand without an ”if" or a ”but." I remember, sir, on the night of the passage of the Nebraska bill,-it was after midnight,-I made the declaration in debate, that the time for compromises had passed. The events now taking place, all verify this truth. It is obvious that the existing difficulties can now be arranged only on permanent principles of justice, and freedom, and humanity. Any seeming settlement founded on an abandonment of principle will be but a miserable patchwork, which cannot succeed. It was only a short time ago, you will remember, sir, the whole country was filled with shame and dismay, as the report came to us of the surrender of Southern forts; and when it was known that Fort Sumter, too, was about to be given up, a cry went forth from the heart of the people, by which that fortress was saved-at least, for the present- Propositions are now made and brought forward by the Senator from Kentucky, and now enforced by a petition from the people of my own State, calling upon the North to surrender its principles-to surrender its impregnable principles of human rights, which constitute our Northern forts. It is even proposed now to surrender the principle of freedom in the territories-the Fort Sumter of the North. I trust, sir, they will yet be saved; and as their safety depends upon the President, I trust that the cry will go forth from the people, like that which went forth from them a few days ago, to save that other Fort Sumter when it was menaced. For myself, if I stand with many or with few, or alone. I have but one thing to say-no surrender of the Fort Sumter of the North, no surrender of any of our Northern forts. No, sir, not one. But the bankers and merchants throw out their fears, and they tell us the Government shall not have money, if we do not surrender our principles. Then, again, sir, I appeal to the people. I believe the American people are not more unpatriotic than the French, and only want the opportunity to show it-to come forward and relieve the necessities of the Government, as the French people, recently, at the hint of Louis Napoleon, came forward with a loan composed of small sums. Our Government stands upon the aggregate virtue and intelligence of the people, and it only remains now that we should make an appeal to the aggregate wealth of the people-the farmer, the laborer, the mechanic. Every man, who truly loves his country, will be willing to give of his earnings to uphold the Constitution and the national flag; and out of these small earnings, inspired by a genuine patriotism, we shall have a full treasury. There is but one thing now for the North to do-that is, to; stand firm in their position. They may be guided by one of the greatest patriots of the age, I mean Lafayette, who, in his old age, when his experience had been ripened by time, and while looking over the unutterable calamities, of the old French revolution, said, ”It was his solemn duty to declare that, in his opinion, they were to be referred not to, the bad passions of men, but to those timid counsels that sought to substitute compromise for principle." Lafayette may, well speak to his fellow-citizens now, to caution, them against any timid counsels that would substitute compromise for principle. 
The Boston petition, referred to by Mr. Sumner, so far from representing the intelligence and virtue of the city or the State, was an expression of nothing but ignorance, corruption and duplicity.
<c04>
SENATOR SEWARD.
The New York Senator has acquired the reputation of a great statesman. We confess to the weakness of having so regarded him. But since his two speeches during the present session of Congress, we see that we were entirely mistaken.
Some of his friends have apologized for his course on the ground that he is playing a deep game, by offering a compromise which he knew the South would not accept, in order to be able to justify coercive measures after the refusal. To say nothing of the want of sincerity in such a course, we have no faith in its success. If the morality of it is worthy of a Talleyrand, rather than an American statesman, we believe it is a blunder, as well as a crime. Instead of checking secession, it has encouraged it, far more than Buchanan had the power to do. To talk of concession and compromise to traitors, while they shout defiance and wave their torches over shotted guns, was as unmanly as it was unwise.
But Mr. Seward's speech not only gave new strength to the seceders—it encouraged that sickening exhibition of doughfaceism which is now disgracing the people of the North, in Union meetings and petitions to Congress. We know of nothing more pitiable than this cringing and crawling of Northern men, begging for the privilege of aiding in the extension of slavery, with all its wrongs, and horrors, and crimes, in order that they may make money. To this poor condition has the Republican party been prostituted by its leaders.
If Mr. Seward had boldly uttered the great doctrine of universal liberty as the guiding star in whatever emergencies, the people of the North would have followed his lead through the thickest of the fight. A victory in such a contest would have been worth something. But instead of doing that, he has uttered senseless platitudes, and advised nothing but concession. The light he has held aloft has been an ignis fatuus, leading into crooked and treacherous ways. He has claimed the right to save the Union, ”in his own way," as if he was omnipotent-as if, by his cowardice or treachery, he were not already a. shorn Samson, in the hands of the Southern Philistines.
He has declared that, in the face of the present danger,” slavery is no longer a practical question." In the language of the Chicago Tribune-
"Slavery was never so fearfully 'practical' as at this moment. Never before were its demands so insolent, so overbearing, so arrogant, so preposterous; never before has it gone so far in its efforts to destroy the Government. The fact is, there is no other question now before the country. That has absorbed or overriden all others. And are we to be told, with philosophic indifference, when such is the fact, that slavery is no longer a practical question? Slavery not a practical question, when, on its account, half a-dozen States have 'ordained' themselves out of the Union-not practical, when it is made the basis for treason, for open hostility to the Government, for seizing the forts, arsenals, munitions of war, custom houses, sub-treasuries and mints of the United States! Verily, if this does not make it a practical question, when was it such, or when may we expect it to such?
Slavery cannot be other than a practical question until those who control it shall have commenced the work of its peaceful and quiet eradication. Until it assumes that position, from the very nature of things it must be aggressive and practical. Nothing has satisfied it, nor will anything satisfy it, but the control of the Government. That is the only trouble now. Had Mr. Breckinridge been elected, slavery would have been content. As Mr. Lincoln was elected, nothing can pacify it save incorporating in the fundamental law the political creed of the Breckinridge party. Do that, and Mr. Lincoln, elected according to the forms of the Constitution, may take the office of President, and administer the Government. Fail to do it, and the Government shall be overthrown. For ourselves, we are free to say, that between electing Breckinridge and leaving the Constitution as it is, or electing Mr. Lincoln and incorporating Breckinridge's creed into the platform, we should have infinitely preferred the former; because, with a Constitution favoring freedom, there would be more hope for the future, even with a pro-slavery Executive, than there would be with a slave Constitution and an anti-slavery President. In the former case reform might be peacefully obtained; in the latter, it could only be reached through a bloody revolution. And yet there are men, professing to be Republicans, who are for incorporating the Breckinridge platform into the Federal Constitution, and who apologize for their action by saying that slavery is no longer a practical question!"
-Maine Journal.

AMERICA.
DUBLIN, 35 Eccles street, Jan. 26, 1861. 
To the Editor of the Dublin News:
DEAR SIR-There is no question of such deep interest before the public mind at present, as the agitated condition of the ”United States of America." The threatened separation of these States into two great nations-one of them the representative of the largest amount of liberty enjoyed by any community of civilized men; the other, of the lowest condition of human degradation the world has ever beheld among any people-is a circumstance which naturally, nay, necessarily, fixes the attention of Europe on every present movement of that far-off land. In Ireland, this feeling of deep interest is especially felt; for there is scarcely a family within our borders that has not sons or daughters, or other near and dear friends, whose interests will be seriously affected now and during their future life by the struggle which now agitates the free and the slave States of that confederacy, hitherto known as the ”United States of America."
Principles so utterly at variance as freedom and slavery, operating in the Northern and Southern sections of this unnatural coalition, it was impossible that any real union could ever have existed between them; and their present agitation is simply the necessary consequence of an unwise attempt of the original founders of the compact, to reconcile principles so antagonistic, so that it is more surprising to thoughtful men that a condition of affairs so much at variance should have been held together so long, than that these States should now seek to burst asunder those bands which have bound together elements so opposite in their nature, and which could never come into a state of amicable partnership. The social affinities here are all repellant-there is not a single atom of attractive matter in the entire mass; therefore, the body has been in a state of continual fermentation, which had no possibility of subsidence. It must fall to pieces, either under the influence of the present eruption or at no distant day, for there is no power on earth or in heaven which can keep in peace this unholy co-partnership. Sinful compromise brought the parties together; a similar attempt to overthrow everlasting laws of antagonism may, for a while, patch up the present quarrel. I hope, however, that such will not be the result, but that the North will quietly permit the South to retire from the confederacy, and bear alone the odium of all mankind,
<c05>
beneath which, and the awakened indignation of her four millions of enslaved brothers and sisters, she must soon retrace her steps, or fall into utter ruin.
But it was not for the purpose of speculating on the probabilities of the present agitation in the United States of America that I took my pen once more to address my countrymen on this most interesting topic. My object is to bring under their notice, and offer for their admiration, the excellent sentiments lately uttered by an intelligent and well-known Irishman, now a member of the Canadian Legislature-I refer to Thomas D. McGee, Esq. Some friend in Canada has sent me a copy of the Montreal Gazette of December 26th, 1860, in which I find an address of Mr. McGee; it contains sentiments that are an honor to him, and for which, as an Irishman, I offer him my warm thanks. If such sentiments found a response in the heart of every Irishman and every Irishwoman in America, different, indeed, would be the estimation in which we should be held in her Northern States from that in which we now stand. Instead of being contemned as a race, faithless to our own principles of freedom, we should be honored as true-hearted men. But let our past shortcomings suffice, and may our future noble conduct make amends for all.
The Irishman, abroad and at home, who does not stand up for liberty for all, for the black man as well as the white man, is a dishonored man; base as any slave who toils willingly beneath the lash, and evinces no desire (if there be such a wretch in existence) to burst his chains asunder. Would to God there was not such an Irishman, such a man of any land, on the face of the earth!
I take the following extracts from Mr. McGee's address to the” St. Patrick's Literary Association," and I commend them to the patriotism and the manly feelings of my countrymen. We shall never gain the respect of mankind, and what is better still, the respect of our own hearts, until we make the everlasting principles of justice and truth the rule and practice of our lives.
Speaking of the Anti-Slavery movement, and of some noble American friends of it, Mr. McGee says: 
"Citizens of Irish birth, like all others, ought then to have given it, at least, a fair hearing. The Irish should have been, from their antecedents, among the first to feel for the woes of the oppressed, and to desire that the bondsman might be set free. I intend to appeal-I think in the interests of our common reputation I am entitled to appeal to the Irish in the United States, in the name of their original countrymen, in Canada, that they will not by any artful instigation of ancient animosities-that they will not, out of any supposed antagonism to English diplomacy in America, suffer themselves to be enlisted with the forlorn hope of human slavery in the Northern States. Ship-owners, manufacturers and merchants of Boston, New York and Philadelphia will invite them as working men and as Irishmen, to sustain what they call their 'conservative'-that is, their selfish pecuniary principles, by their numerical strength and ardent enthusiasm. They may be deluded into taking that position; they may, under a falsely interpreted sense of duty to the Constitution, become the active instruments of the last pro-slavery struggle; but let them take it from me, frankly and while it is yet time, they will fail, and their leaders will fail. Not all the sophistry of the advocates, not all the money of the merchants, can ever again bury the wrongs of the enslaved out of sight, on this continent. There is a black cloud over the South, from the Susquehanna to the Rio Grande, and it will not pass away till four million hands, from which the manacles have been knocked off, are raised in prayer to their Father in Heaven, to pardon the oppressions of the past, for the sake of the tardy justice which at length has been done to them. (Applause.) Twice, within a few years, I have had cause to hang my head in shame for Irish honor in America. Once, when a brilliant and honest writer, but whose sanity is very uncertain, Mr. Mitchel, publicly advocated the re-opening by the South of that traffic-accursed of God and man-the African Slave-trade. The second time was recently, on reading the vigorous speech of Mr. Charles O'Conor, at the Union meeting in New York, where that gentleman laid down the extraordinary proposition, that 'political parties should never be divided upon moral questions.' If Mr. O'Conor withdraws every ethical foundation and parties, I should like to know upon what other foundation will he plant them? If he disarms his politics and his party of all moral force, how can he longer speak of 'the duty' of the citizen to the Constitution he has 'sworn' to uphold? What, indeed, becomes of oaths and duties, if morals and politics are to be divided by so great a gulf! There was not an intelligent Pagan in the ancient world, two thousand years ago, who would not have rejected with horror this maxim which was welcomed, we are told, with 'applause,' by many of the most intelligent citizens of New York! For my own part, I feel that some Irish voice should utterly repudiate it, and I do so as heartily as I repudiate the other iniquitous notion, of the re-opening of the African slave-trade. (Renewed applause.)"
Referring to what he considers the not unnatural anxieties of Irishmen in America to preserve a union which, in my mind, he thinks too highly of, he yet keeps his countrymen to the point of honest principle when he says:-
"Such a prospect is quite enough to make rational men bear and forbear many things; but on the other band arises, in all consciences, this previous question, Are we to commit actual wrong, lest we suffer prospective evil? Are we to prove ourselves more inhospitable to the fugitive within our gate, than the Arab and the Tartar! Are we to betray the Edomite though he be our brother-are we to forget that we also were strangers in the land of Egypt? Are we to learn the anathema even of the Mahommedan, whose Koran proclaims-'Cursed be he that betrays his guest, or that shutteth his door upon the son of the road'? (Applause.) These questions will clamor of answers in every man's breast, and they can be answered by Christian men only in one way; I trust-I sincerely trust-a way may be found by the far-seeing freemen of the North, of all origins, to answer them with safe consciences, and still to preserve to the continent the inestimable blessings of the Federal Constitution. (Applause.)"
After alluding, in feeling and true-hearted terms, to the case of the escaped slave, John Anderson, he concludes with these noble words:-
"I cannot conclude the observations I have offered you on this subject, without sending forth in my own name, in your name, and the name of all the Irish in Canada, to our brethren in the United States, our fraternal prayer and petition, that they win not-for the honor of the common fatherland, dear to us all-that they will not, as countrymen of those great orators of Ireland, who, from Burke to O'Connell. were sworn foes of human slavery, in every clime and under every pretext-that they will not, for their own sake, for our sake, for Ireland's sake, suffer themselves to be enlisted in this last struggle, among the forlorn hope of the pro-slavery or philo-slavery party, in the neighboring republic. (Enthusiastic applause.)"
Countrymen, turn over a new leaf, stand up man fully for the honor of Old Ireland, be faithful in future and for evermore, in despite of every opposing consideration, to your own consciences, to you oppressed fellow-creatures, and to the great God who created you. Every other road leads to ruin and dishonor.
I remain, your countryman and friend,
JAMES HAUGHTON.
<c06>
THE HOROSCOPE OF AMERICA.
Startling Predictions of Events soon to Transpire.
We published (says the Herald of Progress) several remarkable predictions a number of weeks before the fall elections. At the time, the extravagant statements were very generally disregarded. Since, however, many of the prophecies have been literally fulfilled, and the public are naturally curious to reread them, and to compare prediction with facts. We republish, in order to meet the large demand:-
CHAGRIN FALLS, Ohio, Sept. 20, 1860.
BROTHER DAVIS,-After three successive lectures in this place, discussing the laws and principles of growth and development, the following prophecies were expressed. They were made in the fourth lecture:-
1.”There will be a dissolution of the Union.
2.”A Free Republic will grow up at the North. There will be civil war carried on by the rabble and lower classes among the masses. The Republican candidate will get the popular vote, but will not be inaugurated. There will be two great parties organized.
3.”The 'Liberals' in politics and religion will unite on the one side, and the Catholics, Democrats, and all conservative men and women, on the other side.
4.”Slavery will be abolished by revolution, insurrection among the slaves, war, and blood. 
5."Next winter, Congress will get in a broil. They will fight. Blood will flow.
6.”My consciousness is, that this Nation will be dead as a Nation before the 4th of March next.
7.”Almost simultaneous with the close of the November election, will be another crash among the banks, similar to the one of 1857.
8.”By and by we will have great diseases, and new forms of disease, unknown to physicians.
9.”We will have war, famine, political commotion, and earthquakes, and hurricanes.
10.”Healing mediums will be developed to cure disease.
11.”England is to be harassed by France, and Russia will assist France; and when England as a crushed as a nation, America will aid her.
12.”We will have no more Presidents-the present one will not serve his time out.
13.”Canada will enter the new Republic in America.
14.”Ohio will be the centre of that Republic, and Cleveland will be the capital.
15.”Our present Constitution will be the basis of the new Republican government, but will be remodeled.
16.”After the transition is passed, Theocracy will be the true form of government.
17.”Ultimately the Southern States will gradually come into the new government. 
18.”The Negroes will ultimately be colonized in Central America.
19.”In the transitional, or Republican government, women will take an active part; but in the more perfect form of government, or Theocracy, the male and female elements will be equally balanced."
Such are the prophecies of the lecturer. To say that I know they are true, or to call them all ”moonshine" and ”fanaticism," would be equally unjust. The most casual observer cannot but conclude, that we are on the eve of great crises both in Church and State. The thrones of the old world are tottering on their foundations-are swayed to and fro by the breezes of Liberty, that blow from off the broad plains of humanity. 
The Christian world is divided into more than six hundred contending parties, and in the midst of all these, the powerful and increasing army of ”Liberals" is marshaling the best minds of the age.
Our own government, during the present campaign, is split into fine fragments; and the great question of human slavery is rending the Nation to the very centre. It is totally impossible for slavery and liberty to perpetuate a parallel existence, hence one or the other must succumb. Disruptions in the strata of human nature, therefore, may not be apprehended in vain. I am exceedingly skeptical in regard to prophecies of any character, but submit the foregoing, as they were uttered, thinking they may arouse the latent energies of human thought, and cause men to labor more zealously for the establishment of human rights.
Thine, for the Truth,
H. B. VINCENT.

S. M. BOOTH IN THE COUNTY JAIL-CONSTITUTION AND MIND BREAKING UP.
There is no sight so lamentable and so calculated to awaken pity, as that of a once prominent and talented man utterly prostrated and broken down either by unavoidable misfortunes, or by the calamitous result of his own misconduct.
When one witnesses such a spectacle, all bitterness and hatred are forgotten, and he sincerely begins to pity, and wish it were otherwise.
A condition similar to this of which we have spoken, is now shared by Booth, who is suffering the penalty of the law for his own rashness, in the county jail of this city. We are informed that he is completely broken down, to all appearance, and he certainly must be if there is a spark of the human left in his composition. For to be confined in a contracted county jail, and made to room with thieves, burglars, gin and whisky wrecks, and the miserable scullions that are wont to fill a jail in a large city, (as is the case with Booth,) cannot but gall the soul of one possessed of the talent and education he has had, so as to fairly drive him to madness.
He had a superior education at Yale College, and at one time was regarded as one of the most talented men in the State. Now, he is made to herd with the vilest of the vile in the county jail, during the day, and at night is confined in a cell the same as his fellow-prisoners. We are informed that those who formerly knew him, would hardly recognize him now, so changed is his appearance. His eyes and cheeks are sadly sunken, his clothes feel the want of a tailor or seamstress, and he has all the appearance of a man who might almost as well be dead as alive.
At the same time, it cannot be denied that he has brought all this upon himself. He who violates the laws of his country or society must expect to suffer the bitter consequences. And yet he could have obtained his freedom long since, but for what seems to us to be a mistaken pride and a dogged obstinacy. Still even the most imperious sticklers for the law cannot but pity him now, and acknowledge that the iron dignity of the law has been fully vindicated. His of fence has been more than atoned for by its suffering, and it certainly would be an act of humanity were the now set a t liberty.
We clip the above from the Milwaukee Wisconsin, and we feel somewhat surprised, that a paper which has before time expressed hostility to American slavery, should regard so complacently the judicial tyranny that has been imposed on a man whose only offence was loving freedom too well, and manfully helping another to obtain, that God-given right, of which he had been so unjustly robbed. In this, Sherman M. Booth violated an enactment which ten years ago filled the whole civilized world with horror-a law declared unconstitutional by the highest
The United States Constitution is ”a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House," in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of person. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession." -JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
tribunal in the very State where the offence was committed. When human conduct is measured by the morality of the royal law, as expounded by Jesus of Nazareth in his sermon on the mount, and man's sense of right and justice is no longer warped by the baleful shadow which now hangs over us, the offence committed by Sherman M. Booth will be commended by the press of America, as it is now by the press of all Christendom besides. This case most forcibly illustrates the maxim that " there is no greater iniquity than that which is committed under the name of law."-Grand Haven Clarion.

WHAT OUGHT THE NORTH TO CONCEDE?
Extract from a pamphlet, characterised by much force of reasoning, entitled 'SECESSION, CONCESSION, OR SELF-POSSESSION - WHICH?' by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, published by Walker, Wise & Co.
What ought the North to concede?
The answer is simple. To preserve the Union, we ought to concede any thing but that which the Union is intended to secure. The Union is a means, not an end. We must not sacrifice the end to the means. The end of the Union is to secure prosperity, peace, justice, equal rights, and liberty. It is evident, therefore, that these are not to be sacrificed, even to preserve the Union. We must not surrender any of the principles which are at the foundation of the State, and on which the Union itself was built, even to preserve the Union. Compromises are good when they surrender what is expedient only, giving up a part of a good thing to save the rest; but not good when they surrender justice and right.
The Union is a means to an end. Give up the end in order to preserve the means, and both become worthless; but if you preserve the end, though you lose the means, then other means may be found to take their place. Suppose the Union is dissolved. It is a great evil, no doubt. But is it irreparable? Is it impossible to do in 1860 that which was done in 1787? Were the people so much better and wiser in those days than they are now? or did the framers of the Constitution enjoy some special divine inspiration which we have not? Have we no longer trust in a Divine Providence which will guide us to-day as it guided our fathers then?
For no light or common cause should we surrender the Union; but for no light cause will it be surrendered. The danger is not that way, as far as the people of the Free States are concerned. All history shows that people will bear almost any thing, and concede almost every thing, before they will consent to any great change in their institutions. This is as true now as when it was asserted in the Declaration of Independence, that "all experience has shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed." The danger often is, that, from fear of change, we shall concede what we ought not to concede, and so throw upon our posterity the duty of making the change when it has become still more difficult.
Men talk about the Union and our present Constitution as though they were arrived at by some happy accident or some secular conjunction of the planets, which could happen only once in a thousand years. But the Constitution was then adopted, and the Union formed, because they corresponded to the opinions and wishes of the people. For the same reason, they have continued. The same kind of constitutions, and forms of government, as good as ours, have been adopted by Mexico and by the South American States; but, not corresponding to the character of the people, they have been useless and inefficient. The convictions of the people of South Carolina and Georgia, in regard to liberty and slavery, have wholly changed since the Union was formed and the Constitution adopted. They do not now believe in democratic and republican institutions: hence they wish to separate. When they do, they will immediately attempt to establish some consolidated system, some kind of despotism. The substance of democracy will be immediately relinquished, and its forms will speedily follow. But the people of the North still believe firmly in republican principles: consequently, if the present form of government should be dissolved, another of the same kind will very soon replace it.
It is emphatically true in this case, that, where there's a will, there's a way. While we believe in the end, there will be no difficulty about the means. While we cherish faith in justice, humanity, and freedom, so long as we believe in the principles of democracy and in true republicanism, so long we shall be able to organize these principles in suitable institutions. Spenser says truly, thatï¿½
"Of the soul the body form doth take;
For soul is form, and doth the body make."
We must not, therefore, sacrifice the soul of our institutions for the sake of preserving the body; for we should in that case have only a dead body, soon to be dissolved.
The moral of this is, that those who undertake to save the Union by surrendering any principles of liberty or of justice are unsound and dangerous men, unfit to be trusted with any influence in our affairs. They are men who see the value of methods, but not the superior value of principles. They foolishly suppose that the body of a nation makes its soul, not Knowing that the soul makes the body. They value forms more than substance, means more than ends. Their counsels have already brought us, step by step, to the verge of dissolution. To save the Union, they have always been ready to surrender every thing which gave the Union value. By their advice, and to save the Union, we consented to the annexation of Texas, to the Mexican War, to surrender the Wilmot Proviso, to pass the Fugitive Slave Law, to repeal the Missouri Compromise; and now they advise us to surrender every remaining barrier of freedom against the encroachments of slavery.
What can the North concede for the sake of union?
All sorts of concessions are proposed. We are invited to repeal all our laws which were enacted in order to secure the personal liberty of our citizens; to allow the whole immense territory of the United States to be made slave territory; to divide it between slavery and freedom: to forbid the discussion of slavery in the free States. And especially we are invited, above all things else, and as the most essential thing of all, to change our fundamental opinions on the right and wrong of slavery. We are asked to believe that it is right, and not wrong.
Now, it is evident, that, with the best dispositions in the world, we are positively unable to do some of these things. Every free State in the Union has just votedï¿½most of them by immense majoritiesï¿½that slavery ought to be excluded by law from the Territories. This vote did not proceed from impulse, but resulted from deliberate conviction. The whole question had been argued and re-argued; and the Northern mind at last settled in this deliberate conviction of duty. Even if every slave State should secede in consequence, the masses, which have gradually consolidated in the great Republican party, are determined not to surrender this principle. Convictions are not to be changed by threats. A few, who consider themselves as leaders of the Republicans, but who really never belonged to them, may give way; but they will merely thereby cease to be leaders, and fall in the rear. But the masses of great parties are logical and consistent: they move steadily forward in the direction of their ideas. Whatever Republican leader consents to compromise a Republican principle for the sake of peace or union, at once disappears from all leadership in the party. Such will probably be the fate of very many Northern men, who will follow the footsteps of Messrs. Everett, Winthrop, Hillard. and others, into private life. This is inevitable.
The Republican party is firmly convinced, that the only safety for the country is to be found in repressing slavery by all constitutional means. It has a constitutional right to repress it in the Territories. It will not touch it in the States; but it will not fail to exclude it from the Territories. Any Republican who consents to admit slavery into a single acre of territory belonging to the Union ceases to be a Republican.
All talk, therefore, of reviving the Missouri Compromise line, and all schemes of the sort, are idle. The people have lost their faith in compromises. There is an upper and a nether mill-stone of principle, between which all such compromises will be ground to powder. The upper mill-stone is the conviction, that slavery is a wrong and an evil, and ought to be abolished wherever we have the power to do so: the lower mill-stone is the conviction, that slavery is right and good, and ought to be extended. Between these two principles there can be no compromise, but only irrepressible conflict. There is a large body, no doubt, of well-meaning but illogical men, who do not perceive it. They have no clear conviction on the subject. They do not know whether slavery is right or wrong, good or bad. They think it is rather good, and rather bad; right here, and wrong there. They call themselves practical people,
<c02>
and think that they are choosing the golden mean, the safe middle way: and so they say peace, where there is no peace; they daub the wall with untempered mortar, put new wine into old bottles, new cloth into an old garment, try to serve two masters; and so lose, at last, all efficiency, and float helplessly, like driftwood, on any current.
There are some questions which cannot be postponed for ever. They must at last be decided. From time to time, there comes a day of judgment to nations as to men, when the axe is laid at the root of the tree. Apparently, that time has come with us in regard to slavery, when the issue must be met and the question settled. The money-market may refuse to see it; but the day of judgment is at hand. It comes, as it always comes, like a thief in the night, taking us wholly by surprise. It finds the foolish virgins with no oil in their lamps; incapable, therefore, of giving us any light. But there are those who have long been expecting this crisis, and who are not taken unprepared; watchmen who have seen the sword coming, and have given the people warning; Cassandras, indeed, whose predictions have been always disbelieved, but have spoken their word, whether men would hear or forbear. They have known well that this question must at last be decided. Often have they implored the people to decide it, when it was easier than it is now: but now the time has come when the people themselves feel that any further postponement is impossible; that the issue must be met, and met now.

SLAVERY AND THE NEW TESTAMENT.
Extract from a very able Review of Rev. Henry J. Van Dyke's Discourse on 'The Character and Influence of Abolitionism,' by Rev. J. R. W. Sloane:ï¿½ 
We come now to the New Testament. We confess our astonishment that he did not shrink back affrighted at the monstrous character of his assertions and inferences. Slavery he affirms was just as common in Judea in the time of Christ as to-day in South Carolina! That Christ was familiar with the laws of Roman slavery! That no man, having any pretensions to scholarship or candor, would allege that these laws were as mild as the very worst statutes of the slave codes of modern times! That the Savior was acquainted with the law that gave the master the power of life and death over his slave, and with all the vast abuses of the system, and that, nevertheless, there is no rebuke or denunciation of the system! That while all other sins are freely and fully condemned, this is never mentioned but in terms of the utmost respect! Of course, there is but one inferenceï¿½He approved. Christ then approved a system that gave the master the right to put his slave to death at his pleasure, a system never matched in atrocity except by that prevailing among us, one which the writers of that age mention only to excite abhorrence of a period that could endure such wickedness, one which has called forth the most indignant bursts of condemnation from all modern writers who have treated of that epoch, and which more than any other cause, perhaps more than all other causes, contributed to the overthrow of the proud fabric of the Roman Empire. It remained for the Christian ministry of this land to find this lowest deep of moral perversion, and to baptize this horror of the centuries with the sanction of Jesus Christ! 
It is not difficult to detect the monstrous fallacy of the position. The assumption that slavery existed at that time in Judea is wholly gratuitous; the statement is without the shadow of proof; on the contrary, forbidden as it was to Israel, there is every reason to conclude that it did not exist there in any form or degree, and that Christ did not come in contact with a slave during the course of his ministry. Will Mr. Van Dyke tell us what sort of slavery this was which Christ did not reprove? Roman slavery, he says. What then had become of Hebrew servitude? When did it disappear? When did the other atrocious system take its place in Judea? But who does not see the fallacy of the attempt to sanction, from the silence of Christ in the New Testament, a system not only so opposed to all principles of natural justice, but so directly in the face of those tremendous denunciations against oppression in the Old Testament? The sect of the Essenes existed in the time of Christ. Yet they are not even mentioned; no allusion to them even by him or his apostlesï¿½except very obscure references to this sect be allowed in one or two passages. Are we, therefore, to conclude that Christ approved of their perversions of the Scriptures, and their denial of the doctrine of the resurrection? Christ does not mention idolatry; did he therefore approve of idol worship? He does not once mention or allude to the gladiatorial combats; are they, therefore, a divine institution? But the apostles spoke of these things, says an objector. They spoke nothing of the Essenes, or, at any rate, obscurely, and, if any thing, respectfully; so of the gladiatorial contests. They spoke also of slavery. The law, Paul reminds Timothy, was made for man-stealers, an advice not unnecessary in some quarters at the present time; at any rate, nothing could be more delightful than a discourse from Mr. Van Dyke upon that declaration. Fancy now this reverend apologist for slavery attempting an argument with some distinguished champion of "the ring;" he commences by calling prize-fighting unnatural, cruel, brutal, wicked, or by whatever other epithet he may find most expressive of his abhorrence and detestation of such brutality. Stop a moment, if you please, says the gladiator, "I am no heathen philosopher, groping my way by the feeble glimmerings of the light of nature, no modern infidel appealing to the corrupt and fickle tribunal of human reason; I plant myself upon the Inspired Word; my motto is, 'To the law and to the testimony.' Where in the New Testament, either by Christ or his apostles, is my calling forbidden?" While Mr. Van Dyke is thinking up his passages, our champion turns upon him, "Every body knows, sir, that it is no sin to knock a man down under certain circumstances; as to its cruelties, they are nothing compared to what occurs sometimes in families; there is, sir, as you have stated, a child in an orphan asylum in Brooklyn, who was thrown by its father into the fire, and almost roasted to death: better save your 'tears and shrieks' for children, and leave men to take care of themselves. So far from being inhuman, as you represent it, we are the very best of friends; besides, the Scriptures always speak of it in terms most respectful; you don't consider yourself better than the Apostle Paul, do you, Mr. Van Dyke? Hear what he says: 'So fight I, not as one that beateth the air.' 'I keep my body under'ï¿½a clear reference to our abstemious habits, when preparing for the combat. More than this, sir, he compares the heavenly assembly to the respectable company which assemble to witness our manly sport: 'Therefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses.' These things, too, were spoken in the time of the Roman games, much more brutal than ours, as every scholar and man of candor must admit, before the ameliorating influences of the Gospel had produced so marked a change upon our pursuit!" Where is the Rev. Apologist in such an argument? 
But, then, was Christ silent? I answer most positively that he was not All things which he said are not recorded, for the simple reason that the world would not contain the books; but, did he not constantly appeal to the Old Testament Scriptures? Are we, in order to please a few contemptible slaveholders, to suppose that he omitted those passages which denounce oppression? And if those passages did not condemn Roman slavery, for what purpose were they written? What is oppression if slavery is not? But, again: the great principles of his teachings are diametrically opposed to all such iniquities; and, were men to practise them, American slavery would terminate before to-morrow's sun shall sink in the west "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," words quoted almost literally from the Mosaic law, with reference to men of another race; one of those two commandments upon which hang all the law and the prophets. Does the slaveholder love his neighbor as himself? Can the toiling slave obey this divine command? I am sure I could not were I in his place, and my neighbor interpreted to mean my master or overseer. Christ's first sermon was an abolition discourse, from an incendiary publication called the Prophecy of Isaiah, an anti-slavery book of the Old Testament The text which he selected was this memorable passage, "The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the Gospel to the poor, to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised." "Therefore, whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets." But what is the great sum of Christ's teaching? Love to man and to God. What the great end, but to fill the earth with love and peace? As far as the east is distant from the west as far as light is from darkness, as heaven from hell, so far are the teachings of the divine Savior of the world from any alliance with this dark and bloody despotism.
<c03>.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1861. 
LETTER OF REV. GILBERT HAVEN. 
The letter from this gentleman, which occupies a large portion of our last page, would have been published more promptly, if our columns had not been crowded with other matter. If we had declined inserting it, however, we should have felt justified in doing so; for it is no answer to the denial we made, but simply a repetition of the same unsupported allegations made in his discourse, only in still more objectionable language. We do not feel called upon, therefore, to enter upon an elaborate review of this letter, as it would be little better than beating the air. But we will bestow upon it a few comments. 
What are the facts in the case? In the course of a really able and eloquent discourse delivered by Mr. Haven on "The Cause and the Consequence of the Election of Abraham Lincoln," he undertook to give a bird's-eye view of the rise and progress of the Anti-Slavery struggle; but while referring to us in commendatory terms for its origination, he could not refrain from an invidious personal impeachment of our religious character, as follows:ï¿½ 
"Would that, in his sphere of effort, and to the measure of his large abilities and influence, he had kept this liberty from becoming licentiousness! Would that he, like Wilberforce, had kept his heart sweet with prayer and piety through the whole of this great war!" 
In reply to this, we saidï¿½ 
"How are such disparaging accusations and invidious comparisons to be met? Where all is vague, nothing of course is tangible. In what does our 'licentiousness' consist? Who have advocated a more faithful adherence to principle, or a more uncompromising regard for the laws and commands of God, than ourselves? When or where have we played fast-and-loose with the claims of humanity or the demands of justice? When has ours been a whiffling standard? Or when have we been beguiled from the path of duty, or allowed others to stray therefrom, on the ground of expediency or worldly policy? Impeached in this sweeping manner, we have a right to call for explicit answers to these questions." 
Now let the reader turn to the verbose rejoinder of Mr. Haven, and find, if he can, any attempt to give "explicit answers to these questions"-for we cannot. In the above extract from his sermon, his assumption of religious superiority is as offensive as his reference to Wilberforce is uncalled for. We beg leave, very respectfully, to doubt the infallibility of Mr. Haven and Mr. Wilberforce alike; and we deny that the adoption of their peculiar theological opinions is at all necessary to escape from "licentiousness" on the one hand, or to maintain the integrity and vitality of the Anti-Slavery cause on the other. It was not because of his "evangelical" views that Wilberforce so nobly exerted himself for the abolition of the slave trade, but on account of his large humanity and strong sense of justice. Nor was it till he espoused the cause of the despised negro that he found a cross, or manifested any moral heroism whatever; and for this he will be gratefully remembered by posterity,-not for accepting and repeating mere speculative religious tenets which were then every where accepted in Church and State, and therefore sure to secure for him a wide but cheap popularity. If Mr. Haven is disposed to endorse the entire creed of Wilberforce, we have no complaint to make. But we beg leave to ask, with no wish to wound his feelings, whether it was not a most irrelevant and impertinent act, on his part, in the delivery of an anti-slavery discourse, to cast an imputation upon our religious character, and to call us to account as a heretic, and a supporter of heresy? Aside from the question of abolitionism, we have no objection to his exposing and lamenting any of our heresies; but every thing in its place, and in order. The Anti-Slavery cause belongs not to Methodists, or Baptists, or Presbyterians, or to any particular sect, but to ALL MANKIND, whatever their theological diversities of opinion. It is based upon the constitution of man, and not upon a religious creed. In alluding to our connection with it, therefore, it was competent for Mr. Haven to show, if he could, when or where we had faltered in its support through fear of persecution or for selfish ends, and to rebuke us accordingly. Beyond this he had no right to goï¿½it was "travelling out of the record," and raising a false and an impertinent issue; nor would he have done so, we are constrained to believe, if the priest had not mastery over the man, and his dogmatic theology a higher place in his estimation than the cause of bleeding humanity. But he does not pretend that we have not faithfully adhered to the slave, against tremendous odds, and under the most trying circumstances. Why, then, seek to make our example ineffective in this particular, and to prevent general unity of feeling and action for the deliverance of the fettered bondman, by exciting sectarian animosity against us? Cannot Mr Haven understand that our conscientious convictions, touching certain religious ideas, are as dear to us as his can be to himself; that our fallibility is matched by his own; and that we are not farther removed from him than he is from us? But when, in noticing anything that may have fallen from his lip or pen, or from the lip or pen of any other person, on the subject of slavery, have we gone out of our way to lament that he did not see eye to eye with us on other matters? When have we not welcomed him to the Anti-Slavery platform, or to equal membership, in the American Anti-Slavery Society? Never! How is it, or why is it, then, that whenever he alludes to our labors in behalf of "the suffering and the dumb" in our land, he must accompany it with a disparaging assault upon our theological views? And so of the clergy generally. Certainly, it is not the result of "remembering those in bonds as bound with them," but arises from a very different source. It belongs to the cloth, but not to humanity. We pronounce it out of place, and the offspring of papal arrogance. It is this spirit which has kept thousands and millions at the North from " mingling into one, like kindred drops," for the abolition of our great national iniquity, and, by thus exciting religious prejudices (the hardest to be vanquished) against the faithful few who have dared to be true to the slave, without regard to sect or party, has mightily helped to strengthen the hands and further the designs of the oppressor. "Stand byï¿½I am holier than thou," has done more to advance the kingdom of darkness in the world than any other trait of character. 
But, leaving this, we turn to another point. In the sermon of Mr. Haven, already referred to, he saysï¿½ 
"Led by his love of free speech, he (Garrison) permitted some of his leading associates to burden the 'animosus infans' with gross infidelities and social absurdities." 
To this we repliedï¿½ 
"We deny the charge, and call for the evidence. None of our 'leading associates' have sought to do any such thing. They have advocated the anti-slavery cause with all fidelity upon its own merits, and have not sought to burden it with any extraneous question. Nor is it for us to 'permit' them to do either this or that, as one in authority: they are of age, and speak for themselves. When Mr. Haven will point out the 'gross infidelities and social absurdities' to which he refers, we will give them our gravest consideration. Till then, the imputation is a stab in the dark." 
The denial is explicitï¿½how is it met? By a particle of evidence? No. Only by reiterating the same libellous charges! Read his letter, and see. He coolly says:ï¿½ 
"You ask for proofs. Many names and facts arise in my mind, but the utterance of them would only lead me into a painful and profitless controversy. In the very paper in which this demand is made, is a communication from one of these "leading associates," who has uttered in many meetings of your Society, and in the columns of the Liberator, most fearful blasphemies against the Bible, the Church, "the glorious Gospel of the blessed God," has advocated many social absurdities in "the conduct of life," and been especially offensive to all truly cultured natures in his assaults on the sacred ordinance of marriage." 
Of the "many names" that he might enumerate he does not venture to specify one! True, he refers 
<c04>
the author of a certain communication in our colnns, but shrinks from calling him by name, (as well <illegible> might,) while preferring against him the vilest <illegible>-charges which any jury would pronounce tensely libellous, and which is a wild misrepresentation. They equally shock and astonish us. Let Mr. Haven show, if he can, that they are true to any extent, or confess himself to be "an accuser of the <illegible>ethren." Instead of doing this, he abruptly turns from is utterer of "fearful blasphemies," and attempts to involve us in the same condemnation! Now mark is method of PROOF! In reviewing a sermon of Rev. Mr. White, of New York, we saidï¿½ 
"Its assertion, that 'every cause must stand or fall <illegible> the verdict of the Bible,' indicates a tread-mill <illegible>verence or a traditional credulity, and not close, independent thinking. We totally dissent from this <illegible>. The Bible has settled nothing in theology, science, morality, or religion, beyond the prevailing opinions of the times. Neither human rights nor human obligations originate with or depend upon any <illegible>ing in the Bible." 
Well, how does Mr. Haven meet this plain statement? Why, by sayingï¿½"Similar remarks concerning other axioms of historic, Biblical, vital Christianity are found in the same article. They are, in my judgment, grossly infidel." Indeed! Infidel to declare that "neither human rights nor human obligations originate with or depend upon any thing in the Bible"! Did not these rights and obligations exist before a single verse of the Bible was written, and will they not survive all manuscript? Infidel to say that "the Bible has settled nothing in theology, science, morality or religion, beyond the prevailing opinions of the times "! Then, all history is "gross infidelity," and the past teaches no lesson of change in ideas or in the methods of interpretation. 
What has been SETTLED by the Bible? Has Methodism, or Baptistism, or Presbyterianism, or Episcopalianism, or Swedenborgianism, or Unitarianism, or Universalism, or Catholicism? If so, by whom, on whose ipse dixit, or to what extent? Has the rightfulness or wrongfulness of slavery, war, the death-penalty, woman's rights, the various forms of civil government, from the despotic to the democratic, &., &c. yet been SETTLED by the Bible? Nothing of the kind. Experience shows that the book is plastic as clay in the hands of the potter, each individual being left free to interpret it for himself. 
But what has this to do with the Anti-Slavery cause? What Anti-Slavery Society is to be held responsible for the management of the Liberator, or for the sentiments of any of its correspondentsï¿½or for the religious teachings of Theodore Parker, or any other manï¿½or for any thing in the world, except what it OFFICIALLY approves and circulates? Why, but to gratify a sectarian spirit, group together and confound associated action, for a specific object, with individual freedom and independence on all questions concerning human destiny? What if we do go to Music Hall, rather than to a Methodist place of worship? That liberty we shall not surrender, even to obtain the religious endorsement of the Pope himselfï¿½much less that of the Rev. Gilbert Haven. But, again we ask, what has this to do with the Abolition question? 
Mr. Haven's attack upon the lamented Theodore Parker is characterized by intense bitterness. As we have never undertaken to defend the theological views of any man, we do not feel called upon to do so in this case. To brand the teachings of Mr. Parker as "gross infidelity" is to beg the question, and proves nothing but the accuser's facility to call names and make invidious allegations. Mr. Parker was not a member of any Anti-Slavery Society; but if he had been, his right to promulgate his own views, theologically would have been no less than that claimed and constantly exercised by Mr. Haven. The assertion of Mr. H., that Mr. Parker "denounced with the most unsparing invective the revival of God's work, (!) and declared the operations of the Holy Spirit (!) to be but the cunning devices of the ministers of Jesus Christ," (!) we pronounce utterly untrue. That revival was manifestly not of God, but a device of the Adversary, specially designed to draw off attention from the wrongs of the slave, to strengthen the tottering walls of an apostate church, and to subserve the purposes of a hireling priesthood. Exceptional cases do not alter the general fact. Such a revival is more to be dreaded than a visitation of the Asiatic cholera. It swept over the whole country like an epidemic or a prairie conflagration, but its converts were the most numerous in the blood-stained South. Where is the evidence that it ever broke a fetter, or in any degree affected the moral condition of society for the better? Is not the South, at this hour, exhibiting the scenes of Pandemonium? Has it ever behaved so infernally as since this transforming (?) revival swept through it? And as for the North, has its demoralization ever been greater than now? It is not true, then, that "Parker struck at the Church in her highest possible work; struck at her when God was prospering that work;" he only exposed the hollowness of a trimming, time-serving, canting, spasmodic, pro-slavery revival, and therein did a noble work for true religion. So Jesus, the demonized, (for they said, "He hath a devil,") and the blasphemer, (for the priests said, "We have heard his blasphemy,") boldly impeached the religion of his day, pouring contempt upon its sanctimonious pretensions, and declaring of its zealots that "they compass sea and land to make proselytes, and when they have done so, they make them two-fold more the children of hell than themselves." Quite as "infidel," "blasphemous," and "anti-Christian" as Parkerism!
As Mr. Haven refers reproachfully to the farewell Letter of Mr. Parker to his Congregation, we venture to make a single extract from it, which, it seems to us, is quite pertinent in this connection:ï¿½ 
"Since my present illness began, some of my theological foes have, publicly to the world, and privately to me, expressed their delight that I am not likely to trouble them much longer; in my present feebleness they read the answer to their prayers for my removal. It was the Psalmist's petition: 'Let not mine enemies triumph over me!' But I shall utter none such. If I fall and die, let' mine enemies' rejoice as much as they will at the consequent thought that there is one feeble voice the less, rebuking the vice of the Press, the State, the Market, and the Church, to speak a word for Truth, Freedom, Justice, and Natural Religion; let them be glad there is one weak arm the less reaching out help to the poor, the drunken, the ignorant, the harlot, the felon, and the slave; let them thank God for the premature decrepitude of my voice, the silence of my study, where worms perchance devour my books, more dear even than costly; let them find 'answer to our prayers' in the sorrow of my personal friends,ï¿½there are now many such,ï¿½in the keen distress of my intimates, and the agony of my wife: I complain nothing thereat. Every tree must bear after its own kind, not another, and their 'religion' must yield such fruits." 
Mr. Haven saysï¿½"I was greatly pained, a few years since, to hear you say, in the Melodeon, that the evangelical religion, which you truly said was the faith of the nation, was so bound up with the system of slavery, that the only way to destroy this monster was to destroy that faith." Having never entertained such a sentiment, we never made such a declaration; on the contrary, we have many times said that there must necessarily be the same difference of religious views after emancipation as now exists; and that these views, whether evangelical or otherwise, have nothing to do with the pro-slavery or anti-slavery character of those who embrace them. 
Mr. Haven is mistaken in saying that the meeting which the mob in this city broke up in 1835 was "an anti-slavery prayer meeting." It was a regular meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society; but the error is of no consequence. He is also mistaken in supposing that the American Anti-Slavery Society ever was so exclusive as to call an "evangelical prayer meeting"; and it is not a little edifying when he saysï¿½"If the Managers of that Society would appoint one, I have no doubt a great multitude of Christians would gladly be present, and share with them the godly pleasure, and, if need be, the ungodly persecutions of the hour." Strange that "Christians," even "a great multitude," should wait for the movement of an "infidel" society in that direction! Why do they not respond to the invitation and example of the 
<c05>
Christian Anti-Slavery Society," against whose orthodoxy no imputation can be thrown? But they give it as wide a berth as though it were infected with the plague!
Mr. Haven says that the Methodist Church North does not "welcome" slaveholders to its communion table. Nevertheless, it receives them without rebuke or discipline. Thousands of slaves are still held as chattels by members of that Church. There is no offset to this in the refusal of Mr. Haven to allow a slave-holding Doctor of Divinity to occupy his pulpit!

ORTHODOX CONSERVATIVES AND ORTHODOX REFORMERS.
The Boston Review, which proposes to be "a New England organ of the Puritan Theology," or, as its conductors more precisely declare, an echo of the doctrine of "Calvin, the Westminster Divines, and Edwards," has just put forth its first number. Its conductors are Rev. Doctors Joseph Tracy, Samuel M. Worcester, Nathan Lord, John A. Albro, Enoch Pond, Parsons Cooke, J. B. Felt, Nehemiah Adams, J. A. Copp, and Reverends John Pike, J. C. Bodwell, B. F. Hosford, E. Cutler, E. P. Marvin, J. T. Tucker, N. Munroe, and W. Barrows. 
It is a significant fact that these clergymen are among the persons in New England most strongly opposed to any interference with slavery. The longest article in this first number, an exhibition of spite against Theodore Parker and Rev. James Freeman Clarke, was written by Dr. South-side Adams. 
The Congregationalist, an orthodox paper which, like the Independent, turns the cold shoulder to the "Church Anti-Slavery Society," (maintaining that the church, in the main, holds the right position in regard to slavery,) nevertheless now declares, that of all the sermons preached by the 1300 Orthodox Congregational ministers of the six New England States, during the last ten years, in all human probability not more than one-tenth of one per cent, have made "any allusion whatever" to the subject of slavery. And it offers this as evidence, not of gross violation of duty, (as it really is,) but of judicious moderation on the part of these ministers! ï¿½ C. K. W. 

"SERMON BY REV. NEHEMIAH ADAMS."
In some Roman Catholic countries, individuals among the priesthood of that faith are openly gamblers and cock-fighters. Yet the more reputable priests still fraternize with these, acknowledging them as brethren, and interchanging clerical duties with them. Protestants are astonished at this; they ascribe it to the vicious character of the Romish church, and seem utterly unconscious that their clergy tolerate vice in each other to an equal extent. Take, for example, the following, which appears as an ordinary item of news in the Transcript of last Monday:ï¿½ 
"The ordination of Mr. David C. Scudder, as missionary to India, will take place this evening, at 7 1-2 o'clock, at the Essex Street Church. Sermon by Rev. Nehemiah Adams, D. D." 
The missionary in question, and the Prudential Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, who send him, agree in allowing their services to be led by Dr. South-side Adams, just as if he were not an upholder of slavery! just as if he were a Christian! And to this extent is Protestantism likely still to be degraded in this country, as long as slavery holds a footing in it! 
Even this is not all. "When Mr. Scudder gets to India, he will oppose there, representing it as a great sin, the very distinction of caste that his patron, Dr. Adams, is upholding here. And if he comes back to this country before slavery and caste are abolished here, he will, no doubt, comply with the long standing custom of his missionary brethren, and avoid rebuke here of the vices upheld by his employers.-C. K. W. 

"MATERIAL AID" FOR THE CONFLIOT.
The recent Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY was brought to an abrupt and unlooked-for termination by an order of the Mayor of the city of Boston, closing the doors of the Tremont Temple. In these circumstances, no opportunity was afforded the Society to make its customary collections for the expenses of the meeting, nor to gather the Donations and Pledges of its members and friends to carry on the Anti-Slavery work during the ensuing year. Its Managers are therefore under the necessity of making an individual appeal. The position in which the Society is placed, and the extreme moral danger which now threatens to engulph the whole country from the baleful spirit of compromise so vehemently struggling for the mastery, are all the arguments that need be presented, in addition to those which have prevailed so long, to enforce this appeal for such help as can possibly be rendered, either by immediate contribution, or by pledge payable during the year. Contributions will be appropriated to any specific object desired. Address reply to EDMUND JACKSON, Esq., No. 22 Chatham Street, (Treasurer,) or to E. H. HEYWOOD, 221 Washington Street, Boston, whereof prompt acknowledgment will be made. 
Various responses have already been made to this appealï¿½among them the following:ï¿½ 

LETTER FROM REV. A. BATTLES. 
BANGOR, (Me.) February 4th, 1861. 
DEAR SIR,ï¿½I have received the Circular of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, stating what I had already learned, that, by order of Mr. Wightman, called Mayor of Boston, the meetings of your Society were abruptly closed. 
I should be untrue to myself, as well as false to the sacred cause of human liberty, if I did not promptly respond to this Circular, assuring you of my hearty sympathy with the cardinal idea of your Society, viz., that the rights of man are paramount to all material interests and human organizations; at the same time expressing my unqualified condemnation of Mr. Wightman's course in thus surrendering Boston into the keeping of an organized mob. 
Were my sympathy with the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society less cordial than it is, my view of the Mayor's cowardly action would be the same. It is not alone your Society, and the interests of the four million American slaves whom you represent, that the Mayor and his mob have assaulted, but the rights of every white man of the United States as well. He who strikes at free speech is undermining the very foundations upon which civil government rests. This, Joseph M. Wightman, and that insane crew who filled the galleries of the Tremont Temple on the 24th of January, have done, and for this they should be arraigned as enemies of their kind. 
I have long felt that the Abolitionists were not simply pleading for the slave, though this were enough to, entitle them to the applause of mankind,ï¿½but were also vindicating those principles which are the basis of free institutions throughout the world. The experience through which you have recently passed in Boston convinces me that it is so. 
Well, Mayor Wightman and well-dressed rowdies triumphed on the 24th of January, 1861; but, in the end, they will be the vanquished. For every victory which the advocates of a false principle gain is a defeat. A step forward in the wrong way is a step backward. Let politicians higgle and plot as they will, let mobs foam and rage, and "the people imagine a vain thing"-God reigns; His laws are stronger than politicians and their wicked compromises. The negro is mightier than mobs. The dice, load them as he will, shall come up against the oppressor at last. 
Therefore, let us labor on in the hope that the day will soon come when sympathy with the oppressed will be no crime, and obedience to the Golden Rule no treason. 
Yours, for free speech, and the liberty of universal man, A. BATTLES. 

LETTER FROM DR. H. O. STONE. 
FRAMINGHAM, Feb. 6, 1861. 
DEAR FRIEND ï¿½ I received the Circular of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, dated 28th ult., but was too sick even to read it I embrace the first 
<c06>
strength I have to respond with my whole heart, and the enclosed five dollars.
I never saw the time before when our kind of work promised to be so productive; I never felt so proud of our position. Never before have we had the people at such a white heat; now is the time to strike. The cause never looked so hopeful, yet never needed such work.
I congratulate you that you are in the work so earnestly and thoroughly. I shall never cease to rejoice that my heart was drawn towards it. The more I reflect upon the Anti-Slavery cause, the more clearly I see the divine light surrounding it. It is our Jordan-the portal of the true church. Christ stands there as a slave. When I enter and embrace him, I am on the mount of transfiguration. I hear words of cheer -commands of duty-messages of love. I am one with the Father. But it will not do to build a tabernacle here, and dwell in the region of mere sentiment. The vision will fade. We must transfer our ideal to life, each individual working by the means of the life he has gained, upon all others, with all others, so far as he can. I am a little jealous of societies, lest they infringe on individualities. There is danger they will either force a man's action beyond his growth, or keep him below it. But how wonderfully the Anti-Slavery Society have avoided this! It is rarely they have encroached upon individuality. I do not believe they have ever kept back a progressive spirit; on the contrary, they have given an impulse forward to thousands. But, it seems to me, in the matter of petitioning the Legislature to prohibit slave-hunting, they are trying to force action beyond individual growth. Success cannot be expected; but, as a means of growth, it might be a good measure, if it did not require men to do something they solemnly declare shall be null when done. As an act of repentance, or the inauguration of a grand moral revolution in deflance of constitutional law, it is good; but to ask the prohibition law before the State has repudiated constitutional obligations seems to me to be playing fast and loose with the moral sense. What are they, who take an oath intending to break it, and break it with the intention of repeating it? It is not the normal work of the Anti-Slavery Society to create such. Have we these twenty years, or more, made ourselves political eunuchs for the kingdom of Heaven's sake, to find ourselves, at last, the father of such monstrosities? 
The true work is in the old track-the old cry, Repent! Come out from the Constitution! Cease to be legislators! Learn to be men!
Garrison's battle-cry is right, "No Union with Slave-holders." We do not want a professed union with the mouth, when the heart is far away. The best way to get a prohibitive law is to educate Massachusetts out of the Union, unless, as I hope it may be, the wrath of the slave States keep them outside long enough for us to bring the North to the immovable battle-ground we occupy, and cry, "no quarter" to Slavery.
Truly yours, H. O. STONE.
E. H. HEYWOOD.

AID FOR KANSAS.
DEAR SIR-The people of the country towns of Massachusetts have been feeling great anxiety, in regard to the relief given to Kansas. Contributions have been taken up in many of our churches, and the money, they supposed, forwarded to the Kansas Relief Committee. Why did they not send it to Gen. Pomroy-a man who has always felt such interest in the welfare of Kansas, and who is so well known? The Committee in Boston report that they have kept their operations private. In such a case as this, is privacy justifiable? People who have given their money and clothing, want to hear of its distribution; they have a moral right to hear, when people are starving. Three months ago, operations were commenced. Is it possible that relief, given in Kansas, should not be known to Gen. Pomroy?
From a subscriber to the fund. 
Respectfully, A. K. SOUTHWICK.
Grantville, Feb. 13, 1861.

CORRECTION.
FLORENCE, Feb. 25, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON-Considering all the circumstances, it is not strange that I find a few errors in Mr. Yerrinton's admirable report of my speech, as that I find so few, and those of so little importance. Still, if you could find place to make a correction or two in the Liberator, I should like to have it done.
In the third column of the report, near the top, and nearer the beginning of a paragraph, instead of "the aim of which is to buy concession," read, "the aim of which is to buy peace by concession." About quarter way up from the bottom of the same column, instead of "shirt of Nessus, the old hero of mythology," read, "shirt of Nessus to the old hero," &c.
Some other trivial errors I notice, but where these are the most important, it will be seen that none can be very serious.
In haste, yours truly,
C. C. BURLEIGH.

ENCOURAGING WORDS.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-I heard a sermon, recently, from Rev. James Freeman Clarke, upon the Radicalism of Divine Providence-"The axe is laid at the root of the tree." The closing sentences I send you, and I shall be glad to see them in the Liberator:- 
"This is the comfort of those speaking for freedom and working for justice. They are not discouraged by the delay of their triumph. They are not destroyed when they are cast down-they are not sad when silenced-they are not forsaken when persecuted -they are not miserable because all men speak evil of them. They know that God's work is slow, but sure-that whatever ill God blesses becomes good -that he always wins who sides with God; and if fallen never to rise again, they live and take comfort knowing they have left behind
'Powers that will work for them, air, earth and skies;
That not a breathing of the common wind 
Will e'er forget them-having great allies, 
Their friends being exultations, agonies,
And love, and man's unconquerable mind."

NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, have just published the following pieces:-
1. Annie Lisle. With brilliant variations for the piano. By Charles Grobe.
2. Douce Reverie, et Mazurka. By Bardarzewsks.
3. The Vesper Hymn, arranged for the piano. By Brinley Richards.
4. Far away, my thoughts are far away. Words by Mrs. Hemans. Music by Mrs. Bloede.
5. The Dream of the Wanderer. Romance for the piano. By Brinley Richards.
6. Vocal Beauties in the Opera of Robin Hood. From Childhood's Dawn. Composed by G. A. <illegible>.

THOMAS JEFFERSON ENDORSES JOHN BROWNISH! In a letter from Jefferson to Dr. Gordon, he says:- 
"Lord Cornwallis then proceeded to the Point of Fork, and encamped his army from thence all along the main of James river to a seat of mine called <illegible> Island. HE CARRIED OFF, ALSO, ABOUT THIRTY SLAVES. HAD THIS BEEN TO GIVE THEM FREEDOM. HE WOULD HAVE DONE RIGHT."
Is not this an endorsement of John Brown's enterprise at Harper's Ferry?
The anniversary of the Revolution of 1848 was celebrated by the French exiles in this city by a <illegible>, on Monday evening, in the International rooms. Washington street. After supper, the meeting was organized by appointing Mr. Constant President, Mr. J. Caillett, Vice President, and Mr. Barrais, Secretary
The President offered the following toast:- 
"John Brown-the reviver of the Declaration of Independence-the friend of universal liberty-though murdered at Harper's Ferry, is not dead."
It was responded to with a will-the audience rising amid the acclamations of vive John Brown! vive John Brown! John Brown n'est pas mort! 
Where were Mayor Wightman, Mr. Richard S. Fay, Mr. J. Murray Howe, and the mob? Slumbering!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PEACEABLE DIVISION.
I have seen in some newspaper (I cannot say where) a confusion of an eminent secession statesman of the South to this effect:— It is not on account of the determination of the North to prevent slavery in the Territories, nor the Personal Liberty Laws, nor the election of Lincoln, that South Carolina and the Gulf States are striving to secede from the Union: these are merely the occasions, and not the radical cause of that proceeding; but it is because these circumstances and other demonstrations at the North evince so intense and general a sentiment of hostility to slavery, that the slaveholding States can no longer feel their cherished institution safe, under a government in the hands of anti-slavery men: and they would secure its perpetuity by departure form the sway of such a government.
Here is the truth, and the whole truth, respecting the cause of secession, as every intelligent person must discover, who has observed the total inefficiency of all the varying projects in Congress and elsewhere to arrest the march of secession, and recall the departing States into unity, on terms satisfactory to both parties. Even if all the alleged encroachments of the free States were given up, and all the demands of the slave States yielded to them, there is not one of their citizens who is willing to pledge himself that they will abandon their attempts at secession, and return again to the bosom of the Union; and could such a reunion take place, it could neither be a harmonious nor a durable one: the contest between the parties, not being on any measure of policy, but on a contrary view of the right of slavery, not admitting a medium, must not only be "irrepressible," but interminable, as long as these parties are bound under the same government, and each struggling with the other for the possession of it. There might be a compliance with the forms of legislation, but there could be no such unity of spirit as would give efficiency to the laws, or external protection. If such would be the failure of a cordial of the other, how much more hopeless would it be by the attempt of one section to compel the other to adhesion by force! This could only be by a civil war, perhaps attended by all the horrors of a servile insurrection; and its accomplishment would be the entire subjugation of one of the parties, maintained by a perpetual occupation of military force; military over all the States; and the abandonment of our claim to be a government of the people.
If such, then, are the plain and inevitable consequences of the attempt to compel allegiance of the States to the Union by force, why should such a course be any longer proposed or advocated? Yet this method is urged by the Republican papers, with all the ferocious and tyrannical spirit exhibited by the despots of Europe and Asia. Their doctrine that the prerogatives of government are more sacred and inviolable than the rights, liberties, welfare and even lives of individual men, is now openly maintained by the advocates of an enforced Union, in direct opposition to the principle of popular sovereignty, repudiating that doctrine on which our government was founded. The success of this compulsory measure, establishing the characte of our national government as one maintained by coercion, and not by consent, would be an awful apostacy, a retrogression into the barbarous maxims of European domination, cemented in blood; an utter failure of the first magnificent experiment of popular government, to the exultation of tyrants, the disgrace of our land, the despair of all the friends of freedom in the world.
But the harmonious union of the people of this nation, on the principle of general consent, can never be maintained where the sentiments of the two great sections of it are at such irreconcilable variance on the vital question of the right of slavery: the party at any time in power will be perpetually assailed by the discontented opposition of the other. The only plan, then, for the preservation of popular rights and interests, for national reputation, for safety, for justice, and even for humanity, is to give to each section an independent government, conformed to its own ideas of right—that is, a peaceable separation from each other. J.P.B 

MISS HOLLEY AT MILFORD.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—It was my good fortune to hew our impressive and devoted sister, who addressed the Friends of Progress, at Lyceum Hall, in this town, on Sunday last Many years ago, Miss Holley lectured here in the cause of the slave. I rejoice that she has not lost her ardor or eloquence, but, bating her physical weakness, she speaks with more power and effect. Placing Anti-Slavery, as she does, on its true basis, the life-work and power of Christ, she never fails to enlist the sympathies of her hearers or to kindle up and quicken new zeal and interest in the great and blessed work given us to accomplish. 
Her running comments on the incident she read in life of Jesus, who healed the withered hand on the Sabbath day, were most pertinent and effective In this part of her opening service, she did much to fix the mind upon Jesus, the bright pattern of the Christian life, and to show how much—nay, how entirely —we depend upon that true devotion to principle which gives the Saviour a "name above every other in heaven or earth" She claimed , and truly so, that Abolitionists, in striving more than ever to imitate the blessed Teacher, who regarded one human soul worth more than the whole material universe, whole be successful 
To those of us whose faith is drooping in this hour of terrible conflict, the words of our sister were like “apples of gold in pictures of silver” Her own strong faith in the sure triumph of our just and righteous warfare gave fresh courage to "hope on, and hop ever." For truly were we told that the Abolitionists have counted the cost, and are not to be diverted from their purpose, though the very heavens fall—or, more properly, though all earth's systems crash, and fall pieces. Faith in the God of the oppressed, and in the victory of truth, was never more beautifully spoke or better received by a large and refreshed audience Heaven bless her and other toiling advocates of the lacerated millions, till that millennial day shall come when "liberty shall be proclaimed throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof"!
Permit me here, even at the expense of occupying a little more space in your crowded columns, to add few words of digression. And in these times, can refrain from expressing my gratitude and admiration to our most excellent and kind brother Hall, of Dorchester, for his timely words, the Sabbath following our effectual , though distracted meeting at Tremont Temple? A thousand blessings on such ministers of Christ, who, in such an hour of need, prove themselves no "hirelings," but the true ambassadors of the "good Shepherd, who giveth his life for the sheep." Were the New England pulpit blessed with such ministers, Abolitionists would have no cause to condemn its recreancy. It is because "he that is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are teeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth," that our charge is just against false priests who "daub with untempered mortar," and cry peace when there is no peace"
On entering the door of Tremont Temple, on the day of our annual meeting I met with brother Hall. He was about taking a seat, when I asked him to go with me on the platform. Most readily did he assent desiring, as he remarked, to be a faithful witness, and "read and known of all met," for the cause of the slave and free speech. There he caught the inspiration of the hour, and most happily is the result evinced in the truthful and excellent sermon preached to People, and from which you gave your readers an inviting taste last week. God bless all such ministers of Christ! They plead not in vain.
G. W. S.
Milford, (Mass) Feb. 24, 1861
Hon. Henry Wilson made one of his ablest speeches in the U.S. Senate, last week, on the state of the country. We shall quote from it in our next.
<c02>
PRO-SLAVERY MOB AT ANN ARBOR
ANN ARBOR, (Mich.) Feb. 8, 1861.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
This is, as you know, the educational centre of, Michigan; and you would expect that around our college would cluster the refinements, the culture and the advantages of society which such an institution would naturally stimulate and attract. But abolitionists well know, too, that these popular institutions are linked in with, and governed to a great extent by, the creeds of the Church and the dogmas of the State— that a belief in total depravity, and obedience to the Constitution and to the Fugitive Slave Law, influence those connected with it, more than any faith in the possibilities of the race, or inherent love of justice and freedom in man, as held and promulgated by the thinking and enlightened men and women of our country. And is it strange that this teaching should bear its legitimate fruit?
A week and a half ago, a mob collected to break up our Anti-Shivery Convention, at which Parker Pills-bury, Josephine Grilling and Giles B. Stebbins were advertised to speak. We were threatened for some days; and not only college students, but merchants and business men, declared the meeting ought not to be held—and some went so far as to say that the Mayor ought to prohibit it, in such an hour of peril and excitement. Mr. Rogers, proprietor of Rogers's Hall—which we had engaged—informed us, only on the day of the meeting, that he did not feel willing to open it, as he felt no assurance of protection from the authorities of the city. He was decidedly in favor of free discussion; but on account of his family, who live in the building, he should be obliged, although reluctantly, to refuse it. The Court House was refused by the Mayor; and as other popular places were closed, we went to the Free Church—a small, quiet, neat house, erected a few years since by the Friends of Progress, who had left the old Society of Friends, and occupied, for the last two or three years, by friends of free thought and free discussion of all questions of human interest. There the mob came and interrupted us, on Saturday afternoon, and broke up our meeting in the evening. The Mayor had given Mr. Glazier and Mr. Stebbins promises of protection; but he had a concert to attend in the evening, and so "could not come." One officer came in good faith, but with no Mayor to lead and no subordinates to follow, he was powerless.
The cheers for the Union and Douglas, and groans for Lincoln and the Convention, showed clearly the bitter pro-slavery element. Southern students with slaveholding " principles," and Northern students with no principle, aided in the evening by drunken rioters who frequent low haunts—where such demonstrations are not plotted and set on foot, but from which they receive large accessions whenever required,—this motley mass, with their impudence and malice, with what strength they had gained for some days previous from " respectable " citizens, who came not to see that order was maintained, and from the absence of Mayor Barry, rolled in upon us, as Mr. Pillsbury said, like an avalanche, and threatened to crush us, had we not, at last, when we saw the impossibility of speaking that night, escaped from the rear of the house.
After we left, seats were broken, windows shattered, the desk uptorn, the stove-pipe thrown down, and soot tracked over the white floor; so that, on Sunday morning, it was a scene of desolation indeed! However, true to the reputation which the Press gives us, we were not to be discouraged or defeated; so the friends met, put up the stove-pipe, built a fire, swept and garnished it as we might, covered up windows that were too badly broken, and resolved on a meeting for the day. The house was well filled, and a delightful spirit of earnest interest, and a soothing, orderly quiet pervaded the house, so that we knew not but our feet rested on tapestried carpets, and we were seated on easy cushions of repose. There was a spirit of harmony, as of one mind and one soul, throughout the forenoon meeting. We were all united in one thing, at least—viz., free expression of opinion. Mr. Stebbins opened the meeting with the reading of Whittier's glorious " Stanzas for the Times," after which Mr. Pillsbury occupied the somewhat short forenoon in rebuke of the Mayor and the mob, showing the in evitable results of encouragement and sanction given by those in power and position, by which the rights o these, in turn, will be disregarded and trampled on when the blind fury of the rabble shall have another aim 
In the afternoon, a few of the mobocrats returned to the attack; but there was a moral power which they could not withstand, and which kept them under permanent control.
But this spirit of disorder and force does not realize that the fine, compact, delicate brain rules the coarse muscular hand; that the clear moral sense is superior even, to the culivated intellect; and that the exalted spiritual nature comprehends all these; and so we must expect just this manifestation of brute force, in our present political state, until we educate men to higher standard of freedom and justice. Their freedom now is license, their justice selfishness, and the mercy cruelty. Do they think to crush eternal principle and unchangeable law under the heel of fiery passion and physical violence? So did, perhaps, those who sacrificed John Huss, and those who quenched their murderous thirst in the blood of John Brow But truly, they know not what they do"; for the higher nature that comprehends the laws that govern matter and mind, the intentions which perceive clear that the most powerful forces in the universe are subtle, intangible and imponderable—this nature, in them, has yet to be awakened and educated. But woe to those who see beyond, and use this ignorant, and sometimes insane prejudice for their own ambitious and selfish purposes!
Husband and self attended a concert, the Saturday following the Convention, and stepped into the hall two or three minutes before eight o'clock. As soon as we entered, there greeted and enveloped us, till we , took our seats, a shower of hisses, which at first seemed many-voiced, but which we soon knew came from the mobocratic students and " roughs " in the back part of the house. After a few minutes, Mayor Barry came in, went up the middle aisle, and was greeted with applause by the same persons, which he acknowledged with bows and waving of the hat to those tendered thin doubtful compliment. Well, said I, I am satisfied with our share of the notice; but I think that His Honor would feel more satisfaction, in his heart of hearts, had he nobly earned applause from the other side of the house.
C. A. F. S.
GREAT BRITAIN. Parliamentary proceedings on 10th were unimportant. Lord Palmerston said instructions had been sent to the Governor-General of Canada not to give up the fugitive negro Anderson without express orders from the Imperial Government, and there was therefore no chance of his be surrendered without the point being fully discussed . He could not say whether the habeas corpus writ would be obeyed in Canada, but it could not be executed immediately, as the river St. Lawrence was now blocked up by ice, and it was impossible to take Anderson through American territory. He believed the case, according to the treaty, was quite clear. The claim of the United States must be established by showing that Anderson was guilty of murder according to law of England, and as he was quite convinced no English jury would convict Anderson of murder , the claim was not likely to be substantiated.
THEN AND NOW. At midnight on the 3d of March, 1854, Senator Seward concluded his speech in opposition to the Kansas-Nebraska bill, as follows:—
"The shifting sands of compromise are passing from under my feet, and they are now, without agency of my own, taking hold again on the rock of the Constitution. It shall be no fault of mine if they do not remain firm. This seems to me auspicious of better days and wiser legislation. Through all the darkness and gloom of the present hour, bright stars are breaking, that inspire me with hope, and excite me to perseverance. They show that the day of compromise has passed forever, and that henceforward all great questions between Freedom and Slavery legitimately coming here—and none other can come—shall be decided, as they ought to be, upon their merits, by a fair e exercise of legislative power, and not by bargains of equivocal prudence, if not of doubtful immortality."
Will Mr. Seward please look into his own mirror?
<c03>
MR. LINCOLN IN PHILADELPHIA.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 22. The ceremony of raising the flag over Independence Hall, by Mr. Lincoln, this forenoon, was attended by an immense crowd, and the scene was quite impressive.
Mr. Lincoln was escorted to the Hall at 7 o'clock, where he was received and welcomed by Theodore Cuyler. Mr. Lincoln, in reply, said:—
I am filled with deep emotion at finding myself standing in the place where were collected the wisdom and patriotism from which sprung the institutions, under which we live. You have kindly suggested that in my hands is the task of restoring peace to the present distracted condition of the country. I can say in return, that all the political sentiments I entertain have been drawn from the sentiments originated in and given to the world from this hall I never had a political feeling that did not spring from the sentiments embodied in the Declaration of Independence. I have often pondered over the dangers incurred by the men who assembled here, and framed and adopted the Declaration of Independence. I have pondered over the toils endured by the officers and solders of the army who achieved that independence. I have often inquired of myself what great principle or idea it was that has kept this confederacy so long together. It was not the mere matter of the separation of the colonies from the mother land, but it was that sentiment in the Declaration which gave liberty not alone to tile people of this country, but hope to the world for all future time. (Applause.) It was that which gave promise that in due time the weights would be lifted from the shoulders of all men.
This is the sentiment embodied in the Declaration of Independence. Now, my friends, can this country be saved upon this basis? If it can, I will consider myself one of the happiest men in the world if I can help save it. If it cannot be saved upon that principle, it will be truly awful. But if this country cannot be saved without giving up that principle, I was about to say I would rather to assassinated on the spot than to surrender it. (Applause.)
Now, in my view of the present aspect of affairs, there is no need of bloodshed or war—no necessity for it. I am not in favor of such a course, and I may say in advance, there will be no bloodshed, unless forced upon the Government, and then it will be compelled to act in self-defence. (Applause.) I did not expect to be called upon to say a word when I came here. I supposed I was merely to do something towards raising a flag. (Cries of "No!" "No!') I have said nothing that I am not willing to live and the by.
Mr. Lincoln concluded amid great applause.
A procession then formed, which moved directly to the platform in front of the State House. When Mr. Lincoln appeared, there was tremendous cheering by the crowd. 
Mr. Benton, of the City Council, in a brief address, requested Mr. Lincoln to raise the flag, to which the latter cheerfully responded, briefly alluding to the original flag of thirteen stars, the number of which had increased as time rolled on, and we had become a powerful and happy people, each star adding to our prosperity. Our future, said he, is in the hands of the people. It was on such occasions as this that we could reason together, and reaffirm our devotion to the country and to the principles of the Declaration of Independence.. Let us make up our minds that whenever we do put a new star upon our banner, it shall be a fixed one, never to be dimmed by the horrors of war, hut brightened by contentment, prosperity and peace. Let us go on and extend the area of our usefulness, and star upon star, until that light shines over five hundred millions of free and happy people.
Rev. Mr. Clark invoked divine grace, the spectators uncovering. The flag, which was rolled up in man-of-war style, was then adjusted, a signal was fired, and, amid the most excited enthusiasm, the President elect hoisted the national ensign, and it floated out boldly on the breeze. Cheer followed cheer until hoarseness prevented their continuance.
After the conclusion of the ceremony, Mr. Lincoln returned to his hotel, followed by an excited crowd. After breakfast, he repaired to the depot of the Pennsylvania Railroad.

MR. LINCOLN'S SUDDEN DEPARTURE FROM HARRISBURG.
Rumors of a Plot to Assassinate Him.
We find in the Herald and Times of New York city, full accounts of the sudden departure of Mr. Lincoln from Harrisburg for Washington on Friday night last. The Times publishes the following from its correspondent, attached to the travelling party of the President elect:—
"HARRISBURG, (Pa.) Feb. 23, 8 A. M. 
Abraham Lincoln, the President elect of the United States, is safe in the capital of the nation. By the admirable arrangement of Gen. Scott, the country has been spared the lasting disgrace, which would have been fastened indelibly upon it had Mr. Lincoln been murdered upon his journey thither, as he would have been had he followed the programme as announced in papers, and gone by the Northern Central Railroad to Baltimore.
On Thursday night, after he had retired, Mr. Lincoln was aroused, and informed that a stranger desired to see him on a matter of life or death. He declined to admit him unless he gave his name, which he at once did.
Such prestige did the name carry that while Mr. Lincoln was yet disrobed, he granted an interview to the caller.
A prolonged conversation elicited the fact that an organized body of men had determined that Mr. Lincoln should not be inaugurated, and that he should never leave the city of Baltimore alive, if indeed he ever entered it 
The list of the names of the conspirators presented a most astonishing array of persons high in Southern confidence, and some whose fame is not confined to this country alone.
Statesmen laid the plan, bankers endorsed it, and adventurers were to carry it into effect They understood Mr. Lincoln was to leave Harrisburg at 9 o'clock this morning by special train, and the idea was, if possible, to throw the cars from the road at some point where they could rush down a steep embankment and destroy, in a moment, the lives of all on board. In case of the failure of this project, their plan was to surround the carriage on the way from depot to depot in Baltimore, and assassinate him with dagger or pistol shot
So authentic was the source from which the information was obtained, that Mr. Lincoln, after counseling with his friends, was compelled to make arrangement, which would enable him to subvert the plans of his enemies.
Greatly to the annoyance of the thousands who desired to call on him last night, he declined giving a reception. The final council was held at 8 o'clock. 
Mr. Lincoln did not want to yield, and Col. Sumner actually cried with indignation; but Mrs. Lincoln seconded by Mr. Judd and Mr. Lincoln's original in formant, insisted upon it, and at nine o'clock Mr. Lincoln left on a special. train. Accompanied by Superintendent Lewis and one friend, he started, while all the town, with the exception of Mrs. Lincoln, Co we Sumner, Mr. Judd, and two reporters who were sworn to secresy, supposed him to be asleep.
The telegraph wires were put beyond reach of any one who might desire to use them.
At one o'clock, the fact was whispered from one to another, and it soon became the theme of most excited conversation. Many thought it a very injudicious move, while others regarded it as a stroke of great merit."
The following is from the Washington correspondence of the Times:— 
"Senator Seward received official intelligence, on Thursday evening, from reliable sources, that a most diabolical plot had been successfully arranged, on the part of a secret organization in Baltimore, to assassinate the President elect, on his arrival in that city. Mr. Seward communicated this intelligence to a few private friends, and it was determined to dispatch a messenger at once to Philadelphia, informing him of the fact, and urging him to take an earlier train, which would bring him through in the night Mr. Lincoln said he had received intelligence from, Baltimore of a similar nature. A special train was accordingly arranged, and he departed at once for Washington.
It is positively denied by Baltimoreans that any such organization exists, or that any interference would have been made with the Presidential party. There is little doubt that the feeling and sentiment of the people of Baltimore are very bitter against Mr. Lincoln, so much so, indeed, that violence might have been attempted. It is regarded as a very wise move, in giving them the slip."
The correspondent of the Times remarks as follows:
"Mr. Lincoln's coup d' etat and rapid passage through Baltimore have been condemned here by some who do not know the facts, which are simply these: A set of unscrupulous political knaves in Baltimore, who had determined to turn Mr. Lincoln's visit there their own account, arranged for a procession from the depot to his hotel. Protection was asked by these rowdies of Marshal Kane, who advised against such a proceeding. He said Mr. Lincoln would be treated with all respect due him personally and his high official position, but so obnoxious were the parties proposing the demonstration that he could not insure the same respect to them. If they were determined to brave the matter, it might result in some indignity being offered which would be mortifying to the President elect, and disgraceful to the city of Baltimore. Finding that these men were fixed in their design to make Mr. Lincoln's visit subserve their purposes, the latter was advised, by telegraph, to pass on to Washington without stopping, which he did. This advice came from gentlemen who had the good name of Baltimore chiefly at heart."
<c04>
The correspondent of the Tribune says:—
"The change in Mr. Lincoln's programme of travel from Harrisburg to Washington was induced solely by an official communication from General Scott, predicated upon sufficient information which he had received of the danger of a riot at Baltimore, and probably of a desperate determination at assault on the route. That intelligence was communicated by a special messenger sent from here on Thursday, and it was confirmed by the report of detective police officers who had been employed by other parties. While Mr. Lincoln entertained no apprehensions for its own safety, he did not feel justified in hazarding the public peace. His decision was, therefore, made in respect to the judgment of the War Department, and upon a state of facts of which be could have no personal knowledge."
The New York Evening Post says:—
"We learn to-day from a gentleman who accompanied Mr. Lincoln and his party during the greater art of the journey from Springfield to this city, that great precautions were taken at the various points on the route, to guard against any injury to the person of the President elect, from the malicious designs of enemies.
Before entering the cars, the conductors of the line were accustomed to thoroughly examine the seats and the cushions, to see that there was no dangerous machine or persons secreted in the carriage. This precaution shows that not only was there danger, but that the danger was at least partially known to Mr. Lincoln and his friends. 
It is well understood that Gen. Scott advised Mr. Lincoln, before leaving home, to have his family at all times around him, on his journey to the federal capital."

MRS. LINCOLN'S ARRIVAL IN BALTIMORE.
An immense crowd of people, not willing to give up the hope of seeing Old Abe, commenced about noon to lock toward Bolton depot and Calvert station, where the extra train was expected to arrive about one o'clock. The police, under Marshal Kane, took the positioned assigned to them, and the vast crowds, extending from the station along Calvert street, as far as the Battle Monument, and all the way along North and Franklin streets, impatiently awaited the coming, lumbers also besieged the Eutaw House, and peered anxiously into the faces of the occupants of all carriages that approached.
About the hour of one o'clock, a loud shout was heard at the northern end of the depot, announcing that the train was in sight, when the entire mass of the people, to the number of about six or eight thousand, who were stationed about the entrance, rushed in a body into the building, with cries of " Here he is; "Here's Old Abe;" " Look out for him," &c.
The train, it appears, had been partially stopped, at the intersection of Charles street, to allow them to dismount; but owing to the immense crowd assembled at that point, the train again moved on, and appeared in sight, as above stated, being followed by hundreds of the Charles street crowd, who were running rapidly in the rear of the train.
As the train approached the depot, another and if anything a more desperate rush was made, the crowd again passing into the depot
The entire platform in the centre of the building was instantly packed to suffocation with the crowd, when a train of cars came rapidly into the depot It was heralded by loud shouts and groans by the crowd, who soon besieged the platform, crying, " Where is
he?" "Here, here;" "Here he comes;" "Here he is," &c, &c. So dense was the mass, that the passengers (this being the regular accommodation train) were unable for some time to get out upon the platform.
It soon became evident, however, to those assembled, that Mr. Lincoln was. not upon the train, and another rush was made for the street at the end of the depot, carrying everything before them "pell mell."
The excitement here partially subsided, when another yell was heard from the crowd outside — another train having appeared in sight upon the top of the hill on North street. This proved to be the special train containing Mrs. Lincoln and her three sons, and the suite of the President.
The platforms were again besieged, and in an instant, as it were, the platforms of the cars were filled with an excited miss. The most terrific shouts and yells were sent up, excelling anything in the way of excitement we have ever witnessed. This continued for several minutes, when several gentlemen of Mr. Lincoln's suite stepped upon the platform, accompanied by Mrs. Lincoln.
One of these gentlemen, was taken for the President, and a rush being made, the entire party were soon in a "jam;" and so violent was the pressure from all sides, that many were pushed headlong from the platform, which is about three feet high.
The excitement was momentarily growing more intense, and the yells were again repeated, when the gentleman taken for Mr. Lincoln managed to escape by rushing quickly through the freight department of the depot, and taking a carriage.
Mrs. Lincoln and family were then escorted to carriages, which were in waiting, and moved off. The people were now completely nonplussed, being unable to judge as to whether the President was in the train or not, and for perhaps half an hour the dense mass swayed to and fro, uttering every imaginable description of noise.
Several squabbles ensue!, but up to the hour of our going to press no difficulty had occurred, although crowd of several thousand still surrounds the depot and its vicinity.—Baltimore Republican, Feb. 23.

MR. LINCOLN AT WASHINGTON.
We copy the following account of the movements of the President elect at Washington, from the New York Herald's dispatches:— 
At eleven o'clock Mr. Lincoln, accompanied by M Seward, called at the White House and paid his respects to Mr. Buchanan. The interview was merely one of courtesy, and not for business. Mr. Buchanan received Mr. Lincoln very cordially.
When Mr. Lincoln called upon Mr. Buchanan, the Cabinet were in session. The messenger announced that Mr. Seward was in the ante-room, attended Mr. Lincoln, the President elect. This was a coup d' etat. The President was not aware that Mr. Lincoln had arrived, nor was either member of the Cabinet Mr. Buchanan proceeded immediately to his private reception room, and soon Mr. Lincoln and M Seward were shown in, the latter introducing the former. Mr. Buchanan received Mr. Lincoln very cordially, and a pleasant interview was had. Mr. Buchanan was anxious to know if Mr. Lincoln had satisfactory reception at Harrisburg, to which the latter responded that it was very enthusiastic on the part of the people, and exceedingly satisfactory to him. Mr. Buchanan then invited Mr. Lincoln to visit the Cabinet Chamber, which he accepted, and was introduced to each member. The interviews were agreeable.
Upon leaving the White House, Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Seward made a call upon Lieut. General Scott, but the old chief was absent attending to his official duties 
At three o'clock General Scott returned Mr. Lincoln's call. He was warmly greeted by the President elect, who expressed to the General his thanks for the many marks of attention he had shown him, especially in detailing an escort from his home to the capital General Scott expressed his great gratification at Mr. Lincoln's safe' arrival, and especially complimented him for choosing to travel from Harrisburg unattended by any display, but in a plain democratic way. At four o'clock the Illinois Congressional delegation without respect of party, headed by Senator Douglas called upon Mr. Lincoln, and paid their respects. The meeting was less formal perhaps than would be the case at the interview with any other delegation, from the fact that they were all friends and acquaintances before. The interview between Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Douglas was peculiarly pleasant.
At six o'clock Dr. Puleston, Secretary of the Peace Congress, presented a communication to Mr. Lincoln ,announcing that the members of the Congress were anxious to pay their respects to Mr. Lincoln, and requesting the latter to name the time when he would receive them. Mr. Lincoln replied that he would receive them at 9 o'clock.
At seven o'clock Mr. Lincoln left his hotel, and proceeded in a carriage to the residence of Mr. Seward, with whom he dined. At ten minutes before nine o'clock Mr. Lincoln returned to his hotel, and was received by an enthusiastic crowd, who greeted him as though he was their father and life. Some were old men, and some old and some young lathes. They reflected the general feeling, that in Mr. Lincoln rests the future hope of the government and the Union.
Mr. Lincoln passed through the long parlor hall, thronged with the elite and fashion of the national metropolis, shaking hands as fast as he could on no right and left with lathes and gentlemen, so intensively interested that he forgot even to take his hat off, which was excused by a looker on, who remarked that it was new, and outshined the crowd.
At 9 o'clock, according to previous arrangement, Mr. Lincoln received the Peace Congress. The members formed in procession in the hall where they meet and proceeded to the reception parlor; ex-President Tyler, and a Gov. Chase, of Ohio, led the van. The latter introduced Mr. Tyler. Mr. Lincoln received him with all the respect due his position. The several delegates were then presented to Mr. Lincoln by Gov. Chase, in the usual manner.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 25th. Mr. Lincoln visited the Senate and House this afternoon, in company with Mr. Seward. There was considerable stir, and many crowded around to welcome him, especially in the House. He remained but a few minutes. Mr. Lincoln also visited the Justices of the Supreme Court in their consultation room.
<c05>
ATTEMPTS ON THE LIFE OF MR. LINCOLN. We have already quoted from the Lafayette (Indiana) Journal an account of the timely discovery of an obstruction placed on an Indiana railroad, with the evident design of throwing off the special train which conveyed Mr. Lincoln's party. The Syracuse Journal of Saturday evening has another development of a similar character. It says:—
"We have been informed by gentlemen connected with the party of Mr. Lincoln since he left home for Washington, that there were several attempts to take his life made during the journey through Indiana and Ohio. The one which threatened the most serious in consequences took place on the Presidential train leaving Cincinnati, when a grenade of the most destructive character was discovered in the car occupied by Mr. Lincoln, his family and personal friends. It was found in a small carpet-bag, which had been deposited in a seat of the car by some unknown person. Attention was drawn to it from the fact that no baggage was allowed in the cars. On examination, the grenade concealed in the carpet-bag was discovered to be ignited, and so arranged that within fifteen minutes it would have exploded with a force sufficient to have, demolished the car, and destroyed the lives of all persons in it. Of course, the 'infernal machine' was speedily removed and properly disposed of" 
NEW YORK, Feb. 25th. The Times Washington correspondent says that information has been laid before the proper authorities, that an organized band of five hundred men have sworn that Mr. Lincoln shall never sleep in the White House. The band will occupy a position near Mr. Lincoln, on the inauguration day. One of them will shoot him with an air-gun, when the crowd around will render detection impossible 
General Scott has received one hundred and thirty letters, from fifteen States, threatening his life, the bulk of which are evidently genuine. 

THE SOUTHERN CONGRESS.
MONTGOMERY, Ala., Feb. 21. The Southern Convention re-assembled this forenoon.
Mr. Cobb offered the following:—
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be instructed to inquire into the expediency of levying an export duty on the cotton exported from the Confederate States to any foreign country. Adopted.
The President has nominated, and the Congress confirmed, the following members of the Cabinet:— 
Secretary of Suite—Mr. Toombs.
Secretary of the Treasury—Mr. Memminger.
Secretary of War—Mr. L. Pope Walker.
The Natchez (Miss.) Courier says, the news of Davi’s appointment as President is received with no manifestations of pleasure. Regret was the general sentiment of the citizens. It adds:—" There was no sound of rejoicing here at Natchez, either on account of the formation of such a Southern Confederacy, or the appointment of such rulers. The words sprung too often from one to another, 'Are we to have no showing? Are the people to have no choice? Can a Convention alter Constitutions, impose taxes, appoint Constitution makers, inaugurate Presidents? Are they oligarchs, and are we nothing?' 'And each citizen had to confess that there was no reply to these questions. We live under an oligarchy that has not yet dared to trust the people with a say as to its consent Right as the South is upon the great question at issue, its position has been compromised by the events of the last two months. The consent of the governed is an essential element of government. The people of the Southwest might have voted for all that has been done, but their consent has not yet been either asked or obtained."

THE VIRGINIA STATE CONVENTION.
RICHMOND, Va., Feb. 21. The Virginia State Convention reassembled to-day.
Mr. Woods, of Barbour, offered resolutions declaring that the allegiance the citizens of Virginia owe to the General Government is subordinate to that which is due to Virginia, and may be lawfully withdrawn whenever Virginia deems it her duty to do so; that incase Virginia should exercise this authority, her citizens will be bound to render allegiance, to her alone; that Virginia recognizes no power of any government, State or Federal, to coerce her to allegiance to the United States after she shall have withdrawn from
the Union; that she will regard any attempt at coercion as equivalent to a declaration of war, to be resisted at every hazard, and to the last extremity; that seven States having withdrawn the allegiance of their people from the United States of America, a faithful and earnest desire to avert the horrors of civil war and the conservative sentiment of the country alike indicate to the government the necessity and policy of acknowledging their independence.
Referred to the Committee on Federal Relations.
The resolutions were received with favorable manifestations by the Convention.
Adjourned till Saturday.
SEIZURE OF A NEW YORK BRIG.—The brig Wm. R. Kibby, 190 tons cleared from New York on the 28th ult, for Savannah, with a cargo of coal for ballast, intending to load thence with a cargo of rice for New Orleans. The owners in this city, Messrs. J. & N. Smith & Co., received a telegram from their Savannah agents this morning, which reads as follows: "Your brig is seized by order of the Governor." It is probable that the seizure is in retaliation for the detention of arms, &c., by the police authorities of this city.
Since writing the above, the master of the bark Adjusta recently arrived at Savannah from this port has telegraphed to his agents here Messrs. Lunch & Meincke as follows:—
SAVANNAH, Feb. 8, 1861.
My vessel is seized by order of the Governor of Georgia, on account of arms detained in New York.
CHAS. A. ENELL.
RESEIZURE OF VESSELS AT SAVANNAH. Messrs. Lunch & Meincke, the agents of the Bremen Bark Adjuster, received a telegram on Friday, announcing the second seizure of that vessel by authority of the Governor of Georgia, in consequence of the refusal of Police Superintendent Kennedy to surrender the arms detained by him in this city. The Adjuster has nine hundred bales of cotton on board, belonging to a British subject, and the owner left for Washington on Friday, to lay the matter before Lord Lyons. The captain of the vessel had entered his protest against the seizure —N-Y. Journal of Commerce.
SAVANNAH Feb. 22.
MORE RETALIATION—SEIZURE OF NEW YORK VESSELS AT SAVANNAH. GOV. Brown seized yesterday the ship Martha J. Ward, bark Adjuster, and brig Harold, all belonging to citizens of New York. They will be detained until the arms are delivered up by the State of New York.
ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE A MEMBER OF CONGRESS. On Thursday evening an attempt was made to assassinate Mr. Van Wyck, M. C, from the 10th District of New York, as he was on Capitol Hill. Perley telegraphs that a man struck him with a bowie knife, which penetrated his clothing, the murderous instrument being arrested by a thick memorandum book in his breast pocket. Mr. Van Wyck knocked his assailant down, when a second assassin struck at him with a knife, wounding his left hand, with which he warded off the blow. Mr. Van Wyck struck his second assailant, and drew a revolver and fired at the first assassin, when a third man felled him with a slung as, shot. When he recovered, he saw two men leading a third, evidently crippled. Mr. Van Wyck was in bed, but he gave a dear statement of the dastardly outrage.
A SEVERE CRITICISM. The following severe animadversion on President Buchanan is an extract from a private letter, from an Englishman of the highest political standing, whose views on American affairs have probably more weight and influence than those of any other man in England. The letter is dated London, January 25th:—
"My indignation, sufficiently strong from the first has been carried beyond measure by the President's message to the Senate, which appears in this day's paper. A more cowardly, illogical and dishonest document never appeared with the name of any man calling himself a statesman. The only parallel is Pontius Pilate, washing his hands of the affair, and leaving old both action and responsibility to whoever chose to take them. Conceive a man with almost unlimited powers (for your President is a dictator, with far greater power than any constitutional sovereign,) sitting down wit all, his hands before him in the hour of his country agony, and saying, 'It is not my business. 'He ought his to be whipt down the steps of the great house at Washington."
COLORED PERSONS IN RALROAD CARS. In Philadelphia, recently, the question of the right of a colored person to ride in passenger cars received another decision from Judge Hare in the District Court. A colored man, named Goines, brought an action against Mr. McCandless, a conductor of the horse cars, to recover damages for injuries sustained in being ejected from a car. A verdict was taken by agreement subject to the decision of the court on the law of point and the Judge held that the company had a right make a rule in reference to passengers to be carried, and as Mr. McCandless acted under instructions and rules, the judgment was entered for the defendant.
How odious must be that colorphobia which reverses the order of nature, and changes a Hare into a bloodhound, and a city of "Brotherly Love" in one at fiendish hate!
<c06>
The resolutions of the Anti-Slavery Society, which we publish this week, are impregnable in position, unexceptionable in tone, and peculiarly pertinent to the time. This is a good reason why every newspaper in the land should lay them before its readers. When our liberties are in danger, the recurrence to first principles by the people may save the country. With such a reminder as these resolutions, how can any man among us consent to a compromise with slavery?—East Boston Ledger.
Hon. Thos. D. Eliot, from the First District, has addressed his constituents, by letter, on the present state of affairs. He says that he cannot advocate the compromise proposed. It is a question of principle— the North is asked to yield everything — the South nothing; a surrender of principle is the only condition upon which the South will consent to remain in the Union, and to those terms he cannot accede.
MR. SOMES'S SPEECH. We have just received a copy of Hon. D. S. Somes's speech, delivered in the House of Representatives in Washington the 16th inst. It is a most excellent speech, creditable alike to his head and heart This speech shows an intimate knowledge of the country, a breadth of understanding a comprehensive view of things, a philosophical insight into affairs , an enlarged and generous patriotism , ability, and statesmanship alike honorable to himself and his constituents.—Maine Journal.
GENERAL TWIGG'S PERFIDY. The Government property in Texas has been perfidiously surrendered the State authorities, and the Federal troops were allowed to leave the Slate. The property seized was stated to be worth $1,300,000. Documents have been received at the War Department, which show that Twiggs entered, into negotiation with Texas as early as the 7th ult. Col. Waite, several weeks since, was appointed successor to Twiggs as Chief of the Military Department, but had not arrived in season to prevent the surrender. Gen. Twiggs's act is here considered atrocious and disgraceful. 
FROM NEW MEXICO. On the 11th of January, a hill was introduced into the Legislature for repealing the slave code. A desperate effort was made to oppose it at the first reading, but it was carried to the second by a handsome majority. The bill was subsequently defeated, but it is known that feeling runs strongly in its favor among the people.
MORE HAYTIEN EMIGRANTS. The schooner M. A. Jones, Capt Lavender, sailed from Boston for Hayti Wednesday afternoon. She takes out fifty colored passengers, who go to Hayti to settle under the direction of James Redpath.
When the train with Mr. Lincoln's family arrived at Baltimore, on Saturday, they were shockingly and blasphemously insulted by a profane rabble, with shouts of "Come out, and we'll give you hell," "Bloody Black Republicans," &c.
PARKER PILLSBURY will spend the month of March in the State of New York—will attend meetings in Farmington and Macedon, Wayne Co., next week.
ANDREW T.FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at Lowell, Sunday, March 3.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity. 
References.—David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me. Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
BESSIE S. LOCKW0OD, M. D., St. 34 Auburn Strut, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23—3m.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open, every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock. 
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefits of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock. 
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge. 
DIED— At her residence in Weymouth, on the 10th of February, PHEBE NASH WESTO, aged 81—one of the early Abolitionists. 

$40 PARKER $40 
Sewing Machines, 
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS. 
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanic's Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines new in the market. 
Sales Room, 138 Washington street. 
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere. 
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m. 

The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative )
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church )
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACK WOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE , (Tory.) 
TERMS
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00 
For any one of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any one of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all of the four Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Review 5 00
For Blackwood and two Review 7 00
For Blackwood and three Review 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Review 10 00
N.B. — The price in Great Briatin of the five Periodicala above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by NARD SCOTT & CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec. 28. 6m

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
Fourth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively by quotations from Seripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fouth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, A.J.DAVIS & CO.,
O5 m 274 Canal street, New York.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by ARMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM.C.NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILIPPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much admired. F8 tf
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board.
Terms moderate.
Jan. 11. S.NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator
CITY OF WASHINGTON
A SONNET
Suggested by the preparations which are being made to defend the Capital of the American Republic (?) against forcible assault, by her own sons, at the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln as her President, March 4, 1861
A DARK PICTURE
What a dark picture does the scene present
In the "asylum for the world's oppressed"!
Rulers and people here together blent,
Armed to the teeth, lest her own sons should wrest
From them that freedom they so proudly boast,
And plunge our land in dark Egyptian night:
Put out the lights on her extended coast,
And from her shores the flying captive fright:
As in the days that were before the flood,
Men ate and drank, and ON EACH OTHER PREYED,
Till earth was filled with violence and blood,
And God on them his hand in judgment laid:-
Say, has this nation so offended Heaven,
For its destruction to the sword’ tis given?
Boston, Feb. 20, 1861. JUSTITIA.
It has ever been the boast of Americans that our country affords an asylum for the oppressed of all nations.
An allusion to the act of extinguishing the lights upon the coast and in the harbors of South Carolina.
From the Cortland Republican Banner.
COMPROMISE.
Let's compromise
With the father of lies,
For fear of his wrath infernal;
Give him six to one
Of our days, and run
A compromise line eternal.
The devil, no doubt,
When "backing out"
Of the Union formed supernal,
Had better have been
Bought off from sin,
On the plan of the Albany Journal.
With a Compromise, then,
The most of men 
To-day would be making merry
In Paradise,
With everything nice
And comfortable round them-very.
Why not concede?
There is no need
Of fighting Slavery longer!
We gave it a blow,
Now let us go
And nurse it, and make it stronger.
Why not concede?
We're all agreed-
'Tis the only way for quiet;
What is the hurt
Of eating dirt?
It isn't so bad a diet!
Why not concede?
You only need
Your principles now to swallow;
No peace to be had,
If we make them mad,
And blood perhaps may follow!
Why not concede
With Thurlow Weed?
Haven't you always followed Thurlow?
Just now he is out,
Cruising about,
On a kind of political furlough.
Never mind
If they "steal you blind,"
Give them only the more!
They stole from your mint
The bullion in't,-
They've done the same before.
The Star of the West,
‘Twas only in jest,
When at her they happened to shoot;
Firing upon her
Was no dishonor-
Only a friendly salute!
So let's concede-
'T will speedily lead
To a Democratic Union!
And then we can dwell
In a common-well,
Sufficiently close communion!
Marathon, Feb. 11, 1861. M. L. H.
From the Norfolk County Journal.
TIME TO START.
AIR-Johnny Cope.
"President Buchanan is packing his library, and will leave for Lancaster on the morning of March 5th."-Telegram to the Boston Journal.
O Jamie, are you sleeping yet?
O Jamie, are you sleeping yet?
You know' tis time for you to get 
Ready to start in the morning.
The Northern boys are rousing fast;
Inspired by memories of the past,
They vow that treason shall not last;
So you'd better start in the morning.
Bad government is hard to bear,
And robbery is far from fair;
As both have had your fostering care,
You'd better leave in the morning.
O Jamie, why did you not avoid
Blustering Toombs, and Cobb, and Floyd?
Your reputation they've destroyed,
And left you alone in the morning.
The patriot men of Seventy-Six
Would have scorned to favor rebel cliques;
But you say, smiling at their tricks,
"We'll make it all right in the morning!"
You thought the Major didn't do right
To leave poor Moultrie alone one night,
Because Fort Sumter was not quite
So pleasant to take in the morning.
No wonder, then, you talked so rough,
For he spoil'd your game of Southern bluff:
Ah! you didn't wake up soon enough
To catch Bob asleep in the morning!
Yes, pack your books; O, worst of all,
The O.P. F.'s that e'er had "a call,"-
March Fourth is written on the wall,
And Abe will be "round" in the morning!
THE MEN FOR THE TIMES.
Give us the nerve of steel,
And the arm of fearless might,
And the strength of will that is ready still
To battle for the right.
Give us the eye to weep
That honest tear of feeling,
That shuts not down for the world's dread frown,
The genuine heart revealing.
Give us the mind to feel
The sufferings of another,
And fearless power in the dying hour
To help a suffering brother.
Give us the clear, cool brain,
That is never asleep or dozing;
But, sparkling ever with bold endeavor,
Wakes the world from its prosing.
Ah! give us the nerve of steel,
And the hand of fearless might,
And the heart that can love and feel,
And the head that is always right.
For the foeman is now abroad,
And the earth is filled with crimes;
Let it be our prayer to God,
"Oh! give us the men for the times!"
<c02>
The Liberator.
"THE SAME OLD SIXPENCE." 
The Protestants of this country are apt to congratulate themselves on having escaped from the "corruptions" of the Romish church. Examination of the principles and practice of both parties has always shown the difference between them to be in degree only, not in kind; and now, so enormous are the vices with which American piety deliberately and persistently fraternizes, that the difference in degree even seems constantly diminishing, and "ready to vanish away."
The New York Evangelist, under the heading, "Pious Gamblers," quotes the following, from Mr. Edmond About's brilliant book, entitled, " Contemporary Rome," as illustrating " one of the phases of, life in that city of the Papacy:-
"While sitting in an eating-house, he witnessed the following exhibition of gambling piety with a wide-awake eye, at a table where an old man was playing. The cards were obstinately unfavorable to the old player, who finally staked his silver watch, to lose all, or to recover everything. Before cutting the cards, he went to kneel before the Madonna of the restaurant, and prayed her to restore what he had lost, with something beside, promising to share the profits with her, and to carry a great wax taper to the church of St. Augustine. Meantime, his adversary, without leaving his seat, prudently crossed himself, and murmured a counter prayer to the same Madonna. The old wagoner lost as he had lost before. He rose from the table, and took his position in the face of that image that he had just adored. Some violence was to be expected against the Madonna; but the Virgin is honored in Rome as she is no other where. Should the Romans ever become freethinkers, they may forget or deny God, but in no conceivable case will they renounce the worship of the Virgin. The unlucky gambler, standing before her image, let fall his wrath on the divine child she bore in her arms: ' You wretched baby, (bambino,) he exclaimed, 'Judas served you right when he sold you!' His adversary gathered up the money and the watch, called for another flagon of wine, which he drank at his leisure, examining the point of his knife, stopped at the door to see if any one was waiting for him on the outside, and went his way."
The Evangelist would represent piety, among habitual and professional gamblers, as something monstrous, absurd and impossible. It would represent the public performance of prayer for the success of a vicious enterprise, or of opposing prayers addressed to the same God in behalf of antagonistic forms of selfishness, as something at once shocking to the moral sense, and peculiar to the Romish faith. It would represent the use of prayer, by rival parties or individuals who are alike upholding a worldly, carnal and selfish policy, as a means of "currying favor "with the Deity, each against the other, as something unknown in Protestantism. Yet that which it calls "piety” exists in this country, among the people whom it mis-names " evangelical," in open and permanent connection with vices far worse than gambling. Slavery is prayed for by the "business men's prayer-meetings," by the "Young Men's Christian Associations," by numerous ecclesiastical bodies, by the editors of "religious newspapers," and by elergymen of various sects, in the pulpit and elsewhere. And throughout our Northern States, at this moment, numerous bodies of people who " hope and trust " that they are " pious," and who hold, at any rate, some ecclesiastical certificate declaring them to be so, are energetically praying for the continuance of the Federal Union, and against the people who would break it; while a set of people throughout the Southern States, bearing in their mouths and pockets the same evidence of "piety," are praying to the same God for the destruction of the same Union, and against the people who would continue it. And the very men who are uttering these prayers at the South are, at the same time, committing enormous outrages for the maintenance of slavery, not only against the slaves and the free people of color, but against Northern citizens casually among them; while the very men who are uttering the opposing prayers at the North are at the same time trying to put down abolitionism, and to suppress " agitation," favoring the continuance of slavery on account of the profitable trade they drive with slaveholders. The piety of these two classes is precisely alike, cultivated by the same processes, tested by the same standard of dogmatic theology, holding "good and regular standing " in churches of the same denomination, and acknowledged as genuine in each party by the other. And in both, the existence of this piety is as thoroughly independent of Christian morality as among their despised brethren of the Romish church.
Will it be pleaded that, however far short American slavery may fall of conformity with the Christianity of Jesus and of Paul, it is at least an " institution," a great, popular, respectable system, practised by men of character and station, patronized by the State, favored by a large proportion of the press, substantially upheld by the Tract, Missionary and Bible Societies, and bulwarked by the Presbyterian, Episcopal, Bap-tist, Methodist and Congregational churches, and therefore that Protestant complicity with it ought not to be rated like Catholic complicity with a vice so mean and vulgar as gambling? Let us then take another instance.
Lying, surely, is a vice as mean and vulgar as gambling. Yet the clerical conductors of the " religious press " (so called) are accustomed to tell gross falsehoods respecting prominent abolitionists, such as William Lloyd Garrison, Parker Pillsbury and Theodore Parker, and against radical reformers generally, and then to refuse insertion to the refutation of those calumnies. Moreover, the same persons, in the same organs, are accustomed constantly to misrepresent, and when this proves insufficient, directly to lie, in defence of the theological hypotheses of their creed. For instance: it is only by such deliberate and persistent lying, in opposition to Scripture as well as to reason and history, that the institution falsely called "the Christian Sabbath" is maintained.
Is this charge, against a body of men so large and reputable as the conductors of the " religions press," too vague, comprehensive and indefinite? Well, I will give an instance.
Rev. Parsons Cooke, of Lynn, has, for a quarter of a century, (more or less,) used his editorship of religious papers in the manner above described, uttering malignant calumnies against men and women engaged in reformatory labors, and then shutting out the refutation of them from his columns.
Passing by his numerous false accusations against the excellent men above named, I will give the following as a specimen of his impudent and persistent mendacity:-
Many years ago, shortly after a great public debate had drawn attention to the fact that the German and English Reformers (Calvin, Luther, Melancthon, Tyndale the Martyr, Bunyan, Baxter and others,) were thoroughly opposed to that doctrine respecting " The Sabbath" which is now preached from Orthodox pulpits, Rev. Parsons Cooke found it needful, for the interests of his order, to bring discredit upon this fact, and to check a belief which would tend to thin his congregation. Trusting to the probability that none of his hearers or readers possessed the complete works of either of the above writers, he impudently denied that they were Anti-Sabbatarians. And, clenching this general lie with a special one, he quoted a passage from Calvin's "Institutes," reversing Calvin's meaning by the interpolation of two clauses forged by himself, and representing the whole as a correct translation from Calvin. This he published in his paper, The Puritan, and would not allow the insertion of any statement of the error, or even of the genuine passage, which I carried to his office immediately after this publication. It thus became impossible to bring to the eyes of his readers the proof, either of the falsehood or forgery he had committed; and they probably believed his accusations of falsehood against the men who had proved, by large and correct quotations, the Anti-Sabbatism of Calvin, Luther, Melancthon and others 
From that time to the present, Dr. Cooke has been accustomed to defend the doctrine and policy of his order by representations flagrantly false in fact, and grossly calumnious against men and women engaged in the work of reform, refusing to admit into his paper replies to these falsehoods and calumnies.
<c03>
The unwonted appearance in his paper, something more than a year ago, of an appeal to reason and to free discussion, for the settlement of controverted points in theology, the astounding impudence of the inquiry, from such a man, why the opponents to whom he had always refused a hearing used sneers instead of arguments, induced me to offer him the following for publication:-
A QUESTION ANSWERED.
To the Editor of the Recorder:
SIR-I find in your paper of December 8th an editorial article, apparently written in serious sadness, entitled, “Scoffing at Divine Truth." You not only assume that an "inborn hatred of God's truth” exists among the people of this country, but you find (you say) a habit of " sneering at sacred truth," of manifesting "contempt of God and his truth," of " taking it for granted, as a first principle, that the Gospel doctrines have had their day, and are to be rejected as cast-off garments." And, remonstrating against this habit of scoffing and sneering, (which you represent as common, and as becoming more common,) you appeal to reason and Scripture in the following terms:-
"What is the argument of main resort against evangelical truth, both in the pulpit and by the press, among its professed opponents? It is not argument drawn from Scripture. For in these days, sects opposed to the doctrines of the Cross make little use of the Scriptures. Nor is it a serious appeal to reason." 
" Do you say that you are thoroughly and rationally convinced that those old dogmas are indeed founded in delusion, and therefore that the Gospel that contains them is a farce? Then, as becomes rational and serious men, give the rational proofs that have led you to those convictions. Let us have solid reason instead of sneers. If there were no God in the case, it is an insult to men to sneer at their sacredly cherished sentiments. But if these sentiments are delusions, and you have a superior penetration of reason by which you can show it, you would do a kindness seriously to refute our doctrines. But your scoffs and sneers can neither refute nor be refuted."
Though I am not familiar with persons, or writings, or speeches, of the sort described in the above quotations from your article, I will take for granted, on your representation, that some such persons and things exist. But, having been, all my life, intimately familiar with the "religious" periodical press, I find the state of things of which you complain accounted for by one pretty uniform characteristic of the management and policy of that press, far more plausibly than by the assumption of an "inborn hatred of God's truth " as the exciting cause.
If the persons of whom you speak do not (as you say) make appeal either to reason or to Scripture, perhaps the reason is, that your columns and those of your associates are closed against any statement at once fair and full (or even moderately approaching those characteristics) in which either reason or Scripture is urged against your position. Perhaps it is because that opposite party have so often vainly tried to obtain the insertion in those columns, of a just statement of their position, that they have given it up as hopeless! Perhaps their despair of fairness on your part has been confirmed by the custom of the "religious" press-for instance, we will say, of the Recorder and the Congregationalist-to publish, in their editorial columns and elsewhere, things grossly false in defence of their own system, and things grossly false and calumnious in regard to the systems, the characters, the persons, the speeches and the writings of others, and then to refuse correction of those falsehoods, even when accompanied by complete and thorough documentary evidence.
If, still further, these " religions " presses have been accustomed, under occasional urgent contingencies, to falsify evidence in their own defence-for instance, to interpolate materially qualifying clauses in quotations, purporting to be from some authority respected by their readers, or to quote, eulogizing it as high authority, some dictum which examination proves to be a thorough and deliberate imposture-and then to refute insertion to a correction of such cheats-would not this help to account for some acerbity of expression in the persons thus dealt with?
If, after repeated experience of this sort of injustice, after repeated exclusion from your columns of their appeals to reason or to Scripture, or to both united, such persons have expressed the contempt which an ingenuous mind would naturally feel for such conduct, and have also expressed a similar contempt for the doctrines which require such means for their defence, (or, at any rate, which you and your brethren of the " religious" press habitually defend by such means,) is this strange? Is it very censurable? And will not this state of things account (perhaps) for all the occasions in which you have found "sneers" used, instead of appeals to reason?
Your friend and servant for the truth,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
Boston, Dec. 15, 1859.
The publication of this article was refused by Dr. Cooke, the junior editor stating also, as his objection to it, that he did not like to see the Recorder put on a level with the Congregationalist!
The later performances of Dr. Cooke have been the printing of a pro-slavery sermon, preached in celebration of the President's Fast, and reiteration of grossly calumnious statements against Theodore Parker; and, latest of all, an ebullition of vulgar scurrility against a lady, his superior alike in learning and wisdom, justice and generosity, intelligence and excellence, because she is maintaining the rights of her sex, the welfare of both sexes, and the liberty with which Christ makes free, against the narrow selfishness of a priestly class, who, for the perpetuation of their own usurped authority, would keep the men and women of the nineteenth century in subjection to a " ministration of death," devised among a half-civilized people, in an age long antecedent to the first century.-C. K. W.
LETTER FROM REV. GILBERT HAVEN.
CAMBRIDGE, January 29th, 1861.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
MY DEAR SIR,-In connection with the words of commendation with which you honor my discourse on the late national triumph of liberty, you very warmly dissent from some of my remarks concerning your course as an eminent leader in the great reform. I should not have thought of defending my statements against your censure, in your own columns or elsewhere, did you not invite, nay, urge me to do so.I wrote those brief sentences with great carefulness, for I was anxious to say nothing that would inflict pain upon any lover of this cause, and especially upon yourself, whom I have long recognized as its originator, under God. Upon my reviewing my few remarks in the light of your criticism, I still think they are truthful, generous, cordial. I know that was the spirit in which they were spoken. As you demand with great earnestness answers to the questions you there ask, and as this demand is necessarily made upon me, I do not feel at liberty to shrink from it, however delicate and disagreeable it may be to comply.
In almost the only conversation I ever had the privilege of holding with you, when I dissented from your course in respect to the Church, and especially in respect to evangelical religion, you replied, that you desired no endorsement from any one farther than his conscience led him, and added these solemn words: " So, then, every one of us must give account of himself unto God." Most reverently do I accept this truth, and shall endeavor to discharge the duty to which you summon me, under the holy light of that solemn declaration. 
Before I proceed farther, permit me to correct an error into which you were led by a similarity of names. I am not the editor of the Zion's Herald, but merely a member and stationed preacher of the N. E. Conference. I do not wish that my words should be supposed to have any such authority as might attend the utterances of an official representative of my Church. They must stand or fall on their own merits. You also remark that my "relation to that Church ‘would be more honored in the breach than in the observance,' until it ceased to welcome slaveholders to its communion table, as true Methodists, and brethren and sistors in the Lord."That Church has declared slave-holding to be contrary to the Bible and its book of discipline; so that every minister is really forbidden to "welcome" such sinners to the Lord's table. While we have no power nor desire to prevent any person from coming to this free and open table, who chooses to answer for himself the Christian invitation, following in this, the ordinance of the Apostle, we cannot, as Methodist ministers, "welcome" them. I have
<c04>
suffered a slaveholding Doctor of Divinity to sit in my congregation for months together without once asking him to enter my pulpit, or consecrate and administer the sacred symbols of the Divine Love and Sacrifice. I think I am without offence in this matter, even before so rigid an anti-slavery tribunal as your own. Letting these things pass, allow me (to examine your objections in the order in which they are made.
You first censure me for not giving a sketch, at least, of the conflicts which "sprang up among the young philanthropists " at the beginning of this movement. You seem to think my silence was intended as a reflection upon you. I beg leave to say that I had no such intention. I only stated a lamentable fact, which every reader of the Emancipator and Liberator of that period knew too well. I expressed no opinion as to the right or wrong of either party. I confess you had some reason to suppose I sympathized with your opponents, because in my next sentence there is a reflection upon a subsequent course of action, on which you base a second complaint. I say, "the conscience growing demanded the privilege of expressing itself at the ballot-box. This was resisted by Mr. Garrison." This you partially deny. I am glad to be corrected of an error into which I had fallen. I had supposed till I read your remarks, that you had from the beginning opposed bringing the question to the polls; and that 'you had done so not chiefly because of the pro-slavery character of the Constitution, but because you considered moral suasion to be the only means proper to be used in the conflict. But though privately mistaken, my published statement did you no wrong. For that merely stated the fact that this demand was resisted, and gave no reason for the opposition. You say the omission did you injustice, because I seem to place you in antagonism to the conscience of others, without expressly saying that you acted under the guidance of an equally earnest conscience. I never asserted or imagined that your conscience was less active than theirs. Errors in judgment, as every one feels, often coexist with the most powerful workings of conscience. No one in this land, whatever be his position on this question, doubts Mr. Garrison's faithfulness to his conscience. The wildest slavery maniac of the South, his meanest apologist of the North, the millions of earnest foes of the system they defend, all acknowledge that nothing but the mighty presence of "stern Duty, daughter of the voice of God," could have supported you in the long and bitter conflict. I believe that you and Mr. Gerrit Smith are equally conscientious in your perfectly antagonistic views of the Constitution. I believe the great mass of Abolitionists are equally conscientious in their view, half way between these extremes. They concede that the Constitution has two articles that were intended to yield slight privileges to slavery, which privileges ought not, in honor, to be interfered with by legislation. But every letter, aside from these concessions, and its whole spirit, in spite of them, is alive with the presence of Freedom. " A covenant with death, and an agreement with hell," is, as the Prophet declared it to be, an open and earnest alliance with sin for the sake of sin. The two provisions which make these concessions were wrung out of our fathers against their prayers and protestations. They abhorred the system that demanded them. It was no more such a covenant as Isaiah rebukes, than is yours such, when you practically " agree " with a master for the purchase of his slave, as your honorable subscription to many a poor slave's solicitations shows you to have done. You submit to the apparent "covenant" for the sake of the real good you can thus alone effect. They submitted with equal reluctance and with as great abhorrence of slavery to the apparent covenant, only because they considered that a united country and continent, on the principles of universal liberty and equality, could and would be conformed in practice to these principles. They were careful to offset their minute grants by such counter-acts as the suppression of the Foreign Slave Trade, the right of habeas corpus and trial by jury, the Ordinance of 1787, and especially by a preamble which is so full and glorious a statement of the loftiest aims and duties of government, that, had their sons been as faithful to its spirit as were they, would have long since destroyed the power of its petty, black-letter concessions, and filled the whole land, as it shall yet be filled, by its own native force, with the beauty and strength of perfect liberty.
The third ground of complaint is more grievous, and, by its demands, constrains me to a more painful duty. I say, " Led by his love of free speech, he permitted some of his leading associates to burden the 'animosus infans' with gross infidelities and social absurdities." You remark: " We deny the charge, and call for evidence. None of our ' leading associates' have sought to do any such thing. They have advocated the anti-slavery cause on its own merits, and have not sought to burden it with any extraneous question. Nor is it for us to 'permit' them to do either this or that. They are of age, and can speak for themselves. When Mr. Haven will point out the gross infidelities and social absurdities to which he refers, we will give them our gravest consideration. Till then, the imputation is a stab in the dark." This is a frank and full denial of my assertion. Let us frankly consider it. You will notice that I do not censure the course of all your leading associates. Some of them are entirely free from both of these charges. Many of those residing in this vicinity are as guiltless in respect to the latter accusation as any other persons of culture and social position. The most famous of these associates has not been guilty, so far as I am aware, of an infidel or "absurd" utterance. He is too indiscriminate in his assaults on the Church and clergy for their anti-slavery unfaithfulness, but never assails their creed or calling. He includes them all under condemnation, that he may have mercy upon none. He forgets that in 1835, before he joined your ranks, the body of which I have the honor to be a member, organized an anti-slavery society on the broadest ground of immediate emancipation, and elected delegates to the General Conference, who begun then the great fight which has passed into all the churches, and resulted in many victories. He fails to recognize the fact that this earliest action has not only never been reversed, but has been adopted by a majority of our Conference; so that to-day there are thousands of Methodist preachers as good and true Abolitionists as any of the chosen few whom he carefully excepts from his sweeping wrath. But this defect in knowledge or honesty is never united with the more offensive and dangerous errors into which others have fallen.
You will also notice that I give you the full benefit of the only defence I ever heard you make for "permitting" without hindrance, and without rebuke, the intrusion of these topics into the Liberator and the meetings of the American Anti-Slavery Society, namely: free speech, a free press, a free platform. You ask for proofs. Many names and facts arise in my mind, but the utterance of them would only lead me into a painful and profitless controversy. In the very paper in which this demand is made, is a communication from one of these "leading associates," who has uttered in many meetings of your Society and in the columns of the Liberator, most fearful blasphemies against the Bible, the Church, "the glorious Gospel of the blessed God," has advocated many social absurdities in " the conduct of life," and been especially offensive to all truly cultured natures in his assaults on the sacred ordinance of marriage.
The very next editorial to the one in which you make the above denial has this remark concerning the Word of God, in a review of Rev. Mr. White's sermon: "Its assertion [that of the Sermon] that 'every cause must stand or fall, by the verdict of the Bible' indicates a tread-mill reverence or a traditional credulity, and not close, independent thinking. We totally dissent from this postulate. The Bible has settled nothing in theology, science, morality, or religion, beyond the prevailing opinions of the times. Neither human rights nor human obligations originate with or depend upon any thing in the Bible." Similar remarks concerning other axioms of historic, Biblical, vital Christianity are found in the same article. They are, in my judgment, "grossly infidel." By this I mean, they are in violent hostility to the express
<c05>
declarations of the Universal Church, and of the Bible itself. If they are true, infidelity is true, and not its opposite, faith. If false, they are the worst of falsehoods.
I was greatly pained, a few years since, to hear you say, in the Melodeon, that the evangelical religion, which you truly said was the faith of the nation, was so bound up with the system of slavery, that the only way to destroy this monster was to destroy that faith. I thought you had forgotten that the earliest anniversaries of the same Society were conducted almost exclusively by ministers and members of evangelical churches, most of whom have kept that early faith and fervor, though they cannot honorably appear on that, platform. It was also forgotten that this same Society, in 1835, by a unanimous vote, appointed a day of fasting and prayer for the extirpation of slavery: and it was especially forgotten that the meeting connected with this Society, which was the first that was broken up by a Boston mob headed by a Boston Mayor, was an anti-slavery prayer meeting. Though the mobs and Mayors of Boston yet honor you, and disgrace themselves and their city, with their contemptible assaults upon free speech and the cause in which you so faithfully use that "liberty of prophesying," yet I fear it will be some time before an evangelical prayer-meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society is again thus infamously interrupted. If the Managers of that Society would appoint one, I have no doubt a great; multitude of Christians would gladly be present, and share with them the godly pleasure, and, if need be, the ungodly persecutions of the hour. Why can they not revive this practice at the coming Anniversaries?
But I should be justly accused of timidity, the last fault which the Liberator pardons, if I failed to mention that one of your " leading associates " who has but lately left us. All the others must pale their ineffectual fires before the lurid blaze of this baleful star.
No one can surpass me in admiration of the talents, learning or zeal in the Anti-Slavery cause of Theodore Parker. No one can deplore more sorrowfully his " gross infidelity." It infected all his public life. He never separated his literary or reformatory efforts from his anti-Christian teachings. In his Letter to his Society, he boasts that through these channels he constantly poured this stream. It may be said that his religious doctrines had nothing to do with his service in the cause of Freedom. This is hardly so. They were ventilated in almost every anti-slavery address he ever delivered. They largely absorbed his; letters and addresses to the Progressive Friends, which were published in the Liberator with words of approval. He was never publicly rebuked by that journal for these gross infidelities. And when he died, its eulogies, as well as those of the Society it represents, were unbounded, were indiscriminate. Nay, not so. Some of them discriminated in favor of the dreadful errors it had been the chief labor of his life to upbuild. In view of these and many other painful facts, I can but think my remark was true. I have read the Liberator many times, and I have rarely looked into its columns, that my faith as a Christian, the faith of Paul and John, of Polycarp and Ignatius, of Luther and the Pilgrim Fathers, of Wesley and Wilberforce .of Charles T. Torrey and John Brown, of myriads upon myriads of saints and martyrs, that glorious, that divine, that eternal faith, has not been shocked by the profane skepticisms that were permitted to corrode its pages. "'Tis true, 'tis pity, and pity 'tis, 'tis true."
Your last complaint is, that I reflect upon your piety in my remark about Wilberforce. A typographical mistake of your printer has led you into an error in this paragraph. I say, "Would that, in his sphere of effort, and to the measure of his large abilities and influence, he had kept this liberty from becoming licentiousness!" He prints "this," "his, "and you think I refer to you as personally guilty. I did not, but only lamented that, by your rebuke, or, at least, by your defence of the faith once delivered to the saints when it was thus put to open shame, you had not constrained these enemies of our Lord and His Christ to cease their public clamor, if not their secret hate.
Only one sentence reflects upon your character. The others criticise your conduct-a fate to which every public man is necessarily exposed. The one that suggests a moral defect is that last sad prayer, "Would that he, like Wilberforce, had kept his heart sweet with prayer and piety through the whole of this great war." I cannot see the heart, and may have misjudged you in that remark. I shall be most happy to make confession if I have done you wrong. I belong to a church that believes works are as essential as faith, and our Savior says, "By their fruits ye shall; know them." As a believer in the divine inspiration and authority of all the Holy Scriptures, in the atonement of Christ, in the impossibility of escaping eternal punishment from our just and loving Redeemer, "if we neglect so great salvation," what must be my conclusion as to the spiritual condition of a great philanthropist, when I see him admitting to his journal, for years together, and defending in his editorial columns, either by himself or his subordinates, doctrines which assail and would fain overthrow these all-important truths? What must I think of his "prayer and piety," when I see him a regular attendant on Sabbath services which are almost exclusively devoted to this work? Was the piety of Wilberforce of this stamp? Did he sit, a quiet, if not a sympathetic listener, while his ministers denounced with the most unsparing invective the revival of God's work, and declared the operations of the Holy Spirit to be but the cunning devices of the ministers of Jesus Christ? No equal torrent of blasphemous infidelity poured forth from the eruptive craters of Voltaire and Paine, both great philanthropists and reformers. Far less did their lava flow over such great and gracious truths as did that which burst forth from Music Hall in those anti-revival sermons; sermons, I fear, which had the approval of the Liberator. Voltaire assailed a dead and putrid form of Christianity; Paine struck at the Bible when French infidelity was tainting the Church with its rottenness. Parker struck at the Church in her highest possible work; struck at her when God was prospering that work in a wonderful manner; struck at the work itself, denying it, ridiculing it, by caricature, by misrepresentation, by mingling the errors of some of its devotees with its own lustrous and perfect beauty. It was as if he had charged Moses with idolatry because the Israelites fell into this sin, or Christ with profanity because his chief apostle once swore. And yet these discourses, which, with that dying Letter, will yet make all his friends bleed to their very hearts, with shame and sorrow, are approved in the pages of the Atlantic, by another of these " leading associates."
No record of silent acquiescence in such fatal heresies mars the memory of Wilberforce. He labored and wrote for evangelical religion as actively as he wrought for human liberty. His " Practical View of Christianity," an earnest appeal for the truths and the experience of the Gospel, is issued, unemasculated, by even the traitorous Tract Society of New York. His praise was in all the churches, and his support there! also, while the ungodly raged against him. I fear my dear sir, that you do not desire such a record as this. Would to God you had it! Would to God that that earliest appeal to, reliance on, and sympathy with the Church and the ministry had never been abandoned! Would that you could yet see and enter this path of human, no less than heavenly duty and glory!
I have no doubt of your future renown. I have no doubt that your past and present persecution by base men, some of whom are high in office, and are even false professors of a perfect religion, will only make your name the more glorious in the blackness of shame that will cover their memory. You have never strove; so fiercely against the truth as it is in Jesus, as to destroy your, well-worn fame for your services and sacrifices for the slave. Though you have "permitted some of your leading associates” to engage in this work, still, your own eye has been so nearly single, your body so full of the blessed light of human emancipation, that I am confident you will shine as the stars in the memory of this nation. I have said, more than once, in my pulpit, that the Christian Abolitionists will carve your form in marble, as a grate
<c06>
ful recognition of your preeminent relation to this great work. May they yet be able to place below that statue as glowing a tribute to your late but earnest faithfulness in the cause of experimental piety, as they assuredly will to your faithfulness in the cause of experimental piety, as they abolitionism!
Nothing pains me more, in this hour, when the glorious object which you revived, and in which you have so mightily labored, seems so near its consummation, than to see your exclusion from the enthusiastic devotion of the great multitude through which that end is hastening. The name and presence of Wm. Lloyd Garrison ought to create a passion of reverence and admiration far surpassing that which the name or presence of Wm. H. Seward, or Charles Sumner, or Horace Greeley creates. Why does it not? Why do the conquering millions ignore that name, and, as if to avoid contamination, hasten to declare that they are not of his household? Not because you adhere to moral suasion: that would only increase the esteem of Christians. Not because of your interpretation of the Constitution. This enthusiasm overleaps all constructions of that document. Parties and polities are but a narrow channel in the great and wide sea. Not because you have opposed all violent methods of attacking this evil; not even because you have ably and often rightly chastised Church and clergy, for their timidity and their complicity with this sin. Its own members have applied the lash with this sin. Its own members have applied the lash with equal zeal, if not with equal ability. Some of them are now wearing her highest honors for their past and present fidelity.
The cause lies deeper. It is, in my opinion, simply and solely because you have, with silence, if not with approval, "permitted some of your leading associates to burden the cause with gross infidelities and social absurdities, "and the people commit you to the errors they have taught. They have been allowed to wear your name as a cloak for their sins. They may not have assumed it; but it has been applied by others, and never disowned by you. I do not make "a priestly stab." God forbid.! I speak as a frail and sinful man,-saved, I trust, by grace, by grace alone, Most deeply do I regret the identification of your name with the absurdities and abominations of this little clique, who seem to have reversed the apostolic injunction, "In malice be ye children, but in understanding be ye men, “and have become children in understanding, men in malice, as they rage against the Church, the Bible, the Sabbath, the ordinance of perpetual marriage, and other sacred and blessed gifts of God to man. Most gladly would I see you and others, less worthy, yet pure and excellent, that surround you, abandoning this society of men of perverse minds, and of doctrines far more perverse, and standing in your lot and place among those who would gratefully embalm your name with the holiest fragrance of Christian love.
I have written with "a sad sincerity." You put me plain questions, and, I doubt not, expected and desired plain answers. I shall ever venerate you as the pioneer in America of the divine work, so near, I trust, its completion. I am confident the Church and the country, North and South, will yet so venerate you. I pray and hope that they may yet be able to crown their gratitude with the highest of honors, which descends from God on those alone who not only labor for the redemption of their fellow-men from the cruel yoke of human bondage, but labor none the less for their infinitely greater redemption from the far heavier yoke of sin and death, a salvation purchased for us by the blood of our Lord and Saviour, and offered to all who will come unto God through Him!
With great respect, I remain yours for Christ and the slave, G.H.
VASSAR FEMALE COLLEGE.
It seems most fitting and timely that yours, the oldest and most constantly reliable of our denominational journals, should embrace in its ample, wellfilled columns a fuller account of the recently chartered institution above mentioned. Nearly a year since, you furnished a notice of what was intended; now you can report progress. Our New York Legislature, with unparalleled promptness and unanimity, have just incorporated the college, naming twenty-nine trustees, to whom the management of its concerns have been confided. The munificent founder, Matthew Vassar, Esq.,-one of your regular subscribers nearly forty years ago,-has devoted to the purpose of its endowment, a beautiful tract of ground, embracing two hundred acres, one or two miles east of the city of Poughkeepsie. It is bisected by an ample stream of the purest water, issuing from copious and never-failing springs, and intended to form two beautiful lakes, for quiet and retired boating in summer, and skating in winter. Between the two there is a waterfall of fifteen or twenty feet, now used for a mill, and giving the name of "Mill Cove" to the estate. Easily will this water be carried to the highest part of the college edifice, and distributed to every apartment-a new but admirable feature in college arrangements, promotive of health and cleanliness.
THE PRINCIPAL EDIFICE.
The principal edifice is already contracted for, and will be commenced early in the spring. It is certainly the noblest in plan, and the most complete in arrangements, ever devoted to educational purposes, in this, or perhaps any other country. It will present a front of 500 feet, varying in depth from 40 to 170 feet, admirably adapted to furnish all needful public rooms, residence for the president and several professors, and heathful, well-lighted and ventilated private chambers, for about 300 pupils. This edifice, with its furnishing, is to cost about $200,000; and as much more will be made a permanent investment, for the support in part of instructors, [and some few of the most deserving pupils, who may require this aid,] so that the founding of this establishment, including the ample grounds, will nearly reach the amount of $450,000. The founder's deeds will sufficiently praise him, and I need not attempt it in poor, inadequate words.
LIBERALITY IN THE CONSTITUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Though Mr. Vassar himself is a decided Baptist, he has wisely sought to combine with his own denomination a fair and able representation of all the more prominent evangelical bodies of different names; so that Methodists and Presbyterians, Episcopalians, Reformed Dutch and Friends, are all found on the Board. Thus, like the constitution of the corporation of Brown University, it will combine, it is hoped, the excellences of all, and the exclusiveness of none. The amount of practical experience and ability found in this Board has rarely been equalled in the inception of any literary institution. So far as the intentions of the founder and trustees have been made known, their purpose is to spare no effort and care in securing the best instructors; and giving to them all needed facilities for the successful performance of their duties. It is hoped that, even at the beginning, it may be found practicable to secure females for at least one moiety of the professors. Already it is understood that a lady of your own State, of high renown as an astronomer, has indicated a willingness to fill that chair. The Professor of Household Duties, of Physiology and the Diseases of Women, must, of course, come from the same side,. Music, drawing, and several others, might as well. But without going into these details, let it now suffice to say that a new era will certainly be inaugurated when an institution of the highest order in all respects is made available for women, at an expense reduced to one-half its real cost, like the colleges and universities now provided for males. Above all, it is hoped that Christianity of the heart and life, like what has been aimed at by Mary Lyos. at Mt. Holyoke, will be the culminating aim and glory of the institution. Then its motto might well be that of your own Harvard, " To Christ and the Church; "and if unperfected, this and coming generations will gratefully rejoice in it. A.B.C.
Banks of the Hudson, Feb., 1861.
Correspondence of the Christian Watchman & Reflector.
THE BOSTON MOB,
WHAT WE HEARD IN A DREAM.
BY FRANKLIN.
HIS Satanic Majesty abdicates his throne, and appoints his successor. Price, 2 cents single, $1 per 100.
Address "Franklin," Liberator office, 221 Washington street, Boston.
P.S.A sample forwarded to any address, post-paid, for one 3ct. stamp enclosed.
Feb. 13. 3t

