THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer’s.
VOL. XXX. NO. 29. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 20, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1543.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Lawrence (Mass.) Sentinel, 7th inst.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON AT CITY HALL.
This notorious agitator and sceptic held forth at City Hall, last Sabbath, in defence of his peculiar views. Large audiences were present.
In the afternoon he descanted upon the Bible-denying its authenticity and inspiration, and claiming that it should be accepted as truth only in so far as it accorded with the opinions of the individual. The discourse, though marked by considerable ability, accredited its author as the possessor of an eratic and unbalanced mind.
But the evening lecture was the feature of his performance. Slavery was his topic, and he fulfilled his promise to unfold the character of Garrisonian Abolitionism. He claimed with truth that his principles were identical with those of the Republicans, the only point of difference being that he boldly followed out Republican ideas to their logical conclusions, while they timidly shrank therefrom. He conceded that the indignities offered to anti-slavery men at the South, who publicly expressed their opposition to slavery, were occasioned by the aggravating agitation at the North, but he justified the agitation on 'higher law' grounds, arguing that slavery being wrong, it was a duty to eradicate it regardless of consequences. He threw a bomb-shell into the Republican ranks when he said that if slaves were rightfully held as property in the States, they were held with parity of right in the Territories.
The whole lecture was of the 'fire-eating' order, after the fashion of the Liberator, and disgusting to all right-thinking men and loyal citizens. He advocated the utopian and fatal idea of immediate emancipation-an idea impossible in itself, and were it possible, full of disaster to the white and black alike. The Union he looked upon as 'a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,' and prayed for its dissolution. Slaveholders were abused with more violence and vulgarity than were exhibited in Sumner's defamatory oration, and all 'doughfaces' were severely flaggeilated. To our mind exhibitions of this sort upon the Sabbath are improper and disgraceful. They seriously tend to corrupt the reverence due the Lord's Day, and lessen the sense of moral obligation to observe it in a fitting manner. The large majority of those who met to listen to Garrison on last Sabbath evening, went in the same spirit as they would visit a theatre or other place of amusement. All solemnity and soberness were forgotten, and the demonstrations of applause which greeted some of the vulgar extravagances of the speaker, show that the decencies of a Christian Sabbath were not regarded.
We would not interfere with Mr. Garrison in the expression of his vagaries. They are so virulent and extravagant, that in an intelligent community no harm can come of them. But in the name of a decent propriety, we protest against the use of the Sabbath for such public performances as were transacted in our City Hall last Sunday evening. Should not our public halls be closed on the Sabbath against these demonstrations?

PARSON BROWNLOW.
The notorious Parson Brownlow, of the Knoxville Whig, having received a long letter, appends thereto the following personal reminiscence, which is highly flavored with Tennessee philosophy:-
‘We attended the same "good frame church" last Sabbath afternoon, filled to overflowing with the "colored population," and sat in the shade under the window, and heard a sermon of forty minutes, from Anthony, a colored slave. He told his audience that, whether bond or free, rich or poor, learned or unlearned, if they were the sons of God, and if his love had been bestowed upon them, all was well; and all that remained for them to do was to persevere to the end. We could but reflect at the time that Anthony was really doing more good than all the white rascals, educated villains, and pious miscreants of the North, who are lecturing on the evils of slavery, and haranguing the vile freedom-shriekers who agitate this subject. We had sooner sit under the ministry of Anthony than that of Chapin, Phillips, Pryne, or any of that class of God-forsaken fanatics, who lie and rant against slavery, and the cruelty of slavery in the South, without knowing anything about the institution, or how our slaves are treated. These slaves had a revival at this church, and called up their seekers, and labored with them, at which time we left. Come South, you lousy rascals of the North, who agitate this subject, and let a congregation of Tennessee negroes pray for you!'

SPEECH OF SENATOR SUMNER.
Whenever there is a lull in the storm of discussion which rages between North and South, we begin to hope for some good in this matter. The freedom of Lombards or Sicilians may be worked out by the sword, and there is no finer spectacle than that of the bold man who makes war against the tyranny which crushes his countrymen. But the African will never be saved by such means., He is too low to rise up as his own deliverer, nor would humanity gain by the substitution of negro anarchy for the present social institutions of the Southern States. The white man must raise him by the aid of white men, and, above all, by the aid of his master. The politician who endeavors to set hatred between different classes of Americans on this subject, who encourages the negro to look to violent means for his deliverance, and fills the owner with increased dread of bloody reprisals by his bondmen, is an enemy to the cause in which he pours forth his acrimonious eloquence. John Brown himself has not done more harm to the cause of abolition in Virginia than a man like Mr. Sumner, when he drives the Southern Senators to fury by such a violent and uncalled for philippic as our American correspondent notices to-day.
It was some years since Mr. Sumner had raised his voice in the assembly to which he belongs. The results which followed his onslaught on slavery are still in the remembrance of every one. In 1856, when the Union was agitated by the contest between Buchanan and Fremont, and party spirit was at its highest, Mr. Sumner delivered an anti-slavery speech almost as strong as that of the other day. A Mr. Brooks, a member of the Lower House, exasperated by Mr. Sumner's language, and perhaps urged on by rowdy friends, ferociously assaulted him while he was sitting quietly in his chair, and inflicted such injuries as endangered Mr. Sumner's life, and forced him to retire for a time from public affairs. Brooks has since gone to his account, and we need say no more of him; but the Senator from Massachusetts has not learned temperance of language from the incident which nearly ended his days. The speech which produced the assault was offensively acrimonious, but the last one seems entirely to overtop it. The Southern gentry pride themselves on the possession of high, and what are called 'chivalrous' qualities. Mr. Sumner knowing this, makes an oration on the barbarism of slavery. It may certainly be said that a man has a
<c02>
right to stigmatize as barbarous those who defended and even praised his would-be murderer; but Mr. Sumner ought to know that it is immoral, as well as unstatesmanlike, to provoke men of violent temper, and that by so doing he only presses down the yoke still closer on the neck of the slave. But he puts himself forward as if purposely to aggravate his opponents. Every sneer, every cutting epithet, every provoking insinuation which he can call up, he uses for the purpose of galling his antagonists. 'Slavery must breed barbarians,' he observes; 'it develops every where alike, in the individual and in the society of which he forms a part, the essential elements of barbarism.' 'Violence, brutality, injustice, barbarism, must be reproduced in the lives of all who live within their fatal sphere.' The master 'shares the barbarism of the society which he keeps,' and so on.
We must, in the name of English abolitionism at least, protest against these foolish and vindictive harangues. Scarcely has the frenzy caused by John Brown's outrage begun to die away, than out comes Mr. Sumner with a speech that will set the whole South in a flame. We can well believe that the prospects of the Republican party have been already damaged by it. Mr. Sumner is one of that class of politicians who should be muzzled by their friends. The man who can in personal irritability so forget the interests of a great cause, is its worst enemy. Slavery existed on the American continent long before the assembly of which Mr. Sumner is a member. On it depends, or is supposed to depend, the prosperity of half the Union; the looms of Lancashire and Normandy, as well as those of Mr. Sumner's own State, are supplied by slave-grown cotton, and hundreds of millions of Northern dollars are vested in slave-worked plantations. Slavery, with its roots thus deep in the soil, is not to be rooted up by any peevish effort of rhetoric; and we may predict that the man who first gains a victory for the cause of abolition will be of very different temper to the Senator from Massachusetts.-London Times.
ONE OF WENDELL PHILLIPS'S FRIENDS RELEASED FROM DURANCE VILE.-Theodore Massey, who has lain in jail for some time awaiting his trial, on a charge of enticing out of this Commonwealth three slaves belonging to Josiah Thornburgh, Esq., was yesterday tried and acquitted by a jury in the Criminal Court. The last conviction for this offence in St. Louis county was at the May term, 1858, of said Court, when a man named James Kelly, alias John Gibson, was found guilty, and sent to the Penitentiary for the very reasonable space of seven years. There are too many such Abolition scapegraces in this part of the country, and examples should be made of them when ever an opportunity offers. We learn that Massey has already been an inmate of the Penitentiary for several years, and it is no doubt the very place he ought to be in.-St. Louis Bulletin. 

SELECTIONS. 
PORTRAITURE OF JAMES BUCHANAN. 
On Wednesday evening, July 11th, Hon. CHARLES SUMNER delivered at the Cooper Institute, New York city, by special invitation of the Young Men's Republican Union, a stirring and eloquent anti-slavery address before an immense audience, (even at 25 cents a ticket,) in the course of which Mr. SUMNER drew the following graphic but revolting portraiture of James Buchanan, the perfidious President of the United States:-
It is now a well-attested fact, that Mr. Buchanan became President through corruption. Money, familiarly known as a 'corruption fund,' first distilled in small drippings from clerks and petty officials, was swollen by the larger contributions of merchants and contractors, and with this accumulation votes were purchased in the streets of Philadelphia, enough to turn the election in that great metropolis, and in the chain of cause and effect to assure the triumph of the Democratic candidate. I speak now only what has been proved, and it is known to all of you as well as to myself. Fraudulent naturalization papers in blank, by which this was perpetrated, have been produced before a Committee of Congress. It was natural that an administration thus corrupt in origin should continue to exercise power through the same corruption by which power was gained; but nothing else than that insensibility to acts of shame, which is bred by familiarity, can explain how all this should be done with such absolute indecency of exposure-wearing scarcely so much as a fig-leaf. (Laughter.)
A letter from a local politician, addressed to the President himself, urging without disguise the giving of a large contract for machinery to a particular house in Philadelphia, employing 450 mechanics, with a view to the approaching election, was in-closed to the Secretary of the Navy with this indorsement, in a well-known handwriting:-'Sept.15, 1858. The inclosed letter from Col. Patterson, of Philadelphia, is submitted to the attention of the Secretary of the Navy. J. B.' (Laughter.) Thus did the President of the United States, by an official act now of record in the history of the country, recommend the employment of the public money, set apart for the public service, to influence an election. Here was corruption as positive as when his supporters purchased votes in the streets. From one, learn all; and from such a characteristic instance, learn the character of the administration. But there are other well-known instances, and the testimony before the Congressional Committee discloses the President, on Sundays, in secret conclave with one of his corrupt agents, piously occupied in discussing the chances of an election, and how its expenses were to be met; while, at the same time, like another Joseph Surface, he was uttering in public fine sentiments of political morality, and lamenting the prevalence of the very indecencies in which he was engaged.
It was natural, fellow-citizens, that the President, who, with professions of purity on the lips, made himself the pander of such vulgar corruption, should stick at nothing needed to carry his purposes. I shall not dwell on the Lecompton Constitution; but it belongs to this chapter. You all know its wickedness. Concocted originally at Washington, with the single purpose of fastening slavery upon the people of Kansas, it was by execrable contrivance so arranged as to prevent the people, when about to become a State, from voting on that question. Next, sanctioned by a convention of usurpers who in no respect represented the people of Kansas then fraudulently submitted to the people for their votes, it was fraudulently adopted by stuffing ballot boxes on a scale never before known-thus, at the Delaware Crossing, where there were but forty-three legal voters, 400 were returned-(laughter)-at Oxford, where there were but forty-two legal voters, 1,000 were returned; and at Shawnee, where there were but forty legal voters, 1,200 were returned. And yet this constitution, disowned by the very Governor who had gone to Kansas as the agent of the President, rotten with corruption, gaping with fraud and steaming with iniquity, was at once recognized by the President, urged upon Congress 
<c03>
in his annual message, and pressed for adoption by all the appliances of unprincipled power.
If the words of Jugurtha, turning his back upon Rome, cannot be repeated, that all had a price, it was not from any forbearance in the President. (Loud applause.) A single editor was offered the printing of the Post Office blanks worth at least $80,000, upon the condition that he should, by an editorial no larger than a man's hand, promise subserviency to the administration. I am telling you now only what has been proved before a Committee of Congress. Bribes of office were added to bribes of money. As the votes of electors had already been purchased to make Mr. Buchanan President, the votes of representatives were now solicited to carry out his scheme of corruption, and the halls of Congress were changed into a political market house, where men were bought by the head. Is not all this enough to arouse the indignation of the people? It is true that the President, whose power began in corruption, and who is the responsible author of the corruption by which his administration has been debased, is no longer a candidate for office.
Already judgment has begun. His own political party has discarded him. The first avenging blow has been struck. Incorruptible history will do the rest. (Applause.) The tablets conspicuously erected in Genoa to expose the crimes-of Doges, branding one as Fur Magnus, (the greatest thief,) and the other as Maximus Latronum, (the greatest of robbers,) will not be needed here. (Laughter.) The exposed corruptor, the tyrant enslaver, and the robber of human freedom cannot be forgotten. (Applause.) Unhappy President! After a long career of public service, not only tossed aside, but tossed over to perpetual memory as an example to be shunned!

From The World.
THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN. 
The coming presidential campaign promises to be a rather quiet affair. In spite of all the efforts of the file-leaders, it is very evident that the rank and file itself are not going to be brought up to any such pitch of excitement as was exhibited in 1856. There will be no such tremendous marshaling as then-here and there only a pitched battle, and these on an inferior scale. The warfare will be mainly guerilla, and but few, comparatively, will actively engage in it.
For this agreeable prospect, we are indebted chiefly to two circumstances,-
First, The rupture in the Democratic party. It is a fatal breach. The old discipline, which wrought such wonders, is at an end. The 'unterrified' spirit has vanished. Divided they march to ruin, and they know it. Each takes its own track, and a sad road it is-joyless, hopeless, inglorious. A party in this plight is no longer in a campaigning condition; it is almost literally hors du combat. It may skirmish in flying detachments, but as for making any grand stand-it is utterly out of the question. This of itself settles the matter. There can be no great fight without great forces-no great campaign without something formidable to overcome. The Republicans of the North have nothing to do but walk leisurely along, and take quiet possession. They have no stimulus to excitement. Men do not strain their nerves needlessly.
But, second, independently of this, the Republican party itself, though first in numbers, has lost much of its former vehemence. 'Free Kansas' is no longer a rallying point. The 'Sumner outrage' is no longer a battle-cry. Those things, once so tremendous in effect, have sunk into the past, and nothing has come to take their place. It is useless to talk of abstractions. Abstractions will not do. No party ever lived on them for any length of time, or ever will. The solid, practical men, that make up the party, bone and sinew, will not stand such thin food. There must be palpable, out-standing, matter-of-fact issues, or the party languishes. The party may resolve to the end of time against the extension of slavery, yet nothing will come of it, so long as no practical case is at hand to which to apply it. They might as well resolve against last summer's frosts. The attempt to force empty issues never succeeds. The leaders at Chicago understood this. Compare their platform with that at Philadelphia in '56. At Philadelphia, five-sixths of the structure in some way bore upon slavery; at Chicago, not two-sixths. In quality, the difference is even more marked. At Philadelphia, slavery was one of the ‘twin relics of barbarism;' not a trace of this at Chicago. At Philadelphia, it was both the right and DUTY of Congress to prohibit slavery in the territories:' at Chicago, it was duty only 'whenever such legislation is necessary.' At Philadelphia, no mention was made of the inviolability of slavery in the States; at Chicago, it was expressly resolved that 'the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions, is essential.' And so, too, as to new issues. At Philadelphia, nothing of a tariff; at Chicago, an out-and-out tariff resolution. At Philadelphia, nothing of the free homestead policy; at Chicago, an express demand of a 'complete and satisfactory homestead measure.' At Philadelphia, not a word respecting the naturalization laws; at Chicago, an explicit declaration against any change. At Philadelphia, not a syllable respecting extravagance and corruption; at Chicago, a most emphatic proclamation that 'the recent startling developments of fraud and corruption at the federal metropolis show that an entire change of administration is imperatively demanded.' This, in fact, is the strongest practical point in the platform; and it will serve more than all things else to keep the Republican party united and determined. There is a feeling that corruptions have grown frightfully, rank at Washington, and that it is high time that in the honest masses should interfere. The great document of this canvass will not be the Kansas Committee report, but the Covode Committee report and the great watchword will be not antagonism to slavery, but 'honest Abe Lincoln.' There can be no mistake about it. The Republican party occupies no such advanced anti-slavery position as in 1856. It dares not take it. It knows instinctively that the majority would not sustain them in it-that the people will not countenance agitation for mere agitation's sake-that the predominant dispotion is to let slavery alone, if slavery lets them alone. To get up, or keep up, a crusade upon any irrepressible conflict assumption, is simply to court destruction. That policy is so completely and palpably at variance with the principles and spirit with which the union was founded, that no party could commit itself to it and stand. So far as respects the slavery question, moderation is forced upon the Republican party. The heat of 1856 cannot be revived; there is no fuel to sustain it. The excitement that party leaders succeed in getting up will be only limited in degree, and will come mainly from causes which do not really touch the slavery question, either on the one side or the other.
Aught that presages a return towards the old concord of the country is to be hailed. The tendency is unmistakably in this direction, and all the efforts of those party leaders, who live only by fanning passion, cannot make it otherwise.' 
<c04>
THE LIBERATOR.
INDEPENDENCE DAY.' 
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM.
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
AFTERNOON SESSION. At quarter before three o'clock, the company again gathered around the stand, and the meeting was called to order by the President. After the singing of an appropriate hymn, Mr. GARRISON took the platform, and spoke as follows:-
SPEECH OF WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
MR. PRESIDENT,-I fully agree with my friend, Senator Wilson, that the Anti-Slavery cause is onward and upward, and that, either through the parties or over the parties now existing, it is bound to triumph at last. For one, I would not, on any account, do the slightest injustice, intentionally, to any man or body of men, to any party or sect in the land. We shall gain nothing, assuredly, by detraction; and we had better err on the side of charity than of intolerance. Hence, in all the phases which our struggle has assumed-and they have been multitudinous-I have endeavored to give every man his due, every party its due; and if I have failed to do so, I can truly affirm that it has been a matter of misjudgment, and not of design.
Now, in regard to the Republican party. Our friend (Senator Wilson) truly said, it is not an anti-slavery party. If it is not an anti-slavery party, what is it? The Republican party no more intends to meddle with slavery south of Mason and Dixon's line, or to aim at the emancipation of those now held in bondage, than it intends to seek, directly, the overthrow of the British monarchy. My charge against the Republican party is not that, amongst its members, there are not many warm anti-slavery hearts,-I know that there are, very many; nor that the party is not, after all, the result of our moral agitation-I accept it as such, imperfect as it is;; but, at the same time, our province is not to stop with compromises or compromisers. Our object is, the abolition of slavery throughout the land; and whether, in the prosecution of our object, this party goes up, or the other party goes down, it is nothing to us. We cannot alter our course one hair's breadth, nor accept a compromise of our principles for the hearty adoption of the principles themselves. Our mission is, TO REGENERATE PUBLIC OPINION. We are not concerned for the loaves and fishes of office; we are not seeking the elevation of any particular man, nor the success of any particular party. We are for the honest, fearless, impartial proclamation of God's everlasting truth, and applying that truth to the consciences of men-to parties and sects-to constitutions and laws-as we find them-never yielding one jot or tittle, though glad to observe the slightest sign of progress in any direction. 
Of course, I do not compare the Republican party with the Democratic party. I do not believe that it is more dangerous to the anti-slavery cause than the Democratic party. I believe the Democratic party represents everything of hostility to freedom, everywhere, and that, as a party, it is the incarnation of the Southern slave oligarchy, ruled by it and controlled by it absolutely. The Republican party differs from the Democratic in this respect: it is made up largely of those who are, more or less, the friends of the anti-slavery cause; who contribute, more or less liberally, to carry on the general agitation; who, with all their timidity and inconsistency, are more or less earnest that something may be done, at least to stop the progress of slavery, if not for its direct abolition;-and to this extent, the party has always obtained justice at my hands. My friend, Senator Wilson, has never made a speech in Congress, looking in the right direction, that I have not felt gratified, and been willing to accord to him due credit; and so with every other prominent member of the Republican party; but when he or any other man stands upon this platform, or elsewhere, and assumes that we shall do the best service to the cause of the slave by grounding our arms, beating a retreat from the position which we now occupy, and going over to the Republican party as the hope of the country, I, for one, think he is laboring under a fatal delusion of mind, and cannot accept the proposition for one moment. The Republican party means to do nothing, can do nothing, for the abolition of slavery in the slave States. 
Do not be deceived by the earnest utterance of glowing rhetorical phrases. What does the Republican party propose to do? To prevent, if it can, the extension of slavery into the territories. Here is one of its resolutions adopted at Chicago:-
Resolved, That the normal condition of all the territory of the United States is that of freedom; and that, as our Republican fathers, when they had abolished slavery in all our national territory, ordained that no citizen should be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, it becomes our duty, by legislation, whenever such legislation is necessary, to maintain the provisions of the Constitution against all attempts to violate it; and we deny the authority of Congress, of a Territorial Legislature, or of any individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any territory of the United States.'
Now, this is clear, explicit, and above-board, and, so far as slavery is concerned within the territories, seems to be uncompromising. It denies the right of any body of men to make slaves or to enforce slavery in the territories; whereas, the Democratic party, under the leadership of Stephen A. Douglas, affirms the right of the people of any territory to determine for themselves, by a majority vote, whether they will have slaves or not; and again, under the leadership of Mr. Breckinridge, of the other wing of the party, maintains that, constitutionally, any slaveholder has a right to hold his slaves in any territory of the Union, against the verdict of its inhabitants and in defiance of any law of Congress to the contrary.
Upon the non-extension issue, let the Republican party have all due credit; for it stands pledged before the world to see to it, if it has the governmental power, that in the territories, never shall a single slave be held in bondage. I readily admit this, and I <illegible> it as an evidence of the growth of our good cause throughout the free States. Never shall I have any-
<c05>
thing to say against an anti-slavery movement, to any extent whatsoever.
But there is another aspect of this question. How stands the Republican party under the Constitution of the United States? Does it hold any different doctrine, essentially, from the Democratic party, in regard to the old pro-slavery compromises? No. My friend, Mr. Wilson, will not deny that, by the United States Constitution, the slaveholders of the South have a right to a three-fifths representation of their slave property, and the Republican party does not mean to interfere with that representation. He will not deny that the Republican party holds to the rendition of fugitive slaves; certainly, it has spiked every gun even as against the accursed Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. When that law was passed by Congress, the Republicans solemnly pledged themselves that they would never cease agitating until it was wiped out; but now, they do not roar, even as gently as a nightingale! They have now nothing to say against that law, and are doing nothing to prevent its execution in any of the States. So that, in that particular, it stands side by side with the Democratic party.
Again: I am not aware that the Republican party has ever denied, or that my friend Mr. Wilson denies, that, in case of any emergency on the part of the slaveholders, by the rising of their slaves to get their freedom through blood, the General Government is bound, being called upon for aid, to put down the insurgent slaves, either into their chains or into bloody graves.
These things being so, I charge upon the Republican party, that while it is doing something, as best it may, to prevent the extension of slavery in the territories, under the Constitution, in regard to slavery where it exists, it gives the efficient sanction and support of the whole nation to the system; it gives all the military and naval power to the slaveholders and slave-drivers of the South; and that that power can be summoned at any time when it is needed, by the President of the United States, in the person of Abraham Lincoln, or any other representative of the Republican party.
Now, the question comes home to me, as an honest, upright man, and as claiming to 'remember those in bonds as bound with them,' can I march up to the polls, and vote to sustain a Constitution containing such compromises, and be justified on the plea that I am aiming to prevent the extension of that very system which, in fifteen States of the Union, I am constitutionally upholding? In seeking to accomplish a good object, may I do a wicked act? May I adopt the jesuitical motto, that 'the end sanctifies the means'? God forbid! Nor do I believe that any compromise with sin can turn out better than refusing to sin at all. Let God be trusted in every emergency, and the right adhered to; and though the devil may come in such plausible garb as almost to deceive the very elect, and say,' Only get down a little on your knees, and all the kingdoms of the earth shall be yours,' I am bound to exclaim, with Christ-like fidelity, 'Get thee behind me, Satan!' and trust to God for the rest. (Loud applause.) 
How can I be an anti-slavery man, and true to those in bondage, and hold up my hand and swear that in no part of the United States shall any poor fugitive slave find protection against his pursuers? But every man who joins the Republican party, and gives his vote for the Republican candidate, takes that dreadful oath. Is he justified in doing this on any pretence whatever? Not if I understand the nature of moral obedience, or the supremacy of conscience in all cases against legal injustice and organized iniquity. The Republican party stands on a level with the Fugitive Slave Law. It has ceased all opposition to it; and having done that, of course, to that extent it is awfully guilty. And shall I vote that the men who buy and sell and steal their fellow-creatures shall have political power put into their hands, in proportion to the extent of their thefts, and the number of victims they may plunder and dehumanize? Shall I do this for any conceivable purpose whatever? No! If I could seem to effect any desirable good by first doing a criminal act, I should feel myself precluded from so acting by a moral oblition which I could not escape, nor safely disregard.
Now, a word in regard to Abraham Lincoln, the Presidential candidate of the Republican party. Our friend said that, eleven years ago, Mr. Lincoln introduced into the House of Representatives a bill for the abolition of slavery and the slave-trade in that District; though, to be sure, he did, at the same time, propose a Fugitive Slave Bill for that District; and he complained of our eloquent friend, Mr. Douglass, that he did not tell the whole story. I presume that Mr. Douglass did not know that Mr. Lincoln had made the proposition for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District. But he did Mr. Lincoln no injustice. I would ask, does Abraham Lincoln, in 1860, propose the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia? I wait for an answer. [No reply.] I would ask my friend, Mr. Wilson, does the Republican party, in 1860, propose the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia? [No reply.] I affirm that it does not. It does not undertake to meddle with slavery where it now exists, but defends it from invasion without, and insurrection within, by the strong arm of the general government. That is not the party for me-it may be for you. I am for meddling with slavery every where-attacking it by night and by day, 'in season and out of season'-(no! it can never be out of season,)-in. order to effect its eternal overthrow. (Loud applause.) The party that undertakes to let it alone, to let it fester and grow and spread, as it will, if it be let alone, is not the party for me. It may not be in all respects if as bad as another party, but it is so bad that I cannot touch it, and will not give it any countenance whatsoever. 'Excelsior!' will be my cry. Higher yet! Upward and onward! 'NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!' Down with this slaveholding government! Let this ' covenant with death and agreement with hell' be annulled! Let there be a free, independent Northern Republic, and the speedy abolition of slavery will inevitably follow. (Loud applause.) So I am laboring to dissolve this bloodstained Union, as a work of paramount importance. Republicans, you may vote under it, if you will; you may throw up your caps in favor of it, as you may;
<c06>
yet you will find, if you dare to be men, and are loyal and true to those in bondage, that you are cherishing a fatal delusion, and that, on Southern soil at least, your Union is only a mockery and an outrage.
Here is my friend, Henry Wilson-a Massachusetts man-a Massachusetts Senator. He eulogizes the Constitution, and glories in it; boasts of the 'star-spangled banner,' and does not object, as I do, to having it wave over his head; throws up his cap in behalf of 'the glorious Union,' and burns incense upon its altar; and yet he knows that, in the slave States, he has no more liberty of speech than the plantation slave, but must wear a padlock on his lips, or die. Now when a man has come to that extremity, and knows that he cannot have any liberty in one half of the Union which he is so fond of extolling, but will nevertheless persist in crying, 'Great is Diana of the Ephesians!' he is clearly infatuated. For one, I am filled with amazement, and know not what to make of it. A Union that does not allow me to speak my free thoughts is a Union that I would instantly dissolve and destroy. No lover of freedom ought to uphold it.
As for Mr. Lincoln, he does not, I repeat, now go for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, as he did eleven years ago. I say this, because he has been dumb ever since, and no effort is making by the Republican party to purge that District. Under these circumstances, it was no injustice to Mr. Lincoln, on the part of my friend, that he omitted to mention-if he knew the fact-that Mr. Lincoln proposed the abolition of slavery in the District, with the consent of the slaveholders(!) at the time he made his proposition for the recapture of fugitives within the same limits.
Now, is a man who, in one breath, is in favor of providing for the seizure and rendition of fugitive slaves in the District of Columbia, and in the next breath is for the abolition of slavery, with the consent of the enslavers, in the same District-is such a man worthy of confidence and support? Such a man shall never have my vote, either to occupy the Presidential chair, or any other official station.
My friends, our best service to the country, to the cause we love, to those who are in bondage, is to be uncompromising with our principles. 'Let the dead bury their dead!' Disclaim and repudiate the old compromises, and declare that you can no longer stand by them. Let the great North be cleansed; and, in doing this, we shall do the work of immediate and thorough abolition. Our compromises keep the slaves in their chains. It is because we are content with something besides inexorable justice, that the millions are held in bondage. It looks plausible to choose between two corrupt and time-serving parties, one being a great deal worse than the other; but I hold it to be unsound in moral philosophy. If we have a radical principle, we ought to stand by it, come what may; and, in standing by it, we shall do better than we can by any compromise thereof.
I conclude by saying, that while I will give all due credit to the Republican party for attempting to prevent the existence of slavery in the territories, I charge upon that party that it is willing to stand by a Constitution saturated with the blood of the millions in bondage, and that it proposes no change in the action of the government in that particular; and therefore by giving, through constitutional guaranties, the whole power of the government to the service of the slaveholders, against their slaves, in times of exigency, that party is perpetuating human bond-age on the American soil. (Applause.)
THE PRESIDENT. At the time Mr. Wilson came forward,-whom we were so glad to see upon this platform, and whose appearance has given rise to so interesting an episode in this meeting,-I was on the point of introducing our old and faithful friend, PARKER PILLSBURY, whom we have not seen on such an occasion for a long time, and whom we are the more glad to see now, on that account. He will now address you. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY.
I doubt, Mr. Chairman, whether I shall be able to make myself heard, and certainly to any extent, and so, without any preliminary, what I have to say, I shall say in the fewest words and moments possible.
It seems to be a beautiful principle in nature, that wherever there is evil, there is also a corresponding remedy. The same Newburyport that gave to the world the calamity of a CUSHING, (laughter,) gave it also the blessing of a GARRISON. (Applause.)
Mr. GARRISON. Will my friend allow me a word to set him right in this matter? I am most happy, for the honor of Newburyport, to declare, that Caleb Cushing was never born in that town. (Applause.) Newburyport had a very narrow escape, and a very fortunate one. Mr. Cushing happened to be born in Salisbury, but, in early childhood, came over to Newburyport with his parents; and so, fortunately for Newburyport, but very unfortunately for Salisbury, Mr. Cushing was born in the latter place.
Mr. PILLSBURY. Well, then, I think there is only the Merrimack between-a river not greatly wider than the Jordan, over which, according to Bunyan, we pass at death, rather than birth-though there is this additional difference here; that instead of Newburyport going over the Jordan to Death, Death hastened over to Newburyport. (Loud laughter and applause.)
I was going on to say, also, that the same thing had appeared in Chicago; for whereas, there is one STEPHEN ARNOLD DOUGLAS, who is reputed to have emigrated there, God, in the wisdom and goodness of his providence, sent, soon afterwards, FORD DOUGLASS to correct that great evil also. (Renewed applause.) And, again, I think our meeting to-day is peculiarly favored by his presence. Last year, I believe, was signalized by the appearance of a new planet in the heavens. We also made the discovery of this new Douglass in the moral skies; and that, I think, should make the year as memorable. I certainly regard it as the happiest event of my life, that I was permitted to be the discoverer; and the peculiar benefit of his presence to-day is, that he has exhibited a power beyond that of all of us combined, in that he has elevated a Massachusetts Senator very much higher than ever one was seen before. (Great cheering.) I think this, therefore, should be set down among the 'red-letter days' in the next almanac. (Applause.)
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they art without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more dearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I wish also to say in regard to but friend WILSON, that although I never saw him before on our platform. I have frequently been him in our anti-slavery meetings. Indeed, I think be never lets one of them escape. Last year I had the pleasure of speaking three times in his own town of Natick; and I had also the picture, each time, of seeing him present, and I was told by the Finance Committee, that my collection was considerably increased by his beneficence. But I want you, Mr. Chairman, to are to it that this statement does not go any further then here, because, if it should get to Washington, I fear might do him serious damage.(Laughter.) His presence here to-day has redeemed, somewhat, I think, the Republican party. I remember our friend FOSTER used to complain,ï¿½and with some degree of justice, too,ï¿½that there was never any Republican of repute or influence who would appear on our platform, but that, if any of them came, they were those who were a little unfortunate, and did not do their party any particular credit by their presence. It is not so, certainly, here to-day.
Then, there was another thing. Our friend gave us one excellent piece of counsel or advice. I felt like thanking him for teaching us that word, although I do not know that the lesson was particularly needed by any of usï¿½I treat it was not by me; and that was, that when we deal with our public men, we should endeavor to do them 'justice.' I have heard of an Irishman, who exhibited great trepidation in court, on being placed at the bar for trial, and the judge tried to comfort him by assuring him that he should certainly have Justice, and therefore he need not fear.' Indade, your honor,' said he, 'that is the only thing I do fear.' (Laughter and cheers.) I suppose our friend Wilson thought that Mr. Douglas was not quite just in his criticisms of the course of Abraham Lincoln, some ten or twelve years ago; I think that Mr. Wilson was quite as unjust towards Mr. Lincoln. It is true that the bill which he introduced into Congress provided for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia: but it is not true, as our friend Wilson intimated, that the bill was introduced for the abolition of slavery and the slave trade there; because, if that had been so, then certainly we should have had a most fearful charge against Horace Mann, John G. Palfrey, Horace Greeley, and various other champions of the Republican party, in that they voted against the only bill ever introduced for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, for all those men voted against it; while, on the other hand, Brown of Mississippi, Toombs of Georgia, and various other of the regular fire-eaters, voted for the measure.
If all this be true, I do not know what our friend meant by calling Mr. Lincoln the least of two evilsï¿½or, I suppose we must say, four evils. Evils seem to be plenty, and, of the four, I think we had better reject the whole; for if we had so much trouble with two, I do not know what we may expect with four. If these fire-eating Democrats are the only men to vote for a bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, then, I say, God help the fire eating Democrats, even at the expense of the Republican party! (Applause.) But the fact is, Mr. Lincoln had no such intention, or, if he had, there was ridiculous absurdity apparent in it; for we have been assured that he consulted the largest slaveholders of the District, and introduced into the bill a provision for submitting the question to the people themselvesï¿½' Shall this bill become a law?' Now, I suppose your thieves and rogues in Massachusetts do not care how many bills you introduce against horse-stealing, provided you go and ask every horse-stealer, before or afterwards, whether he is willing they shall become the law of the State. My friend Mr. Foster used to complain of Mr. Mellen, and other volunteer champions of the Republican party, in olden times, that they did not make a worthy defence of the party, and that the abler men all stood aloof; but really, if this defence is the best Mr. Wilson has to make of it, I do not think the party has much of which to boast, and its defence had better be left to Mr. Mellen.
I am hare to use the little strength I have in the best way I know; and perhaps it is not best I should spend it in criticising the Republican party, after the severe remarks which have been made upon it by our friends who have preceded me; and yet really I do not know why I or any body else need to speak at his time of any thing but political parties. There are four presidential candidates in the field. I suppose they will do one another justice; for they say, when rogues fall out, honest men are likely to get at the truth. The telegraph says that Mr. Gwinn has had an almost Kilkenny-cat encounter with James Buchanan, and while there is such loving fellowship between the different branches of the Democratic party, I think we had better commend them all to a Kilkenny-cat victory, and there leave them. They will do each other justice; or, if they fail, Mr. Lincoln and his friends are in the field, to stand by and help and I presume they look upon the fight as did the good woman who saw her husband and the bear in such close proximity.(Laughter.)
The Republican party has a power over the conscience of the country which no other party ever possessed. Why, it was delightful to hear the most radical and ultra anti-slavery sentiments uttered by our friend Wilson the most loudly applauded. I told Mr. Wilson, last summer, that the Republican party would do well taught if it were not for those nightmare politicians who had lighted upon its breast .Now, he stands up here and utters thorough going Garrisonian anti-slavery, and they applaud him very highly for it. I do not believe that beautiful tree [designating one of the finest in the grove] is sounder at heart than most Republicans are; the only trouble, that there is a pressure of time-servers and trimmers on the top of it, and its throbbing pulsations are prevented. Now, if Mr. Wilson and Mr. Sumner would come to our platform, and preach this kind of anti-slavery to the people, they would have to say of us and them just as we have now to say of them and Stephen A. Douglas and his friends,' Really, they are so much alike, we do not see any difference between them ';and here today, if you had not seen his face, you would not have known whether it was Senator Wilson or Mr. Quincy or Mr. Foster talking that strong anti-slavery. But here is where the difficulty liesï¿½and it is a very serious difficulty. Our friend, Mr. Wilson, talks here Garrisonian antislaveryï¿½I thank him for it; and whenever I go abroad among his constituency, I shall tell them It is perfectly safe for you now to come to our platform, for Mr. Wilson has been there, and wherever he may go, you may'; but here is the difficultyï¿½in talking about Mr. Lincoln ten or eleven years ago, we overlook, or, at any rate, may overlook, a better opportunity of knowing what is his position to-day; The Republican party has now Its campaign documents in the field. I hold one of them in my hand. This is said to be a very good likeness of Abraham Lincoln, [showing the picture,] and I think it may be far it is rather a homely, coarse- looking man, and that is what they say of him.(Laughter.) I do not speak to his discredit; I like these homely looking men, and you see I have a reason for it, perhaps(Renewed merriment.) But, Mr. Chairman, in tracing the course or Mr. Lincoln for the last ten years, I fail to find any thing in the record worthy the high testimony borne in his favor here to-day. On the contrary, comparing him with Senator Douglas, I fail to see any essential difference between the two. And this I am sun of, that last year, when I was in Ohio, and the election of State officers was pending, a Mr. Dennison, the present Governor of that State, was in the field as a candidate, and Mr. Lincoln, in behalf of his friend, delivered several speeches in the State, into which, I suppose, he put the doctrines and sentiments by which he is wiling to be judged to-day. Now you, in voting for Abra-
<c02>
ham Lincoln, hope to vote for anti-slavery. You have been assured here to-day, that you would be voting for anti-slavery ultimately, if not immediately, in voting for him. I stand here to-day to give it as my deliberate opinion, that in voting for Abraham Lincoln, you as effectually vote for slavery as you would in voting for stephen A. Douglas; and the reason I say so is because I have here the record of Mr. Lincoln himself upon all these subjects, and if than be really any difference between him and Stephen A. Douglas, his effort last year in Ohio, and his effort the present year, so far as I have seen, seem to be to make it as apparent as possible that there is no essential difference between him and the Democratic candidates.
Now, Mr. Chairman, on the first day of February last, Senator Seward, of New York, made a speech in the Senate of the United States, which, after a careful comparison of its various features and sentiments with Daniel Webster's bid for the Presidency, ten yean before, on the 7th of March, I must say, I think it suffers in the comparison; and I should like to see the Republican to-day who would stand up in the city of Washington, and make one utterance that Daniel Webstar made in that speech. Mr. Seward's grand object and aim seemed to me, on the first of February, utterly to deny the doctrine of an irrepressible conflict between the North and the South. He even went so far as to disclaim the word 'slavery'ï¿½as cautious as the Constitution itself, and surely that is a height of caution that has never before been quite equalledï¿½never, certainly, exceeded. I remember that, a good many years ago, Abbott Lawrence wrote some letters for the Richmond Whig, in which he referred to slavery as the 'unenlightened labor' of the South! A few years afterwards, the Methodist Conference had occasion to deal with one of its Bishops on the same subject of slavery, and they spoke of slavery as an ' impediment'! Mr. Seward refined on these two wordsï¿½he called slavery ' capital'!ï¿½I thought it the most capital joke of the seasonï¿½and undertook to a how that there was no conflict, precisely or irrepressible, between the North and the South. Now, then, it seems to me that when he was dropped, and Mr. Lincoln substituted there should have been some reason for it. I know of but one; and that was, that Mr. Lincoln was the more available man of the two, and for the reason ', that his antecedents were less objectionable to the South than the antecedents of William H. Seward Well, then, what are, exactly, the positions of Abraham Lincoln? I suppose this is good authority; It is a campaign document, and published for general circulation. On the very question of the abolition of slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia, Mr. Lincoln is made to define his position. If it be true that Mr. Lincoln is in favor of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia and of the slave trade there, he is very unfortunate in this later manifesto of his opinions; for, ten years after the introduction of that bill, we find him declaring, in so many words,ï¿½'In relation to the abolition of slavery, in the District of Columbia, I have my mind made up. I should be exceedingly glad to see slavery abolished there. I believe that Congress possesses constitutional power to do it. 'Well, then, if Congress possess the constitutional power, why hesitate On what account does he defer it? For some reason, surely. 'Yet, as a member of Congress, I should not, with my present views, be in favor of endeavoring to abolish it,' (and 'endeavoring ' is italicised,) ' unless it should be upon these conditions: first, that the abolition should be gradual; second, that should be on a vote of a majority of the qualified voters of the District; third, that compensation should be made to the unwilling voters.' It has remained for the Republican party, I think, to furnish the first instance of submitting to thieves and rogues what kind of legislation they preferred. I never heard of Democrat going that far. I think it has remained for the candidate of the Republican party to introduce that new anomaly in our national jurisprudence. 
Now, I ask this audience, I ask my friend, Mr. Wilson, is that to be set up in his behalf?ï¿½is that the beat defence you can make of him?ï¿½because, if it is, you had better leave it to brother Mellen and the like of him. Those were the conditions under which he was willing to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia.
'Then, again, in regard to the other interrogatory,' (in reference to the question of the abolition of the slave trade between the different States,) 'I can truly answer, I have not given any pledge in regard to it is a subject to which I have not given that mature consideration that would make me feel authorized to state a position so as to hold myself bound to it.' I wonder if he has ever thought about the commerce in other articles! Here is the question of the slave trade between the States, an abomination, I suppose without a parallel any where under heaven, and yet we are told by this candidate of the Republican party; that he has not given the subject that consideration which enables him to give an opinion by which he would be willing to be bound! 'In other word that question has never been prominently before me, to induce me to investigate whether we really have the constitutional power to do it.' Would it not well for the Republican party to send their Candidate to some good law school three years, and let him study jurisprudence and the science of government? He is not quite certain about the traffic between the States in human beings. I suppose he has no difficulty in regard to the traffic in cotton, and sugar, and rice, and tobacco, evenï¿½I suppose his mind is fully made up on thatï¿½I scarcely ever saw a Western man who had any doubt upon that subjectï¿½(laughter) but here is a question of the traffic in human beings ,and he has not studied that subject sufficiently to be able to have any opinion about it! 'I must say however,' (and I want you to hear this,) that if I should be of opinion that Congress does possess the constitutional power, I should still not be in favor of the exercise of that power, unless upon some conservative principle, akin to what I have said in relation to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.' (Laughter.) Now, I see before me a vast concourse of intelligent-looking men and women. I doubt not a large majority of the men present are members and zealous supporters of the Republican party. In giving your suffrages, gentlemen, for Abraham Lincoln, did you expect you were voting such doctrines, and such doubts, as I have here read?
But I have not quite done reading. I will trouble you but for a moment. Our friend, Mr. Garrison read one resolution from the Republican platform permit me to read one other passage from it:' That the maintenance, inviolate, of the rights of the States and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of power upon which the perfection and endurance our political faith depends; and we denounce the lawless invasion, by an armed force, of any State or territory, no matter under what pretext, as amongst the gravest of crimes.' Did you suppose, in voting for Abraham Lincoln, that you were going to vote John Brown, the 'gravest of criminals'? Because, if so, God have compassion on you! 'The gravest of crimes' was the act of John Brownï¿½our only hero of the nineteenth century! The poor old century, as Carlyle would say, had plodded on three score year without a hero, and without one heroic act, and I, for one, was beginning to despair of our country ever producing a hero, in the popular sense of the term 'hero,'ï¿½for moral heroism is a quality too sublime for the perception of this generation; and so when John Brown appears, in the true spirit of Lafayette, imitating, if not Jesus, certainly Moses and Joshua, why, the Republican party is about to decree him the 'gravest of criminals,' by its elevation to the Presidential chair of Abraham Lincoln of Illinois. Did you mean to do it? Does Henry Wilson believe
<c03>
that John Brown committed 'a grave crime'? God forbid I should charge him thus. I know that when summoned before Mr. Mason's senatorial inquisition, he rather shrank from testimony which I think his son, forty years henceï¿½if the bright-looking boy livesï¿½will be very sorry to say his father forgot to give. There were several champions of the Republican party summoned to the bar to testify what they knew; and one testified, 'I know not the man'; and many a cock has crowed since, but I have seen no bitter weeping over the sin.(Laughter and applause) Think you, Mr. Chairman, that the sons of these men will not one day blush that their fathers said they knew nothing of John Brown and his movements? I happen to believe (you need not tell Mr. Mason of it) that some of them did know about it. They did not choose to tell him; I do not know that I should have told him, if I knew; I should have done as I pleased, for I host that slaveholders have ' no rights that anybody is bound to respect.'(Laughter.) 
But here is the Chicago platform pronouncing John Brown ' the gravest of criminals.' Why, Governor Wise did not do so badly as that. He said he was the bravest man he had ever seen; or, to use his Virginia parlance,' the pluckiest man he had ever seen,'ï¿½and he had been Mr. Wilson among the rest, (laughter)ï¿½ and he 'could trust him to any extent'! Think of that! The Republican party brands him as a criminal, but the Governor of Virginia says he could trust him to any extent! Put it on record. And there is the record of the brave old man. I wish there were a telegraph between here and North Elba, that those who have gathered there to-day might know that the! old man is not forgotten. But, fortunately, there is a telegraph between me and where the old man's spirit rests, and he knows all about it. 
Now, our friend Wilson's record is not quite what I wish it were. I wish he would come to the platform, and tell me what he meant by a passage in one of his speeches in Congress. He usually speaks to the purpose, and if his is not the polished eloquence of Everett, which amounts to nothing, it is generally that kind of, sledge-hammer dealing with facts which amounts to every thing. But, here is a slight exception to his usual, fidelity, and I should like to know what is meant by it; for, if I mistake not, he is going to put our friend Garrison In the same category with John Brown, and call him ' the gravest of criminals,' for he proposes to ' hang' who so ever lays hands on the Union, North or South, and ' send his name down to posterity, stained with the doom of a traitor.' I don't believe you want to hang Mr. Garrison, any more than you wanted to hang John Brown. I apprehend that Senator Wilson, if he were High Sheriff of the District of Columbia or Grand Executioner in Chief of the country, would hire somebody to put the halter round our friend Garrison's neck, if he was to be hung. To be sure, he has not laid hands upon this Union, but I am , mightily afraid that what he has done induced John , Brown to do it, and therefore he might be hung as particeps criminis. I am very sure I should give my vote for it, if I was upon the jury. There is no Republican here who means any such thing.' Honest old Abe,' the man whom you are talking about running into the Presidency on that not very dignified vehicle, a rail, he may mean it; and I think, according to his doctrines, that is the proper vehicle on which he should ride; and if our friend Wilson would carry one end of it, I would the other.(Laughter.) 
I have not referred to the passage that Mr. Wilson ft j read from the Chicago platform, but I will, for a moment. It is true that the declaration which Mr. Garrison read is contained in that platform, but the misfortune is that with such a platform as that, you should a have nominated Abraham Lincoln. It is not your platform of which I complain, in that particular, but it is of your candidate; and inasmuch as the President, if it be Lincoln, is likely enough to be a little more than James-Buchanan said he should beï¿½(for you know he said he should be nothing but the platform, and I am sure he told only the truth)ï¿½it is important we should know what he is going to be; and, fortunately for us, and fortunately for you, if you are honest men, and want to know the truth, I can tell you what he is, as differing from the platform to which our friend Garrison called your attention. Stephen A. Douglas drove Mr. Lincoln, when they were canvassing Illinois, two years ago, into the very closest corners, I admit, and I should be sorry to hold him responsible for every thing that the little giant wrung out of him; for he was not as fortunate in that pilgrimage as Bunyan's ' Christian' was, in having a 'Great heart' to overcome the giant's, for the little giant was too much for him, without any 'Greatheart.' You heard Mr. Douglass say, this morningï¿½and he is good authorityï¿½that the little giant has no heart at all. Here is what Mr. Lincoln said on the question of slave Territory: ' Mr. Douglas complains that I do not fully answer the question. If I have the sense to comprehend, and the sense to answer, I have done so fairly.' Well, now, if he have the sense and judgment to comprehend, I suppose I can understand him when, I read what he says:' The Judge says I do not declare that I would, in any event, vote for the admission of a slave State into the Union.' There, you see, is where Judge Douglas drove him. I admit it was a close contest; but then, these are not times, as our friend Garrison said at the close of his remarks, these, are not times for compromise, and we must be willing to meet the closest, strictest and severests tests,ï¿½to go down, if need be, into the lion's den and into the fiery furnace. 'If I have been fairly reported heretofore, he will see that I gave an explicit answer to that question. I did not merely say that I would dislike to be put to the test, but I said clearly, if I were I put to the test, and a Territory from which slavery had been excluded should present herself, with a Constitution sanctioning slavery,ï¿½a most extraordinary thing, and not likely to happen,ï¿½I do not see how a could avoid voting for her Admission.' (' Hear, hear.' of That is Mr. Lincoln, not the platform; and I hope he will be rather more, if he is any thing, than James Buchanan, who said he would be no longer James Buchanan, but the Democratic platform; and here we have the distinct avowal that he will be something or more than the platform, namely, that ' if a Territory from which slavery has been excluded'ï¿½mark that!ï¿½ by act of Congress or otherwise, shall apply for admission with a slaveholding Constitution, I see not how could withhold my vote.' 
MR. FOWLER I think you misconstrue the platform. Is there any thing in the platform in relation to the exclusion of a State, pro-slavery or otherwise? I think there is nothing. It has reference only to the Territories. 
MR.PILLSBUBRY. The platform reads, I think, distinctly, that it is the duty of Congress to prevent the admission of any more slave States into the Union:ï¿½
'Resolved, That the normal condition of all the territory of the United States in that of freedom; and that, as our Republican fathers, when they had abolished slavery in all our national territory, ordained that no citizen should be deprived of life, liberty or if property without due process of law, it becomes on get duty, by legislation, whenever such legislation is necessary, to maintain the provisions of the Constitution against all attempts to violate it; and we deny the authority of Congress, of a Territorial Legislature, or of any individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any territory of the United States.'
That is the way the article reads, and I was willing of to concede to our friend Wilson that he had stated the platform accurately; but I only wanted to show that so they had made a mistake,ï¿½which I could have corrected in a moment, if they had asked me,ï¿½in patting Abraham Lincoln on to such a platform, for he does not hold to that doctrine, but, on the contrary he expressly avows himself ready, even though the slave system ' had been excluded from a Territory,' to admit as a slaveholding State;ï¿½so that I will not differ
<c04>
from my good friend, Mr. Fowler; he may construe the language that way, if he thinks it properï¿½he may be right; I was only, for the sake of the argument, conceding to Mr. Wilson just what he claimed, and which I thought Mr. Garrison also was willing to concede. But the fact is here, that whatever the platform says, when you vote for Mr. Lincoln, you vote for a man who says, and has said more than once, as I can real from this book, that he 'sees not how, if we own Territory, we can refuse to admit it, even as a slaveholding State.' 
Mr. Chairman, I should have stopped a good while ago, only that you all looked at me just as if you wanted to know what I had to say, and I have gone on. This is the difference between Mr. Lincoln and the platform; and this, too, is the difference between Mr. Lincoln and that kind of anti-slavery which our friend Wilson so nobly advocated and you so bravely cheered. I rose to correct your mistake; I hope I have done it, or at any rate, that I shall. The other day, Horace Greeley, or some one in the New York Tribune, said, ' We gave 1,400,000 votes for John C. Fremont; but to elect our candidate next November, we must cast two millions of ballots.' Mark that! 'Two millions of ballots.' And what does a ballot mean? If I understand itï¿½and I am willing to submit that question to youï¿½a ballot is no more nor lees than the utterance of a declaration which you are willing to defend, and that, consequently, on the same belt with your ballot-box, you have hung, also, your cartridge-box, and that your ballot is but the paper currency, of which your bullet is the specie redemption. Well, then, two millions of men in the field, with Abraham Lincoln as commander-in-chief! Two millions of men,ï¿½not women, God save you! You won't let women vote! I blame you not, if you mean to elect men like Abe Lincoln to the Presidency of the United States. Two millions of menï¿½not women. You can tax them, but you don't let them vote where the money shall go; for what John Browns it shall rear scaffolds, or for what Thaddeus Hyatts it shall build jails in Washington. You can tax them to build the jails, but you do not ask them who shall go in. You can tax them to rear scaffolds, but you do not ask them what John Browns shall dangle upon them. For, be it known to you, it was the Republicanism of the country that hung John Brown. It was your marines, brought up from Old Point Comfortï¿½the only comfortable point that Virginia has, and that only comfortable because your marines are there to protect her. No, you tax the women, and then hang their husbands and their brothers for doing deeds that will purchase for them the kingdom of heaven, or heaven is not worth possessing. Two millions of menï¿½not boys; for the youngest voter must be over twenty-one. Two millions of men!ï¿½the mightiest army ever marshaled under ancient conqueror or modem usurper! Two millions of men!ï¿½twice the army with which Xerxes invaded Greece, and conquered wherever he went; four times the army that Bonaparte led into the field, before whose fiery breath Smolensk melted away, and Moscow, with all her grandeur, was known no more! Two millions of men, sworn and pledged on that Chicago platform that John Brown was one of the ' gravest criminals' that ever died by the halter. Mr. Chairman, that is not what these Republicans cheered when Senator Wilson stood here, to-day. Oh, if Senator Wilson would only go through the State preaching that doctrine, and then go to Washington, and preach it there But then, that is asking too much of human nature ï¿½it is asking impossibilities. Senator Sumner has proved how little and how much can safely be said in Washington.
Now let me say one word, and I will stop. After all, it is not of your candidates, nor yet of your plat form, that I complain. You have made a League with these tyrants, and they are cowards but for you John Brown proved that With eighteen men, and five of these ' connecting links with the brute creation,' he invaded and conquered Virginia, the mother of Presidents, and birth and burial place of Washington. With three-and-twenty men it was accomplished. Some said there was a cow as a supporter that I deny; the cow did not come until afterwards like Blucher after the victory was won. (Laughter.) You, by your Union, saved Virginia, and then murdered noble John Brown. 
No, Mr. Chairman, my complaint is, that these Republicans are slaveholders, and what matters it to the four millions of slaves whether Stephen A. Douglas or Abraham Lincoln sign the death-warrant of God' minister sent for their deliverance? It seems to me that, were I a slave, I should rather you would keep while the fellowship and covenant last, your vilest men at the head of this great conspiracy. It seems to me, while deeds so devilish are to be done, the blacker devil you get to do them, the better. When Bull, Brooke was cudgelling to death, almost, Charles Sumner, two Wardens in your State Prison were just about to be murdered by two convicts. The indignation of the Commonwealth turned hotly against those , two poor fellows, and you made haste to hang them. I told the Commonweath, as far as I could make my voice heard, that I thought it fitter you should sentence them to six years in the Senate of the United States. With such work to do as the hanging, John Browns, the imprisoning of Hyatts, and the other abominations, which slavery is constantly requiring, if you have any worse men than Henry Wilsonï¿½and I think you haveï¿½in God's name, keep Wilson at home the next six years, and send them And if you can find a viler man than Lincoln, elect him to the Presidency for the next four yean, and double his salary, and then be will work too cheap.(Laughter and applause.)
But, Mr. Chairman, this is too serious a matter about which to trifle, and I close, therefore, with this serious consideration. When you give your ballots for Abraham Lincoln, you vote for the Commander-in- Chief of that great army of two millions of men pledged on the Chicago platform to maintain inviolate the rights of the States, and in the language Mr. Wilson's own speech in the Senate, pledged to hang whatever John Brown or Garrison shall lay hands on this 'glorious ' Union. Now, if you can go from this meeting, and vote for Lincoln, why, then go! I am sure your blood will not be found in my skirts! (Loud applause.) 
SPEECH OF ABBY KELLEY FOSTER. 
MR. CHAIRMAN,ï¿½As there is a doubt in some minds as to whether the Republican party is pledge by its platform, or otherwise, to exclude slavery from the States, I wish Mr. Wilson would give us his interpretation of that platform; but, as he interpreted it at my elbow just now, I will say that he does not claim that the Republican party is pledged to vote against the admission of new slave States, but, the contrary, that they are at liberty to do so or not as they see fit. That is Mr. Wilson's interpretation.
Once more. There is a difference of opinion as the injury to the anti-slavery cause by the Republican party, as compared with the Democratic party. I have held, and some others of the Anti-Slavery Society have held, that of the two parties, the Republican party was more dangerous than the Democratic, and I wish, in a word, to show why I so regard it. The difference between the two parties, as we have Heard it expounded here, is thisï¿½the one party is pledged against the recognition of slavery on territory where it does not exist, while that territory is under the control of the Federal Government; the other(the Democratic party) lets it alone, and allows it a exist. Very well. Now, I take a familiar illustration. I suppose you are all temperance people and I submit to you, therefore, that if there was party in the field, standing on the ground that they could legalize and defend the sale of ardent spirits over the State, or all over the country, whether <illegible> a party, defending, apologizing for, and approving of the sale of rum, would deceive <illegible>,or draw
<c05>
anybody, imbued with the love of temperance, into its ranks? But, suppose there is another party, a large number of whose members take temperance ground, and whose leading men of influence make strong temperance speeches, declaring that intemperance is a sin, a crime, a damning shame, spending four hours if the nation's time in showing, by statistics, that it is curse, physically, commercially, morally, intellectually, spiritually, and then, after those strong temperance speeches, after those earnest, beautiful, logical temperance speeches, showing that intemperance ought to be abolished throughout the country; that nobody has a right to sustain it; that he was cursing his race if he didï¿½then, forsooth, giving three cheers for a party which has adopted a platform, saying it will defend rum-drinking and rum-selling in the lowest doggeries of a Legree, everywhere throughout the country, where it now exists; but, forsooth, it will not establish it in those prospective territories, where people may go sometime, and establish themselves, and wish to sell rum! Why, Mr. Chairman, the mere statement of the question makes the whole thing perfectly absurd. I do not believe there is a temperance man so utterly stultified as to be deceived by such a party. Do you? Does any body believe that any temperance man would say that such a party was worthy of countenance and support? 
But, Mr. Chairman, the community is so entirely blinded, so utterly stultified by the miasma of slavery that the great mass of the people believe that a partly which is actually pledged to support slavery where it exists, in fifteen States of the Union, to give up fugitive slaves, and to put down every slave insurrection, is doing something against slavery, because it is pledged not to allow it to exist in the new territories; and therefore I feel that the Republican party does deceive people, does lure within its embrace large numbers of people who have a great deal of anti-slavery feeling, and a great desire that slavery should be abolished; and therefore I regard it as more dangerous by far than the Democratic party, which deceives nobody. I am sorry that people can be deceived by such a party, but that they are, I feel that ', no one can question; because, if they are not deceived, if the men who sit before me are not deceived, if the they go into the Republican party with their eyes wide open, seeing that the party is pledged and sworn to all this iniquity, they are worse than I really believed them to be. I truly believe that they have! more anti-slavery spirit and feeling than their laxity of conduct would seem to warrant. 
 I will close my remarks, Mr. Chairman, by relating a fact which occurred in our New England Anti slavery Convention some twelve years ago, when Seth Sprague, Sen.ï¿½' Father Sprague 'ï¿½sat in the char now occupied by one who is worthy to wear his mantle. It was at the time when Gen. Taylor had been nominated by the Whigs, and there had been a conflict as to the 'choice of evils 'ï¿½whether he should be voted for as President, as the least of two evils, or the Democratic candidate, who was claimed to be less anti-slavery than Gen. Taylor; and ' Father Sprague,', rising to his feet, said, in his broken voiceï¿½perhaps " even more broken than mineï¿½' Before the meeting adjourns, I wish to make a few remarks in relation to the topic under discussion: " Of two evils, choose the least." In plain parlance, it means, "Of two devils, choose the least." I choose to take neither; for I have found, in an experience of more than three score years and ten, that when you choose, as you think, the least of two devils, he is so " deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked," you find, in the long run, you have got the biggest.' And, Mr. Chairman, when Taylor came to his seat in the Presidential chair, and the experiment of the administration of the 'least of two devils' was under pretty good headway, I asked our dear friend David Lee Child who had made a speech advocating his election, if he remembered the remarks of Father Sprague, and said heï¿½' I distinctly remember them, and I feel the force of them; for of those two devils, I am sure that Martin Van Buren, in the long run, would have proved infinitely less than John Tyler.'
So, Mr. Chairman, for these reasons, as well as for other reasons, I say that the Republican party, which, now appears to be the ' little devil,' will prove itself in the long run, to be the greater of the two; and those who vote for him to-day may feel as David Lee Child felt two years after he made the speech in favor of the choice of the smallest devil. (Applause.)
THE PRESIDENT. One or two of the speakers have! alluded to the danger that would attend even Mr. Wilson, a Senator of the United States, should venture into one-half of this country, and there express the plain sentiments of love of liberty which, has to-day expressed. We all know that is perfect true; and we also know, that even the native-born inhabitants of those slave States are not permitted to express an opinion in the least degree hostile to slavery, without thereby endangering their lives, if not forfeiting them and forfeiting their liberty. We have this day, in this meeting, a most marked proof of this truth. A most excellent and estimable man, whom many of you have already heardï¿½whose lot was cast in a slaveholding country, who had lived there all his life, who was a preacher of the Gospelï¿½who had ventured to express some opinion hostile to slavery! and had actually dared to purchase a book which he wished to possess,ï¿½a copy of Helper's 'Impending Crisis,'ï¿½was for these crimes seized and imprisoned and indicted, and was kept for many months in a, loathsome dungeon, at the imminent risk of his life and is at this moment under heavy bonds, which he must raise to free his bondsmen, or else return and spend his life in that loathsome dungeon. You know, of course, to whom I refer,ï¿½Rev. DANIAL WORTH, of North Carolina; and I am sure you will give him a warm greeting.
Rev. Mr. WORTH stepped upon the platform, and, was heartily cheered. He declined to speak, however, on account of the lateness of the hour, merely stating that, if life and health were spared, he hoped to have the opportunity of addressing those whom he saw before him in their respective towns, and laying before them the facts connected with his case.
SPEECH OF C. L. REMOND. 
CHARLES LENOX REMOND was then introduced, and briefly addressed the audience. He commenced expressing the hope that the meeting would extend their friend and brother, H. Ford Douglass, of Illinois, an invitation to leave that negro-hating and disfranchising State, and make his home in Massachusetts; and then remarked that he differed from almost everybody in regard to the Union, the Constitution, and the Fourth of July. As he came through the streets of Boston that morning, he saw Irishmen, Scotchmen, Germans, all earnest in their patriot manifestations; and within a few hours, the Japanese, embassy had left our country, who had been honor by the ovations of the American people, in Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia and New York; and yet every one knew that, like Mr. Douglass and himself, they were colored men; and if Mr. Douglass might be enslaved to-day, and he (Mr. R.) disfranchised, on account of their color, he asked if the American people had not proved themselves more than knavesï¿½hypocrites and cowardsï¿½in their treatment of the Japanese embassy, and in their treatment of color is Americans? He felt that they were called upon to renew their testimony against the Union, their condemnation of the Constitution, and their everlasting repudiation of Fourth of July celebrations, under the Union. He agreed in the doctrine of 'No union with slaveholders,' and hoped that the ' fanaticism,' 'infidelity,' and 'treason' of the Massachusetts Anti Slavery Society would not cease until they should produce, throughout the free States, the enactment of laws that should make every Southern vessel coming into our ports ride thirty-nine days at quarantineï¿½just as many days as slaveholders inflict stripes upon the colored man for the slightest offenceï¿½ and imprison
<c06>
every slaveholder and every apologist for slavery who crosses the line of the old Bay, State.(Applause) SPEECH OF STEPHEN S.FOSTER.
STEPHEN S.FOSTER then the platform, to occupy the few moments, that, yet remained before the departure of the cars. He said, in substance: 
I was very deeply interested in the remarks of my friend Parker Pillsbury. It seems to me that his logic was irresistible, and I cannot, but think that he carried all heads and all hearts with him in his exposition of the character and aims and exults of the Republican party. There is no want of conviction here. I have listened to him again, and again and I am always convinced masses of the audiences who listen to him friends who utter similar sentiments; but then comes back the question. What shall we do? I find nobody that defends the Republican party to-day. Mr. Wilson does not intimate that if you put the reins of the government into the hands of the republican party, that party will free the slaves, nor that it will throw an influence abroad over the country favorable to liberty. Nobody justifies his position in the Republican ranks, and every body is there ,or in a worse position, only as a choice of evils. There, is not a man in Massachusetts who will attempt to prove that the Republican part occupies the ground of absolute right, and is capable of being defended on the ground of absolute morality. Everybody knows and admits that its position. But, then, the question comes up,' What are you going to do?ï¿½It is, that or nothing. We have got to take the Republican party our hands and do nothing. That is the reason people support that party as they do. It is by this method of reasoning that they quiet their consciences in a false position; and I think the responsibility for this quiet of the popular conscience rests we, have pointed out to the people no other mode of action. we are called a 'do-nothing Society'; and we are nothing Society,' practically. 
My friend, Mr. Sanborn, said he was tired of talk, and I was glad to hear him say it .I know, that there power in talk, and talk will overturn the world; but it is talk which points to, and results in, section ,the difficulty is, our anti-slavery is all negative. We say to the people, ' Cease to do evil'ï¿½and there we stop; we fail to show them how to do well. 
My friend Garrison said, it is our business to reform public sentiment. I admit itï¿½that is exactly the thing. But what is it that needs reforming? It is simply this. The slave has no liberty in this country because he is outlawed. We have, never taught the people how to put him under the protection of law. That is our great mistake. We have taught them how not to enslave, him, but not how to protect him. The great business of the American Anti-Slavery society is to teach the people, who are the governors, the country, how to govern it. That is what we have failed to do. Men support the Republican party as the best thing they can do. A few of us are engaged in a movement to teach them, so that they shall not be misled, and show them ' a more excellent way.' It is to this movement that I wish to ask your attention. Reduce the Constitution to practice; honestly carry if out its provisions; and under it, 'proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.' 
The time for adjournment having now fully come, large company hastened to the railroad, and took the cars for their several homes, rejoicing in a day well and happily spent, and in the faith that something had been done to speed the coming of that true ' Independence Day,' which may worthily be commemorated with ' bonfires and illuminations, the ringing of bells and the pealing of cannon.'

AMERICAN SLAVERY, CHARLES SUMNER AND THE LONDON TIMES.
DUBLIN, 35 Eccles-st.,19th June,1860. 
To the Editor of the Dublin News:
DEAR SIRï¿½Whenever the Times discusses a moral question, one can seldom read the essay without a feeling of loathing, so utterly regardless is that , great public leader or those eternal principles of right which the moralist should ever keep in view. when he steps forward as a teacher of the people. And it is not a little disparaging to the character to the English people to see that such a guide holds so high a rank in their literature. Perhaps there is nowhere to be found greater ability than characterizes the leading articles in that journal, nor ability oftener prostituted to the very worst of purpose. Even in the columns of the Times, it would be difficult to point out an article more deserving of reprobation, or which should elicit stronger feelings of indignation from every true friend of liberty-every lover of justice the wide world overï¿½ than its leader of yesterday, in reference to a speech recently delivered in condemnation of that noble-hearted man, Charles Sumner, who, after many years of bodily debility, caused by the ruffianly attack of a slaveholder, has been restored to health more able to take his place in the Legislative Hall of his country, and there again stand forth as the uncowedï¿½ï¿½the undauntedï¿½advocate of universal liberty, who can see in the colored man created with powers of mind and body like his own, equally entitled with himself to 'life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Because Mr. Sumner has had the manliness, notwithstanding his membrane of the sorrows he has suffered because his advocacy of their cause, and in his hour of renewed vigor to remember the enslaved once more, and, in the presence of the wretched enslaver, to pour forth words of burning indignation, and in utterance of fervid eloquence, his abhorrence of that vile system which disgrace his country, and not only enchains the colored man, but which <illegible> places a padlock on the lips of his white brother ,and limits his freedom of actions als0;because Mr. Sumner has done this, the Times can only see blemishes in his noble oration-has holy condemnation for the language used-and has the daring effrontery to say, 'We must, in the names of English abolitionism at least, protest against these foolish and vindictive harangues. 'I hope English abolitionism is of firmer mould than to endorse such a shameful sentiment as this. It one line of honest sympathy with Mr. Sumner, in his worthy labors to free his country from the great blot when mars her institutions, found a place in this cold essay to which I am referring, some excuse might be offered for its criticism of the severe words in which this deeply outraged man grave vent to his long pent-up feelings; but nothing of the kind marks this cold, this unfeeling leader, in England's great journal. Not one word of sympathy in the sentiments of one who stood boldly forward as the advocate of crushed humanity. How could Mr. Summer, or any other man who felt as a man ought to feel, when speaking of such an outrage on our common nature as slavery is, speak in any language than that of burning indignation? Is it by soft and boned words that so great a wrong is to be righted? No editor knows better how to use the language of indignation than he often uses it to sustain the wrong-doer, both at home and abroad, and to place difficulties in the way of those who are laboring to banish slavery and oppression from the earth. The colored man, whether in America or in the West Indies, finds in him either a cold and calculating advocate, who has no heartiness in his cause or anxiety about his fate, or at times his open enemy, giving him not a shadow of hope that he shall ever rise beyond the condition of 'a hewer of wood and a drawer of water'-he is to be a slave forever.
Would that Irishmen were more alive to the consideration of the claims of the colored man in America on their sympathies. He would then rise nearer to the position he ought to occupy as a free man among free men. This want of honest sympathy with the enslaved in the United States of America has, I fully believe, reached injuriously on their own condition at home.
All who truly love liberty must hate slavery wherever it exists, and will make no terms with it. Its utter abolition is their object; they can demand nothing short of this.
Would that every Irishman felt and acted thus! Then, Indeed, would our country rise to honor among the nations.
JAMES HAUGHTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JULY 20, 1860.
TWENTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY OF BOSTON.
On Sunday, the 15th inst., (the last before the usual summer vacation,) a very large audience assembled at the Music Hall to hear the excellent lecture of George W. Curtis, Esq., of New York, on 'Modern Infidelity.'
On the preceding Sunday, a cloudy, unpleasant day, when only about fifteen hundred people were present in the Music Hall, the correspondent of the New York Observer was there, hoping to see, but determined at all events to report, the nakedness of the land. It seemed as if he had been providentially directed there to hear a truth particularly suited to his case, for, early in the discourse, the speaker, alluding to the calumnies always put in circulation by the priesthood against reforms and reformers, said that, in the time of Jesus and the apostles, just such storied were told about them in the Jerusalem Courier and the Corinth Observer. Without waiting to hear more, the correspondent left, but in such a state of confusion that he could not trim his falsehoods even into tolerable plausibility for the Observer; and thus it came to pass that the lecturer's name and subject were as far misstated as the size of his audience, to the readers of that pious sheet; the correspondent informing them that Mr. Hayward lectured on 'The Supremacy of ideal Force over their Organization,' to 'some three hundred persons,' who where further stated to be about all that remain of Mr. Parker's actual followers since his decease.
Due notice will be given, in the papers, of the recommencement of services in the Music Hall about the middle of September. In the mean time, it will not be strange if the Observer takes occasion, from this intermission, to declare the Society dishanded.
C  K  W.
The following felicitous tribute was paid to the memory of THEODORE PARKER by GEORGE W. CURTIS, Esq., at the close of his lecture on Sunday last at Music Hall:—
As I end this discourse, I am of course thinking of what you are thinking of, the man who stood in this place, and whose whole life was an act of faith in the doctrine of private judgment. Since Roger Williams preached in the old Colony of Massachusetts Bay that the government had no right to inquire whether or not a citizen believed in God, since William Ellery Channing petitioned for the unconditional pardon of a man who had been sentenced to prison in the city of Boston for denying the existence of God,—upon the simple ground, in each case, not of sympathy with the opinion, but of the absolute right of religious liberty,—no man in the world has more bravely and proudly vindicated that right than he who has made this hall precious in your memories forever. The Colony of Massachusetts Bay sent Roger Williams out into the wild forests, among wild men and beasts; the city of Boston indignantly protested against Dr. Channing's petition, and the Governor of Massachusetts refused its prayer; and here, in the same city, the cloud of contumely which hovered over the head of Theodore Parker would have harmed and hidden him, if his heaven-tipped virtue had not dissipated it, and passed its lightning harmless into the ground, you know better than I can say.
When I remember, under the exterior of the farmer's son, those soft graces that made nobility; when I reflect how his days and powers and opportunities were never wasted, but only too profusely spent; how the hearts of young men in the land, looking for light, turned to him, as flowers to the sun; how he strengthened moral purpose in this country; how he stimulated honest thought; how he encouraged free speech; how plainly he taught that love to man meant love to him whom the law deprives of all right, equally with him who makes and declares the law; and how he scorned the pliant and brilliant Judases who betray Christ in humanity with a kiss,—I do not wonder that his name shone in the lands; and ought we to be surprised that it was obscured at home?
Old Cotton Mather said that Roger Williams had a wind-mill in his head; old Hubbard, of Ipswich, declared he had a fly-blown imagination. So an ecclesiastical body near by prayed the Lord to close the mouth of your minister; and in his good mercy he has closed it, but only as the Arabian fruit closes after the precious seed is dropped.
Theodore Parker was the intellectual child of Channing. Only four years before the South Boston sermon was preached, Dr. Channing had written these words: 'As to human favor, I feel more and more that it must be given up. If I know Christianity, it is so at war with the present condition of society that it cannot be spoken or acted out without giving great offence.'
Of a robust and gladiatorial nature, how gladly the young hero accepted the great debate with human wrong! He leaped into the lists, and though his Ephesus was called Boston, the contest was sharp and life-long.
Friends, friends, not the orators of perfumed phrase, not the speakers of adroit avoidance, have consecrated this beautiful hall; but he who taught here that religion is a life, not a ceremony; he whose opulent and vehement mind beat out truth, as with the incessant blows of a trip-hammer, fitting it alike to the sternest and sweetest duties of life; he who preached and lived in this city that eternal truth of God which was before Abraham, and shall outlast the world.
O friend and teacher! O loving heart, large brain, open hand and tireless foot of charity, Vale, vale, and farewell!
PROCEEDINGS OF THE TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION—held at the Cooper Institute, New York City, May 10th and 11th, 1860.
These proceedings make a handsome pamphlet of 100 octavo pages, which, though somewhat late in its appearance, is as fresh and valuable in its contents as though published two months ago. We earnestly commend it to the candid attention and close perusal of all those who are interested in the great problem of the world's redemption, and in seeing the institutions of this country shaping themselves in conformity with the rights of human nature, without regard to accidental differences, as laid down in the Declaration of Independence. Especially do we urge upon women, whose cause it so ably espouses, the duty of consulting its pages, and arming themselves with the facts and arguments it presents, so that they may intelligently maintain their ground against all assailants.
The pamphlet contains the speeches made by the following persons, as phonographically reported by Mr. J. M. W. Yerrinton, who, as an accurate and skilful reporter, has no superior:—Ernestine L. Rose, J, Elizabeth Jones, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Antoinette Brown Black well, Mary Grew, ( a constellation of gifted women, ) and Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. Samuel Longfellow, Hon. E. D. Culver, Wendell Phillips and Wm. Lloyd Garrison.
For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, Boston. Price 25 cents.
A PURCHASED LIBELLER. The scurrilous, canting, defamatory article which we have placed in the 'Refuge of Oppression,' from the Lawrence ( Mass.) Sentinel, in reference to the lectures we recently delivered in that place, was written, we are informed, by the Postmaster of Lawrence—a profligate pander to the present corrupt national administration. The creature eats very dirty bread.
<c02>
LETTER FROM MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE-THE LATE THEODORE PARKER.
FRIEND GARRISON:
In the little town of Carbondale in Southern Illinois—familiarly known as 'Egypt',—where the name of Theodore Parker is used only to speak abuse of him by the masses—where his philanthropy would be christened fanaticism, and his freedom of thought infidelity—I have received the news of his death, and read the kind words spoken of him by numerous friends in the columns of the Liberator, and have dropped my tears of sympathy for his loss with those afar off who knew and heard him.
It was my good fortune, while on my tour to the West Indies, to meet with and spend a few days in the same boarding-house with Mr. Parker, and his excellent wife, and Miss Stephenson.
Mr. Parker was then thought by his friends to be much improved in health, and he was so full of life and energy, making every hour so available to himself and others, that it was almost impossible for a stranger to feel that he was an invalid.
It was his habit to rise by sunrise, and mount a little island pony, and canter away four or five miles over the beautiful roads that wind there—the sugar estates, or up the mountain sides—always returning loaded with treasures from field or wood, for analysis or inspection; leaves of trees, flowers, shrubs, shells, plants, fruits, seeds, or insects; all which were closely examined, and placed, if thought worthy, in his herbarium or cabinet, to be sent back to Boston. His hardest work seemed to be to rest, and all his leisure appeared to be taken upon compulsion. Reading, writing, walking, and talking to those about him, taking observations and gathering facts—he was the busiest of us all. How could we feel that such an one was standing beside his own grave?
The great problem of Human Liberty, and the capability of the colored man to take care of himself and supply his own wants, being solved on this beautiful island, interested Mr. Parker deeply. Every new fact giving evidence of progress, in these people, so lately slaves, was to him a course of great joy. I shall never forget with what enthusiasm he spoke of those things, and of the good men and women engaged in the work of ameliorating the physical, and elevating the moral and social condition of those who, eleven years before, were slaves to the hardest of masters.
At times, he seemed exalted above life and all its cares and pains, and looking with his far-seeing eye back to our own country with the burning hope warming his heart that a time might come when the down-trodden race of our ' South' might be emancipated, and a true humanity take them by the hand, and give them help and hope for the future with the glorious boon of liberty. At such times, his scathing rebukes of such men, high in place and power, who, in the time of need, faint and fail, who compromise, or 
'Bend the cringing knee,
That thrift may follow fawning,' 
was terrible. Brave and unflinching himself, where principles were at stake, he could not pardon or forgive those who he felt had knowingly sold their birthright of truth and power for a mess of pottage. Why should he? Whenever he was able to converse, the company gathered round him as one inspired, and listened to his great thoughts, which fell like precious pearls from his lips. In these conversations, we had numerous opportunities to notice his gentleness and tenderness of heart.
If some one told a tale of a poor slave's fate under the hand of a hard master, or of some generous deed or noble self-denial, Mr. Parker would weep as easily as the most sensitive woman. One day, he attempted to tell a story of awful oppression. Suddenly his voice ceased. I looked up from my sewing; his handkerchief had sought his eyes; be rose abruptly, and, almost sobbing, suddenly left the room. When he returned, he said, apologetically, with a smile. 'A sick man or a fool should never attempt to tell an affecting story'—and, taking up a new theme, went on cheerily with his discourse.
Visiting the home of a Dane, who lived upon one of the mountains, we found there a volume of Theodore Parker's sermons, which the Dane and his beautiful and accomplished wife both greatly admired. We told them that Mr. P. was at the other end of the island. Their astonishment was only equalled by their pleasure, and they resolved to ride fifteen miles the next day to see and talk with him. Not (as they said) because they believed in all that to him seemed truth, but because of his great power and boldness of thought. They wished to see the man who had given them so many new ideas. 
It was astonishing to see how people hung upon his words, and devoured his thoughts. But why do I write all this? Because, in this part of the world, I find no one to talk to who can sympathize with me as a personal acquaintance of Mr. Parker. None of my household home had the privilege of knowing him.
It was not Mr. Parker's theology that I so much admired—it was Mr. P. himself—the man who saw humanity above all creeds and doctrines, and the immutable love of justice and mercy above all human enactment—a man true to himself and his own high convictions of his duty to man and God.
It was at the close of one of the magnificent tropical days of April, about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, when we bade farewell to the party, standing at the extremity of a narrow board pier, hurrying over the sea, in the town of Fredericstad, Santa Cruz. We five stood there together, bound by the ties of common interest in the great reforms of the day, more than by those of country. In a few moments, two of us would be separated from all that had interest in us or our thought, and the three would also be alone. While we waited, great words of hope and encouragement fell from lips now silent in this world. There was not a cloud over all the sky, and the setting sun tinged with scarlet and gold the dancing waves beyond, and the green mountain sides above, and coral sands below, gave every hue of the rainbow to the still waters near the shore. Mr. Parker spoke of the beauty all around us,
'Where every prospect pleases,
And only man is vile,'
with emphasis and emotion. As I gave him my hand to say farewell, I could not suppress my tears. 'God blew you!' said Mr. P. 'If we live, we shall meet again—either here or there '—and as he spoke the ' there,' he pointed aloft to the bright glowing sky, and his eyes, just relieved of their great tears, looked brightly upward. He stepped into our little boat, and two strong men pulled away to the little brig which was to convey us to St. Thomas, and from its deck we soon waved our handkerchief in a last 'Adios to the loiterers upon the shore, and they, giving us one more signal of farewell, turned back to the village. We shall see him no more among us, but
'The daily lessons that he taught,
Ever with love and mercy fraught,
And the great life-work which he wrought,
Can never die.'
F. D. GAGE.
Carbondale, Jackson Co., Illinois.
The Christian Examiner, for July, publisher by the proprietor, at Walker, Wise & Co.'s, is received. It contains a scholarly article on ' Marsh on the English Language;' an interesting paper on 'Analogues of Satan;' a discussion of the 'Temporal Power of the Pope;' a paper on the 'Broad Church,' which was originally read by the President of the Unitarian Association at the 'Ministerial Conference' of that body; an article on 'Woman's Right to Labor;' a long and able essay on 'John Calvin;' a paper an 'Intercourse with Japan,' and the usual review of current literature. The Examiner, always characterized by great ability, was never more worthy of an extended patronage than now.
<c03>
PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
MR. EDITOR—You will rejoice, I am confident, to know that any wise movement is any where set on foot for the physical education of the people, realizing as you must how much this lies at the basis of all other sound education and true progress. And I am happy to be able to say that we have at length in Massachusetts a pioneer in this cause, of such eminent fitness for the work, that one can but believe that he must accomplish for the school system of New England in this department, what the lamented Horace Mann achieved in other directions. I refer to Dr. Dioclesian Lewis, formerly of Buffalo, N. Y., but now located at West Newton, where, and at other points in the town, he is now forming classes of adults, in the school vacations, for training in his admirable system of gymnastics, which he has culled with great care and discrimination from the best Swedish, Prussian and French methods.
At the introductory meeting in West Newton, after a brief but forcible lecture on the prevalent errors in the earliest training of the young, the Doctor initiated twenty or thirty volunteers into the novel exercises of his system, in all which, there was not only vigorous exercise of muscle, but the liveliest mental exhilaration, and intense amusement to the spectators. We scarcely remember an evening of such hearty social enjoyment, such contagious and irrepressible mirth.
At the close of these exercises, several of our citizens, among them the well-known teachers N. T. and Geo. Allen, and Mr. Sheldon, expressed their satisfaction with the system, as now and previously illustrated, and especially as involving so much social enjoyment and benefit to both sexes; and a committee was appointed, who reported through its chairman a series of resolutions, expressive of these sentiments. Subsequently, a class of from forty to fifty has been formed, which would be still larger were not so many persons now absent from town.
The manifest advantages of the Doctor's method over that heretofore in use among us, seem to be, that it is adapted with singular skill to the symmetrical development of all the varied muscles of the body, and not to the taxing and straining of any one set of muscles; that it is therefore free from the severe efforts and the risks of the old method, and that being adapted to the use of both sexes, it involves the keenest social enjoyment, while it may be practised without the necessity of a special building, or the cumbersome apparatus usually employed.
The Doctor is evidently devoted to this work, and is, as one in his position should be, a man of immense vitality and magnetic will,—prompt, earnest, forcible, fluent and humorous,—and by the rare union of all these qualities, a remarkable disciplinarian, and the most capable and effective lecturer on his topics it has ever been our good fortune to hear, keeping the undivided attention of all classes in his audience. We are glad to know that he is already engaged to introduce his system of gymnastics into the admirable Female Seminary under the charge of G. W. Briggs, at Auburndale, and to lecture there also through the year upon Physiology, Hygiene and kindred topics, to illustrate which he has the finest of French apparatus; and also at the school of Rev. Mr. Gannett on Winter-St., Boston, and at other of our first schools, city and suburban; and also at the McLean Asylum, where it is found exceedingly beneficial, not only in ministering to the enjoyment of the patients, but in working off their surplus and morbid activities. The Superintendents of the Utica Lunatic Asylum and the Idiot School at Syracuse testify to the same results from the introduction of this system into those institutions.
My own deep interest in this vital question, so long and ruinously neglected among us, impels me to tax you with so many words upon the matter.
Yours, &c, S.

CORRECTION.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON,—Permit me space to make a single correction of the very hastily-written lines read at Dr. Hunt's late anniversary, which, I am sure you will agree with me, need very many to render them worthy of any occasion; and which, in justice it should be said, while submitted as merely passable for a single hurried reading, were neither ambitious nor suspicious of print. To mend their halting metre in perhaps its grossest failure, will you please correct the lines regarding September, thus,—
The mild September, with whose grateful airs
Pomona's fruits and Ceres' grains she bears.
Allow me, also, on behalf of our absent friend, Mrs. Gage, to suggest that a critical observation of her somewhat illegible manuscript—(you will remember her own amusing rhymed confession on this point, to a puzzled Western editor)—will relieve her of the apparent ignorance and reversal of the offices of the mythologic divinities, implied in the line, as both read and printed,—
'Diana, sent by Mercury down;'
which was intended to read,—
'Diana sent aly Mercury down.'
All which is respectfully and gratefully submitted.
West Newton, July 14. C. M. S.
THE ADVENTURES OF JAMES CAPEN ADAMS, Mountaineer and Grizzly Bear Hunter, of California. By Theodore H. Hittell. Illustrated. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co.
James C. Adams, or 'Grizzly Adams,' as he is more familiarly known on the Western slopes of the continent, has a wide reputation as a 'mighty hunter.' He is a Norfolk County boy, having been born in Medway, Massachusetts, fifty-three years since. The taste for hunting was early developed in his nature, and on his attaining his majority led him to forsake the shoemaker's bench for the forest of northern New England. Here he captured panthers, wild-cats, and wolves, which he joined to an exhibition of wild animals, with which he travelled through the country. An encounter with a refractory Bengal tiger, whose cage he had entered, at this time, so injured his spine that he was incapacitated for active labor for many years, and compelled to return to his trade, at which the free use he yet held of his hands and arms providentially permitted him to labor.
We are not informed as to the time when Adams recovered from his injuries, but in 1853 we find him emigrating to California by the overland route. Here he experienced the vicissitudes of fortune which fell to the lot of most of the early settlers, and finally, in a fit of desperation or disgust, abandoned his schemes for wealth, and took his way to the Sierra Nevada Mountains, to make his home among wild beasts and Indians. And here commenced those wild thrilling adventures with which the book abounds. They are numerous, and told with a graphic power. Mr. Hittel, who writes the book, though it is cast in the form of an autobiography, is a California litterateur of reputation, and enters well into the spirit of his undertaking. The illustrations are numerous, and give a vivid picture of the exciting incidents which are related.
Adams is at present proprietor of a menagarie of animals captured by himself, and lately on exhibition, under the auspices of Barnum, in New York city.— [This notice we adopt from the Roxbury Gazette]
MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, have published the following pieces of music:
The Soldier's Adieu. For the piano. By A. Lindahl.
The Vesper Chime. Ballad. By George Linley. 
I do not watch alone. Ballad. By Anne Fricker.
My own dear mountain home. Ballad. By Adolph Hasse.
It was fifty years ago. Written by Longfellow. Music by J. L. Hatton.
In that sweet summer time. Ballad. Written by W. H. Bellamy. Music by J. L. Hatton.
<c04>
DEPARTURE OF DR. CHEEVER IN THE ADRIATIC.
More than two hundred friends of the Rev. Dr. Cheever, consisting of members of the Church of the Puritans, and others friendly to the course pursued by that gentleman on the subject of American Slavery, met on board the steamboat May Queen, near the foot of Hammond street, on Saturday morning, for the purpose of accompanying the steamship Adriatic down the Bay to Sandy Hook, to bid their friend good-bye and God-speed, as he took leave of his native land. Among those on board were the Rev. Hiram Mattison, of Union Chapel, Broadway; the Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, of the Reformed Presbyterian Church in Twenty-third street: the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, of the Shiloh Presbyterian Church in Prince street; Oliver Johnson, of The Anti-Slavery Standard; William Goodell, of The Principia; the Rev. Andrew Stevenson, of the Reformed Presbyterian Church in Twelfth street; the Rev. James Harper, Associate Presbyterian Church, corner of Greene and Houston streets; Theodore Tilton, of The Independent; Edgar Ketchurn. the Rev. C J. Warren, Drs. Fairbank and Hart, and other well-known gentlemen.
At 11 o'clock the May Queen left her pier, and proceeded to the end of the Collins wharf at the foot of Canal street, where a number of passengers were added to the party. The Rev. Dr. Cheever then came on board, and took leave of his people and friends, shaking all of them by the hand.
The ladies presented Dr. Cheever with a fine white silk pocket handkerchief having a red border, to use as a signal on board the Adriatic when parting with them at Sandy Hook. They also presented a pocket handkerchief of the same kind, having a blue border, to Dr. Henry A. Hartt, to use on board the May Queen at the representative signal of the friends on board.
At 1 o'clock, the Rev. Dr. Cheever was escorted on board the Adriatic by members of the Prudential Committee and Board of Trustees of the Church of the Puritans.
Shortly afterward, the May Queen left the wharf and proceeded down the bay as far as Sandy Hook, where the Adriatic, as she came down, was hailed by them with three hearty cheers. Drs. Fairbank and Hartt ascended the top of the pilot-house and waved their signal, and immediately Dr. Cheever with his wife by his side, made their appearance forward of the larboad wheel of the Adriatic. The Doctor then ascended the wheel-house, and waved his signal until the May Queen turned round. As the two vessels parted, the doxology, 
'Praise God from whom all blessings flow,'
was sung on board the steamboat.
A meeting was then organized, and presided over by Dr. Fairbank. Speeches were made by nearly all the gentlemen already named.
The excursion was a pleasant one to all on board. The May Queen returned to the city at 5 o'clock.
Dr. Cheever will, immediately after his arrival at Southampton, proceed to London. After spending a few weeks there, he will go to Switzerland, and there rest for a while. He will then return to Great Britain, where he will inform the people in regard to the present aspect of the relations of the Christian Church in America, in regard to American Slavery, and will return toward the end of November.
The Church of the Puritans was closed last evening for an interval of six weeks. On reopening, the pulpit will be supplied by the Rev. Theodore Freling-huysen White, late of Mendham, N. J. Meantime, the regular weekly devotional meetings and Sunday-School connected with the Church, will be continued. —New York Tribune.
Slaves are regularly imported into Florida, from Cuba, by fishermen, who may be called fishers of men. They take their fish over to the ' ever faithful' tobacco-and-cane-garden, exchange them for a certain number of black fish, or three-fifths of men, (sixty per centum,) and then smuggle the said 'chattels ' to the green and flowery peninsula, famous for alligators and everglades, fevers and Seminoles, the land that Don Juan Ponce de Leon discovered on Palm Sunday, and which Mr. William Bowlegs lost sight of on any day of the week that the render pleases. The trade is profitable, as negroes rule low in Cuba, while in Florida they rule high, as they rule the country. This traffic is one of the streams that help to feed the slave trade between Africa and Cuba, and which our government finds it so very costly a business even to attempt to suppress.—Boston Trav.
ESCAPE OF A SLAVE.—A ship which arrived at Liverpool a short time since, had been about ten days out from her port of departure, when it was discovered that there was one more on board than had been bargained for. Stowed away in the hold a black man, an escaped slave, had managed to hide himself till he knew that there was no fear of the captain taking back the ship to put him on shore.
When the ship arrived in Liverpool, the man was still retained on board, and some of the passengers including a clergyman, fearing that the captain, to avoid the penalty to which masters of vessels are subject for bringing home escaped slaves, would take the man back with him, applied to the police. Superintendent Kehoe at once accompanied the passengers to the office of the owners, who, without the least hesitation, gave an order for the man's release, which was complied with. The captain would be liable to heavy penalties if the transaction were known in the States, and we therefore purposely withhold the name of the ship, and the port from whence she came.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD.—We should have noticed, before this, the appearance of the Anti-Slavery Standard in a new and beautiful dress. Although not agreeing, altogether, with the views of the Standard upon the slavery question, we admire its ability and its outspoken frankness. Its literary department, too, is admirably conducted; and, taken as a whole, we find few of our exchanges more interesting or valuable than the Standard.—Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.
A man in Gortansville, Va., recently beat a slave with a stick, then tied his feet together, and threw him head foremost into a hogshead of water. When the negro was taken out, he was found to be dead. A coroner's jury sat around the body, and soon returned a verdict of ' Died from congestion of the brain.' The Charlottesville Review, which records this fact, has heard also of ' a case where a negro was recently punished in a neighboring county, and died within a minute or two afterward. The verdict in this case was, "Died from a combination of circumstances!"
PORTRAIT OF JOHN BROWN FOR HAYTI. Thaddeus Hyatt, when in Boston the other day, purchased the splendid oil portrait of Capt. John Brown, photographed life size by Black & Batchelder on canvass, and painted by Onthank. It was given in charge of James Redpath for presentation to the people of Hayti. It bears this inscription:—
'Captaine John Brown,
Martyr a la cause des Nois,
Presente, aux
Peuple d' Haitie
par
Thaddeus Hyatt
de New York.'
Mr. Redpath sailed in the Sarah Burton on Friday, and will personally present this appropriate gift to the government authorities of Hayti.
MR. SUMNER AT NEW YORK. Mr. Sumner's reception on the delivery of his address in New York must have been very gratifying to him. The Herald says:
'Mr. Sumner appeared on the rostrum precisely at 8 o'clock, and was received with an outburst of excited enthusiasm which defies all description. The applause with which he was greeted was unanimous and intense. Cheer after cheer arose, loud and vociferous; men stood up and waved their handkerchiefs and their hats till scarcely any thing else could be seen; the ladies clapped their little hands, and shouts of applause were heard from every part of the room. Mr. Sumner all the while stood calmly bowing in response; and it was not until several minutes had elapsed that the commotion ceased sufficiently so as to permit one of the members of the Republican Union to come forward and state the objects of the meeting, and to propose Mr. Abijah Mann as Chairman.'
The following is a specimen of the anonymous letters which Mr. Sumner frequently received prior to the adjournment of Congress, but they had no effect to hasten his departure, as he remained in Washington some time after the adjournment:—
HON. CHARLES SUMNER—Sir: As the time for adjournment of Congress is near at hand, I 'drop you a few lines to let you know' that you would do well to leave the city immediately after the adjournment.
Your presence will not be tolerated a single day after you drop the privileges of a Senator. We are anxious to handle you roughly for your infamous and slanderous assault upon the South, and nothing but our respect for the constitutional privileges which belong to all members of Congress can deter us.
We are, respectfully, your friend,
GUTTA PERCHA,
TAR AND FEATHERS,
COW AND RAW HIDES,
AND others.
Washington, D. C., June 12, 1860.
<c05>
ABOLITION TRIUMPHANT!
The Twenty-sixth anniversary of WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on WEDNESDAT, August 1st, at the beautiful Grove in NORTH ABINGTON.
Amidst the war of factions, the strife of parties, and the social antagonisms which convulse our country, the voice of British Philanthropy, of monarchical Liberty, speaking deliverance to Eight Hundred Thousand CHATTEL SLAVES, proclaims the justice, the divinity, the inevitable triumph of the Anti-Slavery principle; the ineffable baseness and hypocrisy of that Republicanism which holds four million men to chains; and the only method of solution for this problem of chattel bondage, the immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave upon our soil. The day is consecrated to the achievement of this sublime purpose. The friends of impartial freedom, without solicitation, will throng the assembly; its enemies are cordially invited to be present. 
A special train will run on the Old Colony railroad, as usual; numerous speakers of ability and eloquence are to address the meeting. Further particulars soon.
FRANCIS JACKSON,.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE,.THOS. J. HUNT, SAMUEL DYER, Committee of Arrangements.
NO MORE CHAINS. 
West India Emancipation.
The Twenty-Sixth Anniversary of West India Emancipation will be commemorated at MILFORD, Massachusetts, at the Town Hall, on THURSDAY, August 2d, 1860. Services to commence at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Let us gather once more, is multitudinous array, to call the attention of our own guilty land to the sublime achievement of British Philanthropy, which gave liberty to eight hundred thousand chattel slaves! —a triumph of right more glorious than any other event recorded on the page of history. And by the light of this noble example, let our own shame and startling hypocrisy urge on the work which shall lead to the universal and immediate emancipation of the four million slaves who pine and suffer beneath the galling yoke of American despotism.
In the name of Freedom and the suffering bondmen, we invite our fellow-countrymen and women to be with us. PARKER PILLSBURY, C. L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and other able speakers, will be present to address the meeting. Services to commence at 10 o'clock precisely, and continue through the day and evening. Per order of the Committee of Arrangements,
GEORGE W. STACY.
Milford, Mass., July 18. 1860.
MASS MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
The Colored Citizens of New Bedford respectfully invite their brethren, far and near, to meet them in a Convention that will assemble in Liberty Hall, in this city, on Wednesday, August 1st, 1860, at 10 o'clock A.M. 
They believe the day should be commemorated in a manner calculated to advance the cause of Freedom. 
Several eloquent speakers from abroad have been invited, and are expected to participate in the deliberations, and a grand reunion of the oppressed is expected.
Let the voice go forth from this meeting that will convince our oppressors that we are entitled to equal political and judicial rights: that our claim to a seat in the jury box cannot justly be withheld. And we pledge ourselves to agitate the question of our wrongs until justice is bestowed upon all men whose only crime is the color of their skin.
At the close of the Convention, a Grand Levee will be held in City Hall. Good music will be in attendance during the day and evening.
Committee of Arrangements — EZRA R. JOHNSON, JOHN FREEDOM. CHAS. H. BROOK, FRANCIS DOUGLASS, LLOYD H. BROOKS, SOLOMON PENETON, JOSEPH SCOTT, WILLIAM BERRY.

CONTRIBUTIONS
To the Anti-Slavery Cause at Framingham, Wednesday, July 4th, 1860.
T. Davis $10 00 J. Alston 25
J. M. Morse 50 D. W. Richard 25
M. Morse 25 Archibald B-25
J. N. Clark 25 C. K. Whipple 50
B. Snow, Jr. 1 00 J. C. Haynes 1 00
W. S. Cobb 50 H. Batchelor 1 00
J. H. Brigham 1 00 W. Hammond 25
A. J. Spofford 25 H. O. Stone 1 00
Martha Clapp 1 00 W. P. Garrison 50
Wm. A. Brown 1 00 A. J. Ballou 25
S. B. Stebbins 3 00 Anna T. Draper 1 00
Mrs. Humphrey 1 00 Dr. T. P. Knox 50
L. H. Bowker 1 00 Dr. Hoyt 25
Cyrus Cooke 1 00 Mrs. Dr. Hoyt 25
E. B. Perkins 1 00 S. A. Newton, Jr. 25
Dr. Hero 50 Wm. H. Viney, M. D. 25
E. D. Draper 1 00 S. C. Carpenter 50
Isaac Osgood 50 John Wheeler 50
-Allen 50 Dexter Farrington 25
-Lincoln 25 Geo. Theobald 25
J. R. Davis 25 Wm. Sparrell 1 00
A. L. Babcock 1 00 E. H. Heyward 50
H. V. Pond 1 00 Francis Jackson 3 00
Isaac Mason 50 Hon. Henry Wilson 50
Parker Pillsbury 50 J. S. Draper 50
 A. H. Wood 50 Tower Hassall 50
Geo. W. Stacy, Jr. 50 Ira Mitchell 50
S. Smith 50 H. B. Draper 1 00
Ira Gray 1 00 J. S. Welch 50
Edmund Quincy 1 00 H. J. Prentiss 1 00
Samuel Barrett 1 00 Chas. E. Jenkins 5 00
E. M. Marshall 50 Other friends in
W. Buntin 50 various sums, 26 20
Moses Phipps 50 
Whole amount received, $84 20
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Ton, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be	 soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). JAS. S. MARSHALL,
Practical Chemist,
No. 32 City Buildings, New York.
New York, June 6. 3m
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.—David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball. M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in South Ware, N. H., Sunday, the 22d July.
PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Essex, Sunday, July 22d, day and evening, and at Manchester, Monday evening, July 23d.
REV. N. R. JOHNSTON will speak at 
West Randolph, Vt., Thursday, July 26, 2 P. M.
Wast Brookfield, Vt., Friday, July 27, 2 P. M. 
Waitsfield, Vt., Saturday, July, 28, 2 P.M.
WEST WRENTHAM. PARKER PILLSBURY will speak at West Wrentham, Wednesday evening, August 1st.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
South New Market, N. H., Wednesday eve'g, July 25.
Rochester, N.H., Thursday, eve’g, July 26.
Dover, N.H., Sunday, eve’g, July 29.
WM. WELLS BROWN will hold meetings at the following places:
Fitchburgh, Mass., Sunday, July 22.
West Brookfield, Vt., Monday. July 23.
Williamstown, Vt., Wednesday, July 25.
West Randolph, Vt., Thursday, July 26.
West Brookfield, Vt., Friday, July 27.
Waitsfield, Vt., Saturday, July 28.
Rev. N. R. Johnston will also attend all the meetings in Vermont.
MARRIED—In Newport, R. I., July 12th, Mr. SILAS DICKERSON to Miss SUSAN C. RICE.
<c06>
ANNOUNCEMENT
EXTRA.
MIND AND BODY.
PHYSIOLOGY reveals the intimate connection between the mind and the body, and shows us that without a sound and healthy body, the mind cannot properly perform its functions. Having spent fifteen years in feeding the public mind, until apparently an absolute plethora has come upon it, we now propose to administer for the maladies of the body—' To cure the ills which flesh is heir to.' We have issued during our Publishing Life not less than FOUR MILLIONS or VOLUMES, several of which have been translated into other languages, and have found their way to hundreds of thousands of readers, in every portion of the habitable globe.
Having been so largely instrumental in disseminating valuable books, which have made an indelible impress for good upon mankind, it is not without a slight feeling of regret that we abandon our calling for another, and we should hesitate in so doing, did we not believe that good can be done in another sphere, and that the body, with its multiform infirmities, needs attending to, (especially in this land of fast levers,) as well as the mind.
A few years since, a gentleman of Boston, an invalid, was travelling in search of health, in Peru, the beautiful land of the Incas, the country of mines and minerals. During his stay, he spent seven weeks in a convent in the interior; while there, he became possessed of a recipe for a medicine which effected his own complete restoration to health. Grateful for the means which had enabled him to live a sound man again, he extended his knowledge as he was able, and in a few years it was in successful use in all the Hospitals, and by all the medical men of Peru. The effect of the medicine was so wonderful that he entered into correspondence with parties in this country, who took it up earnestly, and have labored unceasingly for its introduction, until
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP,
—OR—
PROTECTED PROTOXIDE OF IRON.
Has come to be considered almost a necessity in every family. Its success is extraordinary, proving its great excellence. Notwithstanding its present popularity, it is destined yet to take a higher rank than any curative ever offered to the American People. Its elements are safe and simple, and disintegrated, have been known and recommended by physicians for centuries, but, previous to this discovery, could never be properly combined so as to be held in solution.
We purpose to devote the next ten years to a thorough and systematic dissemination of this INVALUABLE FREPARATION, until
'EARTH'S REMOTEST NATION'
shall be reached and benefitted. If our language seems extravagant, we beg the ineredulous or doubting to send for a pamphlet of testimonials, from some of the most distinguished men of Peru and this country, who have tested its value and speak from experience.
JOHN P. JEWETT &CO.
The style of our new firm will be
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER.
STORE 39 SUMMER STREET, BOSTON,
(Next door to the New Post Office.) 
The medicine will be manufactured by N. L. CLARK & CO., but exclusively for us, and, as heretofore, will be sold
BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
July 20.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860. 100 pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON, Mrs. E. L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. 'A word to the wise,' &c.
Price, 23 cents: by mail, 30 cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860.

CARPETING
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.

Anti-Tobacco Publications.
THE Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society are for sale at Nos. 5,9 and 13, Cornhill, Boston, and also at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass.
Among them are the following:—
Six Tracts for Young America, or Boys.
A variety of Tract, for Raisers, Sellers. Smokers, Chewers, and Snuffers.
A variety for Ladies, Clergymen, Physicians and others.
The Zoological Temperance Convention; The Rev. Solomon Spittle; Uncle Tobey's Stories about Tobacco, for Youth and Schools of all sorts; Anti-Tobacco Envelopes, and a variety of handsome Cards, large and small, for Bands of Hope. June 22.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
FOURTH OF JULY.
We are not free:
These sounds of jubilee are mockery all!
Can we rejoice
While yet millions bow in Slavery's thrall?
Ring, joyous bells!
To me ye only toll a funeral knell;
Ye cannons, roar!
Of chains, and stripes, and woman's tear ye tell:
Of broken hearts;
Of wrongs that unto Heaven for vengeance cry!
What wonder some
Doubtingly ask-'Is there a God on high?'
We are not free:
E'en where yon in cruel mockery waves,
Our own Bay State
Is counted but a hunting-ground for slaves!
Oh! shame is ours-
Shame that we ever yield to unjust laws,
Or ever fail
Of laboring heart and hand in Freedom's cause.
Shame, deepest shame,
That some this day will boast our nation free,
And dare to joy,
While men and women pine in slavery!
Oh! let us toil!
The glorious day is coming, by and by;
Freedom shall reign,
The right shall triumph, slavery shall die,
Then-not till then,
We'll join to keep our nation's jubilee;
Then-not till then,
We'll ever dare to utter-'We are free!'
Sherborn, July 4, 1860. E D. MORSE.

For the Liberator.
TRUTH.
Fear not the truth, though it burn you like fire!
Only the dross will consume;
Freed-on its wings you will mount ever higher-
Its light will your being illume.
Oh, a rich thing is the soul God made-
Its fullness of being is heaven;
Brilliant with joy so richly inlaid
In the wonderful life that is given.
A glorious thing is the soul God made-
Grander than stars of the sky
That roll everlasting in splendor arrayed;
It soars to the throne on high. KATE.

From the New York Independent.
SEED-TIME.
Now, by the rose's crimson heart,
And the robin's brooding wing,
There never dawned on the waiting earth
So full and fair a spring!
For the splendor of uncounted Mays,
Through many a century fled,
Beams in the eyes of the latest-born-
Heir of the lovely dead.
O, the odor of the opening leaves
Comes like a breath divine,
And the mountain air is a richer draught
Than Hebe's rosiest wine!
The dells are blue with violets,
And, over the garden wall,
At the lightest waft of the South wind
The apple blossoms fall.
Thank God! we breathe the balmy air,
We hear the soft winds blow,
And our hearts are glad at the violet's blue,
And the apple-blossom's snow:-
So, lightly down, through shower and shine,
To the Summer-Land we go.
Yet more! God's dearer fields of Truth
The centuries have plowed,
As, over them, through calm and storm,
His laborers, toiling, bowed;-
What shall we plant in the furrows wide
Beneath His sun and cloud?
They cry to us, the glorious Dead,
'Why do ye linger so?
The soil was never so warm above,
So mellow and moist below;-
We wrought to clear the cumbered ground,
And yearn till the grain shall grow-
Till the weeds are crushed in the garden bowers,
And the rose and the lily blow.'
O, helping God! we long for Thee!
Our hearts are all a-glow!
And the deeds of a loving life shall be
The precious seed we sow;-
For Hate may kill, but only Love
Can make the roses blow!-
Then gladly on, through shade or shine,
To the Harvest Land we'll go! DEAN.

From the Weekly Anglo-African.
TO CHARLES SUMNER.
BY FRANCES ELLEN WATKINS.
Thank God! for thou hast spoken
Words earnest, true, and brave:
The lightning of thy lips has smote
The fetters of the slave.
I thought the shadows darkened
Round the pathway of the slave-
That, one by one, his faithful friends
Were dropping in the grave.
When other hands grew feeble,
And loosed their hold on life,
Thy words rang like a clarion

In Freedom's noble strife.
Thy words were not soft echoes,
Thy tones no syren song:
They fell as battle-axes
Upon our giant wrong.
God, grant thy words of power
May fall as precious seeds,
That yet shall leaf and blossom
In high and holy deeds!


THE SLEEP OF DEATH.
She sleeps in death! calm be her rest!
So long desired-so late obtained-
Her pilgrimage of three-score years
Has ceased at length-the goal attained.
Now life's full labor well performed,
Its varied duties all fulfilled,
The measure of her suffering borne,
Her throbbing pulse is gently stilled.
She sleeps in death! Yet mourned by those
To whom her kindly hands dispensed
Those active charities of life
Which her unfailing love evinced.
Her husband praised her in the gates,
Her children rise, and call her blessed;
Sweet is the ointment of her name,
Memorial of all others, best!

LOVE.
When, vex'd by cares and harass'd by distress,
The storms of Fortune fill the soul with dread,
Let Love, controlling Love! still sweetly bless,
And his assuasive charm benignant shed:
His downy plumage o'er thy pillow spread,
Shall lull thy weeping sorrows to repose;
To Love the tender heart hath ever fled,
As on its mother's breast the infant throws
Its sobbing face, and there in sleep forgets its woes.
<c02>
The Liberator.
HARPER'S FERRY AND NON-RESISTANCE.
The Garrisonians, I think, are the only considerable body of men in the country who claim that the doctrine of Non-Resistance forms one of the fundamental principles of true religion and morality. Against the assumption of the right to resist evil by force, they insist that the precepts of Jesus Christ are overwhelming. They maintain that no principle or doctrine is of more binding force on the conduct of men than this, and that there is no severer test of the genuineness of one's moral and religious professions than the practice of this doctrine affords. Now why is it that these same men are loudest in their sympathy for John Brown, and approval of his invasion of Virginia? You say he was a martyr to the cause of human liberty; but what glory for him in a martyr's crown, who, according to your claim for the doctrine of Non-Resistance, had just been violating a fundamental principle of Christianity himself? According to your ideas, the violation of the principles of peace is as sinful as the violation of the principles of liberty. You say you have a right to disarm John Brown, but that they who believe in the use of the sword have not. To which I reply, that, as an advocate of the principles of Non-Resistance, you have no right not to disarm him. Instead of lauding him as a man to be honored and admired, you should hold him up to the execration of all good men, to be classed in the same category with slaveholders, murderers, and thieves. You say that War and Slavery are equally inexcusable, under all circumstances: why then should John Brown be canonized, and the slaveholder cursed?
I have always considered the leaders of the ‘Old Organization,' their untrammelled position leaving their judgment unbiased, as generally the best authority on all questions involving moral considerations; but, in reference to the John Brown affair, I think the watchmen have given a very uncertain sound. A SUBSCRIBER.

REPLY.
The advocates of Non-Resistance constitute but a small proportion even of that small class who are popularly called Garrisonians; yet they, as well as other men, illustrate the important truth that God has made men to examine and decide for themselves, instead of following any one precise pattern; and that the diversities of constitution, education and circumstance are such, that men are to be expected to take views materially differing from each other, in every department of every subject. Perfect unity of thought is not to be looked for, even among those who seek to perform the duty of making moral and intellectual progress. Hence considerable differences of opinion exist, and must still be expected to exist, even among Non-Resistants.
'A Subscriber' is troubled at the praise bestowed by Non-Resistant Abolitionists upon John Brown. Their reply may not be satisfactory to him, having failed to satisfy Adin Bailou, and a few other true friends of both the great principles in question. But the answer which they make, and which to them seems satisfactory, is this.
In the first place, they do not praise John Brown for his appeal to injurious violence, or for his use of weapons of death. On the contrary, they expressly object to these features of his enterprise, and regret that the right thing which he undertook, the deliverance of the slaves, was not undertaken in precisely the right way.
In the next place, it is to be considered that his undertaking itself, apart from the objectionable manner of it, was truly noble, honorable and glorious; that this simple characteristic of John Brown, the taking his life in his hand, and going into the midst of the extremest dangers, solely to help the most helpless, destitute and unfortunate of human beings, is something which honorably distinguishes him from all his countrymen, and all the men of his time. He undertook this work not hastily, not fanatically, but with careful and deliberate forecast. He conceived the idea, spent years in arranging for its successful accomplishment, persevered in it through discouragements and difficulties of every sort, and when at length the carnal weapon was stricken from his hand, and that form of success for which he had been striving was irretrievably lost, he resumed the sword of the Spirit, and so successfully bore witness to the truth, that, like Samson, he overcame more in his death than in his life.
Nor was it merely life that this man risked in his work of disinterested benevolence. The slaves whom he went to rescue were in the hands of a brutal and barbarous people, familiar with acts of cruelty, and accustomed to luxuriate in the idea (and occasionally to indulge themselves in the practice) of putting men to death by frightful and protracted tortures. It was near this region that a Presbyterian clergyman (Rev. William S. Plumer) openly recommended to his slaveholding brethren that such Abolitionists as they could 'catch' should be burned alive. It is just such men as the people living around Harper's Ferry, whose acts of brutal violence, perpetrated upon citizens of the North within a period of six months, have filled a pamphlet of 144 pages, appropriately called ‘The New Reign of Terror in the South.' Thus, for the sake of helping the slaves, John Brown took the risk, not only of death, but of a death barbarously prolonged under scourging, mangling, burning, or other torture.
It is also to be considered that a tempest of reproach and denunciation was falling upon this man from all the slaveholders, the whole Democratic party, all the officials and organs of the United States Government, South and North, and the great body of clergymen and ‘religious' newspapers in all parts of the country, while the leaders of the Republican party energetically disavowed all knowledge of, or sympathy with, his movement. These denunciations and disavowals, moreover, were directed against the idea of offering help to the slaves at all, as much as against the idea of putting arms into their hands. The general tone of public remark upon the transaction implied that the claim made by the slaveholders, and the power exercised by them, ought not to interfered with; that our relations to the general government required us to allow the grossest oppressions to be protected and perpetuated by its power, without attempt to prevent them; that our relations to the slaveholders required us to allow them not only to oppress and maltreat their slaves at pleasure, but to curtail and violate our rights whenever they interfered with this tyranny; and that we neither held, nor could hold, any relation to the slaves authorising the giving of help or counsel, aid or comfort of any kind, to human beings thus wronged and outraged.
While John Brown's good was thus evil spoken of, while his help to the oppressed (not only by arms, but in any way,) was assumed to be an unjustifiable interference, it surely was not for the oldest and firmest advocates of the slaves' cause to unite in this outcry, and join those who were wholly wrong in clamoring down one who was but partly wrong. Moreover, when those who reproached John Brown alike for helping the slaves with arms and for helping them at all, were the very men who boasted loudest of the armed revolution which had gained their own liberty, praised the generous aid which LaFayette and other foreigners had given to their own fathers, and eulogized foreign interference in behalf of Greek liberty, Polish liberty, Hungarian liberty, and Italian liberty, was it not at once right and needful to point out the inconsistency, the hypocrisy, and the depravity of such a position?
Now Professor of Didactic and Pastoral Theology in the ‘Western Theological Seminary.' (Old School Presbyterian Church,) in Allegheny, Pennsylvania
<c03>
In my judgment, the disapproval with which Non-Resistants must necessarily regard the use of weapons of death, and which they plainly expressed in respect to John Brown's use of them, should not prevent the expression of that hearty admiration which they must feel for his disinterested and heroic devotion of the labors of his life, and of his life itself, to the cause of the slave.-C. K. W.

MORE ON NON-RESISTANCE.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Please to correct one or two errors of the press in my letter published in the Liberator of June 22. The word 'slave,' in the second column, should be ‘slayer,’ and the words of ‘self-defence and defence of justice,' at the top of the third column, should ‘self-defender and defender of justice.'
I would also correct a misapprehension of Mr. Whipple, who supposes me to plead that 'a right rule in morals' may be violated in extreme cases. I expressly disclaimed such a doctrine, and stated that' no exigency can justify the violation of an inviolable principle.' My argument is, that his rule does not justly apply to those cases, any more than my rule to walk out of my house at the door applies to a case in which self-preservation would require me to leap from a window, or my rule not to steal would prevent my taking a boat to rescue a crew from shipwreck.
Principles only are immutable, inviolable and universal-being established by divine wisdom; but rules, though founded on those principles, are limited and imperfect, for these are contrived by human wisdom, which is incompetent so to shape them as to apply to all cases; therefore, in extreme cases, which the rule cannot properly include, we disregard the rule, and recur to first principles. The compass is a good contrivance, but the mariner must sometimes disregard it, and look to some higher beacon.
Christ's law of love is universal and inviolable. Mr. Whipple's rule of non-resistance, though founded on that law, is limited, and sometimes inapplicable. I do not necessarily violate Christ's law of love, when, to save a family from murder or slavery, I shoot the aggressor, who perhaps may be one for whose salvation I would willingly give my own life. It is not that I love the aggressor less, but the innocent family more, both because their number is more and their cause is just. (For the love of justice may, on Christian principles, enter into our motives, and Mr. W. should not confound this with the 'Jewish retaliatory system.' To defend justice is one thing-to retaliate, another.)
Mr. Whipple's rule of non-resistance would protect a murderer in the act of killing a thousand innocent persons. Christ's law of love, as I understand it, would protect the thousand innocent persons, even at the expense of the aggressor's life. My obligation of love to the thousand innocent persons is at least a thousand times greater than my obligation of love to the one murderer, and, when two incompatible obligations are presented, the greater must take precedence. What would be a crime in one case, may in another case become a duty.
All the opposite argument is based on the assumption that human life is inviolable, and the taking it, under any circumstances, a crime. I ask for the proof of this assumption, and am told that human life is inviolable, because it is the gift of God. I see no logical sequence in the argument.
Mr. W. admits that the cases referred to would be settled by our feelings in a way opposite to his rule, but argues that feeling is no sufficient guide. I think his 'rule' no sufficient guide. The moral feelings of rightly disposed persons are a pretty good guide of conduct. The quick instincts of a faithful woman are more reliable for right than the elaborate conclusions of a Doctor of Divinity. I think it a strong proof of the unsoundness of Mr. Whipple's rule, that it compels him to decide those cases in a way opposite to the universal instincts of humanity. Perhaps his distrust of the mind's innate moral perceptions, and his preference of a dogmatic rule, may be traced to that ‘vicious theology by which we were both misled in early life.'
The concluding note of Mr. W. needs a not after the word' must,' which would make it a very good precept. We must not violate the law of love, and though our duty should compel us to slay the aggressor, no malice should mix with our motives.
'Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully.'
Virginius slew his daughter without malice, but from a motive of parental love, to save her from a worse fate. Margaret Garner, by a like act, proved her title to an equal immortality of honor. I can suppose a case in which I might feel compelled to kill my only son, whose life is a thousand times more precious than my own, if I could thereby save him from becoming either the agent or the victim of slavery. Motive gives the moral quality of every act, and a homicide which is prompted by mercy, either to the sufferer or to his intended victim, is not a crime, but a virtue. It is overcoming evil with what (under the circumstance) is a good, because it is a remedy, and, in the cases to which I would apply it, the only one. DANIEL MANN.

THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME-THE LIGHT OF OUR FUTURE-THE WOMAN OF OUR FUTURE.
MR. GARRISON,-Some years ago, being present at the Woman's Rights Convention at Cleveland, some unseen influence held before my mind that great sign in the Apocalypse as the culmination of the Woman's Rights movement, representing the sphere of her influence, the permeating and subduing elements of her character, symbolizing a point of elevation and moral excellence, to the attainment of which we are urged by the needs of the race. A woman clothed with the sun, the moon under her feet, upon her head a crown of twelve stars, and standing before her is the great red dragon, waiting to devour her child as soon as born. Genial warmth, Light, Love and Truth, are her robes; under her feet the moon, the symbol of human government or power; a crown of twelve stars upon her head, also symbolizing degrees of power; her soul pregnant with the everlasting principles of truth and righteousness, she longs to enunciate them for the good of her kind; but that power that draws the stars, great and mighty men, from heaven, and casts them to the earth, stands in her presence ready to make warfare upon her, and devour her offspring. Yet she quails not; courage does not fail her, nor hope die out. She is not thus robed and crowned for listless ease and self-indulgence, but for warfare and for victory. After this comes the loud voice saying, 'Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God and of his Christ.'
This picture still stands out before my mind as the climax, the mountain top which we must ascend. Often has my mind labored to evolve the idea, to picture the ideal Woman of the Future; but, being no artist, I could not paint it-nor scholar, I could not write it. But when I read Mr. Redpath's note on the Light of our Home in the Liberator, I said, 'Thanks to God for the artist who can give us the picture upon which we may look with our bodily eyes, of the ideal American child, the ideal Woman, the Mother, not merely American, but Universal, of Humanity!'
This picture of Mr. Johnston's is, I trust, a prophecy of the future Woman-a prophecy that will not fail; and when it shall have been fulfilled, when this ideal shall have become the actual, living and walking among us in full maturity, then will this earth become vocal with praise and thanksgiving. Let those whose eyes are opened to understand these things gird themselves for the warfare which it involves! ONE.
Johnstown, July 2d, 1860.
Hon. Charles Sumner has consented to deliver the opening lecture of the Fraternity course, at the approaching season in Boston.
<c04>
WOMAN.
The true life of woman seems to me less a subject for jest and ridicule than for deep and earnest thought. Much has been said about her proper sphere. As we look back through the ages that are passed, we discover that it has widened vastly since she was regarded as a soulless slave, without any perceptible loss of refinement. We also discover that ideas are governed very much by custom, and we may observe how tastes change with the fashion. No one thinks of sneering at Victoria as unwomanly on account of the station she occupies at the head of the English nation: we are used to seeing her there. When we are thrilled by the genius of a Mrs. Browning, a Charlotte Bronte, and a Mrs. Stowe, we see something more beautiful than bluestockings: they are out of fashion. We need not be frightened at every step: our eyes are wonderfully formed to adjust themselves to the light. Woman's want is not to grow bold and coarse-not to fight-not to wrangle with the 'great unwashed' at elections, as some seem to suppose; but room to flower out into the full rich life that God has fashioned for her. In its heavenly beauty is divine power to cleanse the great unwashed. In that radiant, full being, she will be to man no slave-no toy-but a companion for his highest, godlike nature, different but equal; each soul being to the other heavenly life. Woman's want is man's deepest need-his highest life. Thought is as work: slowly the grand truths of God are evolved. The light of the glorious coming day has arisen. Frightened people may try in various ways to put it out, as the slaveholder tries to extinguish the light of liberty; but God's lights are far above man's reach, or we should have been in darkness long ago: they burn on eternally. In time we shall become strong enough for the full day, and in that rich life go up to God with thanks too deep for words. KATE.

From the Ashtabula Sentinel.
PIRACY IN CINCINNATI.
A colored man named Waggoner, born in Cincinnati, of free parents, was forcibly seized, taken before a United States Commissioner, pronounced a fugitive slave, and hurried across the river to Newport, and confined in the jail of that village. The people of Cincinnati stood looking on with folded arms, saying, the fugitive law must be obeyed. They quietly saw the sovereignty of Ohio trampled upon, and humanity outraged, because the Supreme Court has said we must submit to that mandate of despots, called the Fugitive Slave Law.
The pirates who kidnapped him, having got him into Kentucky, no longer claimed to own him, but insisted that he should be sold to pay the expenses of his capture and imprisonment. Public notice of the sale was given, and the people of Cincinnati looked on quietly, and saw a man, born on our own soil, consigned to chains and suffering, instead of fattening the soil of Kentucky with the blood of live pirates.
Instead of laying Newport in ashes, they permitted the pirates of that city to enslave a freeman of Cincinnati. It was a dastardly submission, disgraceful to our State. The Kentuckians came over to Cincinnati, precisely as Spanish and American pirates go to Africa: they seize and enslave freemen of Ohio, precisely as their brother pirates seize and enslave Africans. The people of Cincinnati, with all the apparent imbecility and cowardice of the heathens of Africa, submit to see their people captured and enslaved.
We are not sufficiently versed in casuistry to discover any difference in the guilt between the African and the Kentucky pirates. If one be worthy of the gallows, the others ought not to escape. Nor can we draw any very marked difference between the stupidity, the heathenism of the Africans who quietly submit to the piracy, and the barbarous supineness manifested by brethren of Cincinnati. They, however, hold it to be the duty of good citizens to submit to such despotism: we would slay the despots, and pity the cowards who tremble before those who profess to execute despotic enactments.
The Supreme Court say we must submit <illegible> this tyranny, and our friends in Cincinnati think they must bow submissively to such dictation. We would strike down the tyrants, and pity the imbeciles who fear the power of despots. Our State has been disgraced. Its soil has been contaminated with the footsteps of pirates, and its citizens bow down and submit like cowards. We hope the pirates may next take the Mayor of Cincinnati. He is just as liable as Waggoner was; and as he seems willing to see his neighbors taken and enslaved, we trust the pirates may next take him, as the people will not dare to oppose the Fugitive Law. They hold that obedience to tyrants is obedience to God. The Cincinnati papers speak out, and charge the Democracy with this barbarism; but we can discover no very great distinction between the Democrats who passed the Fugitive Act, and those Republicans who uphold it, saying, we are bound to obey it. Waggoner has received from the Creator a right to liberty, and none but pirates would rob him of it. Palsied be the hand, and cursed be the man who would enslave human souls! The Reserve would give such men hospitable graves.
We know not what Governor Dennison has done, or is doing, in this matter. The public will hold him responsible, if he fails to do all that he is authorized to do in the premises. If necessary, let the Legislature be convened. Let efficient measures be taken for the return of Waggoner, or let the civil war which Kentucky has thus waged upon our State be met in a spirit of manly resistance. 
G.

From the Anti-Slavery Bugle.
‘PIRACY IN CINCINNATI.'
On our first page will be found an article with the above caption. The language characterizing the act is strong; but with this we have no fault to find, and presume the facts of the case are correctly stated. The article originally appeared in the Ashtabula Sentinel, over the signature of ‘G.,' which some interpret to signify JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS. The writer-whoever he may be-calls down upon the head of every slaveholder this imprecation:-'Palsied be the hand, and cursed be the man, who would enslave human souls!’ We do not say that this is unjust, but we do very much doubt whether any considerable number of Republicans will endorse such a sentiment; and we question whether Mr. Giddings designed to have it applied, except to such men as the kidnappers of Waggoner. There are slaveholders who are Republicans, and who intend to vote for Lincoln and Hamlin. If their hands are to be palsied, in answer to this prayer, they will not be able to drop a ballot, and the ticket may be defeated in consequence. Nay, how would Lincoln himself fare? He is ready to have fugitive slaves caught up, and sent back to bondage, which we take it is an enslavement of human souls; and he even volunteered to furnish facilities for their apprehension and rendition in the District of Columbia. We think 'G. s imprecation is hardly designed to cover such volunteer assistants to the enslavers of human souls; but, on the contrary, he wants to bless Lincoln with Presidential power, and to strengthen his hand by the approval of a majority of the electors.
'G.' intimates that the people of Cincinnati, in view of the outrage perpetrated, ought to have marched into Kentucky, and laid Newport in ashes. Bosh! all bosh! Did not 'G.' and all the rest of the Republicans at Chicago solemnly vote that such an invasion of a sister State, under any pretext, was to be classed ‘among the greatest crimes'? Did 'G.' mean that, when he said it at Chicago? Or does he mean that Ohio should lay Newport in ashes, as he declares in the article under consideration? He could not possibly mean both, and was insincere in the one or the other. How politics curses a man, and eats of his soul everything that should dignify humanity!
'G.' goes on to say:
'We know not what Governor Dennison has done or is doing in this matter. The public will hold him responsible, if he fails to do all that he is authorized to do in the premises. If necessary, let the Legislature be convened. Let efficient measures be taken for the return of Waggoner; or let the civil war, which Kentucky has thus waged upon our State, he met in a spirit of manly resistance.'
We must be excused for saying that this seems to us very much like sounding brass, full of noise and fury, but signifying nothing. Who expects that Gov. Dennison has done, or will do anything that is anything in this matter! Surely, not the men who condemned the Disunionists as unjust and uncharitable, because they exposed Gov. Chase's short-
<c05>
comings when he suffered Margaret Garner and children to be kidnapped out of the hands of the State authorities, and took no efficient measures for the punishment of the wrong-doers! It poorly becomes those who tolerated and defended Gov. Chase then, to find fault with the inaction of Gov. Dennison now. We are unable to see what the Governor could do in such a case as is that of Waggoner, especially as Kentucky is the opposing party. He has just refused to give up Lago on demand of Gov. Magoffin, because, as he alleges, running of slaves is not recognized as a crime in Ohio. Should he demand the kidnappers of Waggoner, Kentucky might reply, that the putting of free negroes in prison, and then selling them for their jail fees and other expenses, is not only not recognized as a crime in Kentucky, but regarded as a legal, if not a highly honorable act. What would Dennison say to such an argument?
As to calling the Legislature together, the Democrats would rejoice at such a movement; for it would insure the State for Douglas by 10,000 majority. The slave-catchers need not anticipate anything of the kind; for the nearer election day approaches, the more cautious and wary will Republicans become, and will avoid doing anything that can possibly alarm the most timid conservative, and risk the loss of his vote.

Correspondence of the Chicago Tribune.
INFAMOUS OUTRAGE IN ILLINOIS.
Three Free Men Carried into Slavery-Law, Justice and Humanity Outraged-Brute Force Triumphant.
CLIFTON, Ill., July 4th, 1860.
DEAR SIR: About 8 o'clock last Sunday evening, our usually quiet village was visited by a band of the most barbarous men that I ever witnessed. It seems by what was developed at the trial of some of the parties yesterday, that several men from Missouri have had their headquarters at Ashkum the past three weeks or more, where with the assistance of one George D. Smith, a trader in Ashkum, and a Mr. Cornelius, formerly a Kentuckian, who lives in the immediate neighborhood of Ashkum, they have been working up a plan for several weeks, to kidnap some colored men who have been living in this town.
About 8 o'clock they had managed to get five of the boys into the Sellus House, where Smith made himself very free in entertaining them, when eight other men, armed to the teeth, rushed in, and presenting their pistols told the boys they were prisoners. Two of the most powerful of the boys made a <illegible>, and knocking down several of the ruffians, made their escape: the other three were pounded severely on the head with the butt of their pistols, overpowered, handcuffed, thrown into a wagon, and driven off before any alarm could be given, all done in the space of ten minutes. What makes the affair the more diabolical, is the fact that one of the men carried off never was a slave, and one had been freed by his master: the third one might or might not have been a slave, but little was known of him.
It appears from what we learn since the affair occurred, that one of the boys that escaped probably had been a slave, and that his master was one of the band who figured here. It appears that this slave-owner made a bargain with Smith and Cornelius, of Ashkum, that if they would assist him to take 'Ned,' one of the boys that escaped, they would catch as many more as they could, take them South, sell them, and divide the spoils. After the three were taken, they were driven to Ashkum, about four miles, where they were put on board the cars of the Illinois Central Railroad Company.
There seemed to be a perfect understanding-between the kidnappers and the conductor of the train-as the cars had hardly come to a stop before the negroes were thrust on board, and the train set moving. A sufficient number of citizens went on board the train from here to prevent the negroes from being put on board, and were fully prepared to do so, had the train made the usual stop; but before half of the citizens who went on the train could get off to render the required assistance, the train was in motion, and, as I learn, the kidnapped negroes were taken to St. Louis.
In addition to the nine kidnappers, who were doubly armed with revolvers and bowie-knives, the Section men who work on the track of the Railroad Company, for about fifteen miles distant, numbering about twenty-five, were in attendance, apparently to render assistance if needed, all stout, able-bodied Irishmen.
I hope and pray that it may never be my lot to witness another such scene.
In haste, yours truly,
J. E. KINGMAN.
In addition to the above, we have the following from an eye witness:-
JULY 3d.-We have to-day five persons on trial for assisting the kidnappers-three Irishmen, of Clifton, and two Yankees, (or something else,) from Ashkum. We have employed an able lawyer from Kankakee City, and shall give them a thorough examination. Conductor Muchmore, on one of the Illinois Central trains, came up this morning, and informed us ‘that the slaves (?) had been taken to St. Louis,' and he cursed Mr. White for daring to show his indignation at such proceedings, and thus injure the interests of the Railroad Company. The conductor also stated that ‘had any of us interfered, we certainly would have been shot, and that the d-d niggers were no better than so many beasts, and he did consider the Republicans much better.'
LATER.-Three of the men on trial have been held to bail in $500 each to appear at the next term of the Court.

LETTER OF SENATOR SUMNER.
The following letter and sentiment were received by Mayor Lincoln of Boston, in reply to an invitation to attend the celebration in Boston on the Fourth:-
WASHINGTON, July 1, 1860.
DEAR SIR,-I have been honored by your invitation to the approaching festival, when the City of Boston will repeat its annual vows to the support of our Declaration of Independence. Other engagements will keep me away; but be assured, my dear sir, that present or absent, I shall unite in these vows.
Henry Clay, in the noblest utterance, perhaps, that ever fell from his lips, said that the men who would repress all tendencies to liberty and ultimate emancipation, must not only blow out the moral lights around us, but must go back to the era of our Independence, and muzzle the cannon which thunders its annual joyous return. He saw, of course, the natural simple meaning of that National Act-so plain on its face that all who read or who hear must understand, and he little thought that the attempt would be made so soon to muzzle the Declaration itself.
The open denial of the life-giving principle of the Declaration of Independence, now unblushingly made, in stultification of the Fathers of the Republic, renders it important that our annual celebration should be something more than a day of ceremony. The time has come when the Fathers must be vindicated. It must be shown that they were intelligent and honest patriots, who knew what the occasion required, and who meant precisely what they said; who, when announcing ‘self-evident truths,' as the justification of Independence, were not guilty of a mere verbal flourish, and who, when solemnly claiming natural rights for ALL MEN, did not degrade themselves to the hypocrisy of meaning natural rights for a particular class or caste only. The authors of the Declaration were not idiots or hypocrites.
Were I able to take part in our annual celebration, I should be glad to speak on this theme, so germane to the occasion that it seems almost to exclude all other themes. I hope that I do not go too far if I enclose a sentiment in honor of the day.
Accept my thanks for the courtesy you have done me, and believe me, my dear sir, with much respect, your faithful servant and fellow-citizen,
CHARLES SUMNER.
To the Hon. F. W. LINCOLN, Mayor, etc.
The Declaration of Independence-Best celebrated by a faithful adherence to its self-evident truths, and by constant efforts to render them everywhere of practical force-until natural rights shall become legal rights, and all men shall be admitted to be equal before the laws, as they are equal before God.
We learn that the Boston Courier publishing establishment and the private houses, furniture and libraries of the editors, Clark, Lunt and Hillard, have been attached by order of Hon. John P. Hale, of N. H., for an alleged libel contained in an article published in the Courier of July 2d, headed,-‘Is John P. Hale an honest man?' Caleb Cushing attorney for Courier-John A. Andrew, Esq. for Mr. Hale.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.

'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?’
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefits from it.
‘Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became knows in St. Louis.’ St. Louis. Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect it safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
‘MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.’
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.’ N. Y. <illegible>
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N. Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlike-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A. ALLLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.’
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and are most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S 
WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER-As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statements was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applause Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
‘We are satisfied that the statement made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' 
Norfolk Argus.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit
‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various disease incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instance, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
‘This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain finest <illegible>. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to, Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.

DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y. 
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
