THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1717.
Refuge of Oppression. 
<c01>

WHITE MEN VS. NEGROES.
If ever there was a season of dire distress, it is now. If ever men who govern had occasion to pause, and ponder over the mute agony that stares them in the face—ere that agony is transformed into the frenzy of despair—the golden opportunity trembles in the hour. The armies of the rebellion are daily yielding before the advancing armies of the Union. Victory flutters on our standard; but, notwithstanding the glad tidings which come from the field, sorrow and sadness and gloom sit—incubus-like—on the heart of our people. There is a cause for this troubled state of the public mind, and it is to be found in the miserable imbecility with which the civil administration of the Government is conducted. One would infer that the relative numbers of the white and black races are the reverse of the reality, that there are twenty-five negroes to every white man in the land, if he might judge from our legislation. On this illusion only could be presume a poetic justice in the minds of our rulers. As long as negroes are the principal class for whose interests the Government contends, so long will the public discontent continue. This idolatry for negroes had its origin in false philanthropy and squeamish sentimentality. The psalm-singers and negro glorifiers of Exeter Hall begat the worship long ago, in the beginning of this century. When Burke, Chatham and Fox had passed away, and with them the comprehensive policy of their wise statesmanship, a new class of men came into power, and entered on the government of the British Empire. The acknowledged head of this party was the elder Wilberforce, the famous author of West India Emancipation. The abolition of the Slave Trade was effected under the auspices of the same party,—but here the good work ended. The theory of universal freedom, catching the breeze of popular favor in the other hemisphere, was wafted by an adverse gale in an evil hour to our own. That pseudo-philanthropist, Dr. Channing, inaugurated in this city the scheme of emancipation, and the poets and orators of New England caught up the wild refrain, and, by a perversion of facts concerning the institution of slavery at the South, infected the tone of public sentiment of the Northern States. In this manner were the seeds of that revolution sown, which, to-day, wrings from the patriot’s heart the grief which so great a calamity could alone call forth.
Fanatics are invariably seditious, and sedition is the detestable vice that radicates itself deepest into the human heart. When the swords of the Romans and the avenging fire from heaven combined for the destruction of Jerusalem, many of the Jews were employed in railing against whatever measures were adopted for the city's defence; and their historian tells us that their lives and their sedition ended together; while their lives lasted, they never ceased to revile both heaven and earth. Can we not trace a similarity between those unhappy creatures, and the men of our own day and country who make an apotheosis of John Brown? Their whole lives are in defiance of the Divine Goodness, and in hostility to all social order. Their intellectual and moral pivot is established upon a sentiment, a prurient, sickly, contemptible sentiment conceived in irreligion and carried out in besotted fanaticism. This puling sentiment of abolitionism entered in our midst, like another Trojan horse, and has been fed by old ladies at quilting matches over their snuff and over their tea, and by reverend quacks, poetasters and demagogues; and at length, bursting into full life, it has ridden into power, and promises to enthral all those true friends of the American Union who dare express a modest dissidence from its pernicious teachings and revolutionary doctrines.
We invoke the little patriotism that lingers at Washington to lift itself above the African slough, and to legislate for white men, by which course alone the national authority can be vindicated, treason silenced, and the blessings of equal liberty preserved to ourselves and our posterity.—Boston Pilot.

MORE ABOLITION AGITATION.
We see by the eastern papers, that the abolition disunionists of that section are about to resume their old habit of flooding the country with itinerating lecturers to poison the public mind, by preaching, the beauties of the negro race. The American Anti-Slavery Society makes no secret of the intention. It says an additional number of these lecturers have been employed, and calls on all “lovers of freedom" to send cash contributions to keep them in the field.
We shall have the old re-inforced by a still hungrier swarm of broken-down clergymen, whilom disunionists, women, negroes, Sunday politicians, spiritualists, and free-lovers. These, and such as these, will probably visit every nook and corner of the land this winter as teachers of the American people. The more these men have denounced churches, religions, bibles, laws, the Constitution and the Union, the greater will be their anticipated reward, in the way of popular adoration.
Is the end never to come? Will the American people never give over their systematic worship of humbug? Can the day be far distant when these northern preachers and lecturers, who have spent their life-time in seeking to subvert and overthrow the Union of the American States, shall be looked upon as moral monstrosities?—Milwaukee News.

RIGHTS OF NEGROES.
Mr. Wendell Phillips complains of the President’s plan of reconstruction, that "it leaves the negro in the hands of the Supreme Court, so far as the Federal power is concerned." We should like to know where Mr. Phillips would have him left? White men of all classes and grades, from the President to the humblest citizen, are "left in the hands of the of the Supreme Court." That is for them the highest tribunal in the land. Why should the negro claim or expect any other?
The fact is, Mr. Phillips, and the fanatics who follow his lead, have become complete monomaniacs on the subject of the negro. They have brooded so long over his wrongs that that they cannot conceive that any body else has any rights. They claim for negroes virtues, immunities, privileges and rights, which they would never dream of claiming for whites. They profess to support the Constitution until it stands in the way of their schemes for negro supremacy; then they abandon the Constitution, and stand by the negro.
Their test of patriotism is devotion to the negro. They are for preserving the Union, if it will help the negroes; if not, they are for destroying it. They are for prosecuting the war because it will help the negroes; the moment they find or fancy it will not, they are for peace. Mr. Phillips would infinitely
<c02>
prefer disunion with the abolition of slavery to the Union without it; and so would the great body of those who accept him as their political guide.
It is becoming, fashionable in some quarters to speak of this as “unconditional loyalty." The men in the Southern States who are for abolishing slavery, are called by some of our leading political journals, "unconditional loyalists," while Union men, like Gov. Bramlette, of Kentucky, who are not in favor of it, are sweepingly and remorselessly denounced as Semi-Secessionists.
Nothing can be more false or uujust. The question of abolition has nothing whatever to do with the question of loyalty. A pro-slavery man may be loyal, while many Anti-Slavery men are certainly and conspicuously disloyal. That man is loyal who is for sustaining the Government, crushing the rebellion and preserving the Union, without regard to slavery. If slavery stands in the way of this result, he is for destroying it; if it gets out of the way, he will not abandon the Union for the sake of destroying slavery. This is the only line of distinction that can be drawn.—New York Times.

EXTREMES MEET.
Extremes meet. The "Radical Abolitionists" and the Radical Democracy are of accord. Both growl at the Administration; both denounce the "conduct of the war;" both devote themselves to peddling slanders about the beads of Government; both denounce with equal coarseness, and equal affluence of vituperative language, the President’s last Proclamation. The Argus and GARRISON’S Liberator are equally unhappy over its issue, equally denunciatory of its author, and equally positive in their predictions that it will work evil instead of good. The former stigmatizes it as wicked and "revolutionary;" the latter sneers at it as "uncalled for," "Anti-Republican" and "perilous." Both are agreed that it is a very bad measure, that it was inspired by very bad motives, that it threatens to play the mischief with their favorite hobbies, and that it ought to be promptly recalled.
The Argus and the Liberator see through the same pair of spectacles, and harp upon the same string. The motive is dissimilar; the end sought for is widely different; but the attack is made with the same weapons.
Nor is the Liberator the only co-laborer of the Democracy in the war on the President’s scheme of amnesty. WENDELL PHILLIPS takes the field, and launches against it the thunders of his matchless but perverted eloquence.
Thus the impracticables and fanatics on both sides join hands in a common crusade against the President's plan. This, in itself, is convincing evidence that it has virtue in it. It, moreover, refutes the charge that it is an "extreme" or "revolutionary" measure.—Albany Evening Journal.

Selections.
A REBEL VIEW OF EDWARD EVERETT'S GETTYSBURG ORATION.
Edward Everett’s oration at Gettysburg is what might have been expected of that unreal, metaphorical, moonlight orator. It matters little to him what the facts are, so he has full scope for fancy, imagination, and rhetoric. He is always at home when dealing with dead men, and never so happy as when on funeral occasions. He delights to water the flowers of his fancy with the blood of the brave, and his imagination runs riot when it can strike its roots in to the mold of sepulchers. Harvey’s “Meditations among the Tombs" seem to be the model of his funeral eloquence. "A dainty plant is the ivy green, creeping over dead men's graves, I ween." Everett would be glad to have a Gettysburg every month, if he could be selected to recite what others have done. His ambition does not consist in performing virtuous actions himself, but reporting them. When he can sing his elegiac and sentimental common-place over the dull cold ear of death, he is quite enraptured. Much as he admires his dead heroes, he admires much more his description of their achievements, and would infinitely rather describe others than be himself among the described. 
Edward Everett began life a Unitarian preacher, and is still a Unitarian, rejecting the Scripture doctrine of human depravity, which never bad a better illustration than his own character. Laying aside preaching, be took to politics, joining the Whig party, while his brother joined the Democratic, the better to play into each other's hands. There never was any more reality in the man’s politics than in his religion. The man himself is glittering and hollow as a soap-bubble. He is as cold as a frog. There is nothing genial or generous about him; no sympathy with any earthly thing, except Edward Everett. It I would be idle to deny him a respectable degree of scholarship, a fine fancy, and a glib tongue. He can work out by lamplight a brilliant oration, and can deliver it, after a thousand private rehearsals, in a style to bring down the house. But there are few county court lawyers, who, in the close hug of unpremeditated debate, could not lift the oratorical dandy out of his boots, and break every bone in his body. And as to war itself, when heroes have such a strong hold upon his imagination, he would much rather be at Gettysburg now than then! He may use very fine figures at a Gettysburg oration, but what a figure he would have cut in front of Pickett’s division! Any old woman with a broomstick would be more than a match for this eulogist of the brave in the field of arms.
He expresses in his Gettysburg oration the confident belief that every Southern State, South Carolina included, would vote now, and at any period of the war would hare voted, if allowed a fair expression of public opinion, for the Union. That is Mr. Edward Everett's belief. Well, a man may believe any thing. We believe Edward Everett a great liar. He may not think so. We confess it is a matter of opinion. But when he makes such an assertion, a liar or a fool he must be, and we do not think him a fool. That, also, we confess, is a matter of opinion. At any rate, there are many strange beliefs in the world. The Chinese believe every man has six souls. Most people would believe Edward Everett, at least, had not one. Not five years ago, he was painting the most terrific pictures of Black Republican success. Now he is the blackest of the Black Republicans. His soul, if he ever had one, has been disposed of to Abraham Lincoln, who repays him by letting him play off rhetorical fireworks at Gettysburg, which are very brilliant, no doubt, but not equal to the pyrotechnics which will celebrate Edward Everett's demise in that region where hypocrites wail and gnash their teeth.
We will not argue the question with Mr. Edward Everett whether the people of the South, if left to themselves, would vote for the Union. Suppose he induces his master Abraham to try the experiment. We ask no more. Let him call off his bloodhounds from every Southern State, disband his military and
<c03>
permit us to do the same, and then without a bayonet from Mason and Dixon's line to the Gulf, let the people of the Southern States vote for or against the Union!! Let him begin the experiment with even the border States of Maryland and Missouri! Will he do it? He would sooner cut off his right hand. Abraham Lincoln understands, if Mr. Edward Everett does not, that the Union is a dead cook in the pit, and that he has killed it with his own hands. No matter what the original merits of the quarrel, the Yankee mode of conducting this war has made the union of fire and water a more practicable achievement than the re-union of the Northern and Southern States. The question of subjugation is one question; the question of voluntary re-union no question at all. If a vote could be taken in the Southern States, whether we should re-unite with the bloody murderers of our sons and brothers, or with the Emperor Francis of Austria, or the Queen of England, there would be one universal shout of acclamation for Europe. There is no nation on the earth which is so heartily detested and execrated in the Confederacy as the butcher nation of the North. Voluntary re-union with them! A union with hyenas, vampires and thugs, is about as probable and practicable.—Richmond Dispatch.

ABRAHAM'S MESSAGE AND PROCLAMATION.
Supposing our readers have a curiosity to sec the late message of President Lincoln to his Congress, and presuming that Lincoln wants our people to see how gracious he is, and what a loving proclamation he has issued to us all in Dixie, we publish both in our issue to-day. Whenever the British envoys wished to tempt our fathers in the Revolution by their proffers of amnesty, the Continental Congress always assisted in giving their proclamation a wide circulation; for not only did Congress confide in the loyalty of the people, but they considered those papers as calculated to animate the popular patriotism.
A hundred times stronger are our reasons for expecting this result now. Never did British commissioner or general, in all his arrogance, put forth so impudent a message as the Washington man has sent down to us. He is going to forgive us something, it seems, on certain terms. To the most liberal, unqualified and all-embracing offer of forgiveness to our fathers, Dr. Franklin replied:—" We, who have committed no offence, need no forgiveness." Our answer would be the same, even if Lincoln's offer imitated the humanity of Britain's. Forgive us what? Forgive us because he has invaded our States with armed multitudes, to overthrow our laws, destroy our liberties, and compass bur destruction? Forgive us because he has plundered our seas and ravaged our coasts? Forgive us for having burned our towns and desolated our homes? Forgive us for the many thousands of our brothers and sons and dear friends whom he has slain upon our own soil, and while repelling his invasion? Forgive us for the many dear, mutilated ones who will remain the legacy of the war when the war shall be over? Forgive us for having outraged even the sensibilities of Europe by his attempt to excite servile revolt?
He may forgive us for these his crimes; but so long as we have hearts to feel and hands to strike, we shall never forgive him. How impudent it is to come, with our brother's blood upon his accursed bands, and ask us to accept his forgiveness! But he goes further. He makes his forgiveness dependent upon terms. We have only to swear obedience to his will. We have to swear that the proclamation of emancipation which he issued last year, and which we received with mocking, and which has since been a general derision, shall be submitted to by us. Our society is to be upturned. Instead of that distinction between the races necessary for the happiness of both, he asks us to swear that we will have none at all, until his Congress of fanatics or his packed bench of judges shall say that his “proclamation was wind. But all this will not do. We must abandon to that demon thirst for their blood all the men who have rendered our annals conspicuous, and under whose lead we have won a fame, if not a name, among the nations. We must leave the President to Abraham's tender mercies. The army of the Potomac must offer up their glorious leader, under whom both have become illustrious. Beau regard must be hung. In short, every officer down to Colonel, and every single functionary from Congress-man to messenger, and from Governor to constable, are to be retained for Lincoln's malignity. How he and Seward and Sumner would gloat over the hanging bodies of the "dead rebels"!
Is even Lincoln base enough to imagine that a brave people, such as the Confederates have proven themselves, would, under any stress of fortune, prove traitors to the men whom they have called to lead them in camp or council?
This miserable attempt to divide and corrupt us will be contemptuously resented as the insult which it is. And this is the best that Lincoln can think of for us—utter prostration at his feet—a social ruin, horrible to every white man, rich or poor; and our choicest citizens, whose names are our pride, handed over to be hanged!
This infamous proclamation will but arouse us to new zeal and new efforts.—Richmond Sentinel.

AN EMANCIPATION PARTY AT THE SOUTH.
Hon. Henry T. Blow, of Missouri, addressed a large audience at the Union League rooms, Washington, on Tuesday evening, on the history and prospects of the Slave States, and particularly of Missouri, which be considered as epitomising the probable destiny of the other Slave States. We take the following interesting extract:
"The latest intelligence from Missouri induces me to believe that a new Convention will be convened by the Legislature that meets in February, and there remains little doubt that emancipation will be adopted, and that the next crops will ripen with success on free soil. The elements of a party impelled by this spirit already exist, and will then be ready for action, not only in Missouri, but all over the South. Why should it not? The importance of such a party can scarcely be estimated. It holds, in my humble judgment, the problem of reconstruction. Let the principles of such a party prevail in the Southern States, and you will have no difficulty in bringing them back into the Union with freedom. Until they do prevail, you cannot make them loyal and happy. There exists another reason why this result should be obtained. In Missouri they have emancipation emblazoned upon their banners. It has revolutionized the State. In Tennessee, Gov. Johnson, Parson Brownlow, and in Arkansas, Gen. Gantt boldly preaches this doctrine. In Louisiana there has been a reorganization for some time upon the basis of this idea, which has already began to show signs of its power, and it is designed to bring out the purer and better character of her people. So fully has this idea taken bold upon the Southern heart that I venture the declaration that there is not a single State which will not be ready to come back
<c04>
into the Union as a free State within six months, or as soon as she would have come in as a slave State, providing, however, that the Administration will abandon all idea of gradual emancipation, and gives its support to the radical system of immediate action. The process is simple. Let a Convention be called, and let it pass their resolutions:—First, that the State Convention which passed the ordinance of secession had, and could have no authority to dissolve the relations between the State and the United States. Second, that the resumption of Federal relations requires that at first such changes should be made in the State Constitution as shall prevent rebellion and secession hereafter. Third, that in these changes the fact be distinctly recognized that all persons in the State are free, and that it be provided by a fundamental law that slavery shall henceforth be prohibited. Fourth, that all persons who have been engaged in the rebellion shall be prohibited from the privileges of the elective franchise, unless proven to be loyal. The oath should be strong, and should contain a clause binding him who takes it to sustain all laws of Congress and proclamations of the President with reference to slavery." 

THE FREEDMAN’S SETTLEMENT AT ARLINGTON.
I. "A ‘Freedman’s Village’ of fourteen dwellings, and a church, a hospital, and a home for the aged and infirm, with streets regularly laid out and named, and a park planted in the centre. The dwellings, two-storied, are constructed in groups of four under each roof, each having two rooms perfectly lighted and ventilated, each its nice cooking stove, each its yard, and each access to a well. This seedling of a city was built in sixty days. The school will accommodate six hundred pupils. The hospital, divided into separate wards for women and men, has room for one hundred fifty-nine beds. Not one, thus far, has been spread. The freedmen have been too happy and too busy to get sick. The 'Home' will shelter the infirm, and in separate family groups if needed.
II. There will be seen workshops—blacksmiths, wheelwrights, carpenters, tailors and shoemakers. White cutters from New York clothing establishments cut out clothing. Under the instruction of skilled seamstresses, women recently fugitives from field slavery make this up with the needle, and learn the use of sewing machines.
III. There will be seen in school one hundred and thirty-five girls and boys, learning surprisingly fast the rudiments of the New England common school education; and there can be heard a choir of one hundred and thirty-five, hymning Watts's noble songs, or the songs of Freedom, with a pathos that starts the tears.
IV. There will be seen the groundwork preparation for the reception of one hundred and twenty-five houses, with their inmates, soon to travel to Arlington from three contraband camps yet remaining on the north side of the Potomac. Ninety days will see this double and economical emigration complete.
V. There will be seen in part the clearing of wide tracts of land, tangled with underbrush over-growing ancient stumps, and the springing of winter wheat upon heavily manured fields, recently stamped by cavalry and paraded over by infantry. There are now six abandoned farms worked under this plan. The farthest is five miles beyond the Chain Bridge. The cultivation of each will be as thorough as that of Arlington is designed to be.
VI. There will be seen the evidence that although this colony was planted long after the farming of 1863 was commenced, was on its start empty handed. and wholly unformed, it sustained itself the first year, and had money in the bank at the end of the first season. Two hundred tons of hay, worth thirty dollars a ton; one hundred and ninety-one tons of corn fodder, worth twelve dollars a ton; a vast quantity of potatoes and other vegetables, (distributed among the hospitals of this department,) and a crop of beans and buckwheat were made and secured. If guerrillas had not been permitted to drive in the laborers from the outer farms, this harvest would have been doubled.
VII. There will be seen a kind and firm administration of government and industry. They who will not work must go beyond our lines. The village and the farms being designed only for the training of fugitive slaves into skilled and self-supporting laborers, but ten dollars a month are paid to them in addition to their rations and quarters. The inducement of self-interest stimulates to the speedy qualification for outside employment. So room is constantly made for new-comers on the farm and the new ignorant in the school.
VIII. There will be seen the fruits of the assessment, of five dollars a month levied on the wages of the colored teamsters and laborers, in the highly-paid employment of the government, and its rigidly economical application. 'Negro cloth' bought with it in New York, at figures which scarcely leave a profit to the manufacturer, is made up on the farm, in entire suits, at a cost of two dollars and ninety cents the suit. The best of shoes, of the largest numbers, are issued to, the men at one dollar and sixty cents the pair. No contractors can possibly get the privilege of supplying these freed-men with stores of any description. The quarter-master who gathered “them under his care, himself an experienced merchant, 'jews' the New York market, and pays but the manufacturer’s or importer's profit, and that an exceedingly small one. The 'store' pays a small profit (five per cent.) to the fund, charged upon goods, and sold to other contrabands and to white laborers. The fund now has to its credit, in bank, about $60,000. The five dollars a month assessment yields to this enterprise, from the Department of Washington alone, $18,000 a month. The pecuniary success of the scheme is assured.
IX. There will be seen the evidence of the public sympathy with this great idea, and its substantial success in its seventh month. An 'intelligence office' has been forced into it by the demand which is already made for laborers and servants. Two hundred applications are on file. One gas company has asked for a hundred men at large wages, and engaged to keep them for a year.
X. There can be heard the story of the immediate and inexorable discharge of a gang of the best carpenters in the quartermaster's service for the crime of endeavoring to compel negroes to dance for their amusement on the Sabbath. Black men at Arlington have rights which white men are forced to respect.
XI. There will be seen the New England Sabbath, neat homes favorable to the development of the family and the cultivation of the household virtues, the joyous sense of being in a secure refuge from slavery, and the divine stimulus of a realized manhood and womanhood.
All this is the work of Lieutenant Colonel Elias M. Greene, Chief Quartermaster of the Department of Washington, strengthened with the sympathy and power of Secretary Stanton.—Washington journal.
<c05>
THIRD DECADE OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
(Continuation of Letters received.)
FROM REV. CHARLES G. AMES.
ALBANY, N. Y., Dec. 1, 1863. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON: I greatly wish I could accept your kind invitation to be one of the favored many who will meet in Holy Convocation at Philadelphia this week: much more might I wish myself worthy to be counted as one of those who, by bearing the burden and heat of the day, have been the instruments of Higher Wisdom in bringing the Good Time so near. But as one born out of due time—as one born too late to be a worker in the earlier and more trying days when "not crime itself was so fatal to a man as to be known to hold abolition sentiments"—I do most heartily rejoice that other men have labored with such rich results. As I give thanks to God for all good, so do I thank him for the American Abolitionists, and for their noble work, which has made a true Republic Christian Commonwealth—possible in America. Of all the warriors which this continent has produced, from sturdy Miles Standish down to Unconditional Surrender Grant, I should most delight to crown with garlands of honor the brave men and women who have fought through the Thirty Years' War with Slavery.
Though I have never thought it wise or necessary to burn down our political house in order to clear it of vermin—though I have always believed that "Union "would sooner or later be understood to mean "Liberty"—yet I have also rejoiced to recognize that deep conservatism which has ever been at the bottom of all anti-slavery radicalism, and have been captivated by that sublime faith in God, and Truth, and the Brotherhood of all Human Interests, which has not ceased, through all these dreary years, to cry aloud in the ears of this guilty nation, "Let Justice be done, and the heavens won't fall!"
I join with you in thanking God for the victories of the Past, and also in taking courage for the battles of the Future. For there is much heavy work waiting to be done. In the first place, we must clinch the nail already driven, by maintaining the legal validity and securing the practical efficiency of the Great Proclamation. The highest military authority, pressed by an unparalleled national crisis, has done what John Quincy Adams said any General might do—has declared concerning more than three million slaves held by the public enemy that they "are, and henceforward shall be free." Powerful combinations will be formed to secure the return of the rebel States with no guaranty for the enforcement of this national decree of freedom: the plain English of which is, that for the sake of reinvesting traitors with their forfeited rights of citizenship, we will permit the re-enslavement of these loyal millions, in violation of the plighted faith of our government. For the sake of a false, treacherous and dishonorable peace, we will make ourselves active accomplices in the blackest crime of history! It would scarcely be more monstrous, if we were to send proposals to the rebels, "If you will resume your old, hypocritical pretence of allegiance, and live at peace with us, we will consent to the butchery of all the soldiers now in arms against you, of all Southern Unionists whose presence offends you, and of all Northern men whose opinions are hostile to slavery!" It is for anti-slavery men to teach this nation that all acceptable peace-offerings must be laid on the altar of Liberty, and not on the altar of Despotism. And it is for anti-slavery men to see to it that "the promise of freedom, being made," shall be "kept."
What more effective way of clinching this nail, so well driven into the coffin of our national Tormentor, than by striking straight, bold, hard blows in favor of "liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof"? If there are honest differences as to methods; if we do not all see clearly the wisdom or constitutionality of Congressional legislation against slavery in the non-seceding States, except on the basis of co-operation with those States; the least we can do is to insist that Congress must exercise its conceded power to invite and secure that co-operation. When it is wholly apparent that "Freedom for All" is the settled policy and purpose of that loyal mass which constitutes the nation, and which alone has the right to govern slavery in every Border State, as in Missouri, will be seen on its knees, in an agony of vain supplication for a little more time to make its will, chatter its prayers, gather up its robes, and get ready to die as becomes its Christian professions. For we must, henceforth, reckon among "the powers that be," which "are ordained of God," and which "bear not the sword in vain," a compact, earnest, almost savage party of emancipationists (not "Abolitionists"—oh, no indeed!) in every Border State; for even Kentucky must soon come pouting into line, jostled and crowded forward by her more sensible neighbors. When slavery, hotly pressed by foes who are dead in earnest, can only act on the defensive, and is confronted on its own ground by a free press and free assemblies of the people, the fight may be sharp, but it must be short. It will be glad to die all the sooner for being assured that the loyal sense and sympathy of the whole nation take sides with its assailants; and we must take care that such assurance is amply justified.
May I say one thing more, which lies much on my heart? You, of all men, know best how to excuse the many things which try to get themselves spoken when these sacred subjects are once broached.
We must stand by the Freedmen like brothers, through their trying period of transition—through the weary wilderness of years which will still stretch between their Egypt and their Canaan, even after they have clambered out of the bed of this Red Sea. We must nurse their infant liberty till it can go alone and defend itself. The negro, like another man, must indeed work out his own salvation, and fight his own battle; but we are bound to see fair play. The malignant, murderous prejudice and practical rapacity of the white man must not be allowed to override the weakness, inexperience, ignorance and simplicity of a people just born into the world; nor to force unrighteous inferences from their faults and follies; nor to cheat them of the means of honest living and growing. Equality of right before the law must not only be recognized in form, but must be secured in fact, as a thing of the spirit and the life, or Emancipation is only a victorious failure.
You asked me to "send a word of cheer;" and, lo! I fall to talking of more burdens yet to be borne and more duties yet to be done. Happily, the lovers of God and man have learned that duty is joy, and that hard work is heavenly pleasure. What greater privilege than to meet the rising occasion, and pour on the strained and sensitive ear-drum of this awakened nation the clear, wise, warm message of Humanity and Justice? Never was the lesson more needed; never could it be more welcome; never could it sound so much like the trump of God.
Welcome, day of judgment! Depart, ye cursed, who have betrayed and crucified the Christ in the
<c06>
person of his poor and helpless brothers! Come forward, ye blessed, who have been true to the rights of the least and the lowest—to the rights of those who could not recompense your fidelity! Inherit the kingdom! It is yours henceforward; and ye shall sit on the right hand of Power.
Yours, in the patience of hope and the labor of love, CHARLES G. AMES.
FROM REV. DAVID THURSTON. 
LITCHFIELD CORNER, Me., Nov. 20, 1863. 
DEAR SIR: I thank you for the invitation to the thirtieth anniversary of our Society at Philadelphia. I call it ours, because I aided in its organization, and have never formally withdrawn from it. Though for reasons, which seemed to me satisfactory, I have taken no part in its meetings of late, I have never departed from its principles, as stated in our DECLARATION—the immediate and entire abolition of slavery in the United States, "by all these instrumentalities sanctioned by law, humanity and religion; and thus to deliver our land from its deadliest curse, and to wipe out the foulest stain which rests upon our national escutcheon." Not a month before we met at Philadelphia to form an Anti-Slavery Society, I had preached three sermons on the subject of slavery, and, among other things, said that "it ought immediately to cease, because its continuance is preparing the way for civil war." Here I freely and thankfully acknowledge my indebtedness to you for enlightening me on the horrid cruelty and abominable wickedness of holding and using men as articles of property. No human enactments (falsely called laws) can change a being, created with the faculties necessary to make him a moral agent, accountable to his Creator, into an article of property, a marketable commodity. Never have I failed to bear testimony against slaveholding as a practice fraught with wrongs and woes unutterable. I do not call it an institution or a system, for it is neither. I constantly maintain the inherent, inprescriptable right of the slaves to freedom.
Because, as a nation, we have withheld from them that sacred right, at the same proclaiming our belief that all men are endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, in the righteous Providence of God, the leaders in the rebellion have risen up to punish us and themselves for our atrocious wickedness. "Howbeit, they do not mean so, neither do their hearts think so." We are experiencing the scourges of the just indignation of God against us. Shall not we continue to feel them, till we remove the great, not the only, cause of them, by giving freedom to all the enslaved? As the nation refused to do what Abolitionists have been laboring to have them do, these thirty years, Jehovah has taken the work into His hands, and He will do it effectually. What wonderful changes in regard to slavery are taking place! Ecclesiastical organizations, which, heretofore, have utterly refused or ignored any action in relation to slavery, are now passing resolutions condemning the practice. Even the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, at their late meeting, passed, unanimously, a "resolution of thanks to God that the entire abolition of slavery on the North American Continent is an inevitable, and not far distant, result of the war."
In regard to what has already been done for the overthrow of slavery, and what we joyfully anticipate is to be done, we may exclaim, "Behold what a great matter a little fire has kindled!" Surely, the agency of God is to be devoutly recognized and gratefully acknowledged in these changes. "He is pouring contempt upon princes, and setting the poor on high from affliction, and making him families like a flock. The righteous see it and rejoice, and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. He disappointment the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise."
Probably not many of those whose names are attached to our Declaration still survive. I may be one of the oldest, having past my eighty-fourth year nine months, and still able to plead the cause of the oppressed. Gladly would I be with you on the 3d and 4th of December, to recount some of the conflicts, trials, discouragements and hopes, through which our cause has passed. Surely, we may "thank God and take courage," for the right will ultimately prevail. Domestic affliction must prevent my personal attendance. Give my kind regards to those pioneers in the good abolition cause, who may be present at the contemplated meeting. I rejoice with them in the brightening prospect of having our country freed from that most inhuman and flagitiously wicked practice, which has exerted such a fearfully demoralizing influence through the whole land. 
On behalf of the oppressed, I am truly with you, DAVID THURSTON.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
FROM GEORGE E. BAKER, ESQ.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2, 1863. 
GENTLEMEN: Your invitation to attend the celebration of the Third Decade of the American Anti-Slavery Society was received by me with grateful feelings. Circumstances prevent my accepting it. Cheering as the prospect now is of the abolition of American slavery, there never was a time more favorable for a bold discussion of its nature and evils; nor a time when such discussion was more necessary. The people need a fuller appreciation of the intrinsic wickedness of slavery. John Wesley indulged in no figure of speech when he said, "American slavery is the sum of all villanies." He said truly and literally, if we could add up, as we add up a column of figures, Murder, Theft, Adultery, Fraud, etc., the total would be—Slavery. The slaveholder is guilty not of one of the great sins only, but of all combined. Yet how many regard slavery chiefly as an economic evil, a question of expediency!
The rapid extinction of slavery now going on, at such fearful cost of blood and treasure, was foreseen by some of our great statesmen. They seem to have been of two classes. Mr. Everett in his Gettysburg Oration intimates that he saw it, and strove, "perhaps too long," to avert the catastrophe by compromise. He represents one and much the larger class. 
Mr. Seward, on the other hand, saw the result forty years ago, and sought to save the country from convulsion and war by constantly raising his voice of warning, and by counselling the putting away of slavery through peaceful measures. To this end, with a small minority of his fellow-citizens, he labored. To this end also Channing, Garrison, Gerrit Smith, Sumner and others wrote and spoke. "Man proposes, but God disposes." An almighty Power has taken the work from finite hands, and now we wait for the salvation of God.
Your friend and servant,
GEO. E. BAKER.
A GOOD DEFINITION. In reference to Earl Russell's description of our war as a struggle for empire on one side and for independence on the other, Richard Cobden adds: "I say it is an aristocratic rebellion against a democratic government." 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SPEECH
OF
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
AT THE
COOPER INSTITUTE, NEW YORK,
On Tuesday Evening, December 22, 1863, on President Lincoln’s Message and proclamation.
A very large audience assembled at Cooper Institute, Tuesday evening, Dec 22nd, to hear Wendell Phillip’s criticism on the President’s late message and proclamation.
John E. Williams, Esq., was nominated by G. W. Smalley, to preside, and in a few patriotic remarks introduced the orator of the evening.
Mr. Phillips, after the applause with which he was greeted had subsided, said:— 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,— Four years ago this month, I had the honor to assist in giving the body of John Brown to the hills he loved. Selfishness, which steals the name of conservatism, sneered at his life as a ridicuolous failure. And some men, who called themselves his friends, excused his attempt on the ground that he was a lunatic. We know better now. The rebellion has broken into the cabinets of the conspirators; and we know of a surety, that the echoes of his rifles had hardly died away on the banks of the Shenandoah, before South Carolina prepared for war in defence of her system. Four years have rolled away. And now., December 8th, exactly on the fourth anniversary day of his burial, the victorious President of the nation offers eleven rebel States permission to return to the Union, on conditions which John Brown would gladly have accepted after twenty years of hard fighting. Marvelous progress in four years. Well might the old man say, as he did, to Theodore Parker,” I may fall—I may expiate my rashness on the gibbet, but I open a terrible vial.” But the terms which would have been gladly accepted in 1859—naked, bald, technical liberty for the negro, are not to be thought of for a moment in 1863. (Applause.) Let me remind you of the trite story of the Roman sybil. She came to Tarquin with her nine books, and offered them for a thousand crowns; turned away, she came back with six books at the same price of a thousand crowns; refused, she came back a third time with only three books, still for a thousand crowns. So the conscience of the North, in 1821, would gladly have granted peace at the price of only the freedom of the territories. In 1831, she demanded immediate and total emancipation wherever the flag floats. Both were contemptuously refused, and after the gun at Sumter, followed by three years of blood and costly war, there is no safe, no admissible condition of peace, but the substantial, practical protection of the freedom of the negro, and the elements of national life so arranged as to guarantee peace and democracy forever within the borders of the nation. (Applause.)
It is in the light of this reminiscence and of this necessity, that I am going to criticise for you to-night the message and proclamation of the President on the 8th day of the present month, contending that his plan for reconstruction is now neither wise, safe, nor feasible. Some men say, why make any serious criticism of the proclamation? We know very well that Mr. Lincoln does not expect that it will be accepted, and only makes the offer that the South’s refusal may put her in an indefensible position before the world. I would not insult the head of this great nation by asserting, that in such a momentous hour he offers terms of peace which he is not willing to have accepted. No man who trusts either the sincerity or the honesty of Abraham Lincoln can look to the proclamation in any other light than as a declaration of the terms on which the President is willing the Union may be reconstructed. But apart from that, no matter what be our individual judgment of the President, every man knows that the masses will take, and they have a right to take, and cannot avoid taking, that declaration of the government as containing admissible and safe conditions of reconstruction. The public purpose and of effort will crystallize round that, will sink to that level. Every man, in looking forward and forming his plans win, fall into full content with finally getting as much as the President claims. This is one of the most dangerous effects of this proclamation. It will, unless frankly criticised, let the purpose of the nation down to a dangerous level. Every one looks up to the President as acquainted beyond any other individual with the difficulties and details of this question. The public regard him as surveying it from a loftier outlook than is permitted to any other man. And we should do him an injustice, which the masses of the nation will never do him, to suppose that the proclamation does not, in his deliberate judgment, and with full knowledge of the facts, contain secure guaranties for the future peace and integrity of the Union.
Again, other men say, why criticise the President? You know very well that he is a growing man, with his face Zionward; you know very well, in the spring of 1862, he said to the States, emancipate before it is too late, while you may make a good bargain; that in the fall of the same year he had travelled on to the proclamation of September 22d, a hundred days after to the proclamation of the first of January. I know it. All honor to the growing man—all honor to the recipient intellect who loves to learn and grow better. But how does he learn? Why did he grow? Because we watered him. (Applause and laughter.) Why did he advance? Because the nation pushed him on (Applause and laughter.) I am here to ask you to persevere in the same effort. Even with regard to those steps, the proclamation early in 1862, the arming of the negros, the proclamation of September 1862, and that of January 1868, I should do no injustice to the President if I said that the nation forced him to them. Indeed, the President’s merit is that the obstinacy of his resistance is not so strong as are the force of events and the pressure of public opinion, which crush it. But he delayed even those steps so long as almost to exhaust the patience and confidence of his own friends. I believe he took them reluctantly at last and here let me correct the exaggeration of the press, in speaking of my interview with Mr. Lincoln, on the 25th day of January 1863. His remark has been grossly exaggerated. What he did say was this. Referring to his proclamation of September and that of January as, in truth, one act, and to the democratic triumphs that intervened, he said that he doubted whether the proclamation had not done more harm than good; and this view he argued for some time pertinaciously. Then, as now, his anxiety was more in regard to Northern opinion than Southern battles; and indeed, he seems to allude to that state of his mind in the sentence of his recent message where, in reference to the Emancipation Proclamation, he says, "Then followed dark and doubtful days.” He soon learned from you to believe otherwise. Now his whole heart is in that act. Do your part as well now again, and he may be made to believe in a method of reconstruction much safer and better than the one he has suggested. But further and apart from this, 1862 is not 1868. The terrible exasperation of <illegible> battles lost and gained urged him on. The bloody months that followed, the sore hearts, the indignant millions, demanded more, and the President at the head of the nation drifted with the great national purpose. He might then have said what he choose. Events overruled him. As in the ballad,
The king said "sail,” 
The wind said "no.”
But we touch the latter half of the war. We come in this contest to the epoch not of battle, but of politics, when the President's words are far more influentil then they were two years ago: when battles are becoming secondary, and political engineering is primary in importance. We come in this civil strife to that epoch which 1781 and 1782 marked in our revolutionary struggle , when, as Washington said, you remember. "The spirit of freedom which at the commencement would have gladly sacrificed everything for the attainment of its object, has long subsided, and every selfish passion has taken its place." We approach the end of this war; it is half concluded. At the same
<c02>
period of our revolution, as every man knows, it took all the popularity of Washington and Morris, and Hamilton and Adams, to hold the people up to the terrible earnestness required by the revolutionary struggle. Compromise offered at this era, terms of settlement, proclaimed to such a people divided, one half of them anti- administration, ready from sympathy to stretch out the readiest hand to the rebels, the other, supporters of Mr. Lincoln, proud of success, magnanimous from strength, feeling that the game is in their own hands, willing to be merciful,—are trebly perilous. At the head of such a people, part wearied, part corrupt, part over-confident, the President lays before the nation terms of reconstruction, and they mean infinitely more than his groping footsteps in 1861 and 1862. Men say again.“ Why trouble yourselves about the message? Events are making every thing sure.” I know it; but in what are events? You and I are one of them. The intellect, the purpose, the virtue of the millions, is one of the events which are urging the President and the Cabinet forward.
No, we stand here to-night, with the acknowledged head of the nation deliberately assuring the world that a certain programme will content the North. If he were a leader, I should go to him, and not to you; and should offer argument to his mind. But the President does not act simply from his own unbiased convictions. He bows to yours. He seeks to do your will. With all his merits, (and they are great,) with all his services, (and they are momentous,) the President is not a leader—never professed to be a leader. The President is the agent of public opinion. He waits to know what you will allow and what you demand that he shall do. His anxiety is not South, over the battle-field; he believes in Northern cannon; his anxiety is North, in regard to your, opinion, to know how much he may trust himself to ask.
Chattanooga was a brave sound at the White House, and gave its tenant sound sleep; but the election of Schuyler Colfax was ten times braver, and made him sleep ten times sounder, (applause) for he knew that Grant could go to the Gulf when he chose; (loud applause) but he did not know whether the Northern purpose, culminating in the election of the speaker, meant to say amen to the most radical dream of the nation. And when he heard that vote of the House of Representatives, your attorney at the White House dared more than he ever dared before.
It is therefore here and to you, that I, as one of the people, undertake to enter my protest against the proclamation, and to ask of you to demand more of the government than that document covers. (Ominous silence.) Say not that I am doing injustice to Mr. Lincoln. As my old professor at the law college used to say, “Gentlemen, I know my profession so well, that I need not blush when I say no to a question I cannot answer.” 
So Mr. Lincoln has done such service in this rebel lion, has carved for himself a niche so high in the world’s history, that he can well afford to have his faults told. (Applause.)
There are two kinds of men in statesmanship. One is the servant of the people, and the other is the moulder of the people. To the first class belongs our President and his cabinet; the other class is made up of different material.
Andrew Jackson was one when, in defiance of prophets and merchants, he flung down his gauntlet of democracy and waited till the nation endorsed him. Butler (applause) was another, when over Chesapeake say he thundered the new word “contraband,” (applause) and waited until the nation endorsed him. Fremont was another (great applause,) when in the summer of 1861 he gave the nation its watchword, and breathed into Missouri the breath of a righteous existence. And my opinion is—every man has a right to his opinion—my opinion is, that if that class of men had presided over the destinies of the nation in the summer of 1861, we could have finished this war in two years, with all the advantages that we shall get out of a war of five years. (Cheers.) But Providence placed us as we are, and all it demands of us is vigilance. The tenure of Democratic liberty is to be worth of it. Men say, the third time, “Why criticise the Proclamation! Slavery is dead, and no man can revive it.” I have heard that two or three times; it has been the song of the nation two or three times.
In 1787, when the Constitution was framed, the South said, and the North believed, that slavery had received its death-blow. Gen. Heath, of my State, said, "Slavery has got its death-wound.” Southern men affirmed the same. It was supposed that it could not breathe in the pure mountain air of revolutionary liberty; the lightning of the sons of liberty had struck it dead. But at that moment, the devil hovered over Charleston with a handful of cotton seeds. Dropped in the fruitful soil of the islands, there came up a fibre which has bound New England and New York to the car of the Carolinas, and enslaved the North for seventy years.
In 1821, at the Missouri Compromise, John Randolph, of Virginia, said, “slavery is dead; the time is near, you will see it, when the slave master will run from his slave as a burden, instead of the slave running from his master as a tyrant;” but slavery leapt over the Mississippi and culminated in this rebellion. No, Dryden tells us, “idiots only may be cozened twice.” I have heard about slavery being dead. I never will believe it till I see it buried where plummet never sounded. (Applause.) No, my guide is the example of the Anti-Corn Law League in a similar emergency. On the 19th day of Dec, 1845, Sir Robert Peel, who had left office because he could not bring his comrades to a repeal of the bread tax, reassumed the office of First Lord of the Treasury at the bidding of the Queen, pledged to take off that tax. On the 23d of the same month, Cobden, Bright and Wilson and their fellows met in council. The London Times said to them, as the world says to us, “Gentlemen, your work is done; give up all your professional vituperation, and go home.” What was the reply of the wary Englishmen? They said, in 1843, with the government against us, we raised fifty thousand pounds to agitate this question; in 1844, with the government still against us, we raised and spent one hundred thousand pounds to agitate this question; and now, in 1845, with the government pledged to our purpose, we will raise two hundred and fifty thousand pounds to make it sure. (Applause.) So, with the President pledged to my purpose, with the government inevitably on my side, I will neither rest nor be silent until I see the Stars and Stripes mean inevitably, total, unconditional, immediate freedom. (Great applause.) You may say this is hard work. Yes, gentlemen, to be a democratic is very hard work. (Laughter.) Fisher Ames said, aristocracy is a noble frigate, tight and taut, thoroughly fitted, strongly armed. You may sit in the cabin warm and dry, and only the storm that makes ocean kiss the heavens can sink her. But that can. Democracy is a raft; your feet always wet, but you cannot sink. Eternal vigilance; nobody to be trusted; that is to be democrat. The President's well-known advice, “Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord“ has been well commented on by Dr. Arnold of Rugby thirty years ago. "It would have been good advice to the Israelites on the shores of the Red Sea—awaiting a miracle. It would have been false when they were to conquer Canaan with their own right hands.” It is in that temper that I approach the President's Proclamation. Under what circumstances does he make it? In the first place, look across the water. Look at England. I recognise more gladly, more entirely than any man can, the magic and inestimable influence of the words of Henry Ward Beecher on the other side of the water. (Applause.) I know that when he melted the hearts of millions, he welded them to our side. (Applause.) But the whole English problem admits of a very brief statement.
When the war broke out, England as a unit hated us. There is no other single word that will express her feelings. Closely allied, kindred by close blood relationship, we trod on her heels. We over passed her on some points. She could not bear the rivalry nor the conquest. She felt it as close relatives always feel the success of their kindred. Yon will al-
<c03>
ways find it safe to abuse a man to his cousin ( Laughter.) England, our cousin, hated us; and when the London Times looked across the water and said the bubble had burst, she added in a whisper— thank God! (Laughter.) But she looked a little longer, and out of that bursted bubble came seven hundred thousand armed men on the banks of the Potomac—(applause)—and the heart that hated began to fear us. She said, this broken fragment of a people starts up a great military power. Beecher is eloquent; but Vicksburg and Chattanooga, and Parrott guns, sending two -hundred pound balls seven miles, are more terribly eloquent than he. (Applause.) Then, France—the Emperor of France is a long-headed man; he does not send ten thousand men by driblets- — anxiously keeping alive the spark of Mexican invasion—for nothing. He has a keen sight and a determined purpose ahead. He plans, during the difficulties of this nation, a serious effort to arrest the march of self-government, and the acutest head on a throne is our determined enemy. Now, I would not answer France solely with bugle-note and rifleshot on the banks of the Rio del Norte. Oh, no! This continent is consecrated by the ages to the full and free experiment of self-government. That is our claim—our just claim. Europe is trying the experiment of thrones. Let her. She has a right to try it without our interference. But if France plants the germ of aristocracy and thrones in the soil of the American continent, my answer to her is, this reconstructed Union, holding out its right hand, with fifty millions of dollars for Garibaldi, saying, take possession of Rome; and one hundred millions for the republicans of Paris, saying, make Napoleon sit uneasy; and one hundred millions for Germany, saying, make kings tremble—I would meet Napoleon with his own weapons—retaliation as well as resistance. If Europe leaves America to republicanism, well. If she interferes, we interfere—(applause)—and the right hand of our resistance is clasped in brotherhood with the radicals of Europe to upset every throne on the continent. (Applause.) That is my foreign policy, and one far more within our control than that of Europe. On the sea we are equals. She must send men here to carry out her plans on land; but all her navies could not bring enough to endanger us. While in a box one foot square, we can send all European radicals need, money.
Now look South. I said, Lincoln does not fear the South. He need not. What Grant has not done, he will do. (Applause.) But look for nothing from him just yet. Every ounce of food his men have eaten was brought to them fifteen miles over the hills by horses, and that arm of the service needs rest as well as the others. He may not be heard of for sixty or ninety days; but be sure of this, he will not sit down and dig. (Long-continued applause.) When he does move, it will be to see the South retreat to the Gulf States—Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi. With their railroads worn out, and all their transportation exhausted, they have no means of bringing food to their army, and the army must go to the food. But when they have reached it, when five or six millions of men make up their minds that the forlorn spot is reached, then be sure the war is not ended yet.
The South are a brave people. Four years ago I said to you under this roof, the South is no coward, and you laughed at me. You know now that, sincerely deluded, the South does believe a lie, and is willing to fight for it. The last forlorn refuge of such a people is a bloody fight. When in the eighth century the Musselmen poured over the Alps four hundred thousand strong, and Charles Martel, king of France could muster but fifty thousand men to meet them, he said "Gentlemen, there is no France but what your feet cover.” Nerved by such despair, they hurled the crescent back into the Mediterranean, and saved Europe to Christianity. The South fights with such a motive and such a faith.
No, the war is not ended. It does not touch its end, and yet its end is certain; and what that end is to be we may read in the light of our own power and our own perseverance. The Union is to be reconstructed with a cement that laughs all interference to scorn. (Applause.) Daniel Webster said the cement of the Union was the Fugitive Slave Act Sin never cemented anything.
The cement of this Union is to be the mutual respect of the sections, bred of that blood which has mingled on bravely-contested fields. The South thought of the Yankee as one who knew only how to cheat. She met him at Chattanooga, and changed her mind. The North thought of the South as only gasconade and empty vaunt. We have battled with her for four years, and learned to respect her sincerity if not her intelligence, and out of that mutual respect is to grow a Union as indestructible and indivisible as the granite that holds up the continent. There is not the fear. As I said before—as Mr. Lincoln shows it—it is here at the North—the question of how much we will do and how far we will go.
Now, all civil wars are ended by compromise. There never was a civil war in which one party got a clean victory, to my knowledge. In wars between two nations it has sometimes, though rarely, been the case; but in a nation divided on its own soil, there never was a strife which was not ended by compromise. Ours will be. The only question is, what shall we compromise on? Once launched on the stormy and turbid waters of politics, you cannot tell; but with the helm in our hands, you and I, if faithful, can now say to the nation, you may compromise where and when you please, with one exception, and that is, the tap-root of slavery shall be cut. (Applause.) Let thirty Southern representatives enter Congress under this proclamation, and what will be their first demand. It will be, “Gentlemen, fund our debt.” Your Representatives will go to the united body and want a tariff to pay Mr. Chase's interest. The reply of the Democratic Southern majority, or minority, will be, “Granted; we are ready to provide for it when you please, provided that you tack on it, by way of rider, a tariff which will pay our interest too," and only on that condition shall you have a policy which is not tantamount to repudiation.” You say this is not possible. Let me see. The builders of pirate ships in England have some one hundred millions of this scrip, probably. Suppose they come to the doors of your reconstructed Congress and say, “ Gentlemen, this paper is not worth five cents on the dollar; but we will give you twenty millions of it if by your vote you will make your twenty and our other eighty millions worth par.” Did you ever know a Congress which could not be bought with twenty millions of dollars? Do you ever hope to see one? (Laughter.) Consider the materials of which Congress is made; often of men who, by every base and equivocal act, have wriggled their way to place. Perhaps this office is the last gift they can expect of their party. Henceforth they sink back to the common level. Reputation, in a political point of view, is nothing to them thereafter. To twenty such the tempter comes—and twenty gained are enough to decide any question. Your Alexander Hamilton, and the holders of our colonial debt, so small that you would laugh at the amount, if I should mention it, went to Congress, and the question was, will or will you not give up the government, or save the government, by funding that debt at its original face? that same scene, with another Alexander Hamilton, is to take place in the first reconstructed Congress. The same fraud was perpetrated at the time of the Texas annexation, and carried that measure. Now, therefore, the first item of compromise will be three or four thousand millions of debt. I do not object to that particularly, myself. It is the atonement which God demands of this nation for seventy years of sin. No sin is washed out with words. You cannot cheat the devil of his due. Our fathers sinned against that victim race, and God mortgages the right hand of every living man, and of every child that is to be born for the next half century, to stone for the nation’s iniquity. That is one compromise. There will be others. Now, it is in such a time, and with such a future, that Mr. Lincoln enters the field with his project for reconstruction. What is the first element of it, broadly considered? It is this: He lays
<c04>
his own proclamation and the acts of Congress at the foot of the Supreme Court. He says the South is to swear to support the various acts of the Government in his hands and in the hands of Congress, so far as the Supreme Court holds then to be valid. Now, I am not asserting that he could say anything else, speaking merely of military proclamations and acts of Congress. I am only telling you what he does say, in order to lead you to demand of him something not subject to such danger. To show my purpose, let me ask you what does that proclamation mean—the proclamation of the 1st of January, 1863?
Some of the members of the Cabinet say,” it means that any negro who can get hold of it is free. Mr. Chase says that, in consequence of it, any negro down to the Gulf is free. (Applause.) Republicans in my State say, that there is no law in it; that it is not worth the waste paper on which it is written. Leading Republicans say so. What does Mr. Lincoln say? He says, as he ought to say, nothing. He cannot say anything. When your Governor has signed an act, he cannot tell you its meaning any better than you can, or I. He must ask the Supreme Court to construe it— and the meaning of that proclamation nobody knows until the Supreme Court has settled it. Nobody knows the meaning and force of any of the laws or proclamations on which we are relying to stop this war and prevent another, until Roger B. Taney and his fellows settle it for us. In other words, the proclamation of the 1st of January, 1863, is to be filtered through the secession heart of a man whose body is in Baltimore, but whose soul, if he has one, is in Richmond, (Applause.) It has to pass the ordeal of a bench of Judges who made the Dred Scott decision, and announced that the negro has no rights which a white man is bound to respect. It has to pass the ordeal of a set of Judges, the majority of whom are Southerners and the servants of Southerners, and who reached their places by pandering to the Slave Power. Of the two who refused the Dred Scott decision, one is in his grave, and the other has resigned. Now, God help the negro if he hangs on Roger B. Taney for his liberty! I am not here to speak of the portentous power of the Supreme Court. You know what it is, the Gibraltar of our system, the point where our democratic machine touches nearest to despotism, Adopting the English plan of bowing to precedents, it is a system in which the opinions of the present day are checkmated by the prejudices of men who were appointed fifty years ago, and who are obliged to respect the prejudices of men who have been in their graves a hundred years. The hot-new purpose of today, just born of long, bitter experience, and tried in fierce battle, is to be tested and measured by the fossil prejudice and iron precedents of a century back. Put new wine into new bottles. Don’t try to bind earthquakes with parchment bands. In ordinary times, I might have something to say about the rules of action in our Supreme Court, considering its place as a political power in our system; I might object to the iron rigor of this English doctrine of precedents. But this is no hour to criticise our institutions. Leave that for times of peace. We must take things as they are, and arrange our remedies to match the case. Leave the Supreme Court all the power it claims. But call into exercise the reserved sovereignty of the nation, and provide a safeguard which is, constitutionally, beyond the reach of that Court, as far as anything can be in our system. To such a tribunal President Lincoln proposes to submit the final settlement of the war. We are to furl banners and adjourn the fight, not knowing which party his beaten, or how much we have gained, until that Court decides on our measures. I asked one of the shrewdest members of the House of Representatives what he would give for the Proclamation before the Supreme Court? "Little or nothing,” he said. Within five weeks, a prominent New England Senator said to me, “The greatest danger to the Proclamation is from the Supreme Court” On the President's plan we may see the insidious and gradual chicanery of cunning Judges filch from us all we have so dearly earned. And against such a danger, even while this message is writing, the highest members of the Government are understood to dare to say only, “I hope,” "I expect,” " Perhaps,” the Supreme Court will endorse the January Proclamation. Now mark you! as commander-in-chief, and the author of these two instruments, I am not finding fault with Mr. Lincoln. It is just like this: Suppose you are the tenant of a house; the chimney smokes, your lease is out in thirty days; you do not trouble yourself with the chimney, but you throw up a window to make a draft. Very well, but yet the landlord remodels the chimney. Mr. Lincoln is a tenant at will, who goes out shortly. His Proclamation is throwing up the window to create a draft; but, as the President, joined to you and Congress—THE NATION, I want him to remodel the chimney. (Applause.) As commander-in-chief, he has freed slaves. I ask of the Nation to abolish slavery. As commander-in-chief, he has done an act which the Supreme Court may reverse, and may set aside in part or wholly. Of the Nation I claim an amendment of the Constitution which that Court is sworn to obey, and in such plain terms as they cannot misconstrue.
That is, I want a platform which the Supreme Court cannot touch. (Applause.) As a quid pro quo for this war, I want something of which I know the value to-day without consulting Judge Taney, and Judge Clifford, and Judge Catron, secessionists from the tops of their heads to the soles of their feet. (Hisses and applause.) If you do not think so, go and examine them, that is all. (Renewed hisses and applause.) If they have reformed and repented, and got any better, I shall be glad to know it, if any man has recent information; (" Good!”) but I judge them by their record; I judge them by their decisions. They may be trusted in belligerency questions and such like; not in any case into which the negro enters. The New York Times asks me to-day whether I would not trust the negro where all the white men have been trusted for the last twenty years? If I had had no protection but the bench of the Supreme Court, I should have been in jail seven years ago; and as for the negro, that Court has announced that he has no rights which white men are bound to respect. Before I trust the negro with them, I want to give him at least the same protection from their prejudices and caprices that I have, namely, THE CONSTITUTIONS.
Now, what I should ask of Mr. Lincoln in this behalf is, an amendment of the Constitution, which his advice to Congress would secure in sixty days. Submit to the States an amendment of the Constitution which shall say, “Hereafter, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any State of this Union.” (Cheers.) Mr. Seward says that these Mississippi Senator’s chairs stand empty, and he wants them filled. So do I but he is for having them filled as they are. I am for making them so hot that a slaveholder cannot sit in them. (Laughter and applause.) I want the States back, and I want them back speedily, and I want them back in their full strength, that we may say to France,” Go home, and take care of your tottering throne!" (Applause.) But before I receive these States, I will provide, either by parchment guarantees here, or by natural laws there, that there shall be real peace and democracy forever, when peace is once proclaimed. (Applause.) 
Some men have one theory and some have another. Mr. Sumner has a theory that the Southern States are all dead,—there is nothing but territories. Mr. Dale Owen has a theory that the States are not dead, only dormant, as the lawyers say, "in abeyance" gone to sleep, in common terms. Seward has a theory that they are not gone to sleep at all—they are as alive as ever, only kicking on the wrong side. (Laughter and applause.)
If you will read the second volume of "Macaulay,” the last fifty pages, you will find that he describes the English nation in the same circumstances,— a precedent to which I have referred two or three times since the outbreak of this rebellion. James the Second had fled to Paris. The high tones said, "The King lives forever, and all we have to do is to make an image of James the Second, and obey it” The moderate tories, said, “ No,
<c05>
the throne is in abeyance while he is away." The Algernon Sidney whigs said, “No, he has forfeited the throne;” and the other whigs said, “No, he has vacated the throne;” the people said, "We know nothing about It; we only know the throne is empty, and we mean to fill it.” They did so, and have had no trouble since. Now, I do not know whether there are territories over there, or States dormant, or States in a vicious activity—all I know is, the house is vacant, and I mean to clean it before they get back.
I mean to make this platform such that they may come safely back, and soon back, and back in their own natural forms. I do not accede to Mr. Sumner’s theory unless I am obliged to. I will take an ounce of bread if I cannot get any more. I will take Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation if I cannot get any more; but I think that three years of costly and bloody war entile and enable us to get a great deal more, and I do not mean to give up until I am convinced to the contrary.
But Mr. Sumner's Territories theory has one exceedingly bad feature.
The strongest chord in the American heart next to the love of Union, is State pride. If you were to tell me that you could make me a Massachusetts over again on my own soil as good as the old one, I should not want it. I want the old Massachusetts of Endicott and Winthrop, and Bradford and the Pilgrims-—the actual old State, the line that binds me to the cabin of the Mayflower. So does Andy Johnson in Tennessee; so do the speechless Unionists in Mississippi. And I would save the State alive for them by an action that would enable them to bring it back in their own method and their own time. Meantime, all that devolves upon me, is so to shape the Constitution that when they come back, they cannot come back except free States.
You may say, we have no power so to amend the Constitution. Yes, our constitutional life is a limited one, except one line; but there is one line of the Constitution which gives us a sovereignty as unlimited as Victoria, or the throne of France, by that line which says, “The people may amend the Constitution.” You could make Lincoln hereditarily President; if you chose, give it to his son. You could make the Senate hereditary; you could give women the ballot; you could take it from men under fifty; you can do anything. The common law says, if a man is attacked, he retires to the wall and uses any weapon he can reach to defend his life. International law says to that unit which it creates—a nation “If you are attacked, go to the wall; when you get there, you -are at liberty to use any means to preserve your life. Abolish dynasties, systems, property, statute books to any extent.” In 1776 our fathers did not abolish George the Third, they abolished kings, saying that kingcraft was fatal to the colonies. In 1688, to which I have referred, the English did not abolish thrones, but they said, “The divine right of kings has proved fatal to England. We cut off Charles the First's head, hoping his son would behave better; but he behaves worse. Now we will elect our king, and hold him on that tenure, and see if he will behave better.” He has So of France. The warrant for such abolition is to be found in the greatly imperilled state of the republic, and in the legitimate functions of the government to be exercised in such an alarming crisis. By common law, an individual has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law. In view of international law, a nation is an individual, and has the right of self-defence by all means recognised by that law; one of those means being the destruction of any dynasty or institution which imperils national life. Slavery has struck at the life of the nation, and declared its own existence incompatible with that of the nation. Hence, the nation, acting through its official organs, has a right to abolish slavery throughout its dominions; and past events demonstrate alike the necessity and duty of exercising this right without delay and without compromise, and beyond recall.
Mr. Lincoln said, in the beginning of the war, “I would try to save this Union without hurting slavery.” He showed he knew nothing about the crisis.
There are men who go into the Senate house to-day, and talk to you about the Supreme Court, as Webster did in 1860, and as Webster would not do to-day if he were alive—bound in parchments and technicalities. Unlike Chatham, they come with law books doubled down in dog’s ears to advocate liberty by precedent. Like an old Massachusetts parson, who always refused to baptize a baby who was born on Sunday. (Laughter.) Now, what you want to-day is a statesmanship which says, “This is the hour of revolutionary convulsions, when the nation, resuming her sovereignty, undertakes to set up barriers equal to the occasion.” The lion’s bloody jaws give evidence that we have the right to shoot him to-day. But there are men among us who advise you to wait till he tears out his own claws and pulls out his own teeth in 1900. That body of States represented in Washington lays taxes, raises armies, makes treaties, and does every act pertaining to the sovereignty of the nation. As well may it amend the Constitution.
The lesson of to-day is: the Constitution to be thrown up as a barrier. And that brings me to the second point of the proclamation of Mr. Lincoln. The natural law, which would have saved us, even without an amendment of the Constitution, the President sets aside. He sets aside the Confiscation Act. He says all slaveholders, excepting about seven hundred, may return to their estates, and the State may then come back on the vote of one-tenth of its old voters into the Union. What does that mean? Every man knows that land dictates government If you hold land, every man his own farm, it is a democracy; you need not curiously ask of the statute book. If a few men own the territory, it is an oligarchy; you need not carefully scan its laws. Thirty thousand families own England; it is an oligarchy. Every Massachusetts farmer owns his house, and Jefferson Davis, multiplied by millions, could not make it anything but a democracy. Daniel Webster said, in 1820, the revolution in France has crumbled up the nobles' estates into small farms; the throne must either kill them or they will kill out the throne. Every man knows that.
Land being worth little or nothing without slaves, the land in our Southern States is owned almost exclusively by slaveholders; and, from the nature of their cultivation, in much larger lots than at the North. Now, while these large estates remain in the hands of the just defeated slave oligarchy, its power is not destroyed. But let me confiscate the land of the South, and put it into the hands of the negroes and white men who have fought for it, and you may go to sleep with your parchments. I have planted Union sure to grow as an acorn to become an oak. You do not build governments like a clap-board house; you plant them like an oak. Plant a hundred thousand negro farmers and by their side a hundred thousand of white soldiers, and I will risk the South, Davis and all. (Applause.) When William the Norman conquered England, in order to guarantee his conquest, he divided the land among his nobles, and, practically, they hold it to-day. "I have conquered the South,” Civilization may say,“ and I'II divide its territories among my nobles—the blacks and the whites who have won it." (Applause.) And then we are safe. Instead of that, Andy Johnson, one of the ablest men in the nation, stands to-day in Nashville,—in sight of him is a man—one of five, a committee to whom Jeff. Davis gave five millions of dollars (such as they are,) with orders to take that State out of the Union: and he did his best and failed. Now he lives there on his own plantation, with as many of his slaves as he can keep, protected by Rose crans, a contractor with the War Department to furnish timber for our railroads, out of which he will make sixty thousand dollars this year. How soon will you bring back Tennessee at that rate? On the contrary, let Governor Johnson send that man where you please, take his land and plant upon it fifty men who know that their title deed is the Union, and you may bring back Tennessee peaceably into this nation in twelve months. And you will never bring it otherwise. Every Union man at the South says, "Give us the hated, hunted, all but hanged Unionists of the State—the power in this State, and we can safely
<c06>
come back. Keep it from us;, divide it between us and others, and we must either be exiles or be hung.” That is the practical;common sense of the Unionists of Tennessee and Louisiana. The Johnsons, the Fowlers, the Bowens, will give us a free Tennessee, the moment you allow; them to have power free from the interference of the Hardings, Coquerels; and Cheat hams. And such conflacation is no hard measure for those men who, to perpetuate slavery, have brought this bloody and terrible war on the nation. From two sources I know of plans of immediate emancipation in that State discussed, once by twenty slaveholders, and once by rather more, and in each case more than seventeen of the group declared emphatically for immediate emancipation without compensation. No doubt these cases are the exception, not the rule; but this fact shows that the war has created in those States material fit for rebuilding them-—educated men, who, properly aided, can and will bring them back safely to us, free States. Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation sets that aside, and gives to the old slaveholders, under the new guise of landowners, the power in the State. I need not theorize on this subject, the whole plan has been tried.
This experiment has been tried and found, in the President's phrase, "an auger that won’t bore." In 1834, the British government emancipated the slaves of Jamaica. They left them as, apprentices in the hands of;their old masters, then the landholders to make for them all temporary arrangements, as Mr. Lincoln does now. "Temporary!" How long does that mean—fifty years? (A foot in old times meant the length of a king's foot.) A temporary arrangement. That is the way; the British left the slaves of Jamaica. What was the consequence in two years? (the apprenticeship was to last six.) In two years they had behaved like such;tyrants, that Sir Edward Sugden, a leader of the London bar, not an abolitionist, allowed that a complete case was made out against Jamaica, and the Imperial Parliament; interfered; and broke what was called the “contract,” and set; the slaves free; and when it was done, Lord Brougham said, in; the House of Lords, “we need to keep a vigilant eye on these colonies. He trusted that the Island Legislature a would not by a vagrant act, poor law bill, police regulations or any other devices, attempt to perpetuate slavery under another; name, or; to revive under false pretences that slavery which under an odious name the law would not suffer to exist.” In 1839, one year later, that Jamaica Legislature, as if in express defiance of Lord Brougham, had passed a vagrant act, a prison act, and petty debt act of which I will tell you; the contents. This is to show; you how they treated the blacks committed to their care, for “temporary arrangement," as Mr. Lincoln proposes to commit our blacks. Previously to the emancipation, if a black man had planted a little patch, and a horse trespassed upon it, he could; carry it to the pound, and get one or two shillings, or a crown damage. The new Legislature amended that act thus: He shall still have the right, provided that; when he gives the horse into the keeping of the pound-keeper, he deposits some statement in writing what harm he has done. Hardly a negro on the island could write. The second set of acts was of this kind: they said to the negro, “there is your shanty on my land; I will charge; you ten pounds a year; there;is that cocoanut tree your father planted, but I will charge you two shillings a month for that; pay me that rent, agree to work for me for nine pence a day for a year, with many other condition, all in writing which the negro couldn’t read, and if you fail in one point, you forfeit all your wages, and may be imprisoned sixty days to hard labor.” The negro refused and ran. Two justice assemble and find him in the road without a home. If he owns no land, they label him as a vagrant, and the next justice takes him in hand and sentences him to six months' imprisonment to hard labor for not owning a house, unless he'll work for what they please to call “usual” wages. When; Melbourne heard of this, Parliament undertook to supersede the whole legislature of Jamaica, and brought in an act for that purpose, which, but for the interference of Sir Robert Peel, would have passed; he gave them what he called locus penitentice, that is, a place for repentance; but they did not repeat, for when I was in England, in 1841, I heard William Knibb say, with the applauding sanction of Buxton, Lushington, and O'Connell:—
"Under the Petty Debt Act he is cast into jail for this rent—ejected from his cottage; then, under the Police Act, he is arrested on the highway as without a home; then, under the Vagrant Act., sent to hard labor on the penal gang for sixty days. Of course, he avoids this by submitting to the white man’s terms. This is a perfect; contravention of the intent and purpose of the Imperial Act of Emancipation. In plain English, IT IS SLAVERY."
I heard Lushington say:-
“The laws of Jamaica are again entangling those who have escaped from the trammels of slavery, curtailing the free course of their industry, and subjecting them to all the insults of oppression."
"I feel that it is one of the first duties of Her Majesty’s Government to set aside one and all of those laws which have been framed, not as every law should be, for the administration of impartial justice, for the protection of peace or the preservation of the great bonds of human society, but to arm the employer with the means of exacting from the laborer his labor without just reward, and strengthen the strength of the strong and weaken the weakness of; the weak."
I heard O'Connell say:—
“Ordinances are vain as the idle wind so long as you permit them to be administered by the master... Look at those laws which the Legislature of Jamaica has passed. The blacks are free in point of law, yet you have a slave code actually enacted under that unworthy successor of Sir Lionel Smith. I like to call things by their right names. I say Sir Charles Metcalf is mischievous in his situation."
He called those laws a “swindle,” and demanded the immediate interference of the Home Government. And such is; the testimony of all the writers on the West Indies since 1834-—even of those like Hovey and Sewel, who are not Abolitionists-—that all the trouble attending emancipation, and all the temporary loss to the coloniess, came from the attempt of the planters to recreate by tricky legislation that slavery which England had abolished.
Now, that was seven years after England had given her blacks, technically free, into the keeping of slave-holders turned into land owners, which is just what Lincoln proposes to do. And remember, the power of England over Jamaica was absolute. The mother country had a veto on their laws, and could annihilate the whole Jamaica Government, if she pleased. But once let the States come back, and the Union cannot interfere in any of the local laws of such State. In such points, the power of the Union is just enough to render it obnoxious, without entitling it to either respect or obedience. We should stand and see the freedman, whose arm helped us to victory, robbed in our very sight of all its reality. Mr. Lincoln is a very prudent man, people say. Well, prudence is a very worthy virtue, except when exercised at other people’s expense. (Laughter.) What I say is, the man who proposes to give up the fruits of this war for such a miserable sham as that, either does not understand his epoch, or is not equal to it. We have laid 250,000 of the noblest lives of the nation in the grave: we have mortgaged the industry of the future with the three thousand millions of dollars. It is my compensation money to the slave master, and I for one demand a government which ensures substantial, common sense protection for the men whom the nation has freed. (Cheers.) I am to be the fool of no legal terms, I am the slave of no lawyer's precedents. This nation has robbed four millions of men and their ancestors for seventy years, and we might have been contented once to have clutched them homeless, poor and naked from the jaws of the lion; but we have ground that lion to powder, and to the slave belongs some portions of the land he has redeemed from nature. What might have been a great favor in 1850, does not come up to tolerable terms now. In 1773, our fathers might have been satisfied, at least conciliated, by a repeal of the tea tax; but who dreams that, if after Bunker Hill and Yorktown, England had asked what would satisfy them, they would have answered, “Pay us back that
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
tea-tax and six per cent interest.” The nation owes the negro, after such a war, in which he has nobly joined, not technical freedom, but substantial protection in all his rights. It should be never admit State sovereignty between it and the negro, until both by constitutional guarantees and by natural laws it has insured him full, real liberty. I would have an amendment of the Constitution providing that “no State shall make any distinction among its citizens on account of race and color.” Indeed, more than that. This nation owes to the negro not merely freedom; it is a owes him land, and it owes him education also. It is a debt which will disgrace us before the peoples if we do not pay it. It is the first longing of the negro. His instincts are better than our laws. He know, what land means. I met nine contraband, once in Boston, brought by a-gunboat. One of them had come one hundred and twenty-five miles from the interior, and launched a little dug-out, in which he rowed thirty miles to reach Captain Couthoy, and when the Captain, looking over the side of the gunboat, said, “Jack, don’t you know a breath of wind would send you to the bottom!” "Lor, massa,” said the negro, "God Almighty never brought me down here to send me to the bottom."
Those nine men I questioned, and said, “You would like to work in Boston, would not you?” "No, Massa; go back to the plantation.” "Go back home for what?” They replied, “For a piece of land.” They had never seen liberty except standing on the pedestal of an acre. They knew what land meant. They knew that the division of ranks at the South was not as some fancy wholly between white and black, but between the oil-garchy that owned the States, and the people, white and black, ranged below. The negro has never heard of power except as associated with land, and the Confliction Act is the jewel of Congressional policy. Launch us on national laws and guard us by the Constitution. Give me 200,000 farmers owning their own land, and give me 200,000 blacks with muskets in their right hands, officered by men of their own color, and you may go to sleep or make money. The Union will grow out of those conditions. But Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation gives me neither. It neither gives me root nor branch, and I protest against it in advance. If that is the level of his mind, he cannot be trusted. That proclamation frees the slave, but ignores the negro; it disgraces the nation, and embroils our future, it cripples our resources, it doubles the chance of foreign intervention, it prolongs the struggle between Slavery and Liberty thirty years. Mr. Lincoln is anti-slavery. He does not believe in a nation “being half slave and half free" but he is a Colonizationist, and does not believe in a nation half black and half white. Hence prejudice prevents his being fully just black race. How shall we pay the interest of three thousand millions of dollars, except that half of the Union is re-constructed into industry? Give me the negro on is own soil, contented, protected, left to the free use of his powers, and I will treble the cotton crop in two years. Why, this blundering government does not know what democracy really means. There is at Port Royal a man who has bought eight Plantations for eight thousand dollars, and put machinery upon them costing $ 20,000. Every negro, old, young, man, woman, sick or well, that Gen. Hunter did not want, this man set to work, so the Yankee has suspended South Carolina, and to-day he has $140,000 worth of cotton. Spread Port Royals over the South, and you will have peace on twelve months.
The President's plan is not feasible, and ends in shame or defeat. Amnesty in Europe means the rebel allowed merely to live on the soil, without civil privileges-—often without property. Amnesty here means, practically, re-instating the rebel in his ballot and jury rights; it is, therefore, to be much more carefully considered. If 10,000 voters bring back Tennessee into the Union, and hold all the power in their hands in defense of their ninety thousand fellow citizens, then the State is not Republican; neither could that be done but with the aid of our military force. Such a State differs nothing from Tenessee, held by force under our military Governor Johnson, except that it is a sham, and embarrasses rather helps useful change. If the ten thousand voters allow their ninety thousand fellows to share their power with them, the policy of the State will, practically, be that of the Confederacy. We cannot control it within the State, and their Representatives and Senators will checkmate us in Congress. Indeed, the only real effect of the plan is to give the negro back into his master's legislative control, and to furnish Jefferson Davis with sixty or ninety representatives in Congress. A Union so reconstructed, would be a machine sure not to work. Such peace would be war in disguise. With it, how shall we defend ourselves, or sustain our pecuniary credit? 
I know I criticise Mr. Lincoln freely. I accord him all his laurels; but the war is a terrible expense, it is a terrible trial. This nation ought never to have but one. I have no distrust while the war lasts. Cannon know no tricks. It is the politicians who know tricks. I want to keep the settllement among cannon and save it from Cabinets. And it is to be done by us. Next year, we shall launch into President-making. In that terrible storm of personal ambition, who knows the road which leads to safety? Let me say one word here, and then I will close. Mr. Lincoln has one rival in that future whose head just now is highest, and he belong to the Treasury. (Applause.) Mr. Chase has great merits, he has done great service to the country, and I would like to have him stay when he is (laughter)- if it were only in fairness to wait till the bank system prove a failure, if it were only to see fail that magnificent humbug of pouring the whole bank capital of the nation into a tub without a bottom. But if he must leave his before his schemes are tested, I want the people to remind him that on two great occasions, the virtue of his anti-slavery life was tested and proved base metal, and demand that he give us some reason to hope that if it is tested a third time, it will prove better. There was an hour when Mr. Chase held the State of Ohio in his right hand. Bred a democrat, with the States’ rights doctrine, he knew the power that the State had a right to exert against the Union. In the custody of an Ohio sheriff was the noblest woman, almost, that ever trod this continent, judged by her opportunity. Bred a slave, in darkness and rude toil, she had fledled to Ohio, and when she saw the slave-hunter descending on her cradle, she gave her babe back to God to save it from bondage. The <illegible> a mother's love; the noblest historic moment that Ohio ever knew! Every man with a heart would have leaped to shield her, and envied any officer that sublime opportunity. She stood incarcerated by an Ohio sheriff, and Governor Chase knew so well her rights, that -— I had it from his own lips- – he said to the sheriff, “I will put, and I have the right to put, every soldier of the State in front of that door before the United States Marshal shall touch Margaret Garner;” and after saying it, he travelled one hundred and twenty miles, and left the Sheriff to take the responsibility-—a responsibility the Governor dared not take, the Sheriff would not take, and she went back to bondage. No South Carolina Governor, with an abolitionist in prison at Charleston, would have ever gone up to Columbia. Another time, when the States threw themselves at the feet of the President and demanded the removal of that man, your, New York statesman, whose life is a greater danger to this nation in its struggle than that of President Davis to-day-—when fourteen States asked his removal, between the indignant States and the (I will not call him traitor, for that is libellous, but I may call him) false pilot, Mr. Secretary Chase flung himself as a barrier, and saved him. If he looms up for our President, sit up nights, give yourselves no rest, watch till you are sure no bondman lives beneath the banner. I never will rest until I see the men whose character this fiery war has brought to the surface, and who show, under that ordeal, sense and courage as their qualities-—I never will rest until they either lead the nation or watch for it-—in other words, until Butler or Fremont mans the guns. (Great applause.) Until such men man the guns, or hold the helm, no man with justice to himself, to his children, to the negro and to the Union, can give rest to his eyelids or silences to his lips.
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864.
THIRTIETH SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY.
The Managers of the THIRTIETH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce to its numerous friends and patrons, and to the friends of liberty and emancipation universally, that it will he held, as hitherto, in MUSIC HALL, Boston, on Wednesday evening, January 27, 1864; and they confidently anticipate not only the same liberal patronage and thronged attendance that have hitherto been extended to it, but a cheering increase of both, in view of the wonderful change which has been wrought in public opinion, on the subject of slavery, since the rebellion broke out, adverse to the longer continuance of that “sum of all villanies." 
The special object of this Anniversary has been, from year to year, to replenish the treasury of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and thus enable it to keep in operation those potent instrumentalities whereby the public conscience has been aroused, the public understanding enlightened, and the public heart softened, in regard to the pitiable condition of the millions of bondmen and bondwomen whose deliverance, though manifestly approaching, yet remains to be consummated. To that Society is the whole country most deeply indebted for its unfaltering, courageous and inflexible opposition to slavery as a system, and to the slave power as inimical to every element of Democracy and Christianity, through a long period of years; and it is now widely and magnanimously conceded that, if its solemn warnings, powerful appeals, and prophetic asseverations had been duly heeded, the present awful tragedy of rebellion and civil war might have been averted, and the abolition of slavery secured without violence or blood.
The American Anti-Slavery Society has recently celebrated, at Philadelphia, its THIRD DECADE, or thirtieth anniversary since its formation. The occasion was one of thrilling interest and stirring remembrance, -—calling, in the retrospect of the past, for devout thanksgiving to the God of the oppressed for what had been effected by the power of His truth, and inspiring to new labors to secure the liberation of every slave in the land. While the great concourse of “the tried and true,” who were present, were made jubilant by all the signs of the times,’ "and while they expressed the confident hope that the monster Slavery had received its death-wound, through its treasonable revolt against the General Government, still, there was entire unanimity in the conviction that the Society should not think, for one moment, of retiring from the conflict until liberty is “proclaimed throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
Judge CONWAY, of Kansas, in a letter read on the occasion, regretting his absence, said-"I recognize in the American Anti-Slavery Society the primal agent in the regeneration of the American nation which is now in progress. The ultimate triumph of liberty is assured. Thank God, the future is ours! But this assurance should in no wise inspire us with indifference to the progress of events. We must not suppose that our part of the work is finished. The American Anti-Slavery Society must not think of retiring from the field for many a long day yet. The future is ours; but we must do the work necessary to perfect the results.”
On the same occasion, the Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, in the course of an eloquent speech,. said“ 
"By years, by epochs alone, can we measure the progressive advancement of a movement so grand and comprehensive as the anti-slavery movement in America. What mighty changes have been wrought in the condition of the anti-slavery cause in the United States since the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized by representatives of ten States in 1833! Then a few unknown and nameless men were its apostles; now the most accomplished intellects in America are its champions. Then a few proscribed and hunted followers rallied around its banners; now it has laid its grasp upon the conscience of the nation, and millions rally around the folds of its flag. Then not a statesman in America accepted its doctrines or advocated its measures; now it controls more than twenty States, has a majority in both houses of Congress, and the Chief Magistrate of the republic decrees the emancipation of three millions of men. Then every free State was against it; now Western Virginia, Delaware, Maryland and Missouri pronounce for the emancipation of their bondmen. Then the public press covered it with ridicule and contempt; now the most powerful journals in America are its organs, scattering its truths broadcast over all the land. Then the religious, benevolent and literary institutions of the land rebuked its doctrines and proscribed its advocates; now it shapes, moulds and fashions them at its pleasure. Then political organizations trampled disdainfully upon it; now it looks down in the pride of conscious power upon the wrecked political fragments that float at its feet. Then it was impotent and powerless; now it holds public men and political organizations in the hollow of its hand. Then the public voice sneered at and defied it; now it is master of America, and has only to be true to itself to bury slavery so deep that the hand of no returning despotism can reach it.
"Nevertheless, I say to you, and to the anti-slavery men of the United States, who have rejected the subtle policy of concession and compromise, who have repudiated the guilty delusion that the sin of slavery belongs to past generations and repentance to posterity, who have perpetually sounded into the ear of the nation the sin of oppression and the duty of repentance, go not home with the conviction that your work is done, but go home cheered by the assurance that the battle is going on for you; that you have stormed buttery after buttery, carried position after position; that you have only to be as true in the future as you have been in the past, to secure a permanent and enduring triumph. If the nation had accepted your doctrine of peaceful, legal, Christian action, this blood war would never have come upon us. The crimes of two centuries have brought this terrible war upon us; but if this generation, upon whom God has laid His chastisements, will yet be true to liberty and humanity, peace will return again to bless this land, now rent and torn by civil strife. Then we shall heal the wounds of war, enlighten the dark intellect of the emancipated bondmen, and make our country the model Republic to which the Christian world shall turn with respect and admiration.”
When such are the convictions and assurances of distinguished public men, not connected with the American Anti-Slavery Society, in regard to the value and magnitude of the work it has accomplished, and the further need and importance of the Society in perfecting what remains to be done, surely it is no time to think of disbanding, or of cherishing the pleasing illusion that the victory is won, and therefore we may safely trust to events to shape our national destiny.
Ever since the rebellion broke out, this Society has been thoroughly in earnest in sustaining the Government, and all those measures of emancipation which President Lincoln and Congress have deemed it necessary to adopt to suppress the rebellion, and to give unity and stability to republican ideas, institutions and interests, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from the Lakes to the Gulf.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY, therefore, feel that they may properly call upon all loyal men and women as well as upon all those who “reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy. that man can hold property in man,” in every part of the land, to contribute liberally to its funds on this occasion, and, as far as practicable, to be present at its commemoration at the place and time designated. Where personal attendance is impracticable or incon venient, donations may be sent to either of the under- signed, or to William I. Bowditch, Esq., 18 Railroad Exchange. These will be gratefully received, duly acknowledged, and faithfully expended.
Mary May, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Caroline E. Putnam,
Lousia Loring, Mary Willey,
Henrietta Sargent, Abbey H. Stephenson
Sarah Russell May, Sarah J. Nowell, 
Helen E. Garrison, Elizabeth Van Arnim, 
Anna Shaw Greene, Eliza Apthorp,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah Cowing,
Caroline E. Thayer, Abby Kelley Foster,
Mattie Griffith, Mary E. Stearns,
Mary Jackson, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Evelina A. Smith, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby Francis,
Elizabeth Gay. Gerogina Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum.
<c03>
COWARDS AND SLAVES.
The effort now making to amend the Constitution, proceeds from motives which are to be respected, but indicates how far the people of the North have degenerated from the independence of their sires. Our King George is the Constitution, which we lack the courage to confront. Ask those who favor the amendment to abolish and prohibit slavery, how they propose to regard the compromises, and they must tell you, either as rubbish or as vital obligations. If the former, what need to stop now, amid the destruction of slavery, to effect a partial revision of the Constitution, which is hereafter to be thoroughly remodelled? If the latter, then it is manifest that we are afraid to pronounce the compromises deceased three years ago. And as these can be valid, if valid at all, only for the loyal slaveholders of the Border States, it follows that we are slaves at this hour to the rule of less than sixty thousand men,-a handful which, concentrated upon the battle-field, or within a fortified city like Charleston, we should sweep out of existence without remorse, in order to recover for the national authority a few acres of rebellious soil.
For the sake of such loyal and well-meaning minds as are still bound by the fetters of the Constitution, the following views are presented of our situation in regard to that instrument, and of the powers which we may employ in behalf of universal emancipation.
I. "The Union as it was” having perished at the hands of slavery, a party to the contract of '87, the Constitution, which was but the record of that contract, perished at the same time; and to-day we are either sailing without a written charter, or for convenience we retain as many of the old forms as are subservient to our interests. In this view of the posture of affairs, there is nothing in the Constitution but what we choose to keep or to place there; and it is either no obstacle to our action against slavery, or we are morally culpable for making it so.
II. There used to be some who contended that slavery found no foothold in the Constitution, because the word slave was nowhere expressed; and others who admitted the design of the framers to give security to the system, in the clauses familiarly known as the compromises, but who claimed a right to avail themselves of the letter of the text in opposition to its spirit, and to turn the decorous language adopted through shame to the defeat of the odious purpose which it concealed. Those who still entertain these opinions, have no excuse for opposition to a general emancipation act on the part of Congress.
III. The rebellion of slavery, which was designed to destroy every vestige of the Constitution, may be considered simply to have purged it of all complicity with the system. In that case, we have a charter amended by Jefferson Davis & Co., who withdrew from the protection it afforded to slavery, in order to defend the sum of all villanies with cannon and bayonet. Then we are not only empowered to proceed against slavery, but to fail to do so is to disregard the plainest injunctions of the Constitution, viz. (among others) the clause which directs the United States to guarantee each State a Republican form of government. Inaction, as well as action in support of slavery, becomes unconstitutional.
IV. Grant, however, that the compromises remain in full force for that portion slavery of which has not rebelled. Then, 
1. We are no more obliged to respect them than we are many other clauses of the same instrument, to wit: the clause just quoted, which the President is applying to the seceded States in process of return to the Union, and which, by the same logic, he ought to apply to every anti-republican State in the Union; the clause which secures to the citizens of each State the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States; the clause which ensures freedom of speech and of the press; that which instructs Congress to provide for the general welfare, &c., &c. If here arises a conflict of duties, we certainly have the right to choose between them, and if our choice involves the overthrow of slavery, we cannot be charged with unconstitutional procedure. 
2. But were we never so faithful in maintaining the compromises, this would not be to stand by the Constitution. For our adherence to those criminal bargains in the past has been the cause of the present deadly assault upon that instrument, and the erection of a rival which has challenged the allegiance of one half the continent.
3. Even though, because slavery still lives in the Constitution, freedom is utterly banished from it or stifled, still the War Power-—the right of the nation to defend itself from commotion or destruction-—is left us, to be employed as necessity shall dictate, And the same logic which justified its use in the seceded States, would have sustained the President in extending his Proclamation of Freedom to the Border Slave States as well. What he left undone, may yet be done by the Executive alone, or in conjunction with Congress. It is never too late to mend. The President acts wisely in reminding us, that the War Power is constitutional, that it is an invaluable instrumentality, and that he does not mean to relinquish it. 
V. Yet if we were beset and hampered in every way, and there appeared no issue from the toils of the Constitution, we possess the same right that was inherent in our fathers, to form a new government whenever the old has failed to secure the ends for which it was framed. Read the preamble to the Constitution. You find there the justification of the establishment which follows, and also its condemnation, whenever a breach is opened between the preamble and the text. The welfare of the people is ever the on highest law. If the Constitution of a previous century is destructive of that welfare, we have the revolutionary right to return to first principles. We might redeem our character from the imputation of cowardice and servility, if we did but acknowledge, what the election of Abraham Lincoln proves to have been a fact, that the rebellion of the South was merely a counter to the revolution at the North in opposition to slavery.—W. P. G.
We trust our readers will feel fully compensated for the omission this week of the continued report of the Decade Meeting, by the speech of Mr. Phillips which takes its place. It is in vain for the Albany Journal to seek to classify Mr. Phillips and the Abolitionists together with the Copperheads. The former are the mortal adversaries of the latter, as is proved by the admission of the Journal, that though their criticisms have a similar direction, the motives which prompted them are as antagonistic as slavery and freedom.
We begin with this number, the Thirty-fourth volume of the Liberator, and, in wishing our readers one and all a Happy New Year, take this opportunity to thank them for that generous support, during the twelve month just elapsed, by which we have been enabled to sustain this sheet, and to prosecute yet longer the cause of universal emancipation. May the present year witness the consummation of our labors and our hopes!
The Emancipation Proclamation of January 1st, 1863, will be celebrated this day by the colored citizens of Boston, in the Tremont Temple, forenoon, afternoon and evening. Eloquent and able speakers have been invited to address the meetings, of whom many will doubtless avail themselves of the privilege.
RADICAL UNION LEAGUES. We see it stated that Union Leagues, pledged to the total eradication of negro slavery in the United States, are multiplying throughout Massachusetts, and are receiving large accessions of members. In the opinion of well-informed persons, similar Union Leagues in the Northern States are already strong enough to carry the next Presidential election.
The Atlantic Monthly, Continental, and Harper’s Monthly for the present month have been received, and will be noticed hereafter.
<c04>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. 
LONDON, Dec. 8, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON-—The intelligence brought by the two last mails, of the victory gained by Gen. Grant the over the rebel army at Chattanooga, has filled the friends of the North with thankfulness and joy. We trust a similar victory has been gained by Meade over Lee in Virginia. The late news has caused the Confederate Cotton Loan to decline to thirty-six, and it is still going down.
The successor of the apostate and profligate, Dr. Mackay, is writing to the Times from New York, in a very different strain from that in which former letters were penned. We are now told that the abolition movement is carrying all before it; that the war, whatever its mission might have been at the outset, has now no other object than the abolition of slavery; —that the continuation of the war for another year or two will lead most infallibly, not only to the abolition of slavery, but to the extension of suffrage to the whole colored race; that slavery is giving way before the iron tread of war; that the North is beginning to feel that the quickest and surest way to compound with the rebellion is to trample it utterly, and to crush it and slavery-—cause and effect-—once and forever; that, to all intents and purposes, slavery has ceased to be in all the Border States, and is at its last gasp in all the invaded regions; that, since the outbreak of the war, the slaves in those territories into which the Northerners have extended their conquests may be looked upon as virtually lost to their owners; that six hundred thousand have already been actually emancipated; that it is impossible to deny that the abolitionists have gained immense ground since the late elections; that every month, every day, that the war continues, tolls the deathknell of the “Peculiar Institution” of the South. And much more to the same effect. This, in the columns of the Times, is “a sign of the times“ which tends to convince us that the end is drawing near.
I was favored with an invitation to the Thanksgiving Dinner which took place in London, on the 26th ultimo. There was a goodly gathering of loyal citizens of the United States. The banquet was of the most approved description, and was graced by the presence of ladies, whose numbers were, I think, equal to those of the gentlemen. The chair was well filled by the Hon. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, late Secretary of the Treasury, Commissioner to China, Governor of Kansas, &c., &c. The Vice Presidents were the Hon. Freeman H. Morse, the American Consul, and Gerald Ralston, Esq., (a Pennsylvanian,) Consul General of Liberia. By the courtesy of the committee of arrangements, I had a seat next to the President of the day, and was appointed to speak to the toast "The day-—devoted to thanking God for our victories in the cause of Liberty and Union.”
The proceedings were prefaced by the reading of the President’s Proclamation. This over, Mr. Walker called upon a clergyman present to offer up thanks to God in behalf of the children of America then present. And who was the clergyman so called upon to lead the devotion of the company, having by his side, while he did so, the American Minister to the British Government? He was a young man of dark complexion, who had been held in bondage by Americans; who had snapped those bonds asunder, and escaped for refuge to the Free States, and thence to the metropolis of the British Empire; and who, now the talented pastor of an English church, and one of the most popular of platform orators, was called upon to be America's mouthpiece when approaching the footstool of America's God. This young man, so selected, and so distinguished, was the Rev. Sella Martin, late of Boston, New England, and now of Bow, Old England. I was much impressed by this incident, and did not fail to refer to it in the course of my address. What a revolution in sentiment and practice did this incident exhibit! What a glorious future for the descendants of a wronged and outlawed race did it unfold! Let our friend Remond, and every one else connected with that race, be encouraged. Who, a few years ago, would have foretold that, on the 26th of Nov., 1868, the President of a meeting of Americans of the highest social-grade would stand between the American ambassador and a fugitive slave, and, in the name of the assembly, call upon the once despised and hated runaway to officiate for them in the offering of their petitions before the Throne of Grace?
I send you a placard which is now upon the wall of London, announcing a lecture from me on the 14th instant-—subject-—The Downfall of King Cotton and the Triumph of Free Labor-—in which it will be shown how Cotton came to be king; how he extended his dominions; who were his subjects, and how he ruled them; how he adopted slavery as the corner-stone of his new edifice; how he went to war with those who would not bow to his yoke; and how, while he was at war, his kingdom was overthrown, his captives liberated, and a new reign inaugurated, under which free men, free labor, free soil, and free speech will be evermore established. This is a subject on which I should like to have something to say, on some suitable opportunity, when I reach the country where King Cotton once wielded universal sovereignty.
For the last three years, I have done what I could to serve your country. My labor has been one of love as well as duty. I have tried to look at American affairs from the stand-point of an American; to do as I would have done if I had been an American citizen. In all your afflictions, I have been afflicted, and have not been ashamed to drink the cup prepared for you. My knowledge of your country has been of great use to me, and has enabled me to indoctrinate men of far greater influence than myself.
I must not omit to mention the gentleman who will kindly take charge of this letter. That gentleman is Mr. Peter Sinclair. Mr. Sinclair has been a resident in the United States, where he has travelled extensively, and has a numerous acquaintance. He well deserves the warm gratitude of those who have been lately called to take part in a bloody struggle for their own liberties, the life of their country, and the freedom of the slave. Since his return from America, two years ago, Mr. Sinclair has been incessantly occupied, and most laboriously too, in spreading information, and rekindling the dormant Anti-Slavery feeling of this country. He has, during the past year, acted most efficiently as the Secretary of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society. I bear my cheerful testimony to the value of his services, and the esteem in which he is held by all who have been his associates. Give him, for his works' sake, a cordial greeting. A pamphlet which he brought out more than a year ago, and which you may have seen, has proved a most timely publication, and has supplied ample materials for many speeches and lectures which have since been delivered.

MANCHESTER, Dec. 11th.
I came down here yesterday, and in the evening attend a farewell soiree to our friend, Mr. Sinclair. He has many warm friends here, who part with him with much regret.
I go from here to Edinburgh on a short visit, and from thence to Glasgow, and return to London by way of Carlisle and Manchester.
This day, four weeks, I hope to be in Liverpool again, to take ship the third time to Boston. I shall only be going where my heart already is.
Farewell, dear Garrison! May we soon, together, see the consummation of our hopes, and the reward of our toils, in the freedom of the slave, and the regeneration of your country!
Now and forevermore, yours, steadfastly,
GEO. THOMPSON.
Mr. Thompson expects to be able to leave Liverpool in the Cunard Steamer for Boston on the 9th of January, and, consequently, to arrive about the 22d.
The freedmen of the Department of the South at Port Royal have made arrangements for a grand celebration of the anniversary of freedom's birthday in the South, January 1. Wendell Phillips and Fred. Douglass are invited to attend.
<c05>
THE RADICAL CURE.
The following is a full text of the preamble and synopsis of the provisions of Mr. Lovejoy's bill for the abolition of slavery, already referred to:— 
Whereas, all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the fruits of an honest toil; and Whereas, as the Government of the United States was instituted to secure these rights; and
Whereas, the Constitution of the United States declares that no person shall be deprived of liberty without due process of law, and also declares (Art 6, clause 2d) as follows: This Constitution and laws of the United States, made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law of the land, and Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution and laws of said State to the contrary, notwithstanding; and
Whereas, it has been demonstrated by rebellion, that SLAVERY IS ABSOLUTELY INCOMPATIBLE WITH UNION, PEACE AND THE GENERAL WELFARE for which Congress are to pro-vide, thereafter be it enacted, &c., &c.
The first clause releases all slaves in all of the States and Territories of the United States, and clothes them with the immunities of free citizens.
Section 2d makes their reenslavement a crime, punishable by fine and imprisonment.

BUREAU OF EMANCIPATION.
MR. ELIOT (Un., Mass.) introduced the following bill in the House on the 14th inst., which was referred to a Select Committee of nine, viz: Messrs. Eliot, Kelley, Knapp, Orth, Boyd, Kalbfleisch, Cobb, Anderson, and Middleton.

A BILL TO ESTABLISH A BUREAU OF EMANCIPATION.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled. That an office is hereby erected in the War Department to be called the Bureau of Emancipation, and the President of the United States is hereby authorized to nominate, and, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint a Commissioner of Emancipation, with an annual salary of four thousand dollars, to whom shall be referred the adjustment and determination, under the direction of the Secretary of War, of all questions arising under this act or under any laws now existing or hereafter to be enacted, touching the general superintendence, disposition, and direction of all persons, being freedmen of African descent, who are or shall become free by virtue of any proclamation, law, or military order issued, enacted, or promulgated during the present Rebellion, or by virtue of any act of emancipation which shall be enacted by any State for the freedom of persons held to service or labor within such State. And the said Commissioner shall have authority to appoint, under the direction of the Secretary of War, such number of clerks, not exceeding-—of each classes, as shall be necessary for the proper transaction of the business of said bureau.
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of all military and civil officers charged with the execution of any law of the United States, or of any military order, by virtue of which any persons of African descent, who shall have been theretofore held as slaves within the United States shall be discharged from service or labor, to make return of all their proceedings in execution thereof to said Commissioner, under such regulations and in such form as shall be from time to time prescribed by the Secretary of War.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That said Commissioner shall, under the direction of the Secretary of War, be charged with the execution of all laws providing for the colonization of freedmen, and also with the delivery of any bonds of the United States to any State which shall become entitled thereto by reason of the emancipation of slaves within such State, and of any act of Congress authorizing the issue of such bonds, in compensation therefore.
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That the said Commissioner shall, under the direction of the Secretary of War, establish suitable and proper regulations from time to time, and cause the same to be enforce,<illegible> for the needful, economical, and judicious treatment and disposition of all persons named in the first <illegible> tion of this act, to the end that said freedme n and the Government of the United States shall be mutually protected, and their respective rights and interests duly determined and maintained. And said Commissioner shall, before the commencement of each session of Congress, make full report of all acts done in his department to the Secretary of War, who is hereby directed to communicate the same to the Congress of the United States.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN’S PROCLAMATION IN THE REBEL CONGRESS.
In the proceedings of the Rebel Congress, Mr. Foote presented the following preamble and resolution: 
Whereas, A copy of the truly characteristic proclamation of amnesty, recently issued by the imbecile and unprincipled usurper who now sits enthroned up- on the ruins of constitutional liberty in Washington city, has been received and read by the members of the House; now, in token of what is solemnly believed to be the almost undivided sentiment of the people of the Confederate States,
Be it resolved, That there has never been a day or an hour, when the people of the Confederate States were more inflexibly resolved than they are at the present time, never to relinquish the struggle of arms in which they are engaged, until that liberty and independence of for which they have been so earnestly contending, shall have been at last achieved, and made sure and steadfast, beyond even the probability of a future danger; and that in spite of the reverses which have lately befallen our armies in several quarters, and cold and selfish indifference to our sufferings thus far, for the most part, evinced in the action of foreign powers, the eleven millions of enlightened freemen now battling heroically for all that can make existence desirable, are fully prepared, alike in spirits and in resources, to in encounter dangers far greater than those which they have heretofore bravely met, and to submit to far greater sacrifices than those which they have heretofore so cheerfully encountered, in preference to holding any of further political connection with a Government and in people, who have notoriously proven themselves contemptuously regardless of all the rights and privileges which belong to a state of civil freedom, as well as of all the most sacred usages of civilized war.
Mr. Miles regretted that the gentleman from Tennessee had introduced such a resolution. The true and only treatment which that miserable and contemptible despot (Lincoln) should "receive at the hands of this House was silent and unmitigated contempt. This resolution would appear to dignify a paper emanating from that wretched and detestable abortion, whose contemptible emptiness and folly would only receive the ridicule of the civilized world. He moved to lay the subject on the table.
Mr. Foote was willing that the preamble and resolution should be tabled, with the understanding that it would indicate the unqualified contempt of the House for Abraham Lincoln and his Message and Proclamation alluded to.
Mr. Miles said there would be no misunderstanding about that.
The motion was unanimously adopted.
Similar resolutions offered by Mr. Miller, of Virginia, went the same way.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
I have received, in aid of the Massachusetts Colored Volounteers, not heretofore acknowledged, the following sums, viz:—From Edward L. Pierce, $5; Geo. S. Winslow, 20; Mrs. O. W. Holmes, 10; A Friend, 1; Dr. S. T. Birmingham, 3; Miss. E. Whitney. 6; J. H. Gallison, 1; Charles Warren, 1; a Friend, 25c; a Friend, $5; G. S. Hillard, 3; Mrs. Samuel Hall, Jr., 25; Rice, Kendall & Co., 50; A Friend, 1; Samuel May, 100 A Friend, 1; Tuttle, A, Garfield & Co. $25; Mrs. Fairbanks, 3; Isaac W. Dan-forth, 10; Charles Richardson, 5;; Female Anti-Slavery Friends of Stoneham, by Lydia 0. Lefavre, 37.60; a Friend, 5; Mrs. Fields, 4; G. Higgins on, 30; Mrs. Jarvis, 1; Hon. James Savage, 50; C. H. Dalton, 25; sundry Friends, for tobacco, 12; C. E. Hodges, 5. 
Also, a large case of supplies from the Ladies of Greenwood, South Reading, by hand of Mrs. Dr. Brown.
Our thanks are due the Adams’ Express Co. for the free carriage of a large case to the 55th Regiment.
J. H. STEPHENSON,
Treasurer for a Committee.
12 Arch street, Dec. 28, 1863.

COLLECTIONS.
BY. E. H. HEYWOOD.
East Princeton, $5 30; Cummington, 20; Worthington,
59c; Greenfield, 1.
BY PARKER PILLSBURY.
Essex Co. Society, Danvers, $6 90; Leominster ,, 1 22; Mrs. Blanchard, 
do., 35c; Princeton, 1 27; Worcester
Co. South Division, Milford, 20 68; Florence, 10; 
Leeds, 2 55; Cummington, 13 40; Hopedale, 8;
Weymouth, 11; Neponset, 3.
DIED-— In Washington, N. H., Dec. 21, Mr. WILLIAM FARWELL, formerly of Cambridge port, aged 83 years and 11 months. (Ohio papers please copy.)] This highly esteemed and venerable friend espoused the Anti-Slavery cause at a very early date, and over bore a faithful testimony in its behalf.
<c06>
OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.—A Special Meeting of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society will be held at PLYMOUTH, on FRIDAY, January 1st, 1864, which all friends of the Society and all friends of Freedom and of the Country are requested to attend.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURY, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., and other advocates of Complete Emancipation, are expected to be present.
The meeting will be held in Davis’s Hall, at 2 o'clock, P.M., and at 7 o'clock in the evening. 
For the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society,
BOURNE SPOONER, President. SAMUEL DYER, secretary.

UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.-—NEW HAMPSHIRE CAMPAIGN.—STEPHEN S. FOSTER will lecture in New Hampshire as follows:—
Warner, Friday, Jan. 1.
Bradford, Sat. and Sun. Jan. 2-3.
Sutton, Monday, Jan. 4.
New London, Tuesday, Jan. 5.
Also as above; A. T. FOSS and W. A. JACKSON, (Jeff. Davis's coachman,) will lecture in
Franklin, Friday, Jan. 1.
Andover, Saturday and Sun. Jan. 2 and 3.
Wilmot Flat, Monday, Jan. 4.
Danbury, Tuesday, Jan. 5.
Springfield, Wednesday, Jan. 6.
Croyden, Thursday, Jan. 7.
And in the vicinity, until Tuesday, Jan. 12.
CAPE COD. There will be a Convention in EXCHANGE HALL, at Harwich, on Sunday, Jan.3, commencing at 10 o'clock, and continuing through the day and evening. 
E. H. HEYWOOD and PARKER PILLSBURY are engaged a portion of the speakers. The people of the Cape never need urging to attend this annual meeting.
NOTICE. The Convention at Harwich (Exchange Hall ) will open on Saturday evening, Jan. 2d, with an address from E. H. Heywood; to continue over the following Sunday, as per notice of last week.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at Quincy, on Sunday next, Jan. 3, afternoon and evening.
NATIONAL INVALID SOLDIERS’ HOME,
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS FARM, Weston, Mass.
LIEUT. GEO. W. CALEFF,
The popular Lecturer, is prepared to take engagements to deliver the Narrative of his Sufferings for upwards of THIRTEEN MONTHS IN THE LIBBY PRISON and other Southern Dungeons, together with some interesting particulars of the sufferings of our Union Soldiers in the hands of the Rebels, for the benefit of the above Charitable Institution.
All communications to be addressed to W. MAZZONI, 19 Charlestown street, Boston.
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President. 
Dec. 18. 4w

A School Magazine Free! 
CLAKS'S SCHOOL VISITOR-—Vol. VIII.
THE Publisher of this favorite Monthly, in order to reach all schools, will send the VISITOR one year gratis to one person (who will act as agent,) at any post-office in the United States. This is an unparalleled offer. 
Address, with five cents enclosed, for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher, 
Dec.25. 1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
"Lively, Interesting, Thoughtful, and Candid.”
RUTH'S SACRIFICE:
OR,
LIFE ON THE RAPPAHANNOCK.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON.
THE critics ask, How is it that the author of this work so perfectly satisfies men of all creeds and parties with her revelations of Slavery, and so lucidly solves grave problems of the times connected with the rebellion? The answer is plain, viz: by being herself a resident of the South, and admitted behind the scenes, the great curtains of which are being drawn by the stern hand of War.

STORY OF THE ORIGIN OF THE WORK. 
A young lady, having connections at the South, and acquainted in several slave States, was a guest in one of the old wealthy families in Eastern Virginia. At the princely board, distinguished men of our own and other countries discussed the grand questions which now shake our national edifice, while characteristic scenes in which rich whites, poor-whites, and slaves figured, passed in vivid panorama before her. She had no theory on the “institution” of the South, but absorbed in what she saw and heard, noted down incidents and portraitures for her own reference. The material grew on her hands. Her letters North appearing in a leading public journal, attracted attention throughout the land-—and very naturally: for while others wrote on that subject from imagination, she from observation; others other from theory, she from facts; others still from sectional or political motives, she amid the charmed circle of personal friends.
From the Newburyport Herald.
An honest and truthful representation of the evils of slavery, in which the author has, with the greatest fidelity, introduced just such characters, scenes and incidents as came within the range of her own observation. It will be read and praised by every one who has any interest in the subject treated. 
From the New York Evangelist.
The plain, honest truth is kindly told, and a picture prevented in which slavery appears in those lights and shades in which every one's intelligence assures him must exist. There is one phase of Southern life which even Uncle Tom’s Cabin does not so vividly present, the bearing of slavery upon the poor white population.
From the Cambridge Chronicle.
From first to last, the reader is made to feel that he is no mere listener to a narrative, but an actual observer of the scene.
From the Christian Secretary.
Painted by an eye-witnesses, the scenes are life-like and painfully interesting, imparting a much better idea of the enormity of the slave-traffic than can be found in Uncle Tom.
IT IS A BOOK FOR ALL.
It is absorbing as a story; its facts and logic shed light on matters of national interest; and although descending to the lowest stratum of Southern society, not an oath or aught offensive to the purest taste disfigures its pages, and being pervaded by an elevated religious sentiment, it is admirably adapted to the family circle and Sunday School, and just now will be peculiarly suitable for a New Year's present. Price $1. Agents wanted. 
C.H. PEARSON.
Dec. 11. 67 Cernhill, Boston

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds. 
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties. 
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall& Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. 
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co. 
Oct. 30th-ly

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing”
"WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
NO.31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. 
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speech of her restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them enough, to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them
MADAME CARTHAUX BANNISTER.
NO.32 Winter Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
A PLEA:
WRITTEN FOR THE FAIR IN BEHALF OF THE SANITARY COMMISSION,
Held in Boston, Dec. 14, 1863.
[The following fine poem was written by Mrs. C. A. Mason of Fitchburg, and sent to the Rev. William P. Tilden, as a contribution to the Sanitary Fair. It has been beautifully printed in quarto form on tinted paper, in large, clear type, and is worthy of preservation as a souvenir of the Fair.]-Boston Transcript. 
"COME TO THE RESCUE!” The cry went forth
Through the length and breadth of the loyal North;
For the gun that startled Sumter heard,
Wakened the land with its fiery word!
The farmer paused, with his work half done,
And snatched from the nail his rusty gun;
And the swart mechanic wiped his brow,
Shouting, "There's work for my strong arm now!”
And the parson doffed his gown and said,
"Bring me my right-good sword instead”;
And buckled his belt on with the rest;
And each and all to the rescue went,
As unto a royal Tournament;
For the loyal blood of a nation stirred
To the gun that startled Sumter heard!
"Come to the rescue!” Again that cry,
Burdening the breeze as it passes by: 
"Come to the rescue! Our brave men fall, 
Wounded and slain by the foeman's ball.”
Lying in hospitals sick and faint,
Who shall answer their low complaint?
Dying in strange and desolate places,
Pining for home and home’s sweet faces,
Faint for a drink from the dear old well,
Longing to taste of the fruit that fell
All the autumn, so ripe and sweet,
Over the orchard-wall into the street,
Murmuring, "Oh, that one would come
With even the scanty crumbs of home,
The crumbs from my father's board that fell,
To cheer, and hearten, and make me well!“
Who shall answer this mournful cry?
Who shall answer it? You and I!
OURS are the hands that to them shall bring
The healing draught from the dear old spring,
And the golden fruit that all the Fall
Ripened and swung on the garden wall;
WE on their gaping wounds will pour
Our oil, and our wine shall glad them more
Than ever a vintage cheered before.
Come, then, come to the Soldier’ Fair!
Here is work for us all to share.
Little children and stern-browod men,
Veterans of threescore years and ten,
Gentle woman and maiden gay
Gathered from peaceful homes away,
Lend us your pitying aid to-day!
Help us to answer with open hand
The cry deep-surging through the land:
Remembering how the dear Lord spoke,
Who once to famishing thousands broke
The scanty loaves till they all were fed-
"Who helps my suffering ones," he said,
"Hath done it unto Me instead:
Rich and large shall your guerdon be;
OH, FRIENDS, YE HAVE DONE IT UNTO ME!”

THE PLANTING OF THE APPLE-TREE
BY H. W. LONGFELLOW.
Come, let us plant the apple-tree!
Cleave the tough greensward with the spade;
Wide let its hollow bed be made;
There gently lay the roots, and there
Sift the dark mould with kindly care,
And press it o’er them tenderly,
As, round the sleeping infant’s feet,
We softly fold the cradle-sheet:
So plant we the apple-tree.
What plant we in the apple-tree?
Buds, which the breath of summer days
Shall lengthen into leafy sprays;
Boughs, where the thrush with crimson breast
Shall haunt, and sing, and hide her nest.
We plant upon the sunny lea
A shadow for the noontide hour,
A shelter from the summer shower,
When we plant the apple-tree
What plant we in the apple-tree?
Sweets for a hundred flowery springs,
To load the May wind's restless wings,
When, from the orchard-row, he pours
Its fragrance through our open doors;
A world of blossoms for the bee;
Flowers for the sick girl's silent room;
For the glad infant springs of bloom,
We plant with the apple-tree.
What plant we in the apple- tree?
Fruits that shall swell in sunny June,
And redden in the August noon,
And drop, as gentle airs come by
That fan the blue September sky;
While children, wild with noisy glee,
Shall scent their fragrance as they pass,
And search for them the tufted grass
At the foot of the apple-tree.
And when above this apple-tree
The winter stars are quivering bright,
And winds go howling through the night,
Girls, whose young eyes o'erflow with mirth,
Shall peel its fruit by cottage hearth,
And guests in prouder homes shall see,
Heapad with the orange and the grape,
As fair as they in tint and shape,
The fruit of the apple-tree.
The fruitage of this apple-tree
Winds and our flag of stripe and star
Shall bear to coasts that lie afar,
Where men shall wonder at the view,
And ask in what fair groves they grew;
And they who roam beyond the sea
Shall look, and think of childhood's day,
And long hours passed in summer play
In the shade of the apple-tree.
Each year shall give this apple-tree
A broader flush of roseate bloom,
A deeper maze of verdurous gloom,
And loosen, when the frost-clouds lower,
The crisp brown leaves in thicker shower;
The years shall come and pass, but we
Shall hear no longer, where we lie,
The summer’s songs, the autumn’s sigh,
In the boughs of the apple-tree.
And time shall waste this apple-tree.
Oh, when its aged branches throw
Thin shadows on the sward below,
Shall fraud and force and iron will
Oppress the weak and helpless still?
What shall the tasks of mercy be,
Amid the toils, the strifes, the tears
Of those who live when length of years
Is wasting this apple-tree?
"Who planted this old apple-tree?”
The children of that distant day
Thus to some aged man shall say;
And, gazing on its mossy stem,
The gray haired man shall answer them:
"A poet of the land was he,
Born in the rude, but good old times;
"T is said he made some quaint old rhymes,
On planting the apple-tree.”
Atlantic Monthly for January

RISEN!
O spirit, freed from earth,
Rejoice! thy work is done!
The weary world’s beneath thy feet,
Thou brighter than the sun.
Around! thou art not now
With those of mortal birth;
The living God hath touched thy lips,
Thou <illegble> hast done with earth!
<c02>
The Liberator
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank’s Household."
CHAPTER XIII.
A NIGHT OF TERROR
Dilly busied herself playing “bo-peep” with her baby for the first hour after Hinna left, to keep her tears from flowing too freely. Brave little heart! she oft smiled through them, and brushed them away.
It is true, Bruno was there, but being in affliction because he was left behind, he was poor company. He sat in the corner by the fire-place, with drooping ears of sorrow, and occasionally as he ruminated on the subject, a slight frown of indignation seemed to rest on his countenance.
"Why, dovey, darlin', you are asleep,” softly said Dilly, as with a gently swaying motion she put her baby on the bed. She always called her Dovey, and that came to be its name. So laying the birdie down, she began to look around for other amusement. There were the flowers of yesterday to be arranged in boquets and wreaths—-they were still bright and fresh. Besides, Dilly was ambitious to finish a bright- hued mat before Hinna returned; so she budged about her house -keeping to get time. There was the dusting to be done, yet the fire was to be kept up, and the dinner prepared: altogether, business sufficient to divert the child house-keeper.
She took especial pains with the arranging of her dinner on the table—Hinna, always thoughtful, having cooked it for her previously.
"I'm gwine to play company to dinner, Bruno, and you are the invited guest. I'm gwine to treat you like folks, and see if I can't coax a smile; and if you don't prick up your ears, and put by that naughty frown, I shan't let you go to walk with me, or if I do, you won't catch me loading your neck with flowers-— no indeed!
"There, Bruno, dinner's all ready; an' now come, let's set down. Here's a chair for you. Won't come? gwine to sit there in the corner? Well, then, here's a plate of chicken—the lion's share; can't you smile for that, Bruno? sitting up there in the corner grave as a judge! There, you do really smile, your eye is bright and full, and you're wagging your tail. Thought you’d come to.
"Isn't that good, Bruno?” said she, as he gulped canine fashion." I know You’re ‘tis. You're eating as if you enjoyed it. I thought you’d brighten up. Bruno, you know you’re all the company I've got when Dove is asleep, and I want you to be as agreeable as you can.” But Bruno swallowed down the chicken, and looked up for more.
I'm glad you’ve got a good appetite. Here, Bruno, here 's a nice slice of bread and butter, and here's a piece of cake.
“What I’m gwine to do to-night, Bruno, I can't tell, but you’ll be the brave watch and look out won't you? And you won't let any wicked robbers come an’ tote Dove an’ me off, will you? You shall have all the bloody meat you want for tea, to make you strong, ‘cause Dove and I want to sleep sound, and you must take good care of us.” Then, as she finished her dinner, she brought the dog part of her mince pie, saying, "Did n't I tell you I'd treat you like folks, if you was good?”
Dove awoke just the right time, when the child mother had cleared away, and what with prattling to it, and Bruno, the afternoon passed, and night came. Night the little Dilly dreaded like any other timorous child. At bed-time she had family prayers—good little Christian; then going to bed with Dove in her arms, sweetly slept till morning. Dilly opened her eyes, and found Dove gazing in her face with quiet baby wonder.
"Ah, darling Dove, God's kept us, and we are safe and your little bright eyes are peeping for mine to open. You precious Dove! here's fifty kisses! Dovey, I’m gwine to tend you awhile, an’ then I must get up an’ get my breakfast “and she went on carolling, prattling, and chirping to the babe at her breast, little bird-mother that she was. 
Dilly hadn't the heart to keep Bruno shut up; so after breakfast she opened the door, saying, “Come Bruno, you may sun yourself on the door-step.”
House-keeping and doll-tending kept her busy this day also, as she occasionally ran out to chat with Bruno, and stroke his lion-like head. "Lonely, is you Bruno? Well, never mind, you shall go with marm Hinna, next time. I’m not afeered, I slept beautifully last night, and I’m gwine to to-night!” and in she ran to braid on her mat, and see if Dove still slept.
Dilly, tender, sympathetic Dilly, wouldn’t hurt the feelings of a dog, especially one she loved as she did Bruno. And the more she thought of it, the more she became persuaded that it would be a good plan to send him to Hinna; at least, she thought it would be for his happiness. "Poor fellow! he has n’t been himself since she went away! He's grieving, I make sure. I have n’t the heart to keep him. I'll give him a good hearty dinner, and fit him off.”
"Bruno!” called out Dilly, as he finished his meal of fresh meat and bread and butter, “good fellow! good fellow! Bruno, go to Hinna—go to Hinna. Watch Hinna!“ The dog's whole expression changed, and with full eye looking up in her face, as if he said,—
"Do you really mean so?”
"Yes, Bruno, go to Hinna! Watch Hinna!” still more earnestly said Dilly. And the dog, licking her hand and giving her a look almost human in its intelligence, started slowly off. Dilly went into the house, and watched him from the window. Scarcely was he lost to view when she began to regret that she had sent him; for after the excitement of getting him off, a sense of her loneliness came over her. And by the middle of the afternoon she had fastened the doors, and drawing her little rocking chair near the fire, tried to go on with her mat. She could not braid, however, she was too restless. Then Dove awoke, and absolutely cried, for a wonder. Dilly was afraid to have her cry, almost, and bore her in her arms, and whispered, “hush-a-by baby—hush-a-by baby,” too tmdil to sing.
This was baby-tending in earnest, and how poor little Dilly wished Hinna was there! A long time passed before she had stilled dove by heating her feet and nursing her, when there was a knock at the door. Dilly kept still, and then another knock. “It’s on’y Job! don’t be afeered of me! I reckoned you’d be lonely like,” added he, as Dilly let him in,” an' Hinna told me to keep a look-out for you. I’ll bring you a pail of water from the spring, an’ split up some kindlin’ wood.”
I have never seen it accounted for, why certain old ladies of both sexes are fascinated with telling frightful stories to young folks just when they ought not to, just when they will affect them most disastrously. But so it is.
Dilly was glad to see anybody she could call a friend, while Job was as glad of an opportunity to sit awhile by the comfortable fire, and chat. He was quite a talker, and being now nearly superannuated, was disposed to welcome an interval of rest all the more. His darkened mind was filled with wild superstitions which he strangely loved to repeat.
"Whar's Bruno' asked Job, looking about— “thought he was her hum?” 
"O, Bruno! he's gone to find Hinna,” said Dilly. "'Pears like you’d be lonesome without him. But I nebber like de dogs, since my little Susy died, good many years ago.”
"Don't like dogs! Why not?“ said Dilly, opening her eyes with wonder.
"Why, dey howl, howl so, when anybody's gwine to die. I knowed something's gwine her happen when one night jest ‘fore I got inter bed, massa William’s dog came, an’ sat right under de winder, an’ howl, howl tree times; an' little Susy she fell sick an’ died an' I knew’t would be so when dat ur dog howl?”
<c03>
Oh!” said the susceptible Dilly,” Bruno howled the other night.”
"Sorry to hear dat! somethin's gwine to happen wid ye-'pend' pon it; ‘praps de baby dare's gwine to die; ‘praps Hinna’s nebber comin' back; 'praps de robber’s comin' to break inter de house—don't know,” and he ominously shook his head. "I nebber likes to hear noises in de night; dat's de time dat de warnin’s given 'parently. I aluz listen, listen, ‘fore I git to deep, an’ if dere’s gwine to be a death, de noise’ll come. One night, suffin' come crash agin the house, an’ gib a groan', an' fore de summer was out, Jo he fall from de hoss, an’ break his neck.”
"What do you think it was?" asked Dilly, “that give the warnin'?" 
"Dun' know; dat's what nobody knows, ‘parently; praps ‘t was a dog—"praps 't was—'t was a ghost. ‘Pears like all de dumb beasts know more’n we do “bout de ghosts. You know de good book say, de beast dat Balaam rid saw de angel fust, an' dey can’t talk an’ tell us all dey see, but dey gib de warnin’, pend ‘pon it.
"Now dere's de time when de hosses act so! Nebber shall forget it. Ye see I had de care of de stable, an’ one night I was. jest reposing myself to sleep, all was still as a mouse, not a critter stirrin', when all to onct I heered a right smart noise out to de barn,—te pang! te pang! te pang! Sez I to myself, what’s got inter them are hosses that they is so agitated! I'm bound ter see. So what's I do, though 'twas twelve o'clock, but clap on my duds, an’ light the lantern, an’ go see what made de hosses dat skeery, dat dey break dere halters, an’ gallop round de barn so. But when I done got there, what’s my s’prises'prise ter find ebery hoof layin’ down, an’ fast asleep! I tells ye dat are recurrence made my hair stand up! But I'll git de wood now,” and Job went out for that purpose. He was none of the swiftest of mortals. What with his story telling and wood cutting, the afternoon had slipped away till the sun was low in the sky. As he deposited his last armful on the hearth, hesai d,—
"’Pears like I hafter go; don’t be ‘feard, Hinna’ll be back right smart soon. I’d stay wid ye longer if I could, but massa he say,’'Come back ‘fore night, Job, an' I nebber likes ter trabble up dat lane from de river in de dark. De ghosts come dar mighty early, ‘parently, de trees make it so dark. 'Praps you neber heered ‘bout de time massa saunt me to dat lane on a errant to massa Jones?”
"No,” said Dilly. “Did you see the ghosts there?” 
"Well, I’s gwine to tell yer. I rid Pelham to save time, an’ when I got dere, I got talkin’ wid some of my frien's as we sot around de fire. 'Twas mighty chilly, an’ dey would make me stay an’ take a bite of ash-pone dey was bakin'. Dat are ash-pone, ‘twas sublime! We got talkin' 'bout the haunted lane, whar so many horses gits agitated an’ runs away; an’ Sam Snow he dared me to go back dat way, an’ he dared me to look between Pelham's ears in de lane: dat's de way to see a ghost,’ praps you know! Wall, though I knowed ‘twas mighty dang'rous, I want gwine to be a coward afore dem all; so what's I do but take, him up, though being as he had n't got nothin' to bet, he did n't bet nothin'. 'T want long afore I come to the lane. I never seed sich a place afore nor since. It was mighty woodsy, an’ yit de moon or suffin or urrer, I could n't tell jestly what, ‘twas all teronct, made it jest as light as day. I started, and wished I was somewhere else, but dere want no udder way. I’d got to go through with what I'd undertook. Wall, I rid along, an’ rid along, an’ there was nothin' to be seen but that light, right in de path; all round' twas darker ‘n night. 'T was jest as still as de grave-yard, an’ I thought, may be I'd get horn safe, and pretty soon. I jest looked about a little, an’ dere, ‘long side my hoss, was a great big dog, rackin' pit-te-pat! pit-te-pat! Never heerd of sech a thing! Never seed a dog rack afore! On'y you to think on’t, a dog pacin’ like a hoss! I shall ‘member that to my dyin' day!—pit-—te-pat! pit-te- pat! went dat dog; and Pelham he prick up his ears, an’ sidled ‘long, till I thought he’d go through de hedge. But de dog went away—I don’t know what! An’ den I thought may be the ghosts won't trouble me no more; and I started up Pelham, to git hum rapid, when right quick I seed tree men, an’ not one of ‘em had any head on! An' dey walked on jest a little ahead of de hoss, to one side like; dey did n't stop, nor speak, but kept gwine, gwine; dey did n't make no noise wid dare feet, an dey kept jest so fur from de hoss, whether he went fast or slow, gwine right ‘long widout heads, jest de same as if dey had ‘em! Pelham was dat skeered: he tremble, tremble, an’ shyed, but dey did n’t stop, nor go ‘way, but kept ‘long jest de same like dey was ‘tending dere own funerals, an’ I felt mighty like as if I was tendin' mine! I could n’t speak; de words die right out, an’ my blood creep, creep; but at last I come to de end of de lane, an’ de tree men went away jest as de fog goes off in de mornin'; it's dar one minute, an’ gone de next!”
"Miserable company had Job proved! Dilly, with wide-eyed wonder, had devoured every marvellous word with no means of self-defence. And there with the western sky still aglow with golden rays, she shivered as if the damps of the night air had chilled her through, or glanced furtively about, as if expecting to see a headless ghost stalk in at the open door. But it was the manner, perhaps, more than the matter, that wrought on her plastic mind. Old Job believed what he said. Every line of his wrinkled yet mobile face reflected his sincerity; his tones, also, impressed it, for like his race when excited, his stories which to him had an awful meaning, were set off by the sympathetic cooperation of all the outer and inner man; hands, feet, eyes, bodily contortions, grimaces, all taking apt part in the recital, as easily sweeping' the little, unreasoning, excitable listener into the strong current of his convictions, as the freshet takes along a stray leaf.
Dilly watched old Job till he got to his boat, then quickly shut and fastened the door. She was more than ever in a frightened mood, which was not soothed as twilight fell, and evening came on. The window looked out upon the river, and was furnished with an oaken shutter, that Dilly, by way of precaution, had closed the evening previous. Now she felt safe to leave it unclosed, that she might see the light that glimmered faintly from the nearest planter's house. All else, as far as the eye could penetrate, gave no tokens of neighborly residence. It was indeed a lonely spot that the cottage occupied, and, save that one light, so far away as scarcely to be distinguished, there was nothing but blank, dreary desolation, all wearing a gloomier aspect than was wont to Dilly. The moon climbing through the straggling clouds, the sighing of the wind through the branches, the ripple of the river, the hooting of the owl in the deep woods, all seemed to partake of the unearthly, till at length the view was too painful, and Dilly threw herself upon the bed that the might not see the outer ghostly night scenery. But little rest did the she find there. Her weird fancy once aroused held sway, and her brain teemed with processions of frightful forms. Her head became hot and feverish from excitement and fear.
Poor heart! while cowering before the phantom terrors, she was unconscious of her real danger. It was not the spirits of the other world that such as she should dread, so much as vile wretches that dishonor this.
After hours of suspense she fell into a drowse, from which she was awakened by the knew not what. A flickering flame a shot up from the expiring embers and as she opened her eyes, she saw a face looking in at her through the window. At first she thought she dreamed, but in an instant the illusion was dispelled. That face, with its shaggy red beard, and evil eyes sharply revealed by the glare of the hearth fire! Dilly sprang to her feet, and quickly drew the shutter and fastened it. The movement was so sudden that the intruder, taken by surprise, had no time to prevent, it, and in a moment Dilly listening breathlessly, beard him move off: <Illegible> there was the hum of voices in consultation, then by the sound the heard them
<c04>
going round the corner of the house, and in a moment more the back door was tried. She had been unnerved by the mysterious, but now the was roused by known peril; and breathing a prayer for calmness and strength, she said,— “Who’s there?”
There was no answer, but the door was shaken violently.
“Who’s there, I say?”
"Open the door, and we won’t kill yer,” said a gruff voice with fearful oaths, “but if you don’t open it ter onct, we 'll cut yer throat for yer!”
The voice seemed to take her very life from her; but as the door rattled, the emergency revived her courage again, and she replied, in firm tones,—
"May be you won’t find it so easy killing us all!” stepping as she spoke into Hinna’s boots, and tramping round with a masculine step. It was a child’s stratagem, but it gained her time, for again there was a consultation outside, followed by an interval of silence, then by a mocking laugh, showing that her deceit was discovered; and some one flung himself so heavily against the door as to start it from its hinges. The sound woke Dove, and its cry woke the mother’s instinct in Dilly's heart, and, forgetting all fear, she climbed into a chair, took down Hinna's rifle, ready loaded and capped, and resting it across the top of a chair, as the assailant rushed against the door a second time, she fired. An awful stillness ensued, unbroken even by Dove, for, half-stunned by the report, the babe lay perfectly quiet Then there was a groan, and the confused shuffling of feet, growing fainter and fainter in the distance, as if something heavy was being borne away. Dilly burst into tears of joy at her deliverance, and soon partially recovering from the excitement, crept weak and trembling into bed beside her babe, and, strange to say, ere long fell asleep. Morning was just breaking when the started up as if a thunder-clap had awakened her—the assailants were again at the door, and would now enter. Taking Dove in her arms, she raised the trap-door carefully so as not to disturb the mat that concealed it, and descended to the cellar. The heavy tramping overhead, and the fierce oaths as the house-breakers searched for her in the bed and under it, up the wide chimney, behind the wooden settee, peering into every nook and corner, tarrying only to plunder whatever of value came in their way, was painfully distinct. Would her hiding-place be found? She dared not think of what awaited her in such an event, but shudderingly clasped her babe to her breast, as she crouched in the corner. The search was unsuccessful, for none seemed to suspect the innocent looking mat that they trod upon, until at length a heavy foot stumbled against it, and the trap-door was disclosed.
"Ha! what's this!” said a rough voice, “here’s the place, arter all—I've kotched the bird now!” and he raised the door, and looked into the darkness below. “Jest pass a light, an’ we’ll dig her out ‘fore she knows it!”
A wild shouting, the baying of a dog mingled with those terrible words, the door through which that horrid face peered seemed going round and round, and Dilly knew no more.
When she recovered, she was on her couch again, while Bruno sat licking her hand as it hung listlessly over the bedside, and old Job was bathing her brow with water from the spring.
"Where—where am I? what’s happened?” said she, coming to consciousness.
"Bress de Fader! you’s here, and you’s safe from de kidnappers, an’ Bruno’s here, an’ Hinna’ll be back right smart quick. Don't be feered, honey, old Job’ll take care on ye till Hinna gits hum!”
Dilly's rescue was due equally to the old black, and to the sagacious creature that now looked up in her face so affectionately.
Job's superstitions were for once of service, though the result tended rather to confirm him in them. What Dilly dropped about Bruno’s howling had weighed heavy on his mind, and increased his sympathies for her in her loneliness, so that he could not sleep.
"What's the matter, Job?” his wife would say, as often as he turned restlessly in bed. 
"Somethin's gwine to happen, ‘pend’ pon it, Ara bella,” he would answer. "I has a persuadement somethin's gwine to happen!” And at daybreak the old man, unable longer to keep away, went over the river to see if all was right with Dilly.
Meanwhile, Bruno accompanying Hinna on her return, scouring the country in advance, had struck on a suspicions trail, and following it with nose to the ground and tail erect, was dashing towards the cottage as Job landed. The old negro had a horror of hobgoblins, but was brave in the encounter with mortal foes; and catching sight of the dog, knowing something was to pay, charged after with yells that would have done honor to a tribe of Seminoles, striking panic to the enemy, who, flying to their boat which on their last attack they had drawn nearer the house, made good their escape.

LETTER FROM MRS. E. O. STANTON
WOMEN'S NATIONAL LEAGUE, Room 20 Cooper Institute, New York, Dec. 13, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON,—I was sorry to hear that, at the Decade meeting in Philadelphia, you passed a resolution to petition Congress to amend the Constitution. I hope, on consideration, you will see the bad policy of all specific petitioning,—either to amend the Constitution, impeach the Judges of the Supreme Court, or to place the black and white soldiers on equal ground. The petition for universal emancipation covers all these specific abuses. Slavery abolished, no one will pass behind the fair face of the Constitution for a heart of blackness and villainy.
When not a slave breathes in this republic, we care not for the decisions of Judge Taney or Grier; and when black men have a chance to show themselves the heroes they are, they will soon settle the question of equality. Our work is to secure to them freedom at the earliest possible day. We propose to send in the first instalment of on the 14th day of January, and shall continue to roll up the petitions throughout the entire Union, and so long as slavery exists and there is one man or woman to protest against that execrable crime. The enthusiasm that is steadily growing out of this movement is indeed promising. The petitions are coming in daily by hundreds and thousands. Yesterday, one came in from Wisconsin with the signatures of 900 men and 900 women, all collected by one poor, infirm widow who has lost her husband and two sons in the war. In her letter she says“, "I have registered the names, too, of every man and woman that will not sign the petition, that they may be handed over to the future scorn they so well deserve.” In many of the petitions for women, the place assigned to the residence is filled with facts of husbands, brothers, and sons, who have died in the struggle for freedom. Such is the feeling among the mothers, wives, and daughters of the West. Where they dwell is to them of but little consequence, while they live in the memory of those brave men who have been true to their country. One mail brought petitions from Maine, Delaware, Kansas, and New Orleans, with hundreds of names.
As we keep the petitions from each State distinct, there is a chance to prove “State rights” in this race for freedom! At the last counting, New York was ahead! We who have watched this work in its beginnings, through months of struggle, doubt and discouragement, are now cheered and surprised with the genuine enthusiasm of the people every-where. What we want is the united expression of the friends of freedom against slavery, from Maine to Louisiana. Inasmuch as the petition demanding universal emancipation covers the whole ground, and is already in circulation North and South, do not let us distrust the public, or weaken our action, by changing the form of our petition.
Yours, truly,
E. CADY STANTON. 
W. L. GARRISON
<c05>
THE STATUE OF FREEDOM.
[Correspondence of the New York Tribune.]
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2, 1863.
The colossal statue of “Freedom,” in bronze, by Clark Mills, modelled by Crawford, is to-day set up -on the great tholus surmounting the dome of the 
capitol.
During more than two years of our struggle, while the national cause seemed weak, she has patiently waited and watched below; now that victory crowns our advances, and the conspirators are being hedged in, and vanquished everywhere, and the bond are being freed, she comes forward the cynosure of thousands of eyes, her face turned rebukingly toward Virginia, and the hand outstretched as if in guaranty of national unity and personal freedom.
Perhaps the whole story of that admirable work of art is not generally known. As I see, from my window, the crowd gathered at the Capitol, and as the grand salute in chorus from all the forts around the city reaches my ear, it occurs to me to repeat a couple of incidents for the Tribune.
When the bronze castings were being completed, at the foundry of Mr. Mills, near Bladensburg his foreman who had superintended the work from the beginning, and who was receiving eight dollars per day, struck and demanded ten dollars, assuring Mr. Mills that the advance must be granted to him, as nobody in America except himself could complete the work. Mr. Mills felt that the demand was exorbitant, and appealed in his dilemma to the slaves who were assisting in the moulding. "I can do that well,” said one of them, an intelligent and ingenious servant, who had been intimately engaged in the various processes. The striker was dismissed, and the negro, assisted occasionally by the finer skill of his master, took the striker’s place as superintendent, and the work went on. The black master-builde, lifted the ponderous, uncouth masses, and bound them together, joint to joint, piece by piece, till they blended into the majestic “Freedom,” who to-day lifts her head in the blue clouds above Washington, invoking a benediction on the imperiled Republic!
Was there a prophecy in that moment when the slave became the artist, and with rare poetic justice reconstructed the beautiful symbol of freedom for America?
Another fact. The original model of Crawford was crowned with the old “liberty cap”-loved by our grandfathers for its significance, but fallen into disrepute and disuse under the pro-slavery debauchery of the last twenty years.. When Mr. Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War under Pierce, saw the model, he said at once, “This will never do. We Americans have patronised this absurd ‘liberty cap’ too long already. It was the detestable headgear adopted by the freed slaves of Rome. Let us put it out of our sight!” And with characteristic bad taste, and a fondness for American institutions, for which he has not recently been conspicuous, he ordered that the classic helmet be doffed, and that the goddess be crowned, after the manner of our North American Indians, with a fantastic head-dress of feathers! So the Liberty Cap of Crawford was knocked off, and the barbarous device of Jeff. Davis mounted in its place, consisting of a limpsy eagle skin, with a row of stiff quills, rampant, running down the back, from beak to tail. It is related that when the amended head was finished, and on exhibition in the rotunda, an Irishman, inspecting it, said to his comrade, “Murther, Mike, what quare bird is this, wid his tail on the top of his head?” As it stands to-day, though Mr. Mills gave all his talent for its construction, and interpreted carefully and faithfully the orders which he received, the head-dress is an utter nondescript; and our Capitol is to wear a sign of barbarism for its very crown, because Jeff. Davis, worshipping slavery, despised the significant and grand old “Cap of Liberty.”
A spirited debate has been carried on in the papers with reference to the ponderous shield on which the Goddess leans—a half border, with which the artists have taken the liberty to encompass it, giving it somewhat the appearance of bearing fifteen stripes, instead of the old thirteen. The critics charge that this was deliberately designed to represent the fifteen slave States, instead of the thirteen original members.
This is too bold an outrage for probability; besides, the slight alteration of the shield does not justify the criticism. All frivolous changes in heraldry, and all fanciful ornamentation, are obnoxious to every artistic mind, not less on the ground of ambi-guity than of irregularity; I do not see that this is open to any other objection. There are really but thirteen separate stripes. Besides, all will believe that Crawford, though a Virginian, had too much patriotism to conceive, and, Mills, though educated in South Carolina, too much honor to execute such a wanton and wicked mutilation of our national shield.
[Special Correspondence of the Missouri Democrat.]
WASHINGTON, Dec. 2.
This is the quadrennial anniversary of the death of Old John Brown. It was in the shivering fit caused by Old John’s raid that the subscriber first saw Virginia and the Capital. What a change since then! Northern men hardly dared to walk erect and claim their origin, and Republicans, with a popular majority, just the previous year given through the land, at their back, and the control of the lower branch of the national Congress, had to utter their sentiments with explanations, and qualifications, and apologies. It was necessary that every good Republican speech should be rounded off with a deprecation of the John Brown raid. And when Owen Lovejoy stood up in the House and said, “I will curse Old John Brown,” his friends thought him rash. Well, “old things have passed away, and all things have become new.” The martyr of Charlestown has passed into song and story, and who now curses the rash but brave and lofty-souled old man? Who but the Copperheads?
Was it on account of this day being Old John Brown's anniversary, that it was selected for the crowning of the Statue of Freedom on the dome of the Capitol? I have not inquired, but the coincidence is worthy of remark. It is very seldom that a larger crowd assembles in front of the Capitol than was gathered there to-day to witness this impressive ceremony. It was an occasion to be remembered while life lasts. As the last section of the statue, including the bust, was placed in its position, looking toward the rising of the ran, a shout went up from ten thousand voices, and the cannon pealed forth their glad welcome to the Goddess of Liberty installed in her future home. It was a sublime moment. The statue is a most beautiful one, the expression of the features being grand beyond description. The bronze is, I understand, oxydized, so that it will never change color, but become only brighter as the atmosphere acts upon it. It is nineteen feet high, and stands upon a white marble pediment, upon which the words “E Pluribus Unum” are plainly legible,. The top of the statue is three hundred feet from the base of the Capitol building, which elevation gives it the appearance of the ordinary size of the human figure.
The Capitol now lacks but little of completion. The front of the north wing is finished all but the outer flight of steps. The colonnade, consisting of fluted pillars, with exquisitely tasteful capitols, and an entaclature that is a marvel of artistic beauty, sets off most admirably the architecture of the Capitol, which is liable to the charge of being too heavy in its general features. The group of statuary which has for the past three or four years been in the old hall of the House of Representatives, representing “The Progress of Civilization,” now adorns the pediment of the completed north wing, and nothing could be more appropriate and beautiful. A grouping of statuary will also adorn the pediment of the south wing when completed. On the whole, our nation’s Capitol is not going to have as many defects as people imagined, and when finally completed, which will be within the ensuing year, will be an edifice on which Americans can look with lasting pride.
DEATH OF GENERAL CORCORAN. General Corcoran, who was accidentally killed by a fall from his horse at Halifax Court House, Va, last week, was born in Carrowkeel, County Sligo, Ireland, Sept. 21, 1827. He was a decendant of the Irish General Sarsfield, famous in the wars of James the Second. His father was an officer in the English service. He emigrated to this country, establishing himself in New York, and first obtained prominence by refusing, in his capacity of colonel of an Irish regiment, to turn out at the reception of the Prince of Wales. At the breaking out of the rebellion, though in poor health, he marched at the head of his regiment to Virginia, fought bravely at the battle of Bull Run, was taken prisoner, and remained for a number of months in a Richmond prison.
His reception at New York and Boston, upon his release, will be remembered by our readers.
<C06>
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December 8, 1863.
GENERAL ORDER, No. 42.
In reply to many inquiries, the following Order is promulgated, being condensed from previous Proclamation and Orders:-
I. Veteran soldiers (that is, discharged soldiers who have served at least nine months) will receive from the United States Government the veteran bounty of $402, whether they onlist in any regiment or company now in the field, or in either of the following organizations, viz:- 2d Regt. of <Illegible>Heavy Artillery, Colonel, Franklin; the 56th Regt. of Infantry, (1st Veterans,) Colonel Griswold; the 57th, (2nd Veterans,) Colonel Barlett; the 58th, (3d Veterans,) Colonel Richmond; the 59th, (4th Veterans,) Colonel Gould; or in the new Battalion of Cavalry now forming at Readville, to be attached to the 1st Regiment of Mass. Cavalry Volunteen, Colonel Sargent; or in the other new Battalion now recruiting at Readville, to form part of the 4th Mass, <Illegible> . Cavalry Volunteers, Lieutenant-Colonel Arnold A. Rand. Such veterans will receive the bounty of $402 from the United States, and the full State bounty of Massachusetts, in the manner set forth in the Proclamation of the Governor, of November 18th ult
II. All raw recruits (i.e. those not veterans) will receive the full State bounty who enlist in either of the organisations, new or old, now in the field, or now being raised. Such new recruits will not receive $302 from the United States, but instead thereof, $100 only from the United States. If they join one of the old regiments or companies now in the field; or one of the Cavalry Battalions named above, they will receive $302 from the United States. If they join one of the old regiments or companies now in the field; or one of the Cavalry Battalions and above, they will receive $302 from the United States. By Special Order of the Secretary of War, these two Cavalry Battalions are parts of old regiments now in the field.
New recruits have, however, the right to join any regiment or company not already full, whether new or old , if they choose to do so, and to accept the smaller United States bounty instead of the larger one.
III. To recapitulate. The United States does not pay recruits who are not Veterans of nine months’ service any bounty exceeding $100, unless they join one of the old organization already in the field, including in the term “old organizations,” &c, the two Cavalry Battalions above mentioned.
It pays nine months' Veterans joining any organization, new or old, $402 bounty.
It pays raw recruits $392, who go into old organizations, including the two Cavalry Battalions aforesaid.
The Commonwealth pays her full bounty to all classes of recruits, allowing them to join any regiment or company they please, if there is room to receive them.
IV. The United States officers do not offer any bounty to men of color, nor do they pay them the full wages of a soldier. They pay $10 per month, of which $3 may be in clothing.
This Commonwealth pays the full bounty of $325 in hand on being mustered into the United States services as a Massachusetts volunteer, to ALL soldiers, irrespective of color or extraction; or the soldier may, if he prefers it, receive $50 in advance, and monthly State pay, by way of bounty, $20 per month.
V. By Act of November 16, 1863, this Commonwealth, out of its own Treasury, makes up to the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Volunteers the deficiency in their pay, and a paymaster has already gone to those regiments for the purpose of their payment.
VI. Volunteers now in the field, authorized under orders from the War Department to re-enlist as Veteran Volunteers, and who do re-enlist in Massachusetts Volunteers, (see General Orders, Nos. 33 and 34, from these Head-quarters,) receive the full bounty offered by the United States, and also the full bounty of Massachusetts, of $325 in advance, or of $50 in advance, and $20 per month, at their own election, (see Governor’s Proclamation and of November 18, 1863, and General Orders, Nos. 32, 33 and 34)
VII. Such Volunteers re-enlisting will be credited to their towns against present quotas under the last call.
By order of His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander-in-Chief 
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December, 1863.
GENERAL ORDER, No. 44.
I. Pursuant to authority received from the United States Department of War, a regiment of Cavalry Volunteers, to be composed of men of color, enlisted for three years, unless sooner discharged, is now in process of recruitment in this Commonwealth. It is known as the Fifth Regiment of Massachusetts Cavalry Volunteers.
II. Lieut.-Col. HENRY S. RUSSELL, of the Second Massachusetts Cavalry Volunteers, is designated its Colonel.
III. The United States pays no bounty to the recruits for this regiment under existing regulations, nor wages exceeding $10 per month, including $3 per month for clothing.
IV. But this Commonwealth offers precisely the same bounty offered to all other volunteers, viz: $325 bounty, paid in Massachusetts after the volunteer is mustered into his regiment; or, if he shall so elect, then $50 bounty payable as aforesaid, and $20 monthly bounty or pay, in addition to the pay now or hereafter received by him from the United States.
V. Communications concerning the regiment may be made to Colonel Henry S. Russell, No. 21 School Street, Boston. The regiment will rendevous st Camp Meigs, Readville, Brig.-Gen. Pierce Commandant
VI. The following is the organization of a regiment and of a company of cavalry into the Volunteer Army of the United States, under existing laws, viz:-
REGIMENT OF CAVALRY—Twelve Companies of Troops.
1 Colonel.
1 Lieutenant-Colonel.
3 Majors.
1 Surgeon
2 Assistant Surgeons.
1 Regimental Adjutant, (an extra Lieut.)
1 Regimental Quartermaster, (an extra Lieut.)
1 Regimental Commissary, (an extra Lieut.)
1 Chaplain.
1 Veterinary Surgeon.
1 Sergeant-Major.
1 Quartermaster Sergeant.
1 Commissary Sergeant.
2 Hospital Stewards.
1 Suddler Sergeant.
1 Chief Trumpeter.

COMPANY OR TROOP OF CAVALRY
1 Captain.
1 First Lieutenant.
1 Second Lieutenant.
1 First Sergeant.
1 Quartermaster Sergeant
1 Commissary Sergeant
5 Sergeants.
8 Corporals.
2 Trumpeters.
2 Farriers or Blacksmiths.
1 Saddler.
1 Wagoner.
60 Privates—minimum.
78 Privates—maximum.
VII. The Governor regards with great satisfaction the progress made since the inauguration of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Volunteers. And he confidently contemplates the accession from this Commonwealth to the National Army, of a Cavalry Regiment of Colored Americans, which will illustrate their capacity for that dashing and brilliant arm of the military service. In this hour of hope for our common country and for ourselves; at a time when they hold the destiny of their race in their own when they hold the destiny of their race in their own grasp; and when its certain emancipation from prejudice, as well as slavery, is in the hands of those now invited to unite in the final blow which will annihilate the rebel power, let no brave and strong man hesitate. One cannot aggregate the call sounding in the ears of all men, in whose veins flows the blood of African, and whose color has been the badge of slavery. It offers the opportunity of years, crowded into an hour. It bids them come and be numbered with the peoples of every race, who, by their own arms, have vindicated their right to all the blessings and all the powers of Liberty.
By order of His Excellency, JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander-in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.
ROUND HILL
WATER-CURE.
DR. HALSTED, of Round Hill Water-Cure, Northampton, Mass, has so far perfected his "Motorpathis System" of treatment that many cases of incipient <Illegible> uteri, kindred weaknesses and ulcerations, can be cased by one consulatation, and the following of his instructions. The plan and remedies for self or home treatment are potent and restorative. They dispel pain and weakness isin the back, strengthen the nerves, tone the stomach, and obviate indigestion and constipation.
Confirmed cases and bed-ridden patients can be so much relieved by one visit as to give them faith of ultimate recovery at his institution. Water treatment may be used to tone the system, or it may not; but supporters, <Illegible> or harsh treatment, never. The organ, one only, motorpathically adjusted, no ordinary exertion will displace,; and after a short treatment, its healthy condition becomes fixed and permanent.
This method is so simple and reliable that it is working a revolution in the treatment of woman's diseases. Physicians are cordially invited to test its value. Their attention is also called to his treatment for neuralgic and spinal difficulties, by which the vital forces are renewed, strength and elasticity restored, and broken-down constitutions renovated. The names of thousands of invalids who have been cured at his institution are on record, with a history of their sufferings. Further information will be given, if desired.
Northampton, Mass, Nov. 25.
BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET,
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct. 23, 1863.
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10, Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro’ Sta, BOSTON.
