THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,)to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.36. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1700.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
JEFF. DAVIS CORRESPONDENCE.
The following are among the letters which were found among the private papers of Jefferson Davis at Vicksburg. They are printed precisely as written, Vicksburg. They are printed precisely as written, and reveal the embryotic workings of secession at the period of their several dates.
Letter from Ëx-Governor Reynolds, of Ill.
BELLEVILLE., ILL., Dec. 28, 1860.
DEAR FRIENDS—I write to you because I can not well avoid it. I am, in heart and soul, for the South, as they are right in the principles, and possess the Constitution.
If the public mind will bear it, the seat of Government, the Government itself, and the army and navy, ought to remain with the South, and the Constitution. I have been promulgating the above sentiment, although it is rather revolutionary. A Provisional Government should be established at Washington to receive the power of the out-going President, and for the President-elect to take the oath of the office out of slave territory.
Now I come to the point. All the slave States must separate from the North and come together. The Free States will not concede an atom, but are bent on the destruction of Slavery. Why, in God’s bent on the destruction of Slavery.’ Why, in God’s name cannot the Northern slave States see this fact, as clear as noon-day before their eyes?
The general Secession ought to be accomplished before the 4th of March. Mr. Buchanan deserves immortal honor for keeping down bloodshed. In one hour, by telegraph, he could order Fort Moultrie to fire on Charleston, and the war would rage over the Union. I am, in heart and soul, against war; but the best way to keep peace, is to be able to defend yourselves. 
If the slave States would unite and form a Convention, they might have the power to coerce the North into terms to amend the Constitution so as to protect slavery more efficiently. as to protect slavery more efficiently.
You will pardon this letter, as it proceeds from friendly motives, from your friend,
JOHN REYNOLDS.
To the Hon. Jeff. Davis, and ex-Gov. Smith.
Letter from Prof. Hackley, of New York.
COLUMBIA COLLEGE., NEW YORK, Dec. 26, 1860.
MY DEAR SIR: My sympathies are entirely with the South. This declaration will, I trust, lead you to listen without prejudice to a suggestion in favor of one mode of compromise to which I think the Republicans would accede, and which would secure, in effect, everything which the Southern States desire. Let the Territories remain free from slavery while Territories. This would satisfy, literally, the dogma on which Mr. Lincoln’s election was based. When the Territories become States, let them then, or at any future time, have the privilege of introducing slavery at their own election. Those regions whose climate and productions require it would inevitably become slave States, and afford abundant room for the necessary expansion of your domestic institution.
The objection to this is the intrigues which the Abolitionists would practise when a Territory has to be admitted a State. But the whole energy of the South, backed by the conservatism of the North, would counteract this. It would be troublesome and expensive, but not so much so as civil war.
These considerations may have been already presented, but I have not seen them.
Very sincerely yours,
CHARLES W. HACKLEY.
Letter from Price Williams, of Mobile.
MOBILE, Dec. 14, 1860.
Hon. JEFFERSON DAVIS:
DEAR SIR: You may not recollect me. I was once introduced to you in your city by Gen. C. J. McRea; but, my dear Sir, we all know you, and in this crisis we look with deep interest to your every action. Our States, Alabama, Mississippi, and others adjoining, are becoming more and more united every day in the sentiment of speedy Secession.
I should look upon any delay to attempt any compromise as fraught with the most deadly hostility to our section.
It is the sentiment from almost every direction. We hope our Southern friends will not allow us to be compromised, in any delay, nor in the entertainment of any proposition for compromise.
Do urge our friends to be as the needle to the pole.
It should be regarded as an indignity to the South that Corwin was made chairman of the special committee. I hope no Southern man will dishonor himself by even meeting the chairman in the committee room.
Forsythe, the great disturber here, is this morning declining the use of his name for the State Convention; also D. C. Anderson, who was put upon the Forsythe ticket, has also declined. See Mobile Register of the 14th of December, 1860. This is very indicative. Yancey’s speech here last week had a powerful effect in serving the co-operative affinities. It was a fine effort.
I think all of the prominent men from Georgia, who can be spared from Washington, ought to be in the canvass at home.
When your State shall call you home, (which I hope will be soon,) will you not return through Mobile, and give us a few days’ previous notice, say a dispatch from Montgomery? Our people would like to honor you.
Mr. Yancey gives it as his opinion that three-fourths of the one-hundred delegates to our State Convention will be out and out separate State secessionists.
The only terms upon which I would endertain a proposition for compromise, would be to let the Southern States go into secession.
Let Lincoln and Hamlin resign. Without this feature of their resignation, heed no proposition.
That being done, then to repeal the Liberty Bills, and to amend the Constitution, so that any State, which failing to surrender slaves peaceably, should be disfranchised in the Presidential Electoral College. But why speak of compromise? We are prevented from making any tender, and they do not think of surrendering any important principle. South Carolina will soon put the ball in motion, and eight or nine others will follow rapidly. I am troubling you with too long a letter.
Yours, very truly, PRICE WILLIAMS.
P. S. —I hope Breckinridge will not go to South Carolina with Crittenden and Guthrie. It will greatly damage his reputation South. P. W.
Letter from J. D. M’Pherson.
WASHINGTON, November 19, 1860.
DEAR SIR—The South seems to be thoroughly in earnest this time. I say seems, for we cannot tell what the real spirit of the people is. If they are in earnest—and they ought to be—they can obtain important guarantees from the North. Those who 
<c02>
lead just now in South Carolina, I doubt are the right men to lead the South; but no doubt the right men will come when there is real danger.
If the cotton States will only manage rightly, they can and will be joined by Virginia and Maryland, and undoubtedly by Kentucky. These States will not secede on account of Lincoln’s election merely, but they will join in obtaining guarantees, and if these guarantees be refused, then they may make that a cause for secession.
What guarantees shall be demanded?
1. A veto by the South upon every act of Congress.
2. A right to exclude any candidate from the Presidency.
There are many ways in which this could be effected in substance.
1. By increasing the representation from the South, either according to actual population, which would be temporary, or,
2. By increasing the representation according to area, which would be permanent.
3. By making a two-thirds vote necessary to pass laws in Senate or House, or both.
So far as I gather the sentiment in this region, it is as above expressed, that we have a right, and it is expedient, to demand additional guarantees against the acts of a mere majority of the North, and not a majority of the whole country; but that the accidental victory of a party which is so largely in the minority does not afford ground of itself and alone for our secession.
In Maryland the indignation at the election of Lincoln is greater than I had expected, and I am sure the State will be with you in every step to secure guarantees in the Union, and the concession by the North to us of a sufficient political power to protect ourselves (not to be protected) in the Union.
Yours respectfully, JOHN D. McPHERSON.
Pray do not resign, and thus give up a position which may give essential advantage hereafter. Just the same demonstration can be made, if you please, by refusing to sit after March 3, that Toombs and others make by resigning, to take effect then. If you resign, you leave the way open for some one by some intrigue to get into the Senate. By holding on, you are master of the situation. No one wants a resignation from you as a proof of your devotion. Weaker men have to give a sign. None is required from you.
Letter from Wm. Anderson, of Michigan.
ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN 11th Jany 1861
<illegible> JEFFERSON DAVIS
Dr S Pettition are now in circulation in this States without distinction of parties requesting Congress to adopt the Crittenden Resolutions hoping that it might induce the ablitianest republican to the South their constitutional rights I think it will require a few more details added to the Crittan resolutions to make them acceptable to the South. The line 36 30 should be run through to the Pacific and the Northern States should be compelled to prohibit negro mobs from interfearing with rendition of runaway slaves. But I need not advise as you know much better than myself what measures should be adopted for the security of the South.
The democrats here stand up manfully for the rights of the South we have many firey arguments in our humble way and sometimes blows and bloody noses.
The abalationists are all abalitianists in principal all pulling the same roap negroe but they are cooling down we tell them of the sins they have committed in arraying the North against the South disrupting the Union dividing churches &c. They now plainly if this negro question should be sittled their party would be split to pieces and powerless in future.
I have insisted that Massachusetts refused to come into the Union unless allowed to import slaves for 20 years, and that the time expired in 1808. If this is the fact you will confer a favor by informing me of it and where and what work it may be found.
If this the fact and you or some Democratic Senator would state this in some one of your speeches and where it may be found it would give us a powerful club to break their beads with.
The Surman by Revd Mr. Van Dyke of Brooklyne N Y has done a great good it has been published in nearly all our Democratic papers and published in pamplet form and distributed among the people of both parties.
I take the New York Journal of Commerce some weekly constitution I am formerly from Orange Co N Y 60 miles above the city
I thank you for Mr. Tomes speech is a good one.
Very truly yours, WM. ANDERSON.
Letter from John Cowdon.
HAZLEHURST, 17th Dcr 1860
COL. DAVIS. Dear Sir I hope you will excuse the liberty I have taken, in writing to you so often. The article enclosed is from the Day Book—which has done more to enlighten the whole country on the negro question than all the balance of the papers put together. But without troubling you to read the whole, of the article, on Compromises I call your special attention to the last three or four lines. They should be reprinted and pinned in the hat of nine tenths of our southern congressmen.
The Ball rolls gloriously on here. If old Buchanan has any sense, he will surrender the forts at Charleston to South Carolina this will prevent a collision and bloodshed, which for a time will leave half the Southern States in the Union. But if he does not deliver them to South Carolina that glorious State will open the war the whole South will make common cause—one or two great battles may ensue—where two to four hundred thousand will be engaged the South will be victorious the North will grow sick of the fun for they will have 3,000,000 people at home frying Blood or Bread they will be glad to treat with us—divide property—(Federal) at Washington the army and navy and the territories this will be the end of the whole affair. You will be the Southern Commander and I now—ask the position of one of your aids—if I have got (in your Judgment)-enough sense to fill the place I am your friend JOHN COWDON.
Letter from John Brodhead, of Pennsylvania.
PHILADELPHIA, March 7, 1860.
MR. JEFFERSON DAVIS—My Dear Sir: Can you tell me if Gen. Larmon is likely to remain much in longer in Nicaragua? I should like to go to that country, and help open it to civilization and niggers. I could get strong recommendations from the President’s present friends in Pennsylvania for the place, were the mission vacant, and I think I would prove a live minister.
I am tired of being a white slave at the North, and long for a home in the sunny South.
Please let me hear from you when you have leisure. Mrs. Brodhead unites with me in sending kind remembrances to Mrs. Davis and yourself.
Sincerely and gratefully your friend,
JOHN BRODHEAD.
<c03>
APPEAL OF SOUTHERN CLERGYMEN
"TO CHRISTIANS (!!!) THROUGHOUT THE WORLD."
The "Appeal," from which the following extracts are made, was signed by ninety-five clergymen, declared to represent (and no doubt truly representing) the principal Protestant denominations at the South. It was published in England, as well as in the Southern States. In another column will be found an article referring to it, addressed to the English workingmen, by that distinguished friend of freedom, General Thompson.
RICHMOND, April 23, 1863.
Christian BRETHREN—In the name of our holy Christianity we address you in this form, respecting matters of great interest to us, which we believe deeply concern the cause, of our blessed Master, and to which we invoke your serious attention.
We speak not in the spirit of controversy, not by political inspiration, but as servants of the Most High God we speak the "truth in love," concerning things which make for peace.
In the midst of war—surrounded by scenes that pain the souls of all good men—deploring the evils which are inseparable from national contentions, we feel most deeply impressed by the conviction, that for our own sake, for the sake of our posterity, for the sake of humanity, for the sake of the truth, and, above all, for the sake of our Redeemer’s kingdom, it behoves us to testify of certain things in our beloved land, which seem to be neither understood nor appreciated by our enemies, nor yet clearly appreciated by Christians of other nations.
We put forth this address after much prayer, solemnly invoking the blessing of Almighty God, and committing what we say to that Providence by which we trust we are directed, and by whose authority and power the Governments of the earth stand or fall.
Among all the indefensible acts growing out of the inexcusable war waged against us, we will refer to one especially, in regard to which, for obvious reasons, we would speak, and as becometh us, plainly and earnestly: the recent proclamation of the President of the Untied Stales, seeking the emancipation of the slaves of the South, is, in our judgment, a suitable occasion for solemn protest on the part of the people of God throughout the world.
First, upon the hypothesis that the proclamation could be carried out in its design, we have no language to describe the bloody tragedy that would appal humanity. Christian sensibilities recoil from the vision of a struggle that would inevitably lead to the slaughter of tens of thousands of poor deluded insurgents. Suppose their owners suffered; in the <illegible> more. Make it absolutely necessary for the public safety that the slaves be slaughtered, and he who should write the history of that event would record the darkest chapter of human woe yet written.
But, secondly, suppose the proclamation—as in-deed we esteem it in the South—a mere political document, devised to win favor among the most fanatical of the Northern people, uttering nothing that has not already been attempted, practically, but in vain, by the United States; suppose it to be worth no more than the paper upon which its bold iniquity is traced, nevertheless it is the avowal of a principle, the declaration of a wish, the deliberate attempt of the chief magistrate of a nation to do that which, as a measure of war, must be repugnant to civilization, and which we calmly denounce as worthy of universal reprobation, and against which Christians, in the name of humanity and religion, ought to protest.
What shall sound Christianity say to that one-idea philanthropy which, in the name of an imaginary good, in blind fury, rushes upon a thousand unquestionable evils?
If it were the time for such argument, we should not fear the issue of a full discussion of this whole question of slavery. We fear no investigation; we decline no debate; but we would not, at an hour like this, and in an address which is chiefly a protest, invoke the spirit of controversy. We content ourselves with what we regard as infinitely more solemn; we stand before the world, while war silences the voices of disputants, and men in deadly contention wrestle on fields of blood, protesting against the crimes that, in the name of liberty and philanthropy, are attempted! Let it go forth from our lips while we live; let it be recorded of us when we are dead, that we—ministers of our Lord Jesus Christ, and members of his holy Church, with our hands upon the Bible, at once the sacred chart of our liberties and the foundation of our faith—call heaven and earth to record, that in the name of Him whose we are, and whom we serve, we protest! No description we can give of this measure of the Executive of the United States, even though indignation alone inspired us to utter it, would exaggerate what we regard as an unholy infatuation, a ruthless persecution, a cruel and shameful device, adding severity and bitterness to a wicked and reckless war.
When it is remembered that, in the name of "a military necessity," this new measure was adopted, we may pass by the concession of weakness implied in this fact, and content ourselves with calling attention to the immorality of a necessity created by a needless war of invasion. "Military necessity!" an excuse, not for self-defence, not for self-preservation, but for violating the laws of civilized warfare, and attempting a barbarity. If "military necessity" be the inspiration to attempt emancipation, how shall men praise it as philanthropy? Are other nations uninterested in such conduct? Proclaim the right first to invade and subjugate independent States, exhaust all resources, and then avow the principle of "military necessity" as an excuse to add severity to the wrong, as a plea upon which to project a scheme, violative of every manly, honorable, and Christian sentiment! Suppose an invader happens! to be too weak to conquer upon any other plan, has he, therefore, the right to proclaim that poison and the indiscriminate slaughter of women and children shall be his legal method? The common cause of humanity, and the common hopes of Christian civilization, as they appeal to every nation, cry out against this wretched subterfuge. If the "military necessity" of weakness may righteously adopt any measures that an invader’s ingenuity can invent, or his malice suggest, what laws, what principles of justice and equity, shall nations at war respect?
At one time the world is told "the rebellion’ is weak, and will be crushed out in sixty days; "at another," Union men abound in the South, and will welcome United States troops as deliverers;" and now the invader is so hopeless of his task, that it is a "military necessity" that he obtain help of slaves! May it not be pertinently asked, what, that is creditable to this invasion, ought men to believe, and to what end is this deceitful war waged? When this last resort, like all the enemy’s preceding schemes, shall signally fail, as it certainly will, to achieve the ruin of the South, what is promised? Nothing but war! cruel, relentless, desperate war! Became the President, by his scheme, violates the Constitution, we might condemn him; though the constitutionality of his acts be less important to us than to the people
<c04>
over whom he presides; because he has violated his word, his special promise, and even his solemn oath of office, we might abhor his act; though that is a matter which may chiefly concern his conscientiousness, and illustrate the character of that officer whom Southerners refuse to salute as their President; because of the diabolical mischief intended, we might, in the name of heaven, indignantly denounce this proclamation; though no weapon formed against us be, practically, more harmless. But these are not the considerations which move us to protest: we solemnly protest, because under the disguise of philanthropy, and the pretext of doing good, he would seek the approbation of mankind upon a war that promises to humanity only evil, and that continually.
Let philanthropists observe, according to its own terms, this measure is in no proper sense an act of mercy to the slave, but of malice toward the master. It provides for freeing only the slaves of those who fight against the United States. The effort is not to relieve that Government of slavery, where the philanthropy has full opportunity for displaying its generosity, and the power to exercise it in respect to slavery, if it exist at all, can be indulged; but the effort is simply to invoke slavery as an agent against the South, reckless of the consequences to the slaves themselves. Shall a pretext at once so weak and so base mislead intelligent men, and make them imagine Abraham Lincoln as a philanthropist? His position ought to be offensive to every sincere abolitionist, as well as disgusting to every sincere friend of the slave of every shade of opinion, on the question of Slavery. How does it affect the cause of the Confederacy? If to awaken a deeper resentment than ever inflamed the people of the South before; if to quench the last sentiment of respect that lingered in their breasts for the United States Government; if to unite them more resolutely than ever, and to make it to the individual interest of every person in the bounds of the Confederacy to sustain and strengthen it with every dollar, and every arm, and every prayer, and every energy of manly virtue and Christian encouragement, be to advance the invader’s interest, and give him hope of success, then has the proclamation furnished him opportunity of congratulating himself.
The moral and religious interests of the South ought to be appreciated by Christians of all nations. 
These interests have realized certainly no benefit from the war. We are aware that, in respect to the moral aspects of the question of Slavery, we differ from those who conceive of emancipation as a measure of benevolence, and on that account we suffer much reproach which we are conscious of not deserving. With all the facts of the system of slavery, in its practical operations, before us, "as eye-<illegible> we speak, we may surely claim respect for our opinions and statements. Most of us have grown up from childhood among the slaves; all of us have preached to and taught them the word of life; have administered to them the ordinances of the Christian Church; sincerely love them as souls for whom Christ died; we go among them freely, and know them in health and sickness, in labor and rest, from infancy to old age. We are familiar with their physical and moral condition, and alive to all their interests; and we testify in the sight of God, that the relation of master and slave among us, however we may deplore abuses in this, as in other relations of mankind, is not. incompatible with our holy Christianity, and that the presence of the Africans in our land is an occasion of gratitude in their behalf, before God; seeing that thereby Divine Providence has brought them where missionaries of the cross may freely proclaim to them the word of salvation, and the work is not interrupted by agitating fanaticism. The South has done more than any people on earth for the Christianization of the African race. The condition of slaves here is not wretched, as Northern fictions would have men believe, but prosperous and happy, and would have been yet more so but for the mistaken zeal of abolitionists. Can emancipation obtain for them a better portion?
The practicable plan for benefiting the African race must be the providential plan—the scriptural plan. We adopt that plan in the South, and while the States should seek, by wholesome legislation, to regard the interest of master and slave, we, as ministers, would preach the word to both, as we are commanded of God. This war has not benefited the slaves. Those that have been encouraged or compelled by the enemy to leave their masters have gone, and we-aver can go, to no state of society that offers them any better things than they have at home, either in respect to their temporal or eternal welfare. We regard abolitionism as an interference with the plans of Divine Providence. It has not the signs of the Lord’s blessing. It is a fanaticism which puts forth no good fruit: instead of blessing, it has brought forth cursing; instead of love, hatred; instead of life, death: bitterness and sorrow, and pain and infidelity, and moral degeneracy, follow its labors. We remember how the apostle has taught the minister of Jesus upon this subject, saying, "Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed. And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren; but rather do them service because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort. If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings, perverse disputing of men of corrupt mind and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness; from such withdraw thyself."
This is what we teach, and obedient to the last verse of the text, from men that "teach otherwise"—hoping for peace—we "withdraw" ourselves.
The Christians of the South, we claim, are pious, intelligent, and liberal. Their pastoral and missionary works have points of peculiar interest. There are hundreds here, both white and colored, who are not strangers to the blood that bought them. We rejoice that the great Head of the Church has not despised us. We desire, as much as in us lieth, to live peaceably with all men, and, though reviled, to revile not again.
NOTES.
1.In publishing the foregoing address, it is proper to declare explicitly that its origin was from no political source whatever, but from a conference of ministers of the Gospel in the city of Richmond.
The signatures are confined to this class because it was believed that, on the points presented, the testimony of men holding this office might be received with less prejudice than that of any other. These signatures might have been indefinitely increased. Only a limited number of names—much less than at first intended—was solicited; and as they are still coming in, some will probably be received too late for insertion. These appended represent more or less, fully every accessible section of the Confederacy, and nearly every denomination of
<c05>
Christians. They are ample for the chief objects intended, namely, to bear witness to the Christian world that the representations here made concerning the public sentiment of the South are true, and to carry a solemn protest against the continuance of this fruitless and unrighteous war.
2. From the best sources of information, it is ascertained that the whole number of communicants in the Christian Churches in the Confederate States is about two million and fifty thousand.
Of these, the number of white communicants is about one million five hundred and fifty thousand. Supposing the total white population to be eight million, and one-half that number to be over eighteen years of age, a little more than one-third of the adult population are members of the Church of Christ.
The number of colored communicants is about five hundred thousand. Assuming the colored population to be four million, there would be, upon the same method of computation, one-fourth of the adult population in communion with the Church of Christ. Thus has God blessed us in gathering into his Church from the children of Africa more than twice as many as are reported from all the converts in the Protestant Mission throughout the heathen world.

Selections.
THE CONFEDERATE CLERGY.
The clergy of the Confederate States of America have issued an address to "Christians throughout the world," in aid of their brutal Institution.
It is stitched into the cover of the Edinburgh Review for July. Does the great Whig party whose organ it is intend to endorse the principle? A great many people in the world will think it does.
It has been understood that the organ of one of the religious bodies in England has done the same.
The insulting; document begins, "Christian Brethren"! As if to decent Christians it would not cause the same thrill of amazement, as if we were clapped on the back and entitled brethren by the priests of some nameless Baal in the Cities of the Plain!
They "have put forth this address after much prayer, solemnly invoking the blessing of"—Halt! friend. We have gone far enough.
Was it the incest, the murder, or the robbery, they particularly wished to recommend to the attention of the Power they tempt, by running on the thick bosses of his buckler?
Dr. Livingstone reports that slave-hunting for European supply is on the increase in Africa. What a pity it would be to interfere with the scheme of 
<illegible>
"They" have no rears or the <illegible> They feel a lively faith that the incest, the murder, and the robbery will carry the day, and that they shall rejoice in having been moved "in the simplicity, dignity and purity of Christian duty" to issue this address.
As regards the religious aspect of the subject, it may be left to the Counterblasts that will be issued. Either the faculty is departed from among us, or there will be enough of these to satisfy the heartiest well-wisher.
The time is come when men must either declare themselves, or lie down under foul imputation. The general public has long believed there was nothing too bad to be attempted against laymen. We must at least know who are on the other side
The loathsome document is signed by close upon a hundred of cassocked men, or men in some way or other bearing about with them the insignia of being set apart to teach.
I grieve to see the signatures of twenty who call themselves Methodists. You have Methodists at Bradford; I mean no incivility to the rock whence I was hewn, by counselling you to stop them man by man in the street as you may meet them, and ask them distinctly and severally, whether they are on the side of their great founder, (I have heard him preach, which is more than they have,) or whether they join with these supporters of his "sum of all villanies."
They do not propose to discuss the causes of the war. Nevertheless they say, "The war is forced upon us." There is an old rule in good society, which is to be very moderate in rebuking the mistakes of the clerical. But did not they rise in armed rebellion on the mere whiff and likelihood of constitutional restraint on their abominations? And seize by violence the arsenals, navy yards, and mints of the Government? And overpower by treachery the Government’s troops stationed in Texas, and appropriate their artillery, arms, and munitions? And beleaguer one of the country’s fortresses and seize others, and fire on an unarmed ship with the national flag, sent with provisions to a threatened garrison? The recording angel only knows what they did not do. Acknowledgment is due for the list to some published letters of General Neal Dow; whom God preserve under the peril understood to have befallen him! A time will come when English accomplices will be asked how many of these things may be done, and war be forced upon the doers.
But they cannot hold their tongues. They regard Abolitionism as an "interference with the plans of Divine Providence." Was not the abolition of the slave trade an equal interference? You see what we are being carried back to, and what I fools your fathers were.
Like the devil, they quote scripture for their purpose. "Let as many servants as are under the whip." No, the good and brave Apostle did not say so, nor mean it either. It is the perversion of these Satan’s advocates, who intend it in their hearts.
The thing is cheap, and to be had in all reading-rooms and circulating libraries. Can there be any need to exhort our working classes to read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest it, and take a view of the bed that was prepared for them to lie down in?
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Blackheath, England.

RESPONSE TO THE MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL IN GREAT BRITAIN.
To the Reverend Ministers of the Gospel, and all who love our Lord Jesus Christ in Great Britain: 
The Christian public of the city of Boston and vicinity have received with grateful pleasure the salutation and eloquent expressions of sympathy tendered to them by the Rev. James W. Massie, D.D., LL.D., and the Rev. J. L. Rylance, M.A., accredited Representatives of a large number of Ministers of the Gospel in Great Britain.
The undersigned, a Committee chosen for that purpose, desire to return to you our grateful acknowledgments, and deem it also a fitting occasion to present to you some reasons that have impelled us to give our united support and prayers to our Government in its present protracted struggle to maintain, not only its own honor and existence, but,
<c06>
as we believe, the cause of humanity and of God. The issue of this struggle will affect not only America, but the whole Christian world. If our nation is politically right, it is also morally right, and justly claims the prayers and the approval of all who love the Lord Jesus Christ. Christians in America do not ask for sympathy to strengthen their own convictions of duty, but they do ask that Christians everywhere should acknowledge the divine truth that a rightful and righteous Government is an ordinance of God, and that an effort to establish or perpetuate human slavery, by rebellion and fraud and violence, shall meet with decisive and universal condemnation.
Permit us, therefore, to state the following facts:
The Government of the United States is, and from the beginning has always been, the supreme authority of the entire and one nation, denominated. The United States of America; and the Constitution of the United States of America is the supreme law of this nation, a power ordained of God, rebellion against which is resistance to the ordinance of God. All our officers. National and State, are sworn, and all our citizens are bound, to sustain it. It is to us all that the Magna Charta, Sovereign, Lords and Commons, can be to the people of Great Britain.
This supreme authority of their and our common nation has been repudiated and attacked, not by an oppressed people, but by an oppressing caste of slaveholders, confined to a portion of our territory, and embracing only a portion of that class who have not been able to show that they had been or could be wronged by the Government, prominent men among whom have confessed that they had no wrongs of which to complain, but that they desired to establish a rival system of Government, under which human slavery should be protected and rendered perpetual. The pretext that they had a right to rebel because the President, constitutionally chosen, was displeasing to them is absurd, and the charge of unfairness to their interests in the imposition of tariffs is false.
In attempting to accomplish their bad design, the leaders of this rebellion have for a long time plotted in secret, while holding offices under the very Government which they combined to overthrow, and while solemnly bound by oft-repeated oaths to sustain the Government; they have taken advantage of the confidence and leniency of the nation to possess themselves, by stealth and violence, of large portions of the public property and the means of public defence; they have suppressed freedom of speech and action in the portions of the territory which they could control; they have overawed, or expelled, or imprisoned, or murdered, or forced into their own armies many thousands of the people; they have deluded the ignorant masses in the rebellious sections of the country, by false statements, and have <illegible> government, which subsequent developments in large portions of the rebellious States have proved to be spurious and false; they have sent out emissaries to other nations, who, by untrue complaints of oppression, and by the use of high-sounding words of liberty and independence, and extravagant promises of commercial intercourse and national alliances, and a pretence to aristocratic greatness and worth, which has no foundation to rest upon, having appealed to the sympathy, the ambition, and the cupidity of foreign governments and peoples; they have even pretended to invoke the sympathy of Christians upon their designs; they have resisted the courts and magistracies of their own nation, and are therefore alone responsible, before God and the world, for the destruction of property at home, and the pain and bloodshed and deaths that have marked our great civil war, as well as for the disturbance of industry and the sufferings that have been occasioned by it in Great Britain and France.
For their course they find no sanction in any of the great revolutions among civilized nations which have received the approval of the best expounders of civil and moral law. The revolution to which our nation owes its independent origin was not undertaken for the support of slavery, nor any other confessedly bad institution, nor even primarily for territorial independence, but for the right then denied, since granted by Great Britain to all her colonies, of some kind of representation in the bodies which had power to impose taxation; it was also a struggle to maintain time-honored privileges which had existed from the earliest settlement of these lands, then, for the first time, denied. As well might some disaffected counties of England, Scotland, or Ireland now throw off the authority of Sovereign or Parliament, call in a usurper to reign, and appeal to the example of William the Conqueror for a sanction, as those rebels against a just and impartial Government appeal for precedent to the story of this nation’s birth.
The experiment of a voluntary confederacy of independent sovereignties was once tried, in a transitional period of our nation’s history, and led the people to adopt the Federal Constitution, and become a consolidated power. To appeal to the hour of weakness in our history that preceded the perfection of its Government, for an example, is as wild as it would be for a horde of robbers or malcontents in England to seek to escape from the Government, and set up a rival kingdom, appealing to the time when England, Scotland and Ireland were independent sovereignties, or to the time when England itself was an Heptarchy.
No, Brethren and Friends,—reason and right, law and God require us to defend our national integrity. One nation, peace will soon return to this country, and bind its parts together in fraternal concord. The horrors of civil war will soon be forgotten, when its primal cause, human slavery, is completely removed. Were it possible permanently to divide this nation, frequent wars must result between its parts, other nations would inevitably be involved in these struggles, the commerce and peace of the world would be imperiled and diminished, the great missionary movements of Christian churches in this land, and perhaps in Europe, would be interrupted, and our common Christianity would be disgraced. The fearful war which has arisen from this rebellion has been carried on, on our part, in a patriotic and even Christian spirit, according to the best usages of civilized nations; and we believe that the world has never seen an army, in which so large a proportion of officers and soldiers have been impelled solely by a regard for the cause of humanity and of God, as are found in the army of the United States.
By a divine Providence, our Government has been led, in its efforts to suppress the rebellion, to attack and weaken the evils of slavery, much more rapidly than could have been constitutionally accomplished in a time of peace. The abolition of slavery in the common territories and in the District of Columbia, embracing Washington, the capital of the nation; the execution of a person convicted of being engaged in importing slaves from Africa, and the entering into a treaty with Great Britain more effectually to suppress this trade; the recognition of Liberia and Hayti as nations; the immediate freedom of all the slaves that come within the lines of our armies; the forbidding of our officers to return any
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that tin States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES from the Instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WTTH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war at invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to easy on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal Institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
fugitive slave to bondage; the Emancipation Proclamation of the President, by which about three of the four millions of slaves in this nation were pronounced free, large portions of whom are now actually enjoying freedom; the prospective and certain abolishment of slavery in the two entire States, West Virginia and Missouri; the urgent request of the President to the other border and loyal States, not affected by the Proclamation, to rid themselves of this barbarous institution, and the earnest and open discussion of this proposition by the people of those States; the employment of the emancipated slaves as free laborers by their former masters or others, in South Carolina and Louisiana and elsewhere, under the supervision and protection of our Government; the earnest desire of loyal citizens in the rebel States, that when their respective States repudiate the rebellion, it may be as free States repudiate the rebellion, it may be as free States; and the means of education and religious improvement furnished to the emancipated slaves by voluntary Christian Associations from the loyal States, approved and aided by the Government; all show the genuine purpose of the Government to destroy slavery, and should awaken gratitude among all who oppose that relic of barbarism, and approve the Golden Rule. Moreover, the success which the Lord of Hosts and Great Arbiter of human events has given, and appears to promise to give, to our arms, should awaken the most ardent praise. The capture of Vicksburg and Port Hudson, with all their military force and arms, thus opening the Mississippi River to commerce, and promising to suppress the rebellion in several States; the retreat of the strongest rebel army from Pennsylvania, after a decided defeat at Gettysburg; the flight of the army under Gen. Bragg in Tennessee; the defeat of Gen. Price in Missouri; the discomfiture of Gen. Johnston; the capture of Gen. Morgan and his large band of marauders on free soil; the investment of Charleston and Mobile; the evident disheartening of the rebels and the brightening prospect of success to the armies of the nation, together with the general recognition by the people of all these successes as the result of the divine blessing, ought to unite the hearts of all philanthropists and Christians together in devout thanksgiving to Almighty God.
Since these things are so, the friends of good government and of peace regret that the representatives of American rebels, who have no national organization recognized at home or abroad, and no accredited ambassadors, should receive so much attention and be allowed to exert so much influence among the people of Great Britain and France. They must regret that, by the perversion of commercial freedom, our enemies have been supplied with munitions of war, and that even armed ships have been launched from the docks and sailed from the ports of England, and, manned by British seamen, without visiting the ports of any other nation, but under the unrecognized flag which the rebels have chosen, have preyed upon our commerce, plundering our property, and destroying our ships. If these things loudly call for complaint, be it ours, as disciples of the Prince of Peace, now and ever to discourage warfare, and to exert all our powers to bring about such a common apprehension of the truth, and such a general respect for authority, and such an ardent desire for the coming kingdom of heaven on earth, as shall leap over national lines, bind our hearts in union, and preserve our respective countries from unholy strife.
Again we thank you for your fraternal sympathy, and especially for the expression of your abhorrence of slavery; and, praying that your country may never again be called to suffer the ravages of civil war, but that whatever changes may be needed in your or our national institutions may be brought about gradually and harmoniously, under the benign influences of the Gospel, and that the choicest blessings of Heaven may rest upon you and the churches and people that you represent, we have the honor to be,
Your friends and co-laborers in the cause of Christ,
EDWARD N. KIRK,
EDWARD S. RAND,
Joseph W. Parker,
ERASTUS O. HAVEN,
ISRAEL. P. WARREN,
JOSEPH S. ROPES,
JACOB SLEEPER 
THOMAS N. HASKELI,
CHARLES STODDARD.

WENDELL PHILLIPS.*
BY HORACE GREELEY.
Great orators have been rare in all growing old, is being quietly replaced by Jules Favre; this country, in the course of a hundred years, has known-how many? James Otis; Patrick Henry; Henry Clay; Sergeant S. Prentiss; Wendell Phillips— have there been any others? Daniel Webster’s was one of the largest, brightest intellects; he spoke forcibly, because he thought deeply, saw clearly, and reasoned cogently; but I was never thrilled by the magic of his voice, and would nearly as soon read one of his great speeches as bear him make it. John C. Calhoun’s was a subtle brain: he was rather a metaphysician than an orator; he argued tersely, compactly; if you granted his premises, he would almost compel you to adopt his conclusion; but Clay’s charm was in his manner, his utterance; he wielded audiences and molded senates, but did not, even in life, greatly influence those who never met and did not personally hear him, while his speeches are scarcely read at all since his death. He dealt so entirely with interests, with measures, with details and adjustments, that few even of his happiest efforts bear separation from their immediate impulses and occasions: he spoke warmly and nobly in behalf of South American independence, of the development and diversification of American industry, and of the guaranteed rights of the semi-civilized Indians; but he very rarely dug deliberately down to the primary rocks, and insisted on solving the problem of the hour by the application of universal principles, of eternal truth. Hence, the rapid decline of his reputation as a speaker, while his less popular contemporaries, Webster and Calhoun, continue to be read and admired. Prentiss spent his maturity mainly at the bar in a comparatively rude section, and was excluded by his political affinities from all but a mere glimpse of public life; but the testimony of those who often heard him places him very high on the roll of American orators, and leaves little room for doubt that, with the opportunity of either of the great triumvirate, he would have achieved a wide and enduring renown.
Wendell Phillips has been for a little more than a quarter of a century known as a public speaker. American oratory is so preponderantly boisterous and convulsive—so disfigured by contortions and volcanic fervor of manner, for which ‘the matter ejected affords no adequate excuse—that he has done us good service in the eyes of the judicious by affording a striking example of eloquence without rant, earnestness devoid of vehemence, and fervor without ostentation. While the self-proclaimed antagonists of "fanaticism” have habitually indulged in a style of public discussion which inevitably suggested the vulgarisms “spread-eagle” and splurge,” this arch ”fanatic" has persisted in talking to audiences as quietly, naturally, equably, as though he were conversing with a few chosen friends at his own dinner table, and were commending the most obvious truths, instead of the monstrous and startlingly novel assumption that a man who requires and receives another's labor ought to pay him a stipulated price for it, and that no man should be the absolute owner of another's wife and children, “Silver-tongued” as he has justly been characterized, we think the first impression of almost every boy who hears him is, that oratory is a far easier and simpler achievement than he has been led to suppose it. His words are so happily chosen and enunciated that they hardly seem to have been chosen at all.
But Mr. Phillips is far more than a great orator. He is the eminent apostle of a great renovation. In the fulness of his youthful manhood, with a prosperous and brilliant career opening brightly before him, he deliberately put aside ambition, and devoted his whole energies to the uplifting of the most despised and abused class of his countrymen from the mire into which they had been trodden, and into which millions of reckless feet were fiercely trampling them deeper and deeper. He was a popular member of a proud and powerful party which stood ready to honor and elevate him; he was the ornament of a social circle more attractive, refined, and exclusive than that of any other American city; the bar, the forum, the senate, proffered him eminence and wealth; he spurned them all, and gave all he had and was to.
*SPEECHES, LECTURES, AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILIPS, Boston: James Redpath, 221 Washington street.
<co2>
the cause of the loathed and powerless slave. He cast away popularity without affecting to undervalue it, be excluded himself from the hope of political advancement as utterly AS though he had migrated for life to Dahomey, without a thought or a hope that the sacrifices he made for a detested race and a hopeless cause could be recompensed this side of the Resurrection of the Just. Surely such a consecration, such a man, whatever his speculative errors, must be appreciated and honored by every true and loyal heart.
The distinguishing characteristic of the school of Abolitionists which recognizes William Lloyd Garrison as its head, and in which Mr. Phillips insists on taking a subordinate position, is thoroughness. The absolute right of the slave to his freedom forthwith is not merely the first article of its creed—it colors and controls all the rest. Is it urged that the Bible authorizes slavery? Then so much the worse for the Bible! Does the Church impede the instant advance of the car of Emancipation? Then run the car over the Church! Does the Union require of us complicity with slaveholding? Then shiver the Union! Does the headship and rule of the husband in the family countenance the assumed authority of the master over the slave? Then away with masculine supremacy, and let Woman vote, preach, plead in court, or hold office, precisely like Man! In short, whatever justifies or fortifies the enslavement of human beings is abhorrent and execrable let it be cast to the moles and the bats this instant, and without ceremony! Such I understand to be the essence of Garrisonism.
That this heroic treatment has been at least effective, I do not doubt. And yet I do not realize that it has been so effective as its devotees believe and assert. Here is the radical mistake which pervades the inculcations of this school, and which discolors the fair volume now before me. I readily admit that there was a work for this school, and that they have done it at least faithfully. But it is not true—it is very far otherwise—though Mr. Phillips constantly assumes its self-evident verity, that the great Anti-Slavery revolution of our age and clime owes its existence wholly or mainly to Mr. Garrison and his school. I am not here contending that they were vitally wrong in their views and methods-let those who will discuss this point-I am only asserting that, whether they were right or wrong, the revolution would have occurred without them-more slowly, less thoroughly, if you will;' but it would at all events have occurred. The seizure of Texas; the war in Mexico; the quarrel over the division of the booty; the Nebraska iniquity; the Kansas struggle; the brutal maiming of Sumner; the John Brown raid; the Democratic quarrel and split at Charleston, are not the sole work of Mr. Garrison and his Liberator, and Mr. Phillips overestimates the importance of the part played by himself and his little band in the great drama now approaching its consummation. These sworn foes of Phariseeism have a most Pharisaic conceit of their own work and its consequences, which misleads and unduly inflates them. They assail or else condescendingly patronize men who have been as faithful to their light and as useful in their sphere as themselves. This conceit often distorts and exhibits them to disadvantage,“ Hitch your wagon to a star,” is wholesome advice; but if you should happen to get the notion into your head that you are drawing the star, instead of being drawn by it, you will probably be led into mischievous phantasies and pernicious eccentricities. 
But enough. Mr. Phillips's Speeches and Lectures were well worth collecting; they form a chapter of the history of our age; they seem to have been well edited, and they are very tastefully and handsomely printed. Mr. Redpath has done the reading public a service for which they will doubtless amply recompense him. I doubt that any other living lay man’s collected speeches would sell so extensively as these. New York Independent.
SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips. Boston: James Redpath.
Whatever may be the opinions of individuals as to the ideas to the advancement of which Wendell Phillips has devoted his life, or the temper which he has brought to their discussion, we believe no one ever called in question the remarkable brilliancy, eloquence, and fervid power of his oratory. In all these particulars, he is unequalled by any one of his generation. He has spoken with a frequency which would have exhausted the mind of almost any other man, and almost always upon a single theme; yet there is a freshness and variety in each new treatment of his subject which is truly wonderful, and affords in itself an indication of rare genius. We know of no <illegible>these write one speech a year, and retail it to different audiences. Phillips’s fertility of mind is equal to all occasions, and gives us something new at each one of them.
The present volume contains about half the speeches which have thus far been reported. It is a mine of the rarest eloquence. When the passions, prejudices, and antipathies of the day are forgotten, its pages will be read with an admiration which few works of our generation will command. The great thoughts which abound in it, the elevated ideas it enforces, the ennobling philanthropy which it inculcates, will blot out in the mind of the reader the minor blemishes of the book. For it has these. We are far from being an unqualified admirer of Wendell Phillips. With his persistent warring against the Union through bitter years, we had no sympathy; and his personal assaults upon public men have seemed to us worse than in bad taste. These have been serious drawbacks to his reputation, and have much impaired his usefulness. But posterity will forget and forgive them. They are characteristics which have belonged to all great reformers, and indeed seem almost inseparable from their natures. The men who come after us will only take note of Mr. Phillips's rare honesty and singleness of purpose, his heroic sacrifice of self on the altar of his devotion to a great idea; and, remembering that that idea was one of the noblest, purest, most disinterested that ever man embraced, will honor him as its surpassingly eloquent apostle.
The book, as published, is one of the most eloquent volumes that the American press has yet furnished. It is printed on the finest laid paper, in large, clear type, and bound in vellum.
We are glad to observe that, in a note in its preface, Mr. Phillips pays a high compliment to the phonographic skill of our early friend, Mr. J. M. W. Yerrinton, who has laid so many public men under obligation by the skill with which he has reported their public addresses.-Norfolk County Journal.

WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE SLAVES.
General Hamilton, of Texas, lately sent a letter to the President in favor of the full enforcement of the Emancipation Act in the Southern States. The following are the closing paragraphs:
I know that there are those who, while they desire the freedom of the slaves, are greatly troubled to determine what shall be done with them afterward. And I have also observed that most frequently those who know least of the slaves of the South, are most anxious in mind upon the subject. In three words, the proper policy can be stated:-
Let them alone.
There is no rightful power in the Government to force them from its territory: besides, it will be found that the last masters in the South, and others, will clamor more loudly against their speedy deportation than they now do against their freedom. They will need, and must have, their labor, (not forced, but paid,) until time and a change of population in the South shall furnish an adequate supply of white labor. When this arrives, it is most probable—nay, it is certain-that the black race will begin to desire a home and a government exclusively their own. And then I shall be glad, if living, to see this Government extend a strong and generous hand to assist them. If we will, to-day, take care of the rebellion and its cause, as against domestic and foreign foes, the question of the future of the negro will take care of itself.
By your just Proclamation, you gave the highest earthly sanction to the wise and noble policy of the enfranchisement of the black man; and by his enrolment in your armies, for the defence of the country, you have confirmed it to the benefit of the nation. You will be urged to revoke that act. God forbid that you should listen to such advisers, and so rob yourself of the gratitude and admiration of mankind!
SLAVES TO BE ESCORTED OUT OF MISSOURI. Gen. Ewing, commanding the Department of Kansas, issued an order on the 18th ult., directing that the slaves of disloyal men in the counties of Missouri in his district should, if they wish to leave the State, have a military escort into Kansas. A negro regiment is also to be raised in Kansas.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4,1863.
The Editor of the Liberator has completed his recreative sojourn at old Plymouth, and will hereafter be at his post as usual. He returns to the city very much benefitted as to bodily condition; and takes the earliest opportunity to proffer his, grateful acknowledgments to the Spooners, the Mortons, the Stephenses, the Kendalls, the Thomases, the Russells, the Davises, and others of that ancient and historic town, for their courteous and friendly attentions during his visit-a visit which has been crowded with pleasurable incidents and interesting diversions, and which has revealed far more local attractions for summer excursionists than he had supposed Plymouth to possess. He had the privilege of addressing a large audience in the Unitarian church, on the state of the country, by the request of citizens, on Sunday evening, 23d ult., more than twenty-two years having elapsed since he last spoke in the same desk. The lines of Lowell are as applicable now as when first given by him to the country:-
“Gray Plymouth Rock hath yet a tongue, and Concord is not dumb; 
And voices from our fathers’ graves, and from the future come;
They call on us to stand our ground-they charge us still to be 
Not only free from chains ourselves, but foremost to make free!"

AN UNAUTHORIZED INFERENCE. 
An American correspondent of the Transcript, who writes interesting letters from Germany, has lately reported some decidedly republican, almost revolutionary demonstrations, in the city of Mannheim (Grand- duchy of Baden). The following current expressions indicate the feeling which prevailed there: “There is a free Switzerland, there shall be a free Germany." “Away with the clergy! Down with the aristocracy! Clinging vines they are, which suck up and crush out the fresh life of Germany."
The correspondent who reports these suggestions, while rejoicing at the republican tendencies thus manifested, regrets “to see them marred by such a spirit of hatred to Christianity." This conclusion is to sweeping for the premises. Opposition to an order of clergy who have always combined with the aristocracy; to oppress the people by no means proves, or even implies, opposition to Christianity. The clergy in this case occupy an unchristian position, and the movement against them may be prompted by an express desire to vindicate the religion of Jesus from their misrepresentations.
There is, no doubt, abundance of unbelief in Germany. Hasty observers and sectarian propagandists are apt to lump it together as disbelief in Christianity. So far as it really is so, it is a great misfortune to the individuals concerned, and to the nation. But there is a great amount of misrepresentation on the subject. A clergy which chooses to live in alliance with an aristocratic government, to vindicate its authority as “ordained of God," and to demand of an oppressed people unquestioning submission to its requisitions, will of course brand all opposition to this union of Church and State as hatred of religion, and contempt for Christianity. But a moment’s reflection will show the grossness of the falsehood. The love of true Christianity, that is to say, of the principles and the system of living taught by Jesus, implies the desire for both civil and religious liberty, since oppression, in either department, obstructs the service of God as well as the rights of man. There is no necessary, or natural, or probable connection between liberty and irreligion.-C. K. W.

THE DRAFT.
the Draft has proved a very sure test of the loyalty of the people. As the spear of Ithuriel caused the <illegible> so the Draft, on touching the pseudo loyal copperhead, has revealed him to be a rebel in spirit and purpose, of the most venomous character. But, in some instances, it has shown too ready a disposition on the part of those who are with the Government in sympathy and good will to shirk its trials and liabilities, in a manner evincive of great cowardice or contemptible selfishness. No loftier or more scathing rebuke of all such can be given than is contained in the patriotic sermon recently preached in New Bedford, by Rev. William J. Potter, pastor of the Unitarian church in that city-himself a drafted man, willing and anxious to meet the issue, without fear or favor. Extracts from this remarkable sermon may be found on our last page. Referring to it and its author, the New Bedford Mercury says:-
“Rev. William J. Potter, pastor of the Unitarian Church in this city, passed the Examination Board on Wednesday. Some weeks since, the Secretary of War intimated a desire to see Mr. Potter at Washington. The latter, as we learn, wrote to the Secretary in effect saying that he preferred to abide the operation of the draft-if he passed an examination, he should be subject to orders-if he was exempted, he would then willingly volunteer for any service in which he might be useful to the government. The Secretary rejoined, requesting Mr. Potter’s presence in Washington, so soon as he was examined, and whatever the result. He leaves this afternoon for that city, in response to this request. The object of the Secretary in desiring this interview is a matter of entire conjecture. We are able to say, however, that it was not dreamed of by Mr. Potter, whose single purpose is now, as it has been from the outset, to shrink from no service which the government demands from the citizens, but cheerfully to respond to its claims."

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
BEYOND THE LINES: or, A Yankee Prisoner Loose in Dixie. By Captain J. J. Geer, late of General Buckland’s Staff. With an Introduction by Rev. Alexander Clark. Philadelphia: J. W. Daughaday, Publisher, 1308 Chestnut Street. 1863. 
This is a most instructive and thrilling narrative, every page of it being replete with interest, and the whole expressed in a terse, straightforward manner. The author was born in Rockbridge county, Virginia, June 1st, 1833. Before entering the army of the Union, he had spent some ten years in the ministry, in and around Cincinnati. During that time he received about eleven hundred members into the church. As soon as he heard of the fall of Sumter, he began recruiting for the army of Freedom. He was wounded and captured at Shiloh; and says in his Preface that it is his purpose to narrate simply how, after his capture, he was, on the most frivolous charges, tried for his life before several prominent Rebel Generals, among whom were Bragg and Beauregard; how he was subsequently chained with negro chains, and cast into military prisons and common jails; how, escaping from these, and in company with Lieutenant A. P. Collins, he made his way to the swamps; how they lived in those marshes for three weeks; how they were hunted with bloodhounds; how they were assisted by the slaves in their flight; and, lastly, how, being recaptured, they spent weary months in confinement, and were finally released on exchange from their dreadful captivity. The work contains several pictorial illustrations, and cannot fail to make a deep and salutary impression wherever read and circulated. We shall make some telling extracts from it hereafter. Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1.00, post-paid.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By L. M. Alcott. Boston: James Redpath, Publisher, 221 Washington Street. 1863. Price, 50 cents. 
These Sketches, by Miss Alcott, are deservedly and “respectfully dedicated to her friend, Miss Hannah Stevenson,” of Boston-a noble and good woman. They are overflowing with genius, wit, humor, pathos, and womanly compassion and tenderness. All who read them will greatly relish them.
<c04>
MORE ABOUT AMBULANCES.
We have two more statements respecting the ambulance system (or NO system) in the U. S. armies. One, a reply by HON. Henry Wilson to that letter of Dr. Bowditch., an abstract of which was published in the Liberator of Aug. 21st; the other, a rejoinder by Dr, Bowditch, clearing his case from misrepresentation, and giving additional evidence. The original statement and Mr. Wilson’s reply appeared in the Journal. Dr. Bowditch’s second letter is printed in the Post of Sept. 1st, having been refused insertion in the Journal.
Senator Wilson’s reply states that our ambulance system (claimed by him to be the most perfect the world knows) was established by the commanders of the several armies, in consultations with the Medical Directors of those armies, months before the presentation of his Report, as chairman of the Senate Military Committee, against the new Ambulance bill passed by the House. He says that that Committee “ shrunk from the fearful responsibility of breaking up an organized system made up of 4,000 ambulances, 10,000 horses, and 10,000 picked men-a system that was rapidly advancing in efficiency under the teachings of 400 selected officers, acting under the eyes of Army and Corps Commanders and Medical Directors;” that, before making their Report, the Senate Committee had considered the subject more than two months, consulting with the most eminent military and medical gentlemen, official and private, from all parts of the country; and that they concluded the ambulance system to be Practically well organized and daily improving.
At the close of his statement of the Committee’s doings, Mr. Wilson repeats that it would be eminently hazardous to destroy the system thus established “for the sole purpose of organizing an ambulance corps of raw recruits.” He then gives portions of the General Order issued by Gen. McClellan for the organization of an Ambulance Corps in the Army of the Potomac, and states that Generals Foster, Grant, and other commanders of armies have issued similar orders.
Mr. Wilson then offers testimony from Dr. Bellows, Rev. Mr. Alvord of the Tract Society, and others, that, as far as their observation went, the present arrangements work well, and are constantly improving; and he gives his own opinion that the system can be sufficiently improved “without legislation,” and that the Commanding Generals and Medical Directors will willingly remedy any defects that may be pointed out to them.
Dr. Bowditch, in reply, repeats his conviction that Congress should enact, by law, the provisions in regard to this subject, which now depend altogether too much on individual will, and that the separate individual orders which now constitute what is called “the ambulance system “ should be united and made perfect in one organic whole.
Dr. Bowditch admits the great advantage (in the absence of proper legislation) of the General Orders issued by Gen. McClellan in regard to this subject, and of the similar arrangements since made by some other Generals, in consultation with Medical Directors. He wishes, however, that these benefits, and the further ones yet needed, may be incorporated with the military system by the action of Congress; and that various our details, such as the competence, sobriety and humanity of ambulance drivers, may be more carefully attended to in practice; and that such facilities as are provided may be made more accessible to the army surgeons, when in charge of wounded men upon the field. He quotes the opinions of various army surgeons and military officers in regard not only to the insufficiency, but the ill-working of the present arrangement. One of these represents that, while the wounded were lying about him in every direction through a whole night, he could get no ambulance for them, though “the row of carriages, with their bull-dog drivers, remained in one spot, unused, and within sight, all the time.” Another carried off his wounded on muskets and blankets, not being able to get any of the ambulance department near him. And another speaks of the extra dancers to wounded may <illegible> they often are, by rough drivers, over a corduroy road." 
Fully admitting the improvement wrought for the wounded in the army of the Potomac by the arrangements of Gen. McClellan, Dr. Bowditch fortifies himself with the express testimony of Gen. McClellan, since given, respecting the further improvements needed; namely, that the system of taking men temporarily from the ranks for ambulance duty is not a good one-that men should be enlisted specially for service in the ambulance corps, and should receive a special training for its duties-and that a well-organized ambulance corps is yet wanting to our armies. Dr. Bowditch points out that, in these remarks, Gen. McClellan takes not only the same position with himself and with Surgeon-General Hammond, but the same, also, with that presented in the bill passed by the House of Representatives. 
Dr. Bowditch notices, but does not dwell upon, a piece of unfairness on the part of Mr. Wilson, which was obvious to every reader of the two preceding letters, namely; the insinuation, four times repeated, that Dr. B’s plan was to destroy the present organization, dismiss its officers and members, and put raw recruits in their place. Not one of these things is either expressed or implied in the letter upon which Mr. Wilson comments. If either or all of them were fairly deducible from Dr. Bowditch’s plan, the reproach must be shared by Gen. McClellan, who expressed his approval of it three days before Mr. Wilson’s adverse report, and by the House of Representatives, which voted that it be made a law nineteen days before the same report. But Dr. Bowditch now expressly states that no method of introducing the new plan has been proposed or thought of, other than its gradual engrafting upon or taking possession of the old.
Dr. Bowditch states that-admitting the great advantage of the efforts of noble surgeons and army officers to make our imperfect arrangement of special army “ orders “work into a harmonious whole-they can never attain the desired end while Congress fails of its duty. The blame, he says, lies chiefly with the Senate, which has twice really defeated a good bill; and unfortunately for Mr. Wilson, he has been the agent by whom this error has been brought before the people.
Another circumstance noticed by Dr. Bowditch is the discrepancy between the positions taken in Mr. Wilson’s Senatorial Report and in his letter. The first calls the proposed plan “impracticable,” without attempting to show it undesirable or needless. The second attempts to show it needless, by the representation that a system better than the one asked for already exists. In both these diverse points, Mr. Wilson is at issue with the House of Representatives, which voted the new bill, with Mr. Sumner, his colleague, who privately gave it his support, and with Gen. McClellan, who thought it preferable to his own special arrangement.
In closing his rejoinder, Dr. Bowditch touches lightly upon the slight thrown by the Senator upon petitions and petitioners to Congress, and urges anew a trial of the power of petitions, requesting that every lover and friend of the soldiers should sign the formula already published (in the Liberator and elsewhere) for this purpose.-C. K. W.
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, have just issued the following arrangements for the piano:
La Dame Blanche. From Beyer’s Bouquet de Melodies.
Within the Convent Garden. (Die Nonne von Uhland.) Music by S. Thalberg. 
Echo Idylle By Theodore Oesten.
La Forza del Destino. (The Force of Destiny.) An Opera by Verdi. 
Venice Quadrille. By Charles D‘Albert.
Now Thou art Mine. Ballad by Luigi Arditi.
When first the Bells. Ballad by George Perren.
<c05>
THE WAR IN AMERICA.
LECTURE BY THE REV. DR. ROE. A lecture upon the American war was delivered in the Town Hall, at Bristol, England, on Wednesday evening, August 13, by the Rev. Charles Hill Roe, D.D., formerly for many years pastor of the Baptist Chapel, Heneage street, and who has for the last twelve years been residing in the Northern States of America, has acted as chaplain in the Federal army, and has been a prisoner in the hands of the Confederates. The floor of the hall, which was free of charge, WAS densely crowded, and the galleries and orchestra packed from front to back.
The Mayor (Mr. C. Sturge) presided, and in introducing the lecturer said, although he did not concur with his friend Roe in his fighting propensities, he most heartily agreed with him in his desire that nothing should occur to lead to a war between England and the Northern States, which would be the greatest calamity the world had ever seen. They (the Americans) had a just right to complain of our Alabamas and Floridas, and we, if in their position, should feel perhaps even more sore than they did. Mr. Roe was a volunteer; he was no trading politician. Those who were much younger than he (the Mayor) was, knew him well as a former minister at the Heneage Street Chapel. Mr. Roe had much interesting information to give them. He had been a chaplain in the Northern army, he had been taken prisoner by the Confederates, and as his address would be one of great interest, he would not take up their time with further remarks, but simply introduce the lecturer.
The Rev. Dr. Roe, on coming forward, experienced a very cordial reception. He prefaced his address by expressing his pleasure at renewing his acquaintance with the Birmingham people. He left Birmingham loaded with gifts and kindnesses, and followed by the good wishes and prayers of a large circle of acquaintances, and he came back with the same emotions of affection and gratitude to Birmingham and the people of Birmingham. He was not going to give- them a sermon or a lecture, but something in the shape of a big talk.
It might perhaps be asked why he had left his flock in America to come over here, and before proceeding further he would tell them. He had left, fearing there might be the possibility of the kindling of a war between the old fatherland and the land of his adoption, and that his children might be engaged in hostile conflict with their sons, their blood relations. He came over to do all he could to prevent this. There were delicate silken ties between the two countries, and he wanted to strengthen them.
After observing that he had for years been closely connected with some of the leading men, both Northerners and Southerners, and had had repeated opportunities of making himself thoroughly familiar with the opinions of both sides, the Reverend lecturer said he had come over to tell the people of England what he had learned, and he believed this would tend to cement the union between the nations. Unlike his friend, the chairman, he had been in the wars. In the Shenandoah Valley he had an opportunity of making acquaintance with the rebels. All their ministers had fled, and he preached to them every day. They conversed freely, keeping back nothing, and openly stated their objections to the Union. At Harper’s Ferry, he was taken prisoner by Jackson’s army-not sold, but basely betrayed and given up by that traitor, Colonel Myers, who, if the providence of God had not killed him by the last shell that fell within their lines on that day, some of the Union troops would have done it, so incensed were they at his treachery and baseness.
He had to speak to two classes, the lovers of freedom and the lovers of peace, and he greatly misunderstood the congregation before him if it was not made up of these two classes. They in Birmingham were lovers of freedom and lovers of peace. He wanted to appeal to both parties; and, oh, if the lovers of freedom could but have ridden down beside him on the morning they rode out of Harper’s Ferry, when between 600 and 700 poor slaves were driven through<illegible> given up to bondage their masters, who had come in to claim them when the place was given up, he was sure the lovers of freedom would have felt as he did-that slavery, cover it, and cloak it, and speak of it as they would, was a curse upon the country. (Hear, hear.)
He had been on the battle-field of Shiloh, in Tennessee, where that dreadful battle was fought, which lasted through the Sunday and Monday; and had the friends of peace accompanied him over that terrible field, several miles in extent, seeing those long lines of the graves of their noble Northern boys, and have heard the dying cry of the brave hearts whose life stream was slowly welling from them, they would have felt that war is as much a curse as slavery, and they would unite with his friend (the chairman) in every effort that could be made to bring war, the wide world over, to a speedy and enduring end. (Applause.)
The lecturer then proceeded to speak of the causes of the war, and asked the question-Who made the war? He held in his hand a pamphlet from ninety-eight men who professed to be ministers of the gospel in the Southern States-ninety-eight men who would be expected to love truth, righteousness and freedom, and they said the war was thrust upon them, and that they had always desired peace. Innocent lambs! Always desired peace! Now he hesitated not to0 say in the teeth of these men, that they were the very men who fostered the sources from which the war had sprung-that having preached it in their pulpits, that having proclaimed it at the head of their armies as chaplains, that having thrown it in the teeth of Northern men and Northern Christians until they had hurled it back into their faithless and unchristian throat —yet these were the men who said that the war was thrust upon them, and that they desired peace; yes, just as the highwayman or the housebreaker, who, with his hand upon your throat, and his dagger in his hand, said, “Don’t thrust upon me the necessity of killing you. I only want to take your property." What then was the life of an individual to the life of a nation? (Cheers.) Yet these gentle lambs told them that this war was forced upon them. War forced upon them when they had been preparing for it thirty years. War, when eighteen months before the nomination of Lincoln-before he was politically born —Georgia had voted £300,000 to arm that State for this war; when twelve months before, Alabama had voted £150,000 to arm for that war; when the Secretary of War had ordered every musket that was to be found in the Northern arsenals to be turned into a rifle, and placed 115,000 of them in Southern hands-forced on them by the North-when the Mobile journals encouraged secession, saying we have already stored in different convenient parts of this Southern Confederacy 700,000 small arms and 200,000 revolvers-a million of arms actually prepared long before a single State seceded!
It might be asked, how did he know that they had been thus preparing thirty years before? Why, by their very words, their public speakers, and their boasting. The war was not only got up by the South in the interest of slavery, but it was precipitated. The North was entirely unprepared. The Southerners were ready, we were unready; they were armed, we had no arms; they had scattered our fleets to the ends of the ocean and our troops were in remote territories; they had taken the arms from the North, and carried them South; emptied our Treasury, and then after they had got ready, they tell us here in this pamphlet that the war was thrust upon them. They had determination and strength, we had none but what God had given us our hearts which loved freedom, our souls which sympathized with the oppressed, our own Teutonic Anglo-Saxon blood, our determination to be free and to free others, our ambition to stand high in the midst of our fatherland as men in whose veins, out yonder in that free and great prairie country of ours, the blood of the old fatherland was still flowing. (Loud cheers.)
The leaders of that rebellion were Buchanan’s Cabinet Ministers. Their officers were all elected by perjury and treason, and they did all they could to
<c06>
bring about the secession, and to render the North powerless to prevent it. And they very nearly succeed it was almost a miracle that they did not. The traitor captains of the Northern vessels delivered them up into confederate ports. Ship after ship was delivered up by the cowards at Washington. Slavery had made this war, and we wanted now to kill the one in order that we might kill the other. He might be asked how he knew this, and his answer would be that there was abundant proof of it in their own speeches. When Alexander H. Stevens, Vice President of the Confederacy, was a simple member of congress, he was a decided Union man. He told them that if they broke up the Union because a man was constitutionally elected, that they would destroy the best government that ever man was favored with; that they would not merely destroy the best government, but it might be that they would become demons, and end by cutting each other's throats. These were the words of the Vice President when he was honest man, (laughter) when he was a mere member of Congress. After he became President he said, "The foundation of the Government, its very corner <illegible> rested upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man (hisses )-that slavery, that subordination to the superior race is a natural condition. Our Constitution is founded upon these principles, and is strict conformity with these laws." (Disapprobation) This was not merely the opinion of statesmen, of politicians-statement, it was the opinion of men of the same cloth as he (the lecturer). The celebrated Dr. Palmer, of New Orleans, had said, “It is the special mission of the Southern church to preserve and transmit our existing system of domestic servitude, with the right unquestioned by man to go and root itself wherever Providence and nature may open a way for it" (“Shame”) If the Southern church had no better mission than this, he would say may it perish!(Hear, hear.)
The southerners had looked upon cotton as the all powerful means of bringing this country over to their side; but they had been mistaken, for a supply of cotton was being rapidly prepared from other sources. As to the blockade, the Reverend speaker said, that when two or three unimportant fortresses were destroyed, and Charleston was laid where it ought to be, under salt and ashes, then the blockade would be at an end, but not till then. The election of President Lincoln was not the cause of the war, but the occasion of it. In answer to the inquiry that was sometimes made, "Will the negroes fight? “the Reverend gentleman gave some very interesting an ecdotes of deeds of daring performed by the negroes during the war, and expressed his belief that they would not only fight, but fight well. The mention of Gen. Butler’s name was the single for a storm of disapprobation. Gen. Butler was too old a head to run against the chivalrous feeling which every American felt for the ladies; but in New Orleans there were a lot of vixens who took every opportunity to insult the Federal officers, and Gen. Butler said, “If they persist in it, treat them as we treat the disorderly women of the town-put them in the calaboose shut them up for the night"(Cheers and hisses) It cured them; it was an effectual cure; they never had to shut any of these vixens up. The lecturer mentioned another similar instance in Alabama, and said that some of these Southern vixens were fifty times worse than the men.
In conclusion, the lecturer stated his views and his hopes with reference to the termination of the struggle. His hope was, that “Father John” would keep his hands off a little longer. (Hear, hear.) We should then have plenty of cotton and everything we could want, and the whole of the crew of the filibustering greedy, territory- desiring people would have passed away and perished forever. Let England keep her hands off a little longer, and leave them to finish it among themselves. The war was not carried on savagely, ruthlessly, barbarously; very far from it. He thought their President would compare favorably with any man in a similar office for long-suffering, patience, and a great unwillingness to resort to strong measures. Their Generals, he thought, also might bear comparison with some of the greatest Generals that had ever lived. One thing he wished to give a word of advice about, and that was the building of pirate vessels in this country for the rebels. It did not injure the commerce of the United States to a great extent-—it only made marine insurance a little higher-but it was a breach of faith between Parties that should be united, and it destroyed confidence. Finally, he cautioned them not to believe the statements of the New York World and Herald, papers published on Northern said but supported by Southern agents.
The Rev. Dr. Roe concluded a lecture, which lasted over two hours in delivery, by regretting his inability to compress all has facts into the limits of a single lecture, and promised to give a series of lectures on the same subject at some future date.
The proceedings were brought to a close with complimentary votes of thanks to the lecturer and to the Mayor.

BRITISH ABOLITIONIST MOVEMENTS.
On Thursday evening, the 25th of June an Anti-Slavery soiree and conversation took place at the Athenaeum, Bristol. Mr. Handel Cossham presided, and opened the meeting with a speech in favor of the North. Mr. George Thomas moved the first resolution:-
“That this meeting, while abstaining from any expression of opinion as to the past or present conduct of the fearful war now desolating the American Republic, desires to record its approval of the principal of non-intervention, and to express a hope that our representatives in Parliament will support the Government in opposing Mr. Roebuck’s motion for the recognition of the so-called Southern Confederacy."
Mr. A. Warren seconded the resolution, which was carried unanimously. Mr. Robert Charlton moved the second resolution:-
“That this meeting rejoices in the development and growth of Anti Slavery feeling in the Northern States of the American Republic, as indicated by the admission of colored representative from Liberia at Washington, the abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia, the entire suppression of the African slave-trade, and the treaty with our Government for giving effect to that object; the offer to purchase the slaves in the loyal States, with a view to their freedom; the abolition of the abominable Fugitive Slave Law: the permission of colored children to attend the public schools; and also in the election of a President and Government distinctly pledged to the non-extension of the system of Slavery in the territories of the Union."
The Rev. J. Burder seconded, and Mr. J. Foster supported the motion, and it was carried unanimously. Dr. Davey proposed the third resolution:- 
“That a petition to Parliament praying for the non-recognition, at present, of the Southern confederacy be signed by the chairman on behalf of this meeting and be forwarded to our representatives in Parliament, and that they be respectfully requested to support its prayer."
The Rev. R. Morris responded, and Mr. H. Thomas supported the motion, which, with the petition, was unanimously agreed to. A vote of thanks to the chairman terminated the proceedings.
On the same evening, a large and enthusiastic meeting was held at Brierfield, Marsden, for the purpose of discussing the great American struggle. After a long and eloquent address by Davis, Esq., of High-field, it was unanimously resolved to send a petition to Parliament against recognizing the slaveholders’ Government. The chair was ably filled by R. N. Whillam, Esq., solicitor, of Burnley.
C. EDWARDS LESTER, a literary adventurer with the little talent, and less reputation, has been arrested for treasonable communication with the enemy. Lester was a clerk in one of the departments. How he got there, is one of the mysteries of our politics. He is an old anti-slavery renegade.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A HINT TO CONSCIENTIOUS FRIENDS.
FRIEND GARRISON-On perusal of the excellent letter liberator of August 21st, address to yourself and the country by a Peace “Friend,” who signs himself by the very appropriate name of Alfred H. Love, a sympathizing reader who warmly appreciates the “loyalty and patriotism” of the writer, so dubiously exhibited by the majority of Peace men, self-called, is induced to inquire whether these valuable virtues could not or would not be employed by the Government in a way more agreeable to the conscientious scruples of all those true friends of peace who do not ignore their equally binding obligations of true and loyal citizenship, than in the active duties of war.
In another column of the same number, an article appears, headed “Justice and Humanity to Soldiers,” giving a summary of the exertions made by Dr. Bowditch to improve the condition of the Ambulance system in our armies, and suggesting that every effort should be made by humane citizens, and friends of the soldier, both white and colored, to carry this admirable and necessary reform into effect.
Here, then, it would seem, is just the field for the large, wealthy and benevolent body of “Friends,” and for all isolated sincere lovers of peace, to enter upon with personal activity, with the influence of their name and standing, and especially with contributions of that money which conscientious scruples deny to the War Power for war purposes. Let a private fund thus raised be appropriated to the pay of a worthy and skillful ambulance corps, under, perhaps, the superintendence of the noble Sanitary Commission, and provided with able animals, comfortable wagons in abundance, and sanitary stores in good order for the immediate relief of the wounded.
Such private munificence, accompanied by the exertions of personal energy in carrying out the details of this plan, would surely stimulate or shame the official regulators of our present ambulance system to adopt more efficient measures in regard to the prompt relief of the wounded. Perhaps Government might ultimately be induced to adopt and maintain as its own, the private corps thus organized.
At all events, ”Friends” might, with entire consistency, adopt such a body themselves; and, with all due deference and respect, we trust your Christian correspondent will carry his “loyalty and patriotism“ into effect by some such effort as is suggested in your paper; and that “Friends” in Philadelphia and else where may lend their aid and countenance thereto.
A FRIENDS OF PEACE AND LOYALTY.

COLORED CITIZENS OF BEAUFORT.
At a meeting of the colored citizens of Beaufort, North Carolina, held at that place June 22d, 1863, for the purpose of taking into consideration certain measures for bettering the condition of the African race in that State and county, the following resolves were unanimously passed:-
Resolved, That by the laws of this and other Southern States of the Union, we have been subjects of the most abject slavery, have long been a down-trodden people, have been used and bartered as chattels, and, furthermore, denied all rights of citizenship whatever, and all social interests pertaining to the rights of human beings—have been denied all knowledge of letters, that we might the more easily be made subject to the will of the dastardly slaveholders.
Resolved, That by the Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, President of these United States, we are free, and that we will ever endeavor to maintain our freedom by word, deed and act, at all hazards; and that, as opportunity is now offered to us to become soldiers, and take up arms in defence of our rights and for our liberty, we will do so to the extent of our ability.
Resolved, That we will call for the sympathy of the free States of the North and of foreign powers-that as it regards them, should any interference ever be made, it may be in our behalf, and so redound to the liberation of the whole African race of these United States.
Resolved, That we will tender our heartfelt gratitude and sincere thanks to Messrs. Garrison, Phillips, Sumner, Wilson and others, who have these many years pleaded in behalf of our race, with that unmistakable sympathy which becomes the philanthropist whose heart beats for his countrymen in bonds, as bound with them.
Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be presented to the Liberator or others newspaper published in the city of Boston, Mass., for publication.
Resolved, further, That copies of the same be sent to the people of England and France, requesting their sympathy for us and our whole race in this our present political and very critical crisis.

COLORED REGIMENT OF OHIO.
On the 4th day of August, a large number of colored people of Ohio met in convention at Xenia. Many of the most distinguished and influential men among them were in attendance. The proceedings of the Convention were in all respects harmonious. At 12 o’clock on the day the Convention met, a procession, said to be a mile long, formed in the Country Fair Grounds,(where the Convention held its sittings,) and marched to the depot to meet John M. Langston, Esq., who was to address the meeting, in the afternoon, on “The Hour and the Duty of Colored Men to the Government.” On account of sickness, Mr. Langston did not speak until the following afternoon. He was listened to with marked attention for over two hours. And as he spoke of the duty of the colored men of Ohio to come forward, and fill up the regiment now rendezvousing at Camp Delaware, he was heard with demonstrations of the liveliest interest.
The following preamble and resolutions, adopted at this meeting, utter in unmistakable terms the sentiment of the colored men of Ohio, as to their duty towards the Government, and their determination to meet it:-
Whereas, We, the colored citizens of Ohio, this day assembled at Xenia, in view of what has already been done by the President of the United States, and the general Government, in behalf of the Africo-American, have unshaken and increasing confidence in Abraham Lincoln, our President, in his administration and the General Government; therefore,
Resolved, That we stand as ever on the side of the Government, and pledge to it “our lives, our property, and our sacred honor,” in its efforts to subdue the rebellion of the slave oligarchy of the country, in its determination to emancipate the slaves of all rebels, to establish freedom in the District of Columbia and the National Territories, to welcome Hayti and Liberia to the great family of nations, to recognize the citizenship of the native-born colored American, and to protect the colored soldiers, who, taking the American musket and bayonet, have gone forth at the call of their country to do and die for the Government and the Union.
Resolved, That we are proud of the heroic conduct of the colored soldiers who fought at Milliken’s Bend and Morris Island, vindicating as they did, by their noble and manly behavior, their claim to the admiration and respect of their countrymen.
Resolved, That it is the duty of the Colored People of Ohio to fill up at once, by volunteering, the colored regiment now being formed at Camp Delaware.
We understand seven companies of able bodied colored men have been mustered into the service at Camp Delaware. The regiment is filling up quite rapidly. Every day brings new accessions to its numbers. We also understand that Mr. Langston, agent of the State of Ohio, for Major G.L. Stearns, is sparing no effort to fill up the regiment as soon as possible. Mr. Langston feels that his efforts in connection with this regiment will prove altogether successful, and that he will be able to present to the Government a regiment of valiant negro soldiers.
The men are well pleased with their officers, as far as they have been appointed, and well satisfied with their treatment in camp.
<c02>
GOSPEL PREACHING.
BR. GARRISON,-A week or two since, a young minister from Hill, N. H., exchanged desks with the clergyman of Andover, N.H.; and he, thinking to draw his inspiration from above, instead of descending to the pews for it, took the Christian liberty to denounce American sins, instead of preaching every Sunday as many do against the sins of Assyria, Babylon, Egypt, and Judea; at which effrontery, a pro-slavery man, of some wealth, arose and said that this house being dedicated to religious services, and not to the preaching of politics, the minister must stop, or else be should give but five minutes for the minister and congregation to clear the hall; at the expiration of which time he should lock the door. The minister said he should go on to preach his own sentiments, if he preached at all; at which the copperheads began to rave and swear, hustled the minister down stairs, and had it not been for two or three influential men present, who chanced not to be drunk, the minister would have received the same treatment that those do who tell the truth at the South. For years, I know from personal experience that if a minister utters a word against slavery, injustice, drunkenness, uncleanness, whoredom, &c. the party calling themselves “Democrats” (though they have no more right to assume the name than the devil has to assume the name of Christian) take it that we mean them, which shows plainly that the coat nicely fits them. They “want the minister to preach the gospel,” which, in their estimation, means to preach against the sins of the ancients, and ignore those of the moderns. If it is not the duty of the preachers to denounce the sins of the present age, and hold up for example the terrible retribution which followed the vices of past ages, that men may be warned by their fate, then we are sadly mistaken. But a few of the congregation at Andover sympathized with the young minister. He was not at first aware that he was in a congregation, composed almost wholly of those who derived their inspiration from the rum bottle, instead of the fountain of absolute justice and truth. But the most shameful of all was, that they required him to draw up from their stagnant cesspools of abomination and filth, the fetid, putrescent effluvia of slavery, instead of imbibing the pure crystal nectars of life, liberty, and true righteousness. H. E.

ILL ASS (Anglicus) IN A NOOSE
THOMAS RESARTUS. (to Tom sans cullote). “Tom, you unfathomable dolt, I find you grub for a livelihood, instead of wearing your vest, and living in ease as I do. Bless me! you will never look fit for heaven, you—!”
TOM. “Soft, sir Thomas! That is my affair. Brush up your clothes, and take your through ticket for paradise. I’ll speak the truth, and take the risk of getting there sometime. Let me hoe my row.”
THOMAS. “No I won’t. I’ll hire you for life.” (And would awfully like to, but don’t see exactly how:- besides, there is a halter round his literary neck that only needs to be tightened a little).
Extract from a letter, dated Kingston, (Mass.) August 31st, from our esteemed coadjutor, Aaron M. Powell, of Ghent, (N.Y.) now on a visit to the Cape:
“I had an excellent meeting here yesterday, and met with a very cordial welcome from several Liberator readers. The men and women, educated by a twenty years’ perusal of the Liberator, (or Standard,) and are still attentive readers-they are solid men and women of this period. Their underlying faith in the Right, because it is Right, and in Liberty for its own sake, is most refreshing. They are the standard-bearers in God’s true church of Freedom.
You have doubtless noticed the recently reported arrest of C. EDWARDS LESTER as a spy! What a remarkable career his has been! An anti-slavery minister in Utica—the early coadjutor of Gerrit Smith— a delegate to the World’s Anti-Slavery Convention in London-author of the “Glory and Shame of England”-appointed “our Consul at Genoa”-a New York city “Democratic“ politician-the correspondent of the London Times-a “Know-Nothing”-a “Union” man-appointed to a clerkship under the present administration-a notorious hard-drinker- and now under arrest as a Rebel spy! I was made acquainted with him at the beginning of my lecturing I experience in the first anti-slavery meetings I attempted to hold. He was sent for by some pro-slavery disaffected Methodists to disturb and break up my meeting, and did effectually his appointed work.”
Extract of a letter from a soldier of the Massachusetts 54th (colored) regiment:-
MORRIS ISALND (S.C.) Aug. 5,1863.
We had a meeting here the first of August, Sergeant-Major Douglass in the chair, and the principal speaker a young colored man from South Carolina. Only think of that! in the sight of Sumter, within a few miles of Charleston, the hotbed of slavery, and I centre of rebeldom!
NO COMPROMISE. Gen. A.J. Hamilton, of Texas, has written President Lincoln a very forcible letter on the importance of refusing all compromise with returning rebel States. He says that the proclamation is irrevocable; that discretion and power ceased with the act which, in the exercise of constitutional power, proclaimed freedom to the slaves in the States it embraced. He entreats the President not to listen to the advice of the friends of slavery, and so rob himself of the gratitude and admiration of mankind.
A NEW MAP FOR THE PEOPLE. We have received from the publishers, B. B. Russell, 574 Washington Street, Boston, Lloyd & Co.’s great County Map of the United States. This map has just been engraved, and includes each entire county from the northern boundary of our great lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the St. Croix to the golden shores of California, containing all the towns, rivers and mountains, &c., made famous by the war, and not on other maps. It is 40 x 50, beautifully colored, and is sold in sheets at 60 cents each, mounted $1,25.
The late Col. Robert G. Shaw won high regard from his superior officers in his short but brilliant career at the South. By the following letter, it will be seen that Gen. Gillmore has fully endorsed the merited eulogy of Gen. Saxton:
Headquarters Department of the South, Morris Island, S.C., Aug. 11, 1863. General: 1 have seen in the papers your address “to the colored soldiers and freedmen of this department,” on the heroic conduct of Col. Robert G. Shaw, Fifty-Fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry.
I desire to add my testimony to the worth and gallantry of that estimable officer and gentleman. He was not only a good, but a brave man; brave indeed to a fault, and I feel his loss severely.
Should an opportunity offer, I desire you to convey to the friends of the deceased, and to your subordinates in this department, the assurance of my high appreciation of his transcendent patriotism and valor.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Q A. GILLMORE
Brigadier General Commanding.
Brigadier General R. Saxton, Military Governor, Commanding at Beaufort, S.C.
A collection was taken on Sunday morning in the Baptist church of Beaufort, in aid of the fund for the proposed monument to the late Robert G. Shaw. Sixty dollars were contributed. The colored people seem to take a great interest in this effort to hono0 Col. Shaw’s memory, and we learn that a large sum has already been promised by the different colored regiments. There are now six regiments of colored men in this department, and a little energy is all that is required to raise a monument honorable alike to the noble dead and to the donors.—Beaufort Free South.
A new native African journal, entitled the Anglo-African, was issued at Lagos on the 6th of June last. It is edited and published by Mr. R. Campbell, who went out with Dr. Delany, about three years ago.
Frederick Douglass has discontinued his newspaper in order to give his exclusive attention to organizing colored regiments in the West, in conjunction with Adjutant General Thomas.
<c03>
GARIBALDI’S ADDRESS TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN. The following is the address signed by the Italian liberals, beginning with the name of Garibaldi, who also wrote the address:
“CAPRERA, Aug. 6th, 1863.
To Abraham Lincoln, Emancipator of the Slaves in the American Republic:
If in the midst of your Titanic battles, our voice can yet reach you, let us, O Lincoln, free sons of Columbus, send you a word of good wishes and of admiration for the great work that you have begun.
Heir of the aspirations of Christ and of John Brown, you will pass to posterity with the name of the Emancipator-more enviable than any crown or any human treasure.
An entire race of men, bowed by selfish egotism under the yoke of slavery, is, at the price of the noblest blood of America, restored by you to the dignity of man, to civilization, and to love.
America, mistress of liberty to our fathers, opens again the solemn epoch of human progress; and while she astonishes the world by her gigantic daring, she makes us sorrowfully think how this old Europe, which also fights so great a battle for liberty, finds neither mind nor heart to equal hers. While the revelers in despotism raise their bacchanalian rejoicings over the fall of a free people, let free men religiously keep sacred the day of the fall of slavery. There are mysterious parallels in history—the robbery of Mexico and the Lincoln proclamation. Prosperity to you, Abraham Lincoln, pilot of liberty; hail to all you who for two years have fought and died around her regenerating banner; weal to you, redeemed sons of Ham-the free men of Italy kiss the glorious marks of your chains.”

MRS. BEECHER STOWE AND THE LADIES OF EDINBURGH. It will be recollected that in the month of January, we published a letter from the Edinburgh Ladies’ Emancipation Society to Mrs. H. B. Stowe. The following is part of the reply which has just been received: “The great work of liberation, thank God, is substantially done! Thank God, we live to feel that Slavery is ended. No more coffles! no more slave-markets! no more scourgings! no more fugitive slave laws! Instead, free labor! and an intelligent, well-trained black army! My youngest brother, Colonel James C. Beecher, writes from Newbern, North Carolina, where he has gone, under General Wilde, to assist in raising a negro brigade: ‘The negroes had been expecting, praying for them, week after week, and the first three days 500 men enlisted. In each soldier’s tent you may see a spelling-book for each man; in the intervals of drilling, they are cleaning their camp ground; and when all is done, they sit down and study spelling-book. The colored women of Newbern, who last year were slaves, met, and subscribed, in ten and five-cent pieces, 100 dollars, their offering for a flag for the brigade. My dear friends, a thousand grateful and pleasant recollections of good days in Scotland crowd upon me as I write, but I am cramped and confined by neuralgia, which is brought on by writing, and cannot say much.”-Scotsman.

A VALLANDIGHAM GERMAN PAPER REPUDIATED. The “Arbeiterbund,” or Workingmen’s Association of Cincinnati, at a meeting held on the 20th ult., unanimously adopted the following:-
Whereas, There is a party which calls itself shamelessly by the name of the Democratic party, and which asserts liberty to be licentiousness and anarchy, and that the liberty of the press is a justified means to undermine the free institutions of the people of the Union and establish a Government with slavery as its basis, spreading treason abroad, and which sympathizes with the damnable rebellion of the South, and provokes opposition to the legally constituted Government and laws; producing desertions, mobs, murders, and incendiarism.
Among the papers of the disloyal party, the Cincinnati Volksfreund is one that does homage to all this; aforesaid blamable tendency in the highest degree, and in spite of all moral rectitude and truth. We, as citizens of the United States, hold that the liberty of the press is an essential part of our liberty. Therefore we cannot be silent when it so disgracefully, shamefully and dangerously abuses this fundamental principle.
Therefore, be it Resolved, That we condemn the Cincinnati Volksfrea, and which bears the convict traitor Vallandigham at its head, and we look upon it as a degeneration of the German press, and declare it to be a production deserving the contempt of every loyal citizen.

WHERE THE MOB CAME FROM. The following is the vote of Governor Seymour’s “friends,” November, 1862:
Seymour. Wadsworth.
Mackerelville, 570 58
Five Points, 312, 68
Corlear’s Dock, 465 40
Mary Street Dance-house, 360 15
Thirty-three other Districts of equal respectability 10,522 1535 
12,664 1681
Seymour’s majority, 10,981, or more than his entire majority in the State.
These election districts figure on our police books as containing two thousand seven hundred and forty-three groggeries, two hundred and seventy-nine notorious brothels, and one hundred and seventy places where thieves and ruffians habitually resort, one hundred and five policy shops, with gambling and dance-houses to match, and also embrace the haunts of the murderers, robbers and incendiaries who figured in the recent “Reign of Terror.”-N.Y. paper.
THE COLORED SOLDIERS. The State Central Committee of the Fremont Legion of colored soldiers give the following notice of the removal of headquarters from Utica to Brooklyn, where colored recruits from New York and its vicinity will hereafter be received:
“ All colored men who have obtained lists of colored volunteers for the war, and all who wish to serve either as privates or sergeants, and all white men who have obtained lists of men, are earnestly requested to immediately transmit such lists to the headquarters of the Central Committee, which has been transferred from Utica to Brooklyn, N. Y. A large number of men are already enrolled—more are wanted at once; and all persons who can raise troops are hereby fully authorized to enroll names and send them to this headquarters as soon as possible, to the end that we may offer ourselves in a body to the government at the earliest possible date. The Fremont Legion ought to be organized and presented at once, to show the government that we mean business. Respectfully,
“P. B. RANDOLPH,
“President New York State Central Committee. Headquarters, Brooklyn, N. Y.”
THE NEGRO TROOPS WILL FIGHT. The following letter affords testimony on this point, from a well-known source, which cannot be controverted. It fully substantiates all that has been said as to the bravery of the Massachusetts 54th:
BEAUFORT,S.C., Aug.7th 1863.
SEANTOR WILSON-
Dear Sir: Knowing that you feel an interest in the fate of the 54th Massachusetts, as well as in the problem of the human races, I will drop you a line to assure you that slander will not affect the reputation of that regiment in the two battles in which they have taken part.
I saw them march along to the assault as steadily and sternly as the most veteran of the battalion. I saw them plunge bravely into the terrible abyss of death, which the darkness of night was rapidly concealing from view. As to how they fought, there is the long list of the fallen. As to how far they went,! there is the fact of sixty being captured within the fort, and so admitted to me by the rebels under the flag of truce.
I can testify that they bore their wounds with the heroic fortitude of the most determined veterans, and they died as nobly.
Very respectfully,
A. C. HAMLIN,
Medical Inspector U. S. Army.
OUR COLORED TROOPS. The following extract from a letter dated Fort Blunt, Cherokee Nation July 30th, 1863, from a Captain in service under General Blunt to his relatives in Boston, will be found in teresting, and furnishes strong testimony to the value of this branch of the service:
“At the outset, I was very much opposed to fighting with negro troops, but I have now been in two fight with them, and they fight like heroes; they were a that saved my company from being cut to pieces. A Indian regiment was ordered” up to support the 2 regiment of Colorado Volunteers, but they could not get them to move-. Meantime the enemy were detecting all the fire of a whole regiment on Company B, (the company I am with now,) when the order were issued for the first (colored) regiment to advance to the support of the battalion of the 2d Colorado, <Illegible> they (the colored regiment) rushed in with a will, <Illegible>an received the fire, and let our men shift their <Illegible>position a little to the right and more in advance, preparator to our charging the enemy’s field works.
Among the trophies, or rather among the camp an garrison equipage taken, were a thousand shackler and the rebel prisoners say that they intended their for the colored regiment. This will be remembered by them in the coming fight, and will cost many a rebel life, have what fortune they may.”
Captain Daniel J. Preston, of the 35th regiment has been appointed Major of a colored regiment, an ordered to report at Newbern, N.C.
<c04>
NEGRO SOLDIERS. There was never any excuse for the scepticism as to the negro’s capacity for fighting. The slaveholder never showed it, and never had it. Years ago, Henry A. Wise said in a letter to South-Side Adams: “With white officers I would fight a regiment of them against any foreign troops which could land on our shores. They are faithful and they are brave, and more disinterested than the white man. They are joyous in temperament and patient, as their nerves are coarse and strong.” And he followed up this with the following elaborate eulogy on the race as a whole: “The descendants of Africa now here in bondage in the United States are en masse, as a whole wealth of people, in bodily comfort, morality, enlightenment, Christianity and actual personal freedom worth more than their mother country entire, not excepting the Europeans there combined with the natives.” What Africa is worth per foot or acre, it would be difficult to say, but Wise’s estimate of the value of the negro race is a high one. If he had said worth more than the whole copperhead party, he would have greatly under-estimated their worth.— “Warrington,” in the Springfield Republican.
RE-ENSLAVING FREEDMEN. The Washington Chronicle publishes the following extract from a letter of the Hon. Robert J. Walker, (now in England,) to a friend in that city:-
“Since the victory at Gettysburg, and the fall of Vicksburg and Port Hudson, suggestions appear that President Lincoln should recall the emancipation proclamation. This would ruin the cause here. The proclamation was legal, and as such it did emancipate the slaves, and they are now free. How can Mr. Lincoln-enslave them? The past is irrevocable, even by Almighty power. Besides, it would be a breach of faith to the slaves; and in view of their heroic conduct in battle, equally unwise and unjust.”
THE CAPTURED NEGRO SOLDIERS.The Southern papers report that Jeff. Davis has placed the soldiers of the Massachusetts 54th and other colored men captured at Fort Wagner at the disposal of the State authorities of South Carolina. If this be true, they will not be exchanged, and President Lincoln’s retaliatory policy will doubtless be put in operation.
THE SCOURGED SLAVE’S BACK. The London Anti-Slavery Reporter of August 1st says:-
“A remarkable photograph has been reproduced in England by Mr. Jones, photographer, Oxford Street. It is a facsimile photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running crosswise and lengthwise, the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. The “card” came from the United States, over which the New York Independent and the National Anti-Slavery Standard recommend it should be sown broadcast by the 100,000. We think a good distribution of it among those in our own country, who are anxious to promote a recognition of the slaveholders’ Confederacy, would do no harm. It tells a tale which even Mrs. Stowe could not match, for it appeals not to the understanding alone, but direct to the eye. It may be had at the Anti-Slavery office at Is. 6d. each.
HOW GEN. PEMBERTON WAS KILLED. The St. Louis Democrat gives the following particulars:
He was on his way to Montgomery, Alabama, where a military court of inquiry, to inquire into the causes attending the surrender of Vicksburg, was ordered to be held. While at Selma, Alabama, he was approached by an officer of a Texas reigment, who accused him of selling Vicksburg to Gen. Grant.
This the rebel General denied, when, after further conversation, General Pemberton attempted to shoot the Texan, who, however, before he had effected his purpose, drew a revolver and shot Pemberton, the wound producing almost instant death. Our information as to the death of this double-dyed traitor is derived from the parties direct from Greenwood, Mississippi, where the report is generally credited.
A QUAKER IN TROUBLE. The New Bedford Mercury thus relates the trials of Friend Taylor. He sighs for “peace” in vain:
“We learn that Samuel Taylor, of Fairfield, Me., President of the late Democratic Convention in that State, visited the city of Lynn, on the 17th inst., and remained two nights when he was obliged to leave. The cause of his departure was the feeling excited in that usually quiet city, by bills posted about the streets, containing extracts from Samuel’s copper-head speech on taking the chair of said Convention. Our readers have seen in our columns specimens of the speech, remarkable not only as coming from a professed follower of George Fox and William Penn, but as the language of a man heretofore reputed to possess common sense. He found it as unprofitable to take his shoes to Lynn, as it is said to be to carry coals to Newastle.”
DIALOGUE. The Boston Transcript produces the following brief dialogue between Uncle Sam, Secesh, and Copperhead, which has a point, to say the least:
Secesh. Stoop down here, Uncle!
Uncle Sam. What for, Secesh?
Secesh. I want to cut your throat!
U. S. Guess not. It don’t want cutting.
Copperhead. Yes, stoop down, Uncle!
U.S. What! do you, too, want to cut my throat?
Copperhead. O, no-never! I would not do such a thing for the world! I only want to hold your arms pinioned behind your back while Secesh cuts it. That is very different, you see.
U.S. No, I don’t see it.
FAMILY DROWNED. A shocking catastrophe occurred recently in Black River township, Lorain county, Ohio. Mr. Herwig, a Protestant German, with his wife and five children, set out about eight o’clock in the morning, in their wagon, to attend church at Amherst. About an hour afterwards, as some men were crossing the bridge at Beaver Creek, they saw two horses struggling in the water. The neighbors were alarmed, and the horses extricated. When the carriage was drawn out, the bodies of Mr. Herwig, his wife and five children, comprising the entire family, were found in it, quite dead. It is supposed that in crossing the bridge the horses became frightened, and backed off into the river, where, becoming entangled in the carriage, all the seven were drowned.
THE NEW COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE. Edward L. Pierce, who has been appointed to the position made vacant by the death of Dr. Stone, is a young man of energy and ability. He is by profession a lawyer, but has considerable literary talent, and has written articles upon public affairs which have attracted attention at home and abroad. The latest of these is a contribution to the Atlantic Monthly. Like his predecessor, he is a personal friend of Secretary Chase, who gives this prompt indication of his own estimate of his capacity.-Roxbury Journal.
CUBA. It is said that upwards of 25,000 slaves from Africa had been imported into Cuba during the last year. When a cargo arrives, the slaves are distributed over the plantations, and the vessel burnt. There are only three small vessels to guard a line of coast of 1,500 to 2,000 miles. Great fears are entertained in Havana that the sugar crop would prove a failure, and that not more than half the estimated yield would be produced.
FREE NEGRO LABOR. Dr. M. F. Banzona, the distinguished New Orleans philanthropist, and formerly a large slave owner, says the policy of employing slave labor in Louisiana has been entirely exploded by the recent experiment with free labor among rice and cotton planters. Large crops are raised at less expense to the grower with free labor than with slave labor.
PEACE MEETING. A copy of the Raleigh (N. C.) Standard, just received, contains numerous reports of peace meetings held throughout the State. This is the first movement in the Confederacy to end the war, and bodes no good to the fast-crumbling Richmond dynasty. That journal still maintains its fearless and high-toned course against the Davis conspirators. The revolution there is fast ripening.
DEATH OF THE WIFE OF ADMIRAL FOOTE. The death of Admiral Foote has been speedily followed by that of his widow, which-occurred at her father’ residence, in New Haven, on Wednesday evening, the 26th ult. The New Haven Journal says she has been ill ever since the decease of the Admiral, but only a few days ago she was able to take the air in her carriage. Mrs. Foote was forty-seven years of age. Two sons are the only survivors of the Admiral’s family.
BLACK TROOPS FOR REBEL SERVICE. The following report which comes in a Fortress Monroe despatch dated on Saturday is, of course, to be received with very great caution, the probabilities being altogether against its truth:-
“Rebel papers received at Morehead City says that Jeff. Davis has decided, after a conference with the Governors of Confederate States, to call out five hundred thousand black troops, who are to receive their freedom and fifty acres of land at the end of the war.”
The Richmond Enquirer speaks rather contemptuously of Beauregard’s protest “on the ground of humanity,” and thinks that his protest will be of little use, unless he can disable the batteries that throw shells five miles. The Enquirer thinks that Sumter can never be surrendered.
<c05>
THE DEATH OF GOE. W. COLLAMORE. GEN. COLMORE, Mayor of Lawrence, Kansas, was suffocated to death by damps in his well. When he first discovered the guerillas in town, he went into the well, and his hired man named Keith Covered it up; after the trouble was over, the man went to the well, and found the General at the bottom. He went down, and unfortunately met the same fate. A neighbor, named Lowe passing along, went down to rescue both of them, and was also suffocated.
The Lawrence outrage is the most barbarous act of the war. It was an unmitigated outbreak of the most malignant passion, and equals in cruel ferocity the worst scenes which history records. The men engaged in it were unworthy the name of warriors. They were only cut-throats and butchers and find their fitting counterpart in the howling mob of Gov. Seymour’s “friends” in New York city.
The fellow who figured as the leader in the late guerrilla raid upon Lawrence is described as a blackleg and adventurer of the worst sort, heretofore resident in Lawrence. His real name is not Quantrell, but Hart. He has seen service as a spy and freebooter generally.
The citizens of Platte county, Mo., illuminated their houses in honor of Quantrell, on Saturday night, the 22d ult.!
KASAS CITY, Mo., Aug. 31. Lieut. Colonel Clark, with the 9th Kansas cavalry, returned last evening from the pursuit of Quantrell’s gang through Jackson, Cass and Johnson counties, Missouri. His command killed 40 perpetrators of the Lawrence massacre. Other companies have returned to their respective posts, having killed or wounded several of the bushwhackers. Among the killed is Capt Estes, recruiting officer for Marmaduke.
The whole number of guerillas killed, as far as known, considerably exceeds a hundred.
The Draft in New York is finished. In spite of the ardent wishes of secret traitors, the most profound quiet was preserved-not a riotous face was seen. The whole number drawn is a little over 19,000, or one in six of the number enrolled of the first class, and one in five of the voters for President-the highest vote ever cast in the city.
The rebel President has placed the soldiers of the Mass 54th, and other colored men captured at the assault of Fort Wagner, at the disposal of the State authorities of South Carolina. This makes it certain that they will not be exchanged, and calls for the retaliation policy heretofore announced by President Lincoln.
The investigation into the burning of the steamer Ruth seems to show pretty clearly that the $2,600,000 in charge of Major Brinton was entirely destroyed by the fire.
A tornado swept over Buena Vista,. Wis., on Friday last. Every house was blown down, three persons killed and fourteen wounded.
Edward Lloyd, Esq., a wealthy Welshman, well known on the London stock exchange, blew his brains out recently in despair at losses by the confederate loan.
The Buffalo Express says that nineteen substitutes from that city escaped on Friday night on the way to Elmira. They put out the lights in the car and jumped from the train. It is said that five were killed.
A despatch from Memphis states that over 100,000 (probably 10,000) bales of Confederate States cotton have been captured near Natchez.
The Federal Grand Jury, under charge of Judge Trigg, recently found three hundred indictments at Nashville, for treason and conspiracy, against the leaders of the rebellion in that State, and among the guilty culprits indicted are some prominent clergymen.
Seventy-five locomotives and six hundred cars have been destroyed on the Mississippi railroad since the first investment of Jackson, Mississippi.
Among the 12th Ward (New York) conscripts is James Gordon Bennett, Jr. of the Herald.

THE “PECULIAR INSTITUTION” ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross-wise and lengthwise-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. “This card photograph,” says the New York Independent, “should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye.” Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LEBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE. The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
NOTICE.-Letters or papers for THEODORE D. or ANGELINA GRIMKE WELD, or SABAH M. GRIMKE, should be directed to West Newton, (Mass.) instead of Perth Amboy, (N. J.) until further notice.
LECTURES BY AARON M. POWELL.-The friends of the cause of the enslaved on Nantucket, Cape Cod, and in the Southern portions of this State, will doubtless be glad to hear that our faithful and indefatigable coadjutor, AARON M. POWELL, will visit their localities in the course of the next ensuing weeks, to address the people on the momentous issues of the present hour. We bespeak for him an attentive hearing.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at
Nantucket, Sunday, August 6.
Barnstable, Tuesday August 8
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Natick, Sunday, Sept. 6, at half-past 10, A. M., and 2 and 7, P. M.
DIED-In Lancaster Co., Pa., on the l14th of August, AMOS GILBERT, in the 81st year of his age.
Descended from an ancestor who liberated his slaves from a conscientious conviction that man had no right to property in his fellow-man, before the Commonwealth led the way in legislative emancipation, he was true to the hereditary principles of his family, bearing a firm and constant testimony against American slavery, in season and out of season, and was actively engaged more than half a century ago in aiding fugitives in their efforts to escape from Southern bondage. He was, for some time, editor of The Genius of Universal Emancipation, established by Benjamin Lundy, with whom he was on terms of personal intimacy.
He discharged this duty at the capital of the nation, at a time when to speak the truth of the Great American Crime against Humanity exposed the friend of liberty to the danger of assassination. His testimony was so faithful to the last, that more than one Abolitionist who bad lowered his standard to the mere support of “the Union and the Government,” was offended with his stringent applications of unadulterated truth; and he died as he lived, unpopular with all but the perfectly faithful.
May his reward be that of the just made perfect, and may our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ receive him into his blessed kingdom!
We have long known and regarded the deceased friend, whose death we are now called upon to record, as one of the most upright and faithful of the Anti-Slavery host-as a fearless investigator and lover of the truth, an independent thinker, and a friend of progress and reform in their widest manifestations. He was, occasionally, a contributor to the columns of the Liberator, his style always marked by clearness and precision, and his suggestions or criticisms worthy of consideration. A truly good man has departed.-[Ed. Lib.
On the 6th of August, of congestion of the brain, at the residence of his father-in-law, Thomas Hambleton, ELIAS Weaver, aged 32 years, Professor of Natural Science in the State Normal School at Millersville, Pa. [Obituary notice next week.]
THE UNAVAILING CRY: A Sermon for all Times. By Rev. Alexander Clark, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor.” Just published-price 10 cents, post-paid.
Address W.S.& ALFRED MARTIEN. Publishers, Sept. 4. 606, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
<c06>
SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND
LETTERS,
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
FIFTH THOUSAND.
In One Volume, Crown Octavo, 570 pp.
Three editions of this classical work are issued. The Library Edition is printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich English green and maroon velum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with, an excellent portrait of Mr.,Philips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, it in presented as a choice triumph of American workmanship, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture.
The Boston Post characteristics it as “a luxurious style of book-making.” Price 32 25. This edition will be sold by Agents only, until the first of January next.
The Trade Edition is printed from, the same type, but on thin, common paper with the portrait in cheaper style, and bound in boards. Price $1 50.
The People’s edition is on the same paper, but without a portrair, and in paper covers.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Philips himself, and contains about one-half of his published speeches that have been reported during the last ten years. It is the only collection of his speeches extant.

CONTENTS:
I.
THE MURDER OF LOVEJOY. Mr. Philips’ First Speech in Boston, delivered Dec.3, 1837, which at once established his fame as one of the ables, of living orators.
II.
Woman’s Rights. Speech at Worcester, Oct. 15,1851, with the Resolutions embodying the whole philosophy of the Women’s Rights Movement, prepared and presented by Mr. Philips.
III.
Public Opinion. Jan. 28,1852.
IV.
Surrender of Sims. Jan. 30,1852.
V.
Sims Anniversary. April 12, 1852.
VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. 
Jan. 27, 1853.
VII.
Removal of Judge Loring. Feb. 20, 1855.
VIII.
The Boston Mob. Oct. 21,1855.
IX.
The Pilgrims. Dec. 21, 1855.
X
Letter to Judge Shaw and President 
Walker. Aug. 1,1859.
XI.
Idols. Oct. 4, 1859.
XII.
Harper’s Ferry. Nov. 1, 1859.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown. Delivered at the Grave of the Martyr, Dec. 3, 1859.
XIV.
Lincoln’s Election. Nov. 9, 1861.
XV
Mobs and Education. Dec. 21, 1860.
XVI.
Disunion. Jan. 20,1861.
XVII.
Progress. Feb. 17, 1861.
XVIII.
Under the Flag. April 21, 1861.
The war for the Union. December, 1861.
XX.
The Cabinet. August 1,1862.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune. Aug.16,1862.
XXII.
ON TOUSSAINT L’OUVERTURE. December, 
1861.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police. April 25, 
1863.
XXIV. 
The State of the Country. May 11,
1863.
Agents wanted in every country of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular,
“A book no woman can read without tears.”
JUST PUBLISHED.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
By Miss L.M. Alcott.
Price 50 cts.
Several of the Sketches in this volume were published serially in The Commonwealth, and were widely copied by the press, receiving eulogistic notices from several journals, and calling forth many private letters of thanks from readers. A few extracts must suffice to show what was thought of them:
“They are received with universal favor.”—Commonwealth.
“Productions of uncommon merit   Fluent and sparkling in style, with touches of quiet humor and lively wit, relieving what would otherwise be a topic too sombre and sad, they are graphic in description and exhibit the healthful sentiments and sympathies of the cheerful heroism that would minister to the sick and suffering. The contrast between the comic incidents and the tragic experience of a single night, given in No.2 of the serles, is portrayed with singular power and effectiveness. “The death of John’ is a noble and touching feature.”-Boston Transcript.
”Graphically drawn. • • • Exceedingly well written—and the graver portions of thrilling interest. There is a quiet vein of humor, too, running all through them, so that the reader is alternately moved to laughter and tears.”-
Waterbury American.
“To say that I thank you for writing them from the bottom of my heart, would but poorly express the sentiment which dictate to me this minute, and to say that 1 I feel humbled by the lesson which they teach me, is to pay a tribute to them which I fancy will be rather unexpected. These papers have revealed to me much that is elevated, and pure, and refined in the soldiers’ character which I never before suspected. It is humiliating to me to think that I have been so long among them with such mental or moral obtusness that I never discovered it to for myself, and I thank you for showing me with how different eyes and ears you have striven among “the man” from the organs which I used on the very same cases and at the same time.” -From a Hospital Surgeon.
[From Henry James] ••• It would be tedious to you to hear how much pleasure an old man like me has taken in your charming pictures of hospital services, in The Commonwealth; and how refreshing he found the personal revelation there incidentally made of so much that is dearest and most worshipful in woman: so I will not dwell on those particulars, but say all I have to say to this summary form, to wit: that I am so delighted with your beautiful papers, and the evidence they afford of your exquisite humanity, that I have the greatest desire to enrol myself among your friends. *** With the liveilest respect and affection, yours,
Newport, 10 June.

IN PREPARATION
THE BLACK MAN: (Being Biographical Sketches of 58 Colored Men and Women of genius and talent). By William Wells Brown. 12mo. pp.320. with a steel engraving. Third Edition. Ready Sept.10.
LIFE OF TOUSSAINT L’OVERTURE. Illustrated with a portrait and map of St. Domingo. Price will be announced Sept.1: will be issued about Sept. 15.
THE MORALS OF EPICTETUS. Price 25 cents. Ready September 15.
Agents wanted, to whom liberal terms will be given. Orders from the Trade solicited.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street.
BOSTON.
Poetry.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FIFTY YEARS.
For the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Class of Williams College which was graduated in 1813.
BY WILLIAM C. BRYANT.
Long since, a gallant youthful company
Went from these learned shades. The hand of Time
Hath scored, upon the perishing works of man,
The years of half a century since that day,
Forth to the world they went in hope; but some
Fell at the threshold, some in mid career
Sank down, and some who bring their frosty brows,
A living register of change, are here,
And from the spot where once they conned the words Written by sages of the elder time,
Look back on fifty years. Large space are they
Of man’s brief life, those fifty years; they join
Its ruddy morning to the paler’ light
Of its declining hours. In fifty years
As many generations of earth’s flowers
Have sweetened the soft air of Spring, and died;
As many harvests have, in turn, made green
The hills, and ripened into gold, and fallen
Before the sickle’s edge. The sapling tree
Which then was planted stands a shaggy trunk,
Moss-grown, the centre of a mighty shade.
In fifty years, the pasture grounds have oft
Renewed their herds and flocks, and from the stalls
New races of the generous steed have neighed
Or pranced in the smooth roads. In fifty years,
Ancestral crowns have fallen from kingly brows
For clownish heels to crush: new dynasties
Have climbed to empire, and new commonwealths
Have formed, and fallen again to wreck, like clouds
Which the wind tears and scatters. Mighty names
Have blazed upon the world, and passed away,
Their lustre lessening, like the faded train
Of a receding comet. Fifty years
Have given the mariner to outstrip the wind
With engines churning the black deep to foam,
And tamed the nimble lightnings, sending them
On messages for man, and forced the sun
To limn for man upon the snowy sheet
Whate’er he shines upon, and taught the art
To vex the pale dull clay beneath our feet
With chemic tortures, till the sullen mass
Flows in bright torrents from the furnace month,
A shining metal, to be clay no more.
Oh, were our growth in goodness like our growth
In art, the thousand years of innocence
And peace, foretold by ancient prophecy,
Were here already, and the reign of Sin
Were ended o’er the earth on which we dwell.

In fifty years, the little commonwealth,
Our league of States, that, in its early day,
Skirted the long Atlantic coast, has grown
To a vast empire, filled with populous towns
Beside its midland rivers, and beyond
The snowy peaks that bound its midland plains
To where its rivulets, over sands of gold,
Seek the Pacific—till at length it stood
Great ’mid the greatest of the Powers of Earth;
And they who sat upon Earth’s ancient thrones
Beheld its growth in wonder and in awe.
In fifty years, a deadlier foe than they—
The wrong that scoffs at human brotherhood,
And holds the lash o’er millions—has become
So mighty, and so insolent in its might,
That now it springs to fix on Liberty
The death-gripe, and o’erturn the glorious realm
Her children founded here. Fierce is the strife
As when of old the shining angels strove
To whelm, beneath th’ uprooted hills of heaven,
The warriors of the Lord. Yet now, as then,
God and the right shall give the victory.
For us, who fifty years ago went forth
Upon the world’s great theatre, may we
Yet see the day of triumph, which the hours
On steady wing waft hither from the depths
Of a serener future; may we yet,
Beneath the reign of a new peace, behold
The shaken pillars of our commonwealth
Stand readjusted in their ancient poise,
And the great crime of which our strife was born
Perish with its accursed progeny!
From the Chester (Pa.) Republican.

AN INCIDENT OF THE NEW YORK RIOT.
“Mother! they may kill the body, but they cannot touch the soul!”
Peaceful o’er the placid waters rose the radiant summer sun,
Loyal voices shouted anthems o’er the conquest bravely won;
For the walls of Vicksburg yielded to the Union’s shot and shell,
While Port Hudson, trembling, waited but a clearer tale to tell.
But, alas! day’s golden image scarce had left its impress there,
When above a Northern city rose the sounds of wild despair;
Fiends and demons yet unnumbered rallied forth in bold array,
Deeds of darkness, scenes of carnage, marked the traitors’ onward way.
Blind to feeling, deaf to mercy, who may judge the depth of crime?
None but God may know the misery traced upon the Book of Time!
’Tis enough that sinking manhood, with consumption’s hectic glow,
Fell a prey to ruffian anger, sank beneath a coward’s blow.
Brutish force conveyed the ”loved one” from that widow’d mother’s side,
While her groans of mortal anguish echoed back intensified;
But the God of races lifted up the mantle of despair,
And revealed the crown of glory that her dying son would wear.
While upon that beaming countenance sin had left no bitter trace,
But a look of earnest meaning lit the dying hero’s face,
Whispering words of cheer and comfort as he neared the promised goal,

“Mother! they may kill the body, but they cannot touch the soul!”
What a world of earnest feeling do these words of Faith 
convey,
While Religion shed its lustre brilliant as the light of day!
What a stern rebuke to madness, could the faithless soul believe,
Ages of self-abnegation, years of prayer, can scarce retrieve!
Aye! humanity may envy Abraham Franklin’s peaceful grave,
While the hearts of unborn millions will his heavenly advent crave;
And these simple words of feeling bid the waves of thought to roll,
“Mother! they may kill the body, but they cannot touch the soul!”
Vainly may we search in history what the barbarous ages tell,
St. Bartholomew’s dark record scarcely seems a parallel;
Yet the day of triple vengeance hastens forth on nimble wing,
And the time of true repentance proves the fact that God is 
King!
But these foes to reigning justice never can restore,
Though that widowed mother’s image haunts their days forevermore:
As a monument of glory faithfully these words enroll,
“Mother! they may kill the body, but they cannot touch the soul!”
August 10, 1863. L. J. L.
“Mother! they may kill the body, but they cannot touch the soul!” was the language used by poor Abraham Franklin, (colored,) as he was borne from the presence of his mother by the barbarous mob, on the morning of the 14th July. This young man, aged twenty-three, had been an invalid for about two years, and was a confirmed consumptive. When the mob broke into the house, they found him in bed. They bore him into the street, and there, although he did not raise a finger against them-indeed was not able to do so-they beat him to death, hung him to a lamp-post, cut his pantaloons off at the knees, cut bits of flesh out of his flesh, and afterwards set fire to him! All this was done beneath the eyes of his widowed mother!
The Liberator.
<c02>
THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE.
No. III
BY REV. JAMES A. THOME.
Another Principle, on which we may confidently believe the Lord will deal with this people, is, that the severity of his discipline foreshadows the greatness of the destiny he has in reserve for the subjects thereof.
Since neither sacred nor profane history discloses any grievous iniquity for which the children of Africa should suffer, beyond other races, the displeasure of heaven; since, indeed, they have been ”more sinned against than sinning,” their worst vices resulting from the debasement in which they have been steeped by the guilty agency of more favored races; we have reason to regard the unparalleled evils God has suffered to befall them as a stern discipline, protracted through the ages past, to train the negro for some high destiny, to prepare him to perform a grand part in the human drama—a part, perhaps, in the last act, and which will be worthy such a severe training. It would, certainly, be like a God whose economy employs no useless means, and admits no fruitless race, to crown His long and painful processes with this negro race with the issue of a pre-eminent destiny. There is, in the case itself, a probability of this, which is confirmed by the dealings of God with other peoples. ”Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.” “The last shall be first.” “Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled.” “Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh.” It is through great tribulations that races, as well as individuals, reach their goal.
Moreover, it is reasonable to assume that each of the several races of mankind was foreordained to have, at some period, a fair chance to develop its race-qualities; a time, at least, of probation for the outgrowth of character, and the attainment of relative position. As this world presents the only theatre for the peoples as such, we could hardly vindicate the wisdom or the equity of God on any other assumption than this: that he has provided for every people, kindred and tongue, an opportunity to attain unto virtue and honor, and a day in which it may be a light and a glory to humanity.
The peoples of antiquity which have become organically extinct or degenerate, had their times to flourish, or their opportunity, the worst of them, to become principalities and powers in the earth. The great kingdoms of the East, from Assyria to Rome, pagan though they were, and hostile to God and the truth, were not only suffered to live, but helped, we might almost say, to thrive and become mighty; for it was obviously better that they should have space to exhibit their qualities, such as they were, and to work their works, such as they were, than that they should be forestalled by untimely fate. They had their day, and although they attained to an imperial magnificence or a splendid civilization, yet they fell far short of true glory. Even the Jews, most favored, and in moral attainments most advanced, of all the ancients, enjoyed opportunities of elevation which they perversely neglected; and so persistently did they abuse their privileges, that they forfeited, and finally lost them. They had a long vantage period, from Moses to Jesus, yet they were grossly blind; and when the day of their special visitation came, and their Messiah appeared among them, they disowned, rejected, and slew him! So the glory that had been theirs departed; their house was left unto them desolate, their holy city was destroyed, and they were dispersed among the nations, no longer a people admired and envied, but a hissing and a byword; a monument to this day of retributive justice.
The less considerable, and, as we say, less favored peoples of antiquity, the Canaanites, for example, undoubtedly had afforded them the opportunity to take their moral position, and they took it—took the ground of gross idolaters, set themselves against God, against light, and incurred the exterminating vengeance which overtook them. They melted away ignominiously; but they could not complain that they had no day of grace. Even Sodom and Gomorrah had the light of righteous Lot, as the antediluvian world had the preaching of Noah. And what does Christ say to the cities of Chorazin, Bethsaida, and Capernaum, and finally to Jerusalem? He solemnly reiterates the principle, that to peoples are proffered opportunities to become good and great, and that it is for the abuse of these, woes are denounced, and plagues poured out upon them.
Much more does this principle apply to plagues under the Christian economy of mercy and favor. The Oriental regions, where Christianity won its first triumphs, and diffused its earliest blessings, where the apostles preached and the primitive churches were founded, certainly enjoyed preeminent advantages. If they have since been blighted by Romanism, or overrun by Mohammedanism, it still remains a fact that they were highly favored; and if they should never again be blessed by the prevalence of a pure Christianity, it cannot be said that they had not their day of grace, which might, but for their own forfeiture of it, have been prolonged, with increasing benefits, to the present time.
And if there be, under the Christian dispensation, as before it there were, savage tribes which prove intractable under the hand of cultivation, which seem” joined to their idols,” which appear to be ”like the deaf adder,” and therefore give little promise of a day of enlargement, when they will” stretch out their hands unto God,” it does not become us to say that they have not been visited with a day-spring from on high, that they have not been waited upon with overtures of good by a benignant God. If the Indians of this continent, once so mighty in their aggregate strength, and so hopeful in some of their native aspects, have dwindled away to a few thousands, many of their tribes become extinct, many of their nobler features effaced, and if now their future even to the eye of faith looks gloomy, who will presume to say that they have not had opportunities of Christianization, which, if they had been seized, would have redeemed them? They have, indeed, been wronged by our nation, outraged by greedy speculators, corrupted by profligate traders, and but feebly plied by the churches with the saving truths of the Gospel. All this must be acknowledged. Still it remains true that the Indians have had among them numerous missions and schools, and before their eyes the example of civilized families, cultivating their farms, dwelling in their homes, and building up their communities, and, withal, the spectacle of a great national civilization transforming their hunting-grounds into States, and their fishing-waters into the highways of commerce; yet they are savages, notwithstanding all!
Who, then, will say that the Indian has not had his day, has not really demonstrated his distinctive character, and has not proved his unworthiness of a national existence hereafter? What God may see fit to do for or with this people, we cannot, indeed, foresee, and do not pretend to intimate. But this we do affirm, that if they should be speedily obliterated, as tribes, and have no future, they have had such opportunities for civilization, and for a noble destiny, as few savage races have ever enjoyed.
What shall we say of the negro race? Are they unworthy even of a chance to rise? Are they so base as not to be entitled to the poor privilege of a probation—to show what they might become? Or will it be asserted that they have had their time of trial, that they have been ”weighed in the balance, and found wanting”?
We contend that the negroes are not akin to those savage tribes which have clung to their barbarous usages in spite of civilizing influences; nor to those pagan peoples who have persistently preferred their idols to the living God, when he has been made known to them. On the contrary, they answer encouragingly to the slightest touch of culture, and show a susceptibility to the highest improvement. Among no
<c03>
benighted people has the gospel been so readily introduced as among the tribes of Africa, the most benighted of all. The negroes of this country have almost no taint of idolatry. The little that Christianity has done for them in their bonds has elicited hearty responses from their deeply religious natures, and has wrought out among them many specimens of piety, equal, in vitality, if not in intelligence, to any our favored churches can present.
On the other hand, the negro, unlike the historic Jew, has had no past advantages; has enjoyed no displays of the Divine majesty; has seen no signs and wonders; has had no laws and institutions delivered on smoking mounts; has had no revealed rites of worship; no tabernacle or temple; no priest, no prophet, no intercessor, no leader sent from God. He has been, from time immemorial, sunk in worse than Egyptian darkness, in Africa. In Christian America he has been denied the Word of God, the rights of conscience, the freedom of worship, the means of grace, the family altar, and the rite of marriage. The negro has had no past opportunity! The ages have afforded him no spring-time, no summer. It has been perpetual winter for him in his sunny clime. It has been polar night on his equatorial plains. How shall we reconcile these privations with his religious aptitudes? Why should a fate, so disastrous, have happened to a people whose soul, like their tropical soil, is exuberant in spontaneous productions of devout sentiment and grateful song? Why should so few advantages have been awarded to a race among whom, notwithstanding, have been found such rare specimens of trust, of fortitude, of forgiveness, of cheerfulness, of submission?
Have not these dark dispensations some deep design in the counsels of a wonder-working God? Have they not some compensative end, predetermined in the bosom of Divine love, to be revealed in the fullness of time? Surely, for such a people there must be revealed a fullness of opportunity, a day of grace, an era of enlargement. There must yet be a set time to favor them; a time when God will evoke their slumbering power, and quicken their redundant but stagnant life. Supreme mercy will afford this to a race which has outlived ages of brutalizing bondage, and which, in its lowest debasement, emits flashes indicative of its inextinguishable fires.

OUR AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS.
Extract from a Thanksgiving Discourse, delivered in the First Congregational Unitarian Church in Philadelphia, August 6th, 1863, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS, pastor of the Church:—
The fact is disclosed that, however friendly the interest felt in us here and there abroad, there is no public, earnest, national goodwill for the republic anywhere in all the world. Instead, however, of discouraging us, the discovery of this fact must have no effect but to impress us all the more deeply with a sense of the grandeur of our cause. We are contending, it appears, for universal freedom, against all oppression, abroad as well as here. The coldness, nay, the worse than coldness of foreign governments, the satisfaction, which they have not been able to conceal, at the prospect of our breaking up, has reminded us of what indeed we ought not to have forgotten, that monarchies and aristocracies are by nature hostile to republican institutions. To princes and nobles and their retainers, the idea of equal rights is necessarily repugnant. They are bound to despise it. Its triumph will be a disaster to all the forms of despotism or mastership, limited or unlimited, throughout the world. Having a cause so great, we can afford to bear with composure the dislike of foreign governments. Let them stand aloof, and make no sign of sympathy with us, but send their congratulations to the French usurper upon the success of his buccaneering assault upon Mexico. It is enough that we know that we have the prayers of every lover of liberty, of the John Brights, throughout the world. Let us be content to win success through no outside help, but by the pure strength of that love of justice and of freedom with which, through the free institutions He has given us, God has inspired this people.
And thank Heaven, my friends, to-day that our republican system is as pacific in its external as in its internal relations, as powerful to maintain peace with others as to produce unity among ourselves. In times past, before this civil trouble broke out, when we presented the appearance of an undivided Union, our growth in power was so great that England and France never sought, they took good care to avoid, all occasions of quarreling with us. They paid us, in form at least, a scrupulous respect. There was reason in those days why this country should inspire dread. But that reason existed, not in our republican institutions, but in the anti-republican power which was then in the ascendant in our national councils. Slaveholding had fed and fostered those passions from which, ever since the world began, have come wars and fightings. It is the essential vice of despotism, in all its forms, that it necessarily develops the love of power to an inordinate degree, and renders the privileged class—be they called kings, lords, or slaveholders— imperious, impatient of the restraints which the rights of others impose, quick to take offence, to make their will the law to others as it is to themselves; and so comes discord. In fine, it destroys the sense of justice in those who practise it, and, as we are now learning to our cost, there is no such thing as living in peace with those who have lost that, who do not hold the rights of others to be as sacred as their own. Yes, this republic, with its mighty resources and rapidly increasing millions, was indeed formidable to the peace of the world, but only when the slave power, being in the control of its administration, was breeding in it the lust of power which alone could render it aggressive. But even British statesmen, with all their native sagacity and high culture, have been so blinded by their aristocratic biases, and by the greed and the prospect of immediate advantage, that they do not perceive that, in the very nature of things, a republican form of government like ours is and must be, of all forms of government, the most pacific.
Where every man is habituated from his birth to a restraining sense of the equal rights of others, and rulers exercise their brief and limited authority under the constant pressure of the principle of equality, which has become the pervading sentiment of the people, there no opportunity is afforded for the growth of that excessive love of power which is forever driving men and nations to encroach upon the rights of others, and so to make wars inevitable. Hence it is that a community, based upon an acknowledgment of the equal rights of all, while it tends by its very nature to internal harmony, is, of all communities, least inclined to aggression. Were this fact discerned, the nations would see that, in the countenance which they are giving to the attempt that is making to establish a slave empire on this soil, they are preparing to bring into Christendom a new fomenter of discord, and putting in additional peril the peace of the world. As they would avert wars and fightings, they should accord their special sympathy to the cause of the American Union, now that it is striving unto blood to rid itself of that one element, which is just as truly hostile to its amicable relations to other countries, as it is now fearfully proved to be to its own existence.
But unhappily this same war-generating element of injustice, in greater or less strength, in forms more or less disguised, is present, a vital element in all the leading governments of the old world, forming the views and prompting the measures of those who administer them, and therefore it is not a slave empire, but the republic, which is most hated. And it must be confessed, a republic is indeed terrible to all the upholders of privilege and unjust power, and the more terrible, the more faithful it is to its principles, the more harmonious it is in itself, and the more disposed it is to mind its own concerns and meddle with none; for then what an overwhelming argument is it against all those social systems which, sacrificing the many to the few, and continually disturbing the so-called balance of power among themselves, make peace the exception, and war the rule in the history of mankind!
<c04>
It is indeed so. A true republic, a community founded upon justice and practically observant thereof, must be a terror to the whole world of oppressors, hateful most of all, as we now see, to those who are accustomed to practise the grossest injustice. Well does Jefferson Davis prefer association with hyenas to Union with the free men of the North. There can be no doubt of that. We may believe him there. It is a more congenial companionship.
We shall never need to engage in a crusade against the despotisms of the old world. We must leave it to them upon the slightest pretexts to interfere by force of arms with other nations, as the French tyrant is now doing in Mexico. It is their nature and their doom. We have only to be true to ourselves, only to let the light of the republic so shine, the light of harmony at home and peace abroad, and civil and religious liberty will fill the world with a glory, before which the darkness of oppression, here and everywhere, shall vanish even as the morning mists disappear at the rising of the sun.

THE VOICE OF THE DRAFT.
Extract from a Discourse, recently preached in New Bedford, by Rev. WILLIAM J. POTTER, pastor of the Unitarian church in that city, whose name turned up among the drafted:—
I do not know as I shall be pronounced physically worthy for the service into which the lot would take me, though I am aware of no defect that would legally exempt me, and sincerely hope that none may be found. I only wish this matter was beyond doubt. I have wanted since last Thursday, as never before, strength of body, and shall regard it with profound mortification if I shall be declared physically disabled for meeting this demand which my country makes upon me. I cannot at all understand the feeling which prompts so many men to search their bodies for some weakness or disease whereby they can escape this service to their country. I know very well that one physically incapacitated should not go as a soldier, and that patriotism sometimes may require that one abstain from going, rather than to go and become a burden to the service. But how any one can exult if such incapacity be discovered in himself, is what I cannot comprehend. Aside from the mean and craven nature of such a sentiment, a proper pride in possession of a sound body should keep one from grovelling so low. How much nobler is the spirit of the drafted sailor, who, already in the sea-service of the government, came before the Examining Board the other day with a certificate from some local physician, trumped up for him probably by his home friends, stating that he had an internal organic disease, but who, when the Board found no disease, but, on the contrary, pronounced him a sound and perfectly healthy man, exclaimed with exultation, ”Good!” “But I shall go back to the service in which I now am, for I can serve better there: so here are my three hundred dollars, which I willingly pay for the sake of going back, knowing that I am a sound man!”
Young men, if your mothers should be assailed, would you exult because you were feeble-bodied, and could not go to their defence? Our country is our mother; and shall we not pray for strong arms in this her hour of peril, to defend her? I decide not for others; but for one, I so pray continually; and I shall use all possible means between this day and the day of examination a month hence, to make myself physically worthy of her call. And if accepted, I must go—go wherever and in whatever capacity the legally constituted authorities may place me, seeking for myself nothing that is not legally open to all, only trusting that, if there be any kind of service in which I may be more useful than another, it will in providential ways come to me.
And if not accepted—if I shall be doomed to the mortification of physical unworthiness—I shall still feel that this call is a new voice of duty which I must in some way try to obey. In what shape I can respond to the demand, I know not how; but I have for some time felt that I must get nearer to the heart o this national struggle; that I must enter more interiarily into the life of this hour of our national history; that I have done what I could by word, and must now make some fuller and more personal proof of my ministry in this regard. And this call from the conscription wheel I accept as an intimation that another field of duty may be somewhere opening for me.”
So long as the question was concerning the raising of a volunteer army, I have not felt called to any kind of military service. Neither by temperament, education or tastes, have I any special qualifications for it. I could constantly encourage those who had the qualifications to go, while at the same time I felt that I could remain with greater usefulness at my present post. But the question is now changed. The conscription law has put an end, in great measure, to these considerations of fitness, as also those of convenience. It is to be presumed that two years’ opportunity for volunteering has taken all those into military service who have any special liking or aptness for it, or who could leave home and business with ease. Whatever the fact may be, the presumption on which we must act is, that it is now even matter who shall go to make up this new army; and for this reason we have drawn lots to decide the question.
I say, we have drawn lots; we, the people, have done it. It has not been done for us or over us by any despotic authority, but it is our act, done at our demand. And this leads me to say the word which I wish on the Conscription Act.
The conscription law is our law—the people’s law. It was passed by the legal represenfativos of the people and at the demand of the people. The people said to the government, ”All have volunteered who have any special fitness for war, or who can go with convenience to themselves or to their families, or to society; it is now as difficult for one man to go as another: so we will draw lots to decide who shall go.” And the government has accordingly put our names into the wheel, and the fates at our command are turning it: shall we abide by the lot?
If any think I have put the point too strongly, that the draft is not the act of the people, let them call to mind the fact that, a little more than a year ago, there was a general call through the newspapers, of all parties in the loyal States, and through the popular voices as expressed in private and in public, for taxation and a draft—a fact which will ever be remembered to the honor of Republican institutions and of the American people. And if any, having in mind the troubles incident to the draft, now think that another army might have been raised by volunteers, let them remember the troubles and disgust which a year ago attended the volunteering system.
But whether an army of volunteers could have been raised or not, is a question that can no longer be discussed. We have decided for conscription, the people asked for it, the government through the people’s representatives has given it; and given it in the form of a law, in which humaneness is the characteristic feature. The exemptions which the law makes are none of them on the ground of class, or profession, or wealth, but all on the ground of humanity. I venture to say that, except perhaps in some points of practical detail, (and these are receiving a liberal interpretation,) a conscription law could not be framed wiser or more compassionate. Imagine what hardships and opposition there would have been, had the law given no alternative but going to the field. Even the $300 commutation money, which has been the chief cause of complaint, was put in from regard, not to the rich, but to laboring men, and men of moderate means, in order to keep the price of substitutes within the range of most men of honest industry. There will doubtless be cases of hardships under the law; but so there have been under the system of volunteering; the hardships do not grow out of the fact of conscription, but out of the fact of war. The law could not attend to such cases, but private charity can, and should, and doubtless will. The law, I believe, in its main features, is as good a one as could be drawn; and had it not been for a few political demagogues, with hearts go bad that they
<c05>
would ruin their country for the sake of party, there would have been no outbreak of hostility to it.
Regarding, then, the draft as the act of the people, drawing lots among themselves, the people of course will honorably abide by it. Still, to those who are drawn, a choice is left; and how shall this choice be made? It is not, most certainly, to be taken for granted that all whose names are drawn should enter the service. The feeble-bodied—wretched men they should consider themselves—are exempted by the law itself. Only those who are pronounced physically fit will have the question to decide, what they are to do. And this question we cannot decide for one another. We may present motives that will help to a decision; but in the end each must decide for himself,—decide solemnly, and under a full sense of his obligations to his country and to God. Yet there is one question which all whose names have been drawn must most alike ask, if they mean to a-bide honorably by the lot: and this question is, How—that is, by accepting which of the three alternatives presented—can I best serve my country? Not—How can I best serve myself, my family, my business? but, How can I best serve my country? I can conceive, indeed, that there may be cases where men, ’who have no special fitness for military service, but do have a very special usefulness in other work, can best serve their country, even in this crisis, by paying their commutation money, or sending substitutes, and remaining themselves in business to keep that in operation. So, too, there area doubtless strong exceptional cases of domestic obligation, where, fully in accordance with the spirit of the law, one would be released from the choice of personal service. Let every one, however, if he would keep his honor, be on his guard against the specious forms which this exceptive pleading may assume. He most must decide un-selfishly, patriotically, conscientiously, —putting foremost, not the grounds for staying at home, but the grounds for going.
It is quite commonly said, I know, (and such a report I now see, in the newspapers,) the commutation fee, by which a veteran volunteer may be procured, is more acceptable to the Government than a raw recruit. If the Government should make an authoritative statement to this effect, it would decide the question for many of us. But no such statement has yet been made, and until it is made, on official authority, the presumption is, that since the law was made for raising an army, the men are wanted more than the money.
Again, it is urged that one, of no special fitness by nature or occupation for military duty, can best serve the country by sending a substitute who is fit; thereby he may actually show a higher patriotism than if he should go himself. There is truth in this argument as a theoretical proposition, and at one time I gave it great weight in my own case; but, practically, there is a very dangerous fallacy lying in our not considering sufficiently the qualities that must make fitness in the substitute; for fitness consists by no means solely in the possession of muscle, or in belligerent training. I might send many men in my stead, who have stronger bodies and are better fighters, but no man could be my substitute who does not believe in the justice of our cause as thoroughly as I do. No man could be my substitute who does not by birth, or adoption, or principle, feel a personal interest in the triumph of our cause and the salvation of the country. No man could be my substitute who would fight merely for pay, or who would fight on the other side at any price. For one, to be my substitute in this struggle, he must have some other allegiance to our cause than an allegiance that is bought; he must believe in it; he cannot be a good and true soldier without belief. But the substitutes that are procurable, and that are being accepted, are mostly of a different sort from this. They are Canadians, or aliens just from the other side of the Alantic. They have no intelligent appreciation of our struggle or our institutions. They come only for money. They would serve just as readily, many of them more readily, on the side of the rebels; and they will desert at the first opportunity; or, guarded against that, are at least very likely to prove faithless in battle.
There are some reasons of feeling, which with many persons are conclusive against a substitute in their own case; but these, since they are reasons of feeling, and therefore not of general application, I do not here consider. But this point which I have considered—the danger there is of putting into our armies, through the practice of procuring substitutes, a large class of men who have no zeal or faith in our cause —presents to every drafted man, and to the whole community, an argument that should receive the most weighty and serious attention. Besides, leaving out of view the danger of bad faith on the part of the substitutes that are generally procurable, there ought, I think, to be some patriotic pride in this matter. Is it possible that, with the large population there is in the loyal States, of the requisite age, still untouched, the country cannot raise another army of its own citizens to go to its defence? Are we so degenerate that we cannot close this war, and save our country and its cherished principles, without calling in to our aid an army of foreign mercenaries?
Let me conclude by giving, briefly, the three positive considerations which, in addition to the more personal reasons I have expressed, outweighed all objections in my own case, and brought me to the decision that I have made: and they are considerations which, in my own opinion, should have general regard. First, the value of the moral element in an army is to be considered, and along side of this, the moral effect of, men leaving positions of usefulness and comfort and honor, to enter the army. If our cause is the just and sacred cause that most of us believe it to be, then no man among us is too good, or stands in too high a position, to give himself to it, or for it, in whatever way the country may call for his services. And the better and more enlightened the men are who go to make up the army, the truer, higher becomes the cause, and the more it becomes linked with the truest and holiest interests of the country, and the more elevated and earnest it becomes the patriotism of the country. Moreover, this war has proved, if it was not proved before, that it is not bad men, or rough men, or always men of the stoutest bodies, that make the best soldiers, but that character, earnestness, faith, serve in an army as every where else. Not the low population of our cities brought up to fighting, but youths delicately nurtured in wealthy and refined homes, and polished with the culture of colleges, have done some of the best service, as soldiers, in this war. Other things being equal, the truer a man is in character, the better soldier will he make. And when other things are not equal, solidity of character and a heart in the cause will often make up for deficiency of bodily strength.
Secondly, men who might choose the alternative of staying at home ought to consider their duty to those who, on account of their circumstances, must accept the alternative of going. The great complaint against the draft has been, that the rich and cultivated—those who can easily command three hundred dollars— would remain at home, while the poorer class would be obliged to go. Now every one, if possible, ought to so act that there shall be left no show of justice in this complaint. Every drafted man who is not kept at home by some important considerations—every one who might stay at home, ought to go for this reason, if no other—the encouragement and support of those who must go. Let it be seen that this draft is a fair thing, and that we mean to abide by it fairly, and that it is a democratic thing—the rich and the poor, the educated and the uneducated, the man who labors with his hands and the man who labors with his brains, as they all have an equal interest in the country’s preservation, so all are standing side by side and shoulder to shoulder in its defence.
Thirdly, and finally, and in some respects the meat most important consideration of all, —what is most needed now for putting an effectual end to this rebellion, with all its causes and consequences, is a general uprising of the people to the support of the government, —to
<c06>
the support of it against not only rebellion in the South, but against secret treason and open violence at home. Let the people of all classes not merely show submission, but respond with alaerity to this draft, each one going to his place in the army as to a post of solemn duty; and not only would the war soon come to an end, but the stability of republican institutions would be insured forever. The spectacle of a great people, including all classes, thus rising cheer fully and harmoniously together to meet the demands of a draft,—saying to one another, ”Our sons and brothers who could volunteer in this holy cause have gone, and we have now cast lots to see who shall go to stand by their side or to defend their graves; and we, to whom the lots have fallen, now come, ready in hand and heart for the service to which our country calls us,”— such a spectacle would be a grander exhibition than was the first uprising of the people at the outset of the war, and an army <illegible> formed would be nobler in its invincible determination than even an army of volunteers. God grant that I may be one in such an army! God grant, and the patriotic hearts of this community grant, that there may be many to stand with me! Could such an army spring up, I doubt if it would ever have to march out of the loyal States; for it would be recognized as the army of the invincible facts—as the host of Heaven’s retributive justice; and rebellion, violence, treason, oppression, lawless rage, and every foul wrong of war that now, devastates our land, would shrink from before it into the darkness of annihilation; and law, liberty and peace would be established in triumph, and forever, over a regenerated country.

THE BANNER OF LIGHT.
TEXT.
Garrison and his ”nondescript” writer can never injure the Banner of Light by their libels against it. It is too firmly established in the affections of the great Spiritual Phalanx of America for that. Men who will resort to such methods to ”feather their own nests,” and at the same time make the people believe they are the friends of progress, deserve the severest reprehension. We hope Spiritualist Societies will not in future engage Garrison to lecture before them, until he sees fit to repudiate the billingsgate put forth in his columns against Spiritualists and Spiritualism, by one of the meanest specimens of humanity extant. —Banner of Light, Aug. 22, 1863.
COMMENT.
To make the injustice of this paragraph apparent, let it be borne in mind:—
1. That the article published in the Liberator of July 10th, was written by a correspondent; and it was not on the theory of Spiritualism, pro or con. The issue I raised in that article was in respect to the authenticity of a certain so-called ”Discourse by Theodore Parker,” published by the Banner of Light. And why should so many complaints be made of that article on account of its being anonymous? Would it have been any more satisfactory had it been over the signature of ”Lord Bacon,” “Dr. Franklin,” “J. C. Calhoun,” or some other one of the names which are attached to the ”spiritual communications” which appear in the Banner of Light? Now, it would be an easy matter for the Banner to be gratified with the writer’s signature. Let him signify his willingness to publish my article from the Liberator of July 10th, and allow me to defend it in his columns, and I will forthwith furnish him with the article, and my name attached. Moreover, had the Banner denied the facts stated by me, the editor knows very well that he could have had the name of the writer. Let him, then, if he dare, open his own columns to me for the proof of the facts stated in my article, and which he has made the occasion of this abuse of the Liberator.
2. The issue raised in my article was not in respect to the theory of Spiritualism; nor do I know that Mr. Garrison has ever written or published the first word against this theory. The issue I raised was in respect to the authenticity of that ”Discourse,” advertised by the Banner as having been delivered in Lyceum Hall, by Theodore Parker, on Sunday, May 10th, 1863. I think I can understand the reasons why the <illegible> has had so much to say on collateral matters, and not one word on the real question in dispute!
3. Every one knows that the Liberator is a free, fear less and independent paper—the only paper in the world, the columns of which are constantly open to its opponents. The Liberator has its columns always open to ”Oppression,” allowing the copperheads a hearing. But the Banner of Light dare not open its columns to me for a fair and manly criticism of its own assumptions in regard to what it publishes; and hence the manifest injustice of this complaint of Mr. Garrison, when it is considered that he has already published no less than four different replies to my communication, each of which has been republished in the Banner, while that paper has never had the <illegible> nimity to allow my article a place in its columns!
And it is, perhaps, due to Mr. Garrison that I should say, here, that while he admitted my defence of Theodore Parker, he did so with some reluctance, as he did not wish to have a discussion on Spiritualism provoked in the Liberator, his columns<illegible> being so constantly crowded with other matter. I. stated to him my reason for asking space in his paper; which was, that the columns of the Spiritual papers had been closed against me, and my opinion was, that the Banner and the Herald did not like to have the merits of that question discussed in their columns. Moreover, I gave it to him as my opinion that there would be no articles offered to him in reply to mine, which would be on the real question at issue, and so it has come to pass; for not one of either of the four articles published in the Liberator, in reply to mine, touches the question of authenticity at all. And hence, if the Liberator could now spare me the space, I do not feel myself called upon to notice sneers, and such exhibitions of taste, style and manners as we have in the above quotation from the Banner. The boy who get<illegible> flogged by his fellow manifested great satisfaction is making wry faces at his opponent’s sister; and the Banner editor, while he dare not join issue with me on this question of authenticity, can make wry faces at Mr. Garrison, as in the above quotation, and in other similar squibs which have appeared in his paper.
August 22, 1863.

RECRUITING IN KANSAS.
One recruiting officer at Wyandot has raised fifty men within a month. At Elwood, opposite. St. Joseph,.Mo., sixty or seventy have been raised. Lately, several collisions have taken place between men engaged in running them across the river, and armed citizens and militia. Within two days, two detachments have marched through our streets from Wyandot. One numbered twenty-four men, who were recruited in about a week. The other had sixty men. The men were all uniformed, though not armed as yet. They were a hardy, muscular set of fellows, and marched with great exactitude and style.
At their head was a light, yellow fellow, a sergeant in the 1st Colored Regiment, detailed to recruit, whose adventures in the last twelve months would, if detailed in a spirited manner, fill an interesting columns. He was a slave two years ago, bears the illustrious name of Van Buren, and will compare with either the President or Prince of that “ilk” in craft, subdety, and harlequinosity (if I may be allowed to coin a phrase). He used these faculties as readily in his vocation as did or do those politicians in theirs. That vocation seems to be to bring out people of his own color from bondage. For a year past he has been in the business. He is of no service in the ranks or ordinary details of military duty, though he possesses aptitude for drill, because of his insubordinate and unconquerable character.
Sergeant Van Buren is one of the most successful scouts on the border. He has contrived to be detailed to recruit, and has brought into the service at least one hundred and fifty men. The adventures he has met with are striking. Twice he has been put in jail, and at least a dozen times seized by the militia. Yet he always contrives to get off. He was both fortunate and industrious before entering the service, and owns one hundred and sixty acres of land in Kansas, well cultivated, now rented on shares to a white farmer. There are four companies well under way here. The camp of rendezvous, before muster, is situated on the Camp Reservation. It is named in honor of the arch Abolitionist, William Lloyd Garrison. There are about two hundred and fifty men in this camp, and at. At Fort Scott, there are as many more in camp, and at Fort Blunt, three companies have been organized <illegible> the General’s advent. —-Kansas corr. N. Y. Herald.
