THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at the rate of five cents per line.; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 15. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1731.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
POLITICAL MISCEGENATION.
Rarely in the history of the world have such antagonistic elements mingled as are now leagued together for the destruction of this Government. We say the destruction of the Government, because the peculiar tenets of either faction in this unnatural affiliation could end in nothing but political chaos. The extreme Radicals of the Fremont-Greeley-Beecher Phillips-Garrison school-the true negro-equality miscegenists-are essentially and purely destructive. They would "turn and overturn" the whole frame work of society-they would make half the territory of the Union a lonely, unpeopled desert-they would utterly desolate and depopulate the whole South, in the spirit of a robber and incendiary, who puts the midnight torch to a city for the plunder he can gather from its smouldering ashes. Their simulated love for the negro is but a shallow pretext for revolution, wreck and ruin.
Little better than these is the Vallandigham faction, with which they would affiliate for the accomplishment of a wicked purpose. This latter faction does not disguise its intense hatred of the Government as now constituted, and always keeps even pace with the Radicals in their abuse of the Administration. In fact, their hatred and abuse of the President is the point of elective affinity that draws together elements that, in themselves, are utterly antagonistic. With their feeling of common animosity toward Mr. Lincoln and the Government he represents, these factions are ready to forget their life-long hatred of each other, and unite their forces against what they consider the common enemy. We need not be at all surprised to see an amalgamation ticket made up with Fremont for President, and Vallandigham for Vice President. Will it not be refreshing to behold genuine Copperheads and Abolitionists sitting down together to smoke the pipe of peace? "Then," says a cotemporary, "we shall see Vallandigham fall upon the neck of Garrison, and Ben Wood rise up and call Wendell Phillips blessed."-St. Louis Union.

THE BEASTLY DOCTRINE OF MISCEGENATION AND ITS HIGH PRIESTS. 
When thirty years ago, the abolitionists in the New England States, urged on by British emissaries, began the agitation of the abolition of slavery in the United States, the sympathies of some people, became enlisted in the movement from a philanthropic and humane repugnance to the doctrine of holding any class of men in bondage. The agitation of the subject, once commenced, spread among the weak-brained and tender-hearted in the Eastern States, until its proselytes numbered not only hundreds, but thousands. But as fast as the doctrine spread, the more fanatical became its advocates. Upon a design to emancipate the negro, the original abolitionists engrafted the hideous principle of amalgamation. At first, the sincere and honest abolitionists spurned the idea. They were willing to free the negro; but they were unwilling to raise him to a political, much less a social, equality with the whites. But by the persistent and insidious efforts of the fanatical leaders, men of some learning and remarkable eloquence, aided by the secret machinations of British spies and political agents, those who were at the outset only inclined to regard favorably the emancipation project gradually suffered themselves to fall from one degree of firmness and dignity to another, and finally were led to swallow the negro entire. Disgusted at first, they were lured to endure, then pity, then to embrace him-figuratively at first; but in the end literally. Men and women in New England became crazy on the subject of the negro. No human law was too high to keep him in subjugation, no tabernacle too sacred to keep him without its threshold. All household sanctities must give way before the negro; all human laws, and even divine ordinations, must go down that the negro might go up-that the black should become the equal of the white. The public mind became feverish on the subject. Demagogues were ready to seize every opportunity to turn to advantage the growing agitation, and by bargains and coalitions as corrupt and hellish as any that Satan ever winked at, the abolitionists in the New England States finally became a formidable political power in the land. Then all the strength of the leaders became enlisted in the one great work-the emancipation and the social equality of the blacks. Every pulpit rang with stories of the atrocities of Southern slavery. Theodore Parker, Wendell Phillips, Lloyd Garrison, Thompson, the Englishman, Cheever, the preacher, and three thousand others, including Henry Ward Beecher, Greeley, of the Tribune, Wilson and Sumner in the Senate, and any number of small potato politicians in the House of Representatives, all howled forth their denunciations of slavery, and stung, taunted, robbed and murdered Southerners as they were holding fast to their constitutional rights. Wherever these disturbers of the public tranquility and their echoes-whose name was legion- could secure a hearing, the doctrine of abolition was hammered upon, until they finally involved the country in a horrible civil war; and they are now sailing smilingly upon the sea of blood they created.
Having succeeded, as they have boasted, in emancipating the blacks, they have already commenced their next-more properly, their contemporaneous work of amalgamation. They no longer attempt to conceal their object or to delude their followers, as they did thirty years ago; but now they openly proclaim their beastly doctrines. The promulgators of this infamous creed boldly avow their belief of the equality of the white and black races through their pamphlets, newspapers, pulpits, and in all their public gatherings and private gossiping, and scandal-mongering parties, and in their Gideonite coteries, wherever the Union arms have made a way for them to penetrate with their detestable doctrines. Pluming themselves upon being the moralists par excellence of the age, nearly every principle they entertain and expound is grossly immoral on its face, and revolting to human nature in fact.
We have among us the high priests in this tabernacle of degradation and vice, the pillars of this vile temple of modern pollution, and every day or two society’s sense of decency is shocked by some broad averment of the wisdom of miscegenation, the righteousness of the work of a general system of intermarriage between the whites and blacks. Greeley boldly declares that, under certain circumstances, he would "compel" white men to marry negroes. The Times-a bright mulatto on the subject of miscegenation-charges the Tribune with publishing articles showing that it is a "wise thing for whites to marry blacks." Greeley cries-"Let the white man marry the black woman; no one has a right to interfere."
If any one accustomed to regard the sanctity and purity of the marriage tie, whose mind is not warped by free love and Fourierism-who has an appreciation of the finer attributes of human nature-who would not pollute the sacred stream of conjugal love by intermixing with it the gross and immoral impurities,
<c02>
engendered by the reckless introduction of a revolting and degrading doctrine born of the pestiferous bed of politics-if any one possessing the quality of a pure virtue, should have made the declarations Greeley has in favor of this beastly project of miscegenation, his articles and his speeches would have been circumscribed to a circle of congenial acquaintances, and his ideas perished, as the emanation of a diseased imagination. But, coming from Greeley, of the Tribune, they win notoriety, by the fact that Greeley makes himself notorious by his monstrous invasions upon the broad, white, pure and unpolluted social system, that has given American society a name and a standing among the decent in every civilized nation, where respectability is known and decency is appreciated.
Among the other pillars in this temple of pollution, as we learn from the author of this pamphlet on "miscegenation," is "an eloquent young editor of the angelic type of Raphael." This is meant for Theodore Tilton, editor of the Independent. Tilton says: -"Forget that the negro is black." "The African-tinted members of our community will gradually bleach out their blackness." In time "the negro of the South, growing paler with every generation, will completely hide his face in the snow."
And thus Tilton, and Greeley, and Beecher, and all the rest of the high priests in the temple of miscegenation, ring out their degrading notions, and pray for their adoption by the great and intelligent masses of the American people. Will they follow these colored lights? We shall see.-N. Y. Herald.

AMALGAMATION.
Pursuing the natural course of radicalism, the editors of several of the abolitionist sheets have recently been seized with a strong desire for the introduction of amalgamation into the social and domestic life of their own and other radical families. Those of them who are not already unfortunately bound by law to white wives seem to be earnestly desirous of securing black companions on the voyage of life. In some parts of the circles for which they specially publish newspapers and pamphlets, it is manifest that the new standard of loveliness is becoming popular, and the praises of the new fashion of commingling colors are loudly sounded in the periodicals which circulate exclusively in those circles. It seems to us that it is not worth while to attempt any argument with these people. They must be allowed to follow the bent of their own inclinations, as they are accustomed to do, and it is perhaps just as well that the conservative and refined classes of Americans should let these enthusiastic people go their own way, and raise their own children. They will not destroy the while race. We have not heard of any ladies among the radicals who are looking out for colored husbands, although we see in an English paper a rumor that a well-known young white woman, who has been a favorite political orator of the radicals here of late, is about to marry a black man. But on the whole, it may be considered likely that the conservative influence of the sex will somewhat restrain the tendency of things among that class of people, perhaps sufficiently to save them from entirely merging the white race of radicalism in a muddy colored and degenerate posterity. And if the entire class of white men of the Tribune, Liberator and Independent school should unanimously determine to merge their color and blood in the black race, we cannot see that any great harm will be done to the white race in general. On the contrary, it would operate to remove from the governing race a class of men who are exceedingly troublesome, and the race would be purified to a certain extent by the diversion of the very bad blood which characterizes these radicals, into channels in which it would cease to disturb the counsels or abuse the privileges of the white man’s theoretical equality. By all means, then, let these men marry the women they prefer, and pass out, themselves and their descendants, from among the white race and its responsibilities and duties. It is curious, and it would be amusing if it were not melancholy, to see the eagerness with which these white men insist on their right to have black wives, and the fierceness with which they seem to imagine that all the rest of the world intends to oppose their inclinations and interfere with their tastes. To persons of cultivated minds, refinement of feeling, and purity of taste, this desire for black companionship in the household and in the endearing relations of married life seems strange and inexplicable. But when we observe that it is confined entirely to the inner circles of radicals, and to white men, and does not seem to be reciprocated even by colored women, the explanation is obvious. None but a few men of one particular class are affected by it No political question is involved, and there is no reason, therefore, why such a desire, if founded in reason and good taste, should not pervade all classes of society. But the fact that it is developed in only one class, shows conclusively that it is the result of the associations and teachings of that particular caste, or that it proceeds in a natural way from the controlling ideas which are mostly in their minds. Our readers will remember that about a year ago we spoke strongly of the tendency of certain men to advocate negro equality, and the dangers before the country in consequence. The Independent newspaper replied that we, the Journal of Commerce, might be afraid of the negro proving our superior, but that they were not. The reply was intended to be witty and severe; but, alas for our contemporary! the result proves the importance of our warning, and the too great self-reliance of the radicals. The same Independent now insists that the negro woman is perfectly fitted to be the better-half of the white man, and the editors seem to all intents and purposes subjugated to the love of the colored woman. This is but the natural result of radical notions. So long as they are confined to radical circles, they will do harm only there, and it is more proper to pity than to abuse the depravity of taste and the loss of refinement which is evinced. It is far from certain that the new ideas will prevail to any great extent in the radical circles. They are still confined to a few editors and public speakers; but we are inclined to think that the result of their teachings will be reactionary, and that even if they select colored wives, their example will not be followed to any great extent in the ranks of radical thinkers. Perhaps we shall not have the gratification of bidding farewell to the white blood of even the preachers of this new theory of colors.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The New Hampshire Patriot makes the following statements, which we are confident it would not do without good authority for them. Indeed, they only confirm what has been frequently related before about practical ‘miscegenation’ in the same quarter. We remember well the published letter of a northern army chaplain, at the time Port Royal and the forts adjacent were taken possession of, expressing his unaffected astonishment that no mulattoes were to be seen there. Mark the difference under the effects of philanthropy and morality-Boston Courier.
<c03>
Selections.
COPPERHEAD MENDACITY.
The New Hampshire Patriot, which, for the credit and character of our people, we are gratified to learn, is now despised and repudiated by every decent Democrat in the State, made the following statement last week:-
"Private advices from Port Royal say, the female Abolitionists who went to Port Royal to teach the little niggers how to read and pray have been obliged, within the past few months, to open nurseries of their own. An officer informed us recently, that no less than sixty-four spinsters had contributed to the population in and about Port Royal harbor. The information furnished us by the officer, concerning the sixty-four mulattoes, have been confirmed by the testimony of the Rev. Liberty Billings, Lieutenant Colonel of the 1st South Carolina regiment, who is here in consequence of ill health. He says it is a sad truth."
The Boston Courier, which John P. Hale declared to be the meanest paper in the country, except the New Hampshire Patriot, copied the vile slander, for which it is thus impaled by the Daily Advertiser, after a brief apology for seriously noticing any thing appearing in that sheet connected in any way with the war:-
"But that paper yesterday contained a dirty paragraph from the New Hampshire Patriot, (introduced by an approving editorial,) in relation to the female teachers sent out to Hilton Head, which is really so atrocious that it must receive the serious condemnation of every right-thinking man in the country. It is a foul and disgusting libel on some of the noblest, most self-sacrificing, delicate, and intelligent New England women, who have undertaken the civilization and education of the slaves of South Carolina. That any New England man-that any gentleman could have re-produced from a New Hampshire journal, notorious for mendacity and vulgarity, an article so outrageous, only shows the moral blindness superinduced by a bitter and unscrupulous political warfare, in the minds of those who, having swung away from the patriotic teachings of our fathers, seem to be losing the principles of delicacy, truthfulness and simplicity, instilled into the minds of all well-educated New England youth by their mothers.
One of our correspondents thus alludes to the matter:- 
When we first saw the above, it reminded us of the fable of the man who was reported to have vomited up three black crows. He traced it through three or four busy bodies till he decreased it to the first reporter, who casually remarked that he understood there was vomited something as black as a crow. But we notice the New York World’s Hilton Head correspondent takes the sixty-four black babies all out of the story, and brands the defamer. He says, "To state anything implying immoral conduct between them (the lady teachers) and negroes is to utter a base, unmanly, and foul slander on their characters;" "they are refined, virtuous women." "The author of the slander it is hoped will be discovered, and, you may depend upon it, he will at least be banished from this department."
The refined taste and gentlemanly editorial bearing of the editor of the Patriot have never been before the public, if he has any. Any man who would give countenance to such "foul slander," or who would add publicity to it with a hope that it might be believed, might well be expected to accuse his wife of inconstancy and his mother of prostitution. The truth is, that the late election returns must have brought to the surface all the ill-breeding, ill-feeling, rancor, hate, malice, spite and desperation which he has sometimes been able to keep down. We are no physician, but think a lobelia emetic, followed by a few swallows of croton oil, might clear him out.- Claremont (N. H.) Northern Advocate.

A VILE COPPERHEAD LIBEL.
The following dirty and low-lived libel has been circulating through the Copperhead newspaper press:-
[Here follows the libellous accusation against the female teachers at Port Royal, quoted in the foregoing article from the Northern Advocate,]
This miserable libel upon the pure, disinterested, Christian women of the North, engaged in a noble mission of mercy to a down-trodden race, was set afloat in this vicinity by one "Pick" Hill,-known as "wet-nuss Pick,"-who ekes out a shiftless existence upon the charity of relatives, and weak-brained, malignant scribblings as the Concord correspondent of the Copperhead sheet issued at Manchester, misnamed the Union. The paper is worthy of the correspondent, and vice versa. This lie constituted a portion of one of "Pick’s" letters to that delectable sheet. It was caught up with hyena avidity by other Copperhead papers, and great has been their fiendish joy over the nasty tit-bit.
But while this base, unmanly, and wanton falsehood does foul wrong to some of the best of American women, it does also gross injustice to a true-hearted philanthropist and friend of freedom, Rev. Mr. Billings, who is cited as "confirming" this "testimony" of devils. He is and always has been an able, bold, and unflinching foe of slavery. He is a loyal, patriotic man. Hence, he is no favorite with Copperheads. Hence, this miserable Copperhead attempt to place him in a false position in this matter. Mr. Billings gives the lie its quietus in the following emphatic language of a note published in the N. Y. Tribune of March 26th:- 
"The atrocious calumny upon the lady teachers at Port Royal, originated last Fall with the Manchester (N. H.) Union, a sheet too mendacious and vulgar to merit even contempt. The assertion that I ‘confirmed’ the lie is maliciously false; as not a word or hint has ever escaped my lips to that effect. Nothing but the foulest political venom could have induced such a libel upon a noble class of women, engaged in a noble work. It is humiliating to feel obliged to deny the gross and disgusting falsehoods of an unscrupulous press. The mulattoes of the South, it is well known, are compelled to acknowledge paternity with the ‘chivalry’-their misfortune more than their fault."
So this infamous lie is nailed, and our "Miscegenation" Copperheads are welcome to all they have made out of it. Let them ask the original Copperhead-the "old Serpent"-the "father of lies"-and, peradventure, he will give them another.- Concord N. H. Independent Democrat. 

THE PORT ROYAL SCANDAL.
The Rev. L. J. Barrows, who has been for some months past a resident at Port Royal, has addressed a letter to Mr. Shaw, the President of the Freedmen’s Association, in relation to the character of the teachers who have been so cruelly outraged by the story coined by Copperhead journals, circulated by them, and still allowed to go uncorrected by most of them, although the Rev. Mr. Billings, who was cited as authority for the truth of it, has indignantly and
<c04>
emphatically denounced it as a lie. It was with a good deal of reluctance that we consented to take notice enough of this vile slander, even to expose its falsity and baseness, for no decent or honest person, we are persuaded, ever gave it a moment’s credence. In undertaking at last, however, to bring out the truth in regard to it, our purpose was not so much to expose a self-evident falsehood as to show to what utterly base and unscrupulous uses these Copperhead journals can put themselves. The letter of Mr. Barrows is in evidence of the Northern creation of the abominable scandal. It is as follows:
ON BOARD THE PLYMOUTH ROCK, L. I. SOUND, March 26, 1864.
F. G. SHAW, ESQ., President National Freedmen’s Association:
DEAR SIR: Your note of the 21st inst., calling my attention to a slanderous assault on the character of the lady teachers of our colored schools at Port Royal, reached me this evening.
No well informed parties require any denial of such foolish and low statements as those put forth by the N. Y. Herald and N. H. Patriot, said to have been authorized by a Lieut. Col. Liberty Billings, of N. H. Yet, for the benefit or those who depend on such sheets as those for their information and faith, it may be proper for me to say, that after spending four or five months in the vicinity of Port Royal among those much abused teachers, not even a report of any such case of crime has reached me as having occurred among the teachers who have been or are now employed there.
The officer referred to has probably made no such statements, for he doubtless knows that these teachers are white ladies, while the "little mulattoes" are claimed and supported by mothers of a much darker hue than themselves, whose fathers are supposed to "rank" quite above their sable maternity. Those teachers, in my judgment, are not surpassed by ladies at home or in foreign missions in moral excellencies, or self-sacrificing labors.
Most respectfully, L. J. BARROWS,
Sup’t. Ed. Nat. F. R. Association.

A HORRIBLE SLANDER.
We reluctantly copy this paragraph in order to pronounce it a falsehood, and to say that it is so absurd and so wicked that neither the officer-if any such there be-who first coined the lie, nor the Rev. Liberty Billings, who is said to have confirmed it, nor The Patriot, which first printed it, nor any one of the many Copperhead papers which have lately circulated it, nor any one blindest negro-hater who has read it, can possibly have believed it to be any- thing but an infamous slander, without a shadow of foundation or excuse.
We demand of The Patriot the name of the officer who is alleged to have told the story. We demand of the Rev. Liberty Billings, that he shall publicly affirm or deny the statement of The Patriot, that he "confirmed" the falsehood. We demand of the journals which have copied it, that they shall give equal publicity to the contradiction.
The women who are so grossly libelled by the friends of Slavery and the enemies of Freedom are natives of New England; graduates of the common schools and seminaries of that section of the country, and members of some of the most respeactble families in Massachusetts, Vermont, Connecticut, Maine, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. Each teacher, now employed in the Department of the South under the auspices of the Freedmen's Society, was required to furnish a certificate of character from the pastor of the parish to which she belongs, and to appear before the Auxiliary Clergymen's Committee for examination as to her character and qualifications. That Committee consists of the following gentlemen: Rev. O. B. Frothingham, Rev. George Whipple, Rev. Prof. John W. Lindsey, Rev. Nathan Brown, Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, Prof. Henry B. Smith, and the Rev. Henry Blanchard. The schools to which reference is made are under the immediate supervision of the Rev. Mr. French, the Rev. Mr. James, and the Rev. Dr. Barrows. A number of the teachers are the wives, daughters, sisters and near relatives of the clergymen in charge of the schools. Not one word of complaint in relation to the moral character of the teachers has ever been made to the Examining Board. It is not even true that there are sixty-four teachers employed at Port Royal, or on the adjacent islands. The number is but forty-six. And in addition to the names above given, we are authorized to say that FRANCIS GEORGE SHAW, President of the National Freedmen's Relief Association; EDGAR KETCHUM, Corresponding Secretary, and JOSEPH B. COLLINS, Treasurer, indorse the character of these teachers.
If any one thinks we treat this matter too seriously, and that a libel so transparently false and malicious deserves no refutation, let him consider the cruel wrong done to these innocent, pure, Christian women, who took upon themselves the labor of educating the emancipated blacks, who have made all sacrifices in their humane and generous efforts for a despised race, and who are nevertheless held up to scorn by these unprincipled and unmanly slanderers. We cannot believe that even the conductors of the journals who have printed the story can reflect on their conduct without shame and regret. To wantonly make such a charge against women, to give it the publicity of a newspaper circulation-it is a new revelation of the baseness of human nature, which we should like to forget as soon as possible. Meanwhile, we demand that those who have done the wrong shall do what they can to atone for it by a prompt and unequivocal contradiction.-N. Y. Tribune.

"MISCEGENATION."
Under this head the Barnstable Patriot tells the following story:-
"A sheep belonging to a flock of Merinoes on the ‘Bacon Farm,’ in this village, recently gave birth to two fine healthy lambs, one of which was of the African hue. Mindful of her noble origin and Spanish blood, the mother disdained to acknowledge her sable offspring, and refused it all nourishment or care. Indeed, she bestowed upon it so many more hard knocks than love pats, that the poor thing actually died of starvation and ill-treatment. It would seem she repented too late of her adoption of the new abolition theory 'for the improvement of the races,' now so eloquently advocated by radical leaders, termed "miscegenation."
Here, in a nutshell, is the whole theory and practice of modern "Democracy" illustrated. It is simply inhuman, devilish. The "Abolitionists," so far as we know, have no new theory for the "improvement of the races;" but certainly, if the animating sentiment of the above paragraph is that which prevails to any considerable extent among the white race, a new theory and practice also are sadly needed. If white folks are mean enough to allow that they may beget black children, and then pummel them to death, after the manner in which this sheep is said to have acted, then it is time, in all conscience, that a little gentler blood were infused into their veins; and negro or any other blood could not fail to be an improvement.
<c05>
Now the "radical leaders" only insist that if any Southern Democrat or Northern Copperhead choose to mate with a black woman, he should be bound to take care of his children. Dick Johnson, the Democratic candidate for Vice-President, married a black woman, and had children by her. According to the Copperhead theory, he should have beaten the children to death; but there was no need of that, in the South, for the slave-code shrewdly provides that the children shall follow the condition of the mother. If she were a slave, the husband could sell his and her children upon the auction-block. But, being a free woman, if black, and the children were of her complexion, to bestow upon them "more hard knocks than love-pats," till the poor things "actually died of starvation and ill-treatment," would be a heroism worthy of noble origin and high blood!
There it is: "Miscegenation" is all very fine, as practised by the slaveholder. The Patriot and kindred prints have never said a word against the practice of "Miscegenation," so long as it was devoted to lust and avarice, and the manufacture of slaves; but the moment some blunt man proposes that, if white men will be fascinated by colored women, they shall care for and educate their children, and that the mother shall be entitled to as much consideration in the family as the father, forthwith these papers begin to howl about "abolition and radical theories for the improvement of the races"! Here is a pattern morality set up before the people! A white man, or woman, or sheep, is not reproved for begetting black children; that is all right, because it is the custom of the Southern Democrats; but to beat them to death, for no fault of their own, is chuckled over and commended.
A black woman is sweet enough, to the Democrats, as a slave; she is good enough to nurse the chivalry, and be in everybody’s eyes and mouth-as a servant -so long as she is in bondage. White men may rear children by her, and no Democrat will raise a word of objection, provided these children can be sold-or, if born free, it is considered a good joke if their white parents, as in the case of this Copperhead sheep, should beat and starve them to death. It is only in freedom that the negro stinks!
So the "Miscegenation" which the Patriot would condemn is not the practice of mixing races. That it has always approved-at least, it has never condemned. What it vents its wrath upon is the innocent progeny of such mixture. We have nothing to offer in regard to the "improvement of the races." That is a question for the physiologists. This marrying or mixing white with black, red, or yellow, is a matter of taste, which we don’t care to interfere with. But what we insist upon is, that if any white Democrat choose to cohabit with black women, or white women with black men, they should be made to take care of them, in good faith and without partiality-the Bacon Farm sheep to the contrary, notwithstanding.-Cape Cod Republican. 

MISCEGENATION. 
The Copperheads have at length found a crumb of comfort. Some very foolish fellow, in the city of New York, we believe, has written a dull pamphlet on the old theme of the amalgamation of the races, and lest the subject matter of the essay should fail to attract attention, gave his speculations the title which stands at the head of this article. This has given Bennett, Jim. Brooks, George Lunt and other stern moralists nearer home, something to write about, which they improve most industriously, and with a gusto that indicates that they have at length got something sufficiently smutty for their tastes.
We cannot imagine, however, where all this overflowing fountain of sensibility and virtue can have been pent up for the last fifty years, for it is hardly credible that these innocents have lived in the world and grown up to mature manhood, without discovering that "" miscegenation" " has been practised in this country for generations. Why, their late coadjutors and trusted associates down in Dixie are its high priests, and this is one of those "peculiar institutions" for the perpetuation of which they are killing us Yankees as fast as they can, and risking their own precious lives with such recklessness and desperation! "To this complexion it has come at last." The faintest glance at scores of contrabands that come into the Union lines, shows that there was no necessity for writing silly pamphlets to make converts to this new doctrine in the South. And, surely, the fathers of these unfortunate outcasts were neither Abolitionists nor Republicans. These bleached-out Africans are the offspring of neither Greeley, Garrison, nor Beecher, but in many cases of rebel Congressmen, Generals, Governors, or men of lesser note in that community. Whoever will read Chancellor Harper’s Vindication of Slavery will find that he admits the universality of "miscegenation" between the white young men and the colored women of the slave States. He rather glories in this as less corrupting to the young slaveholders, than the illicit intercourse with lewd women which prevails in non-slaveholding communities. And a sister of President Madison once observed-"We Southern wives are but mistresses of seraglios." These are witnesses that no one can gainsay.
Thus it will be seen that this latest Copperhead novelty is, in reality, no novelty at all, but a very old practice under a new name, at which they appear to be as much astonished as was the unlettered individual who was told that he had all his life been speaking prose. The only respect in which the new advocate of "miscegenation" differs from the old, is to improve upon it. He believes in lawful marriages between those who live together, rather than the license and libertinism that have so long prevailed. This is a question of taste which every one must decide for himself; but if whites and blacks will cohabit, he is right in demanding that they shall not set the laws of decency and morality at defiance, as they have heretofore done. And this , doubtless, is the place that pinches Copperhead corns in such an agonizing manner.- Yarmouth Register.

THE SLANDER ON THE TEACHERS.
Some anonymous miscreant in this department has attacked, by the creation of rumors, the characters of the ladies who left the North to teach the contrabands at Beaufort and on the islands here. The charges made are too revolting and shameful to report. The ladies who have engaged to perform the task of educating the negroes of the department may misdirect their time, or aim at unprofitable ends, but they are refined, virtuous women, who evince the enthusiasm and fidelity of their sex in the discharge of their work. To state anything implying immoral conduct between them and negroes is to utter a base, unmanly and fool slander on their characters. I have known some of them, and I can thus "speak by the card."
If a report was circulated that the lady teachers are out of their "teens," that some of them are approaching the serious ages of from five-and-twenty to thirty, with single-blessedness hanging to their skirts like a millstone; and that when they came to this department, they might have a woman’s idea of marriage
<c06>
with some of our high military officers or wealthy civilians mixed up with their philanthropy to the negro, the report would be, or might be, truthful. We have had four or five marriages in Beaufort, where these ladies, who did not have beaux at the North, were mated with men of their choice after a brief courtship. The accomplished lady of one of our Generals is among those who teach the contrabands. Two other ladies have been recently married, and a few more are "engaged." They are constantly open to surveillance, and no one with truth or honesty can impeach their character. The author of the slander, it is hoped, will be discovered, and you may depend he will at least be banished from this department.-Hilton Head corr. N. Y. World. 

THE COURIER AND MISCEGENATION.
The folly of the theory of miscegenation lately broached by the abolitionists on the score of the improvement of the white race, seems too manifest to be argued about.-Boston Courier. 
The assertion of the Courier, that the miscegenation theory was broached by abolitionists, is entirely unfounded. We know of no abolitionists who advocate "miscegenation," but it is notorious that it is widely practised in that portion of the Union where an abolitionist, if caught, would be hung to the nearest tree. Practical miscegenation is mainly confined to your thorough-paced pro-slavery champions. As the circulation of the Courier is limited to that class, its labors to prove the folly of miscegenation must be regarded as truly disinterested missionary work.-Boston Journal. 

AMALGAMATION DEPENDENT UPON SLAVERY.
Abolitionism is based upon principles, and not upon sentiment. The great argument of anti-slavery men never rested upon the sufferings of slaves, but upon the injustice of slavery; and, therefore, had it even been proved that all the masters in the South were philanthropists and all the slaves happy, the system could not have been defended. The crime of slavery, not the misery of individuals, was urged by its opponents; and the appeal was made, not to the sympathies, but to the consciences of men. It is thus that the evil should still be fought, for any other argument than one of principle would degrade the dignity of the cause. A slave is not to be freed because his master whips, fetters, brands, mutilates, and flays him; he is to be freed because he is a man. All that this nation has to do with slavery is to get rid of it, and prohibit it by law. Our duty to the black race will end when we have given it freedom and opportunity of taking care of itself. The laws of labor will relieve us of all further trouble.
If, then, we have rightly refused to place our anti-slavery cause upon the lower ground of sentiment, are we not right to refuse to entangle it with social and ethnological questions? The common sense of the nation is shown in its refusal to debate what shall be the future of the colored race. This is not a matter for laws to settle, or of which Governments have any right or reason to treat. Society itself will settle its own conditions; our duty ends when we have established society upon free principles. If the colored man be all that WENDELL PHILLIPS asserts, he will in time prove it; if he is naturally the inferior of the white man, he will find his proper place. We do not think he has yet found it; his wrongs in the South we know, and in the North we know how much he has suffered from the influence of slavery. But his future is to be made by himself. Nor can all the theorists of the world make his capacity for improvement greater or less by a hair's breadth.
Amalgamation has nothing to do with emancipation. Those who are so loudy opposing it are wasting their trouble upon a cause which has no advocates. If it were in any way a result of Abolitionism, in any way involved in the progress of the war, in any way serious, or likely to become so, there would be some meaning in the outcry which certain journals are making. But as it is simply, at least in relation to the freedom of the colored race, an utter abstraction, we can only wonder at the folly of the few anti-slavery journals that have permitted themselves to be used by such mischief-makers as the Herald. When we remember that the tendency of Abolitionism, from the very first, has been to destroy amalgamation, we are the more surprised at the hardihood of those who accuse them of advocating it. It is in the South that amalgamation is the rule, and in the North the exception; slavery inevitably produces it-freedom as inevitably prevents it. In slavery it has grown to be an evil of such magnitude that none but those who live in slave States can appreciate it; in the free States it has been but an incident. In the South amalgamation affected the entire society; in the North it has affected individuals only, and had no affect upon society. Thus, all the facts of history and experience prove that the abolition of slavery, instead of being the establishment of amalgamation, is in practical effect its destruction. With what unblushing effrontery, then, do the lowest of the Copperhead organs accuse the Union party of advocating it! The Union party-or the Abolition party, if you please-advocates the waging of the war to the end and the blotting out of slavery. And this party will do what no other party ever even attempted-it will give the marriage institution to four millions of colored men and women, and destroy the system which has for so long made the South one monstrous brothel. Those who oppose this party are the real friends of amalgamation, and worse than amalgamation, and they are welcome to the disgrace.
We think we have said enough to show that the new word miscegenation is not more strange to our ears than is the idea it embodies to our creed. It remains to say that the colored men who are entitled to speak for their race, have never advocated amalgamation as a thing to be expected or desired. All that they ask, all that the war and the people will give them, is freedom and civil rights. It is not charity they want, but justice, and as for their social condition, that will be regulated by those natural laws which are beyond the reach of political legislation.-Philadelphia Press.

THE IMPURITY OF SLAVERY.
Your slave-maker on principle has always an enmity to women. It breaks out everywhere, whether the slavery sought is of the grosser kind, or only what may be distinguished by the title of political. There is, in all, the self-same moving force; the belief of superior strength. It is this which makes the pedants of the "Conceited Educated" put forth their weekly gibes on women and women's works, and brothers of the sport throw sarcasms on honest wives and maidens in America, endeavoring to help in removing their country's shame.
"The truth is, that women everywhere have their full share of interest in preserving the decencies of life, and on some points more. Slavery is one. Men may tolerate it, from custom, or ideas of profit; but women must either sink into the likeness of those at New Orleans, or live in a concealed state
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of constant disgust. There is not an honest woman in a slave country, whose nerves are not harrowed, so long as sensation is left, by the daily and hourly instruction of the offensive spectacles which slavery of necessity presents. It is not straight-lacedness; it is decency. Hide it as you will, the known impurity is there. Take a modest woman from any civilized country, and set her down in a slave land, and she knows that all the daughters of slavery she sees, if within the years to sin withal, are as much at the mercy of every white master who chooses, as the cattle of the field are to being sent to the butcher. She may try to hide it if she likes, and others may try to help her. But she knows it, she is sure of it; it haunts her imagination while she is saying her prayers, like the recollection of some frightful martyrdom, half seen in painter's vision and half her own. No modest woman can live a twelve month in a slave State; because, in a twelvemonth, she must have ceased to be modest.
In such a state of things, the unfortunates who are dispatched from Europe to do their best to transmit perfumed accounts of all that is unseemly in America, and to malign the wholesome, are astonished that women should come forward to rally the backwardness of men, and, like those of ancient Germany, bring them up to the attack. It is simply because the men can get out of the way, and the women cannot. Talk of a conscription among the men; the baptismal registers, if such there be, are the ready-made list of volunteers for women. The blushing girl, who is just beginning to hear there is evil in the world, knows that her mother goes to help to put down something that ought not to be, and looks forward to the time when she shall be called to stand by her mother's side. On all disputed questions of morality, the women are sure to be right. It is God who has made them so. By bearing more than half the consequences of wrong, they have more than their share of the consciousness of right. The ancient Germans are again in point. They had the gift to find out that there was "sanctum aliquid" (a something holy) in the counsels of their women. Those ancient Germans appear to have been a chosen seed; and they won the world’s battle, at last, in the Black Forest.
Joy then to the whole earth, that the women of America are showing themselves what women have been ever! And scorn and contempt unmeasured to those who attempt by ribaldry to make the atmosphere unfit for pure spirits to breathe in! It would be so in the streets, if united man did not take ways to hinder it.-Bradford (Eng.) Advertiser.

THE ACTION OF GENERAL BANKS.
Last week, a very able and radical speech was delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, by Hon. J. M. Ashley, of Ohio, on "The Liberation and Restoration of the South," a sample of which may be found in the following extract:-
Mr. Speaker, I have already, in passing, referred to the action of General Banks in Louisiana. Let me call the attention of the House and the country to his unwarrantable and indefensible assumption of civil authority in that State. In the first place, against the protest, and in defiance of the well-known wishes of the only organization known to the country, or recognized by the unconditional Union men of Louisiana, General Banks issues an order for an election on the 22d of February last, of States officers, under the old State organization and pro-slavery Constitution. If the old pro-slavery Constitution and State Government of Louisiana are to be thus re-established and recognized in defiance of the wishes of the loyal men of that State and without the sanction of Congress, this House ought to understand it. For myself. I enter my protest against any such assumption of civil authority by the military power. Let us look a little farther into the matter. After ordering an election for State officers under the old Constitution, which, if acquiesced in by Congress, will legally revive the old order of things in that State, General Banks issues another order directing that an election shall be held for delegates to a convention, for the purpose of amending the Constitution of the State so that it may conform to something-it is difficult to say what." The following is his order upon the subject:
"In order that the organic law of the State may be made to conform to the will of the people, and harmonize with the spirit of the age, as well as to maintain and preserve the ancient landmarks of civil and religious liberty, an election of delegates to a convention for the revision of the Constitution will be held on the first Monday of April, 1864.”
Whence did General Banks derive authority to issue such an order? Certainly not from Congress, nor from the laws of war, as recognized by civilized nations, nor from any rule or article of war known to our military code. If the power to issue the order is not derived from either of these sources, then the action of General Banks is a most wanton and defenceless assumption of military power, as well as an outrage upon the only organized body of men known and admitted by all to be free State men. As a military commander in the service of the United States, he may govern a conquered people by martial law until Congress or the people, in the exercise of loyal, popular sovereignty, recognize a civil Government, subject to the Constitution of the United States, with out interference or coercion from him, by the military force under his command. But neither General Banks nor the Commander-in-Chief can, by martial law, proclaim a Constitution for the civil Government of any State. General Banks, however, declares in this extraordinary proclamation, that "the fundamental law of Louisiana is martial law." If any gentleman can enlighten the House or the country about this matter, be will entitle himself to the lasting gratitude of all loyal men. Will any gentleman tell me how "martial law" can become the "fundamental law” of any organized civil State Government, known to the Constitution of the United States? I hold that neither General Banks, nor any other General in command of a department, has authority to order an election, for State officers in any of the rebel States, under any fundamental law, whether it be martial law or civil law. Still less has he any show of power or excuse for ordering an election of delegates to a Constitutional convention, if there is an existing fundamental law in the State.
If the State officers who have been elected by General Bank's orders assume the functions of civil Government, they will undoubtedly be recognized as officers under the old State Constitution of Louisiana, whatever General Banks may say about martial law, as the fundamental law of the State. If they are not officers of the civil Government of Louisiana, then the late election was a farce; for martial law does not provide that the people or any part of the people, over whom it is operating, shall, themselves, select the officers to administer and exercise it.
I undertake to say, that if these recently elected State officers are installed into office and recognized by Congress, such recognition will legally re-establish the old State Constitution and Slave code of Louisiana. In addition to this the State Government, thus established and recognized by Congress, may legally refuse to submit to or recognize the validity of any new State Constitution adopted by the convention ordered by General Banks to be elected next April, after the State officers elected under the old Constitution are inaugurated and invested with the civil Government of the State., They undoubtedly will refuse to recognize the action of that convention, unless it be in conformity with their wishes, because they can properly claim that the old State Constitution, having been revived and recognized by their election and inauguration, it provides the manner in which it may be amended. In order to obtain an early recognition of the assumed State organization under martial law,. the newly elected Governor may, if he sees fit, order an election for members of the State Legislature and Congress instanter, and I shall not be surprised if we have Senators and Representatives applying here for admission from the Government thus organized by the military power, before we adjourn. If such should be the case, and they are admitted before the action of the Constitutional convention is submitted to the loyal people for their approval, and the present State officers accept and recognize that Constitution if adopted by the people as the Constitution of the State, these officers may, if they choose, legally disregard the action of that convention, and remain under the old Constitution. If they should do this, what remedy would be left to us? If Congress should recognize this assumed State Government, before the Constitutional convention now ordered by General Banks to be elected should assemble, or before it had adopted and submitted a Constitution to the loyal electors of the State for their approval, its whole power under the newly elected officers could and might be used to defeat the wishes of the free State men; and if desired by the present State officers, this would be a better way of accomplishing their purposes than by refusing to accept the Constitution formed by the convention and 
<c02>
adopted by the people. I have no doubt that the officers of this assumed State Government could, if they were recognized by Congress, defeat the adoption of a free State Constitution in Louisiana, if they desired to do so. I do not say that they will attempt it, should Congress recognize them, for I do not know them. I only say that they could easily do so, if they preferred the old Constitution to the new one.
Gentlemen will readily see the necessity of avoiding such complications-and all must agree that the safer and better way is to have new State Constitutions adopted and approved by the loyal people and by Congress before elections for State officers are ordered by any one, and before we admit either Senators or Representatives in Congress from any of the rebel States.
I hope we shall have no such difficulty in Louisiana as I have suggested. I have always had such a high appreciation of the character and ability of General Banks, that I regret very much that I have felt it to be my duty to say what I have of his acts touching the reorganization of the State. I cannot, however, shut my eyes to the fact that the policy adopted by Gen. Banks affords every inducement for the secret enemies of the Government, by uniting with the conservative faction opposed to a free State, to bring about just the condition of things I have described. I trust we are not to have in Louisiana a repetition of the Missouri troubles.
If Gen. Banks, instead of ordering an election for State officers under the old Constitution of Louisiana, had listened to the free State men, and ordered an election of delegates to a convention to amend the old Constitution of Louisiana, or to make a new one for the State, the loyal men of the nation might have tolerated such an unauthorized assumption of power on his part. As it is, loyal men are compelled to protest against it, not only because of his exercise of power for which there is no law, and his disregard of the wishes of the free State men, but because of the difficulties and complications which a repetition of such acts in other States may bring upon us. Here is what the free State men of Louisiana say on this point:
"Resolved, That this Free State General Committee, not relinquishing its judgment that the only true path to reconstruction is a convention to form a new constitution before any election for State officers; and not renouncing its lawful claim to have slavery abolished immediately, without the dangers of any futile scheme of gradual emancipation; and not yielding its assent to the idea that the election of seven executive officers can, by proper use of terms, be styled the civil Government of Louisiana; but, nevertheless, recognizing the patriotic duty of endeavoring to place in office men whose opinions are in harmony with the wants of Louisiana and the spirit of the age, will take part in the elections."
The farce of an election was gone through with, and of course the men representing an organization, whose loyalty never was questioned, were defeated, and the candidate of Gen. Banks was elected. It, could not well have been otherwise. A military commander who announces that "marital law is the fundamental law of the State." and that all must vote, would not find it very difficult to elect any one he might designate, especially when the aggregate vote did not exceed ten or eleven thousand, with three candidates in the field. Hahn's whole vote in the State, as claimed by his friends, is only 2,171, less than one fourth of the vote of my Congressional district.
There are fifty-four Parishes in the State, only twelve of which are under our control.
Of the number who voted for Hahn, I have been credibly informed that over 1,000 were employed in the Quartermaster’s Department; about 550 are policemen in the city of New Orleans; city laborers 1,100, and other city officers 100; some 1,600 were soldiers claiming to be citizens of Louisiana. The acting Mayor of New Orleans was removed by General Banks, and one appointed who could and would control the votes and influence of the 550 policemen, city laborers and city officers. With all the military power of the department, to support Hahn; with the votes of all the Government employees, the Louisiana soldiers and policemen, his entire vote in the twelve Parishes is but 6,171; and yet this insignificant vote is paraded before the country, and unblushingly called the voice of the entire State of Louisiana, which, in 1860, gave a vote of over 50,000. Hahn had hardly as many voters in the entire State as Mrs. General Beauregard had sympathizing rebel mourners in attendance upon her funeral in the city of New Orleans, in a day or two after this election.
I have said nothing of Gen. Banks's orders and treatment of the freedmen of Louisiana. God knows I have no desire to say a word that I ought not to say, but I cannot remain silent when such irregularities are being committed. I am heart-sick of this pandering to rebels and slaveholders. When Gen. Butler was in command at New Orleans, no, recognized free State man complained of his masterly administration. The rebels and slaveholders, however, made day and night hideous with their howling. And Gen. Butler was removed. Since Gen. Banks has been in command, there has not been a rebel or pro-slavery complaint, but frank and manly protests come to us from well known Union men, who have been tried as by fire, and whose loyalty was never tainted by taking an oath to support the rebel government, or by voluntarily defending and justifying it. This simple fact tells its own story, and I need not add another word.

GENERAL BANKS.
It is not asserted that General Banks has succeeded in the solution of his problem, but the method he proposes is taken as evidence of a high order of ability in the Old World. In this country we needed no such proof of General Banks’s capacity or force of mind, which are both universally acknowledged; but we feel, nevertheless, that there are several things in his procedure which need explanation. If, he were the independent conqueror of Louisiana, it would be easy to understand his authority for the attempt to reconstruct its society. But, being a military commander only, representing the President, it seems to us that he rather transcends his powers when be undertakes to institute a new civil economy. He may, if military necessity requires it, proclaim martial law, which of itself suspends all other law within the scope of military operations, and be may appoint special commissions and tribunals to assert justice and preserve order; but he cannot reconstitute the state, or reconstruct society. That duty is, by our Constitution, reserved to Congress, which is bound to guarantee to every state a republican form of government.
But, supposing General Banks authorized to reform the state usurped, vacated or overthrown by the rebels, he seems to us to have proceeded in a strange way to accomplish the task. As the old constitution of the state was no longer in force, having been either annulled by the rebels or superseded by the proclamation of martial law, the first obvious duty was to invoke the people to devise a new constitution, which should be the authority and the rule of any civil government that might be established. But General Banks caused an election of state officers before any State had been provided for; for he made organs without functions, officers without offices; governors, secretaries and other executive agents of a power which as yet had no legal substance or being. Messrs. Hahn, Wells, Belden, &c., like the gentlemen commissioned in the Confederate Navy, may be excellent commanders and seamen, but are, unfortunately, without a plank of a vessel.
Again, it is difficult to see, even on the supposition that General Banks’s authority was complete and his method judicious, how an election is possible under the condition of martial law. It certainly cannot be an unbiased expression of the will of the whole people-but a result more or less forced. In the election which was actually held, for instance, Mr. Hahn, the successful candidate, received some six thousand votes, but of these it is said that some sixteen hundred were soldiers, claiming to be citizens of Louisiana, one thousand laborers in the Quartermasters’s department, eleven hundred employees of the city government, and five hundred and fifty policemen, all more or less directly under the control of the military arm. Now, if such were the case, (we do not avouch it,) the election can scarcely be called an expression of the popular will: it was only a form at best: and any but a legitimate method of establishing a republican government, which implies the spontaneous willing, uninterrupted action of the whole society. Indeed, under the peculiar arrangements at New Orleans, the most willing supporters of the general constitution and Union-the colored freemen-were expressly excluded from voting, while the unwilling part of the community-the semi secessionists and their sympathizers-were threatened with consequences if they did not vote. A reorganization of states, under such circumstances, demands, to say the least, a rigid and close scrutiny on the part of Congress, which alone has the right of civil legislation.-N. Y. Evening Post.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1864.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The General Agent of the Liberator would very kindly and respectfully remind delinquent subscribers, that its terms, as printed in every number, stipulate "payment in advance";-that a lapse of six months, or even three months, is not an observance of these terms; and that when a whole year has expired, and another quarter been added thereto, without payment, it is obvious that very great indulgence to delinquents has been allowed, and that they will show themselves to be utterly unreasonable if they take any offence, or make any complaint, at the immediate discontinuance of their papers. This, therefore, is to apprise all such as are owing from January 1, 1863, to the present time, that unless their bills are paid by the 1st of May ensuing, (this will be giving them a credit of sixteen months,) their names will be stricken from our subscription list. And yet that list is too small not to render it quite necessary that it should be much increased, rather than curtailed of a single subscriber. The Liberator has derived no benefit whatever from the wonderful change which it (among other instrumentalities) has wrought in public sentiment, adverse to slavery; and with the constantly increasing expenses of publication, we shall deeply regret to be compelled to cut off any one who is now receiving it.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
Boston, April 6, 1864.

SUBSCRIPTION TESTIMONIAL TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
It will be seen by the following Circular, signed by the Governor of the State, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and other eminent citizens, that it is proposed to raise a Subscription Testimonial, to be presented to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., in grateful recognition of the eminent service he has rendered the whole country, since the rebellion broke out, by his indefatigable efforts in England to defeat the plots of rebel sympathizers and emissaries, and preserve amicable relations between the two countries. The proposition is highly creditable to all parties; and if carried out, as it should be, and we trust will be, on a handsome and generous scale, it will prove of international interest and value-increasing the number of our trans-Atlantic friends, and cheering them by a substantial proof of the liberty-loving purpose of those who are upholding the Government and its flag.
The Circular having been, as yet, sent to a few individuals,-and being such as makes its appeal to all loyal and patriotic men on the distinct basis of eminent and disinterested service done the Government, without prompting or thought of even a vote of thanks,-it is deemed proper that it should be given the fullest publicity, through the loyal press of the country, (and they are respectfully requested to copy it in full, or give the substance of it to their readers,) so that not only the personal and intimate friends of Mr. Thompson may be apprised of this laudable effort, but also all loyal men and women who may delight in this manner to testify their respect and gratitude.
It is not intended to appropriate the money that may be raised to the buying of a service of plate, or anything of the kind; but it is to be invested in the best possible manner for the benefit of Mr. Thompson in his advancing years, and of his family, by the responsible Trustees whose names are given-(than whom three better men cannot be found in the Commonwealth)-and who will be happy to receive whatever donations, from the smallest to the largest sums, (the more that participate, the better,) those who approve the object may feel able to give.
If this testimonial should be favorably regarded by the various Union Leagues in the country, and their cooperation secured, "many hands" would indeed "make light work," and a munificent sum be raised worthy of the republic, and world-wide in its beneficent and liberty-inspiring influence.
[CIRCULAR.]
At a period when the North seemed to have but few friends in England,-when the efforts of secessionists and those in their interest threatened to disturb the peace of the two countries, GEORGE THOMPSON devoted himself to the noble work of dispelling the delusion caused by misrepresentation and falsehood, and of convincing the liberal and the laboring classes of Europe that our cause is identified with their own.
He travelled through England, addressing large and respectable audiences, placing facts before the people, and explaining the real nature of the issue between the North and the South.
Without fee or reward he has labored to prevent misunderstanding between the nations, and has thus contributed to preserve the peace of the world.
It has been said of him that "he never turned his back on a good cause, or put his hand to a bad one."
As a recognition of these valuable services, it is proposed that a fund be raised and placed in the hands of John M. Forbes, Samuel E. Sewall, and John H. Stephenson, as Trustees, to be by them appropriated, at their discretion, for a testimonial worthy the man and the cause.
Subscriptions for the above object may be sent to JOHN M. FORBES, 36 City Exchange; SAMUEL E. SEWALL, 46 Washington Street; or JOHN H. STEPHENSON, 12 Arch Street. 
JOHN A. ANDREW, F. W. BIRD, 
JOEL HAYDEN, WILLIAM B. ROGERS,
J. E. FIELD, GEORGE S. HALE,
ALEX. H. BULLOCK, S. G. WARD, 
ERASTUS HOPKINS.
Boston, Feb. 26, 1864.
GERRIT SMITH sets a noble example, and responds in his usual generous manner, in the following characteristic letter:-
PETERBORO', March 17, 1864.
WM. LLOYD–GARRISON:-
MY DEAR FRIEND,-I am happy to see that a purse is to be made up for GEORGE THOMPSON. Please put in the enclosed draft for $200.
"For he loveth our nation" was the reason assigned why a certain one should receive a favor from Jesus. Emphatically true is it that George Thompson "loveth our nation." Deceiving and deceived persons-those wicked enough to deceive, and those stupid enough to be deceived-cried out that George Thompson hateth our nation, and that his English jealousy would have it broken up. But the labor which, in former days, George Thompson performed in this country-and performed, too, in the face of calumny and attempts upon his life-was a "labor of love.” It was a "labor of love" which he has recently been performing for her in England. Such, too, was his labor in behalf of the down-trodden West Indians and East Indians, and such also when he was contributing to relieve the British poor of the crushing burden of the corn laws, and was accepting poverty and unpopularity instead of proffered riches and honors.
God hasten the day when national jealousies shall have so far disappeared, that all England will welcome to her shores Americans, who wish to tell her of the wrongs of Primogeniture, and Land Monopoly, and Irish Oppression And, God hasten the day when there shall be so little of national jealousy amongst ourselves, that we shall be glad to have Englishmen stand upon our soil, and tell us what in their judgment is oppressive or unjust in our laws and institutions!
May Heaven’s best blessing fall upon George Thompson-upon George Thompson, the orator, the states man, and the philanthropist!
Your friend, GERRIT SMITH.
<c04>
THE FIFTY-FOURTH REGIMENT.
The following letter, written by an estimable lady who is familiar with all the facts pertaining to the Fifty-fourth (Colored) Regiment of Massachusetts, was intended only for private perusal; but it is so impressive, and so appealing to all that is just and equal on the part of our Government, in regard to the treatment of that Regiment, that we cannot withhold it from the public eye; trusting it will do much to quicken the action of Congress on this subject.-Ed. Lib.
The facts in regard to the 54th regiment, and its treatment by those in power, are these:-
When the Governor first proposed to raise this regiment, he applied to the Secretary of War to know if they would be paid, clothed, and treated in the same way as white troops; and on an affirmative answer being given, Gov. Andrew felt authorized to commence. I myself, when in New York last October, saw the document authorizing the proceedings, it being then in the hands of Francis G. Shaw, the father of our first Colonel. The handbills were prepared, and the usual inducements offered, but special stress was laid on the $13 per month, the same as other soldiers. There was thought to be not a shadow of doubt in regard to the fulfilment of the promise so solemnly given.
For a history of the regiment's doings from the time of its leaving Boston, May 28, 1863, up to December of the same year, I refer you (if it is published yet) to the report of the regiment in the Annual Report of the Adj. General of this State, in which it is shown, very briefly to be sure, what has been done by the first colored regiment raised in a free State. Nothing has been said of its sufferings-that remains for private hands to record; but it is enough to know that they have gone through all that any troops have ever been called upon to suffer, and very much in addition, owing to the prejudice against them by the general officers placed over them.
The State bounty of $50 was paid to them before leaving camp, and that is the only money they have received. Twice or three times they have been visited by the United States paymaster, and have been offered the laborers' wages of $10 per month, which they, to a man, have refused, saying, "'This an insult, after putting upon us every duty of a soldier which we have faithfully performed, to offer us the wages of a mere laborer, who is never called upon to peril his life for the country." Massachusetts, fearing-as has proved the case-that the Government intended to play them false, sent down agents to pay them (from the State Treasury) the difference between the pay; but in a manner that will redound to their credit so long as the fact remains, they all with one accord refused it. Said they, "We will either be paid as soldiers, or not at all.” This course drew down upon them the hatred of all the other colored troops and their officers, (for those regiments raised at the South understood that they, were to have but $10, as the Government also supported their families,) and they had to bear insult and injury from them; but they did not falter. Standing by their expressed determination to have justice done them, they quietly perform their duties; only praying earnestly for every friend of theirs at the North to help the Government to see what a blot rests on its fair fame-a betrayal of the trust reposed in it by the colored race. But a few, comparatively, of the families of our two regiments, live in the State, and to those that do the State aid is but a trifle in the way of supporting life; while those who are out of Massachusetts have not received one cent since their sons, brothers and husbands have enlisted in the 54th and 55th regiments, Massachusetts Volunteers.
There probably has been no one regiment that has made itself so well known, during the war, by its good discipline, untiring labors, and never-failing bravery, as our 54th; but the officers all feel that its name may be tarnished-for the men are but mortal, and cannot endure forever, unless justice is done them, or they are convinced that their friends are really working for them in the North.
Just previous to the battle of Olustee, a few of the malcontents sent an anoymous letter to Col. Hallowell, saying that they would refuse to fight as they had received no pay. Nevertheless, when the fight came, and when all was lost, there stood the old 54th with levelled bayonets, showing no cowards, and saving the rest of the army from an overwhelming defeat.
You may have seen, in the various letters written from there, bow much they were called upon to do after the battle; the dragging the locomotive and train of cars over six miles by hand, and that, too, on empty stomachs; and many other things. In fact, all they had to eat, for quite a long time, was hard tack, and but little of that; they having frequently fasted twenty-four hours at a time.
I presume that what they have undergone in the way of hard and incessant labor, scarcity of food, lack of clothing, and such things, is but what many regiments have suffered during the war; so there is no particular use in enumerating them, unless it is to show those who will not be convinced, that they are entitled to all that other soldiers are, whatever be their color; and that there is no excuse whatever for treating them in the way they are now being treated.
While on Morris Island, the 54th regiment was particularly specified by the engineers as the one best adapted, by their cool bravery under fire that could not be returned, to dig the trenches in the approaches to Fort Wagner; and they actually did over 18,000 days' work in those trenches!
Here are some extracts from a letter written by an officer connected with the 54th:-
"The Colonel. I think, feels very much just now the magnitude of our undertaking-i.e., to raise the black man, as far as we can, in the army and through it. We have so many checks and rebuffs, that it is an undertaking! that will take all the enduring pluck a man can get himself, and all the strength the Lord gives him. I do not mean that he feels at all down-hearted, but he feels the cares and responsibilities." "Sometimes we almost despair about our men in the matter of pay and proper recognition. We cannot but think that it needs only to be thoroughly understood,-this case of ours,-to have justice done us. Is there no great mind who will gain the blessings of a race by winning over, through the forum or the press, the rulers of the country to this simple act of justice desired by us? These men were enlisted either legally, under the act of July, 1861, and they should then be paid as soldiers; or illegally, and then they should be mustered out of the service. Now they have but another form of slavery, and a blot rests upon the honor of the country. Think of what the men do and suffer-as much as any white troops:-think of their starving families! There is Sergeant Swailes, a man who has fairly won promotion on the field of battle. (1) While he was doing the work of Government in the field, his wife and children were placed in the poor-house at home, (New York State,) where they now remain. Oh, for a brave-hearted, eloquent man at the North, to awaken the people to a knowledge of what their rulers are doing in this matter!! As to us, we can only trust to the Lord, knowing that' He doeth all things well.’
The men talk a good deal among themselves about either being paid, or mustered out of the service. One of the two should be done. If the nation persists in such unjust courses, all growing from slavery or sympathy with slavery, the stripes in the flag should be black, as symbolical of the stains on the once fair name of the 'land of the free.' Yes, but 'no land for the freedmen,' would be the appropriate addition. Well, we will neither despair nor grumble; for Providence watches over us. Some must suffer for every great cause. Millions of free men are not born without a pang."
(1) He has since been promoted.
"MISCEGENATION." We have devoted our first page to a discussion of this subject in a miscellaneous manner. First we give the outpouring of pro-slavery blackguardism, which is characteristic of the daily effusions of such copperhead sheets as the Boston Courier, New York Journal of Commerce, and Bennett's Herald. Following this may be found a withering exposure of the hypocrisy and scoundrelism of those who are raising an outcry about "Miscegenation"; and a triumphant vindication of the estimable female teachers at Port Royal from as foul a slander as it is possible for demons to coin or circulate. The pamphlet which has so excited the filthy wretches who are dealing in these libellous charges may be obtained at A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street
<c05>
TRIBUTES TO THE MEM0RY OF THE HON. OWEN LOVEJOY.
Already, the somewhat sudden demise of this stalwart. Western champion of the enslaved in our land has elicited many hearty and generous eulogiums up on his character from the pulpit and the press, and his loss is universally deplored-particularly at this critical period in our national history, when whoever can do service in the cause of freedom and humanity is of importance to the republic. The funeral services were performed in Plymouth Church, at Brooklyn, N. Y., on Monday afternoon, 28th ultimo-the following gentlemen acting as pall-bearers:-William Cullen Bryant, J. . H. Bryant, of Illinois, Lewis Tappan, Dr. Bitter,. Mr. Carpenter., Rev. Mr. Jocelyn, Dr. Dexter Fair-bank, and Mr. Davis, a liberated slaves Rev. Dr. Cheever delivered a brief address, from which we make the following extract:-
In recurring to the history of him whom God hath taken from this warfare to his rest, my mind reverts to three particular points, which I shall only glance at First, the event of the murder of his brother in 1837. Then he consecrated himself to earnest, intense, and assiduous labor in behalf of the oppressed. From that time he seemed to call aloud, like the prophet of old, "Where is the Lord God of Elijah?" And in 1842, we saw him, as it were, smiting the stream with the mantle of the departed prophet He preached a sermon then, an extract from which will be read to you, from the text, "We must obey God rather than man,”," and in that discourse he called upon his hearers to consecrate themselves to the work of obeying God rather than man, in the terrific conflict for the rights of the enslaved, even at the peril and cost of martyrdom, and declared that, God helping him, he never would obey man when God's command forbade him, but would obey God, rather, though he should die in so doing. The conflict thickened. We can almost see the stalwart form of our steadfast brother in the midst of infuriated demons in the House of Representatives, confronting them to their faces, as they gnashed upon him ready to destroy him. We all remember that signal instance when, it having been declared treason against this country and its Constitution to shelter a fugitive from bondage, and those who dared to do such an act were denounced as thieves and stealers of slaves, who deserved the highest penalty of the law, Mr. Lovejoy stood up and defied that infamous law and its penalty, declaring that be would obey God in breaking it even to the death. "I live," said he, "in Princeton, Illinois; the road to my dwelling is so plain that it cannot be mistaken; but I give you the landmarks by which you cannot fail to find it. My front door is always open to the fugitive slave, and always shall be; and any panting fugitive fleeing from this cruel oppressors shall be received into my house, and there protected; and woe be to the first slave-hunter that dares attempt to cross my threshold to seize him.”." The next instance that I will advert to was just upon the eve of the breaking out of the rebellion, when it had been resolved to amend our Constitution in behalf of slavery, so as to render it safe from all interference south of a certain line. On that occasion, Mr. Lovejoy declared that never had there been a revolt so causeless or so internal since Satan led the cohorts of rebel angels against the throne of God in heaven, and he had never learned that God offered any compromise with the rebel angels, giving them the privilege of rebellion in hell south of 36 deg. 30 min. The effect was electrical, and the speech went all over the land. The last instance of the faithfulness of our departed brother was when he broughst in a bill for entire and unconditional emancipation throughout the United States. And that bill he was laboring upon even to the hour of his death. I am told that, after his arrival in this city from Washington, with the disease preying upon him, be rose up, and as if with the original strength of his iron constitution he could by an effort of the will shake off the disease, he said, "I must go to my place in Congress, and see that my bill is carried through." But God permitted him only to behold the land beyond Jordan. He took him away in the midst of his unfinished labors. Our brother has entered into the rest of the people of God. O, the blessedness of that welcome, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." His active life, with labor incessant and intense enough to have crushed half a dozen common men, was devoted entirely to this one grand aim of deliverance of the millions of the enslaved.
Dr. Cheever was followed by Rev. Henry Ward Beecher in a very feeling address, in the course of which he said:-
Owen Lovejoy is evidence that a man may become heroic by the practice of the simplest moral elements. I think he was preordained for the position that he has occupied, and built for it. It is true that a man may, by force of conscience, do things which ought to be done, against his susceptibilities and his feelings; and there is many a man that fain would have done battle for freedom, but was so organized that to do it was a perpetual torment and pain, to him. It has been with extreme difficulty that some of these men have maintained themselves, and it was too much to advance. Mr. Lovejoy was so organized that to do what he thought right was no pain, and required no special resolution. He was built broad, and square, and strong; to be healthy and courageous. I think, therefore, that we ought to bless God that he sent this man, and equipped him when be sent him-a man who did his duty so easily and naturally that it required no extraordinary effort. But while he was a fearless man, he was not a malignant nor an irritable man. He never fought with animosity; still less did he ever quarrel. He never scolded. To speak of Owen Lovejoy as a querulous, irritable reformer, is as foreign as possible from the truth. He was a genial, smiling, good-natured, honest-hearted, open-handed man, that every man must sympathize with and respect, even those whom he used to drub; for he was called to do a great deal of that disagreeable work in his lifetime, especially in the later periods of his public life. Every one who knew him may bear witness that it was not the love of morbid anatomy; it was not a sort of fierce hatred of evil alone; it was the love of good, and the sweet open-hearted love of that, and that alone, that impelled him. And to the end of his life he maintained healthiness. He was not a morbid reformer in any sense. God endowed him with a constitution that was needed for the work that he did, and with the requisite mental traits. He also ordained that he should have a right education, and, therefore, he made him the child of a good mother. Largely to her he owed those qualities which have made him what he was. It was she that instructed him more than all others, especially in patriotism. It was she that used to take up The Emancipator that Dr. Leavitt edited, and read the editorials in his hearing, exclaiming as she went on sentence after sentence as she sat by the fire, "Well done, Mr. Leavitt!" Thus she sowed the seeds of sacred truths, and covered them down with maternal love; and such seed sown in such a heart, by a mother's hand, could not fail to bring forth a good harvest. He put himself through college. He may be said to have been a self-educated man, as all men are who are educated at all. He prepared for the ministry. He offered himself to be licensed in the Episcopal Church. They proposed to do it upon condition that he would promise not to agitate the Church by discussing the unpopular subject of slavery. He turned his back on them, and told them if they would not give him his license with freedom, he would not take one. He forsook them, and took out a license in the Congregational Church-where be should have gone first-without conditions, and I need not tell you that he never preached a gospel which left out human rights and human liberties. In preaching he felt that there was a spiritual element, and he was faithful in the discharge of his ministerial duties in that direction; but he also felt that that spiritual element should never absorb and hide the ethical, and that the preponderance of the one or the other must be determined in the providence of God by the exigencies of the
<c06>
community; and in his time the exigencies of the community required that the gospel should tell what were the rights, of man. And in the region where he lived, he educated public sentiment and brought men to feel that religion inspired liberty, and that piety, one of the evidences, of it, should be the love of liberty for one's self and one's fellows. It has been very happily said this morning, that he changed the sphere of his ministry, and did not lay it down, for he was man of God in Congress, and in all his political and public life he was still carrying out the great truths of the gospel, giving them emphasis and practical force in the labors, of reform which occupied the last years , of his life. What was the intensity of his feeling and heroism that his religion had inspired in him, you may judge in part from, the lion-like conducts of his brother-and he was a man of the same sort-who died a martyr, and poured out his blood for liberty of speech and of conscience. You may judge it by the words that he spoke everywhere with fearlessness. I will read two paragraphs. Imagine a whole sermon flaming like this, and borne out, too, by a man whose whole life showed that he meant every word he spoke:
"What if we are fined? Shall we be the first Christian that were spoiled of their goods? Did you never hear of any who took the ‘spoiling of their goods joyfully’? What if we do die a violent death! Thus the Lord Jesus Christ died-thus Peter, Paul and other Apostles died-thus the glorious company of Martyrs died-thus Cranmer, Latimer, and Rogers died-thus Hampden, Sidney and Emmett died thus Elijah Parish Lovejoy died-and thus, God's grace helping him, will Owen Lovejoy die, rather than yield obedience to human law which conflicts with the Divine.
"Mother, can you not spare another son!
"Beside the prostrate body of that murdered brother, while the fresh blood was coming from his perforated breast, on my knees while alone with the dead and with God, I vowed never to forsake the cause that was sprinkled with his blood. The <illegible> was written in blood. It must stand. Am I alone is this matter? No, I thank God that I am not. I see by the tearful eye and compressed lips that there are others here into whose melted hearts the fixed resolution is now sinking, TO OBEY GOD RATHER THAN MAN-WHO WILL DO OR DIE."
Is there anything better than that spoken in our literature or in our history? anything better done than that man's life, of which this is but one spark the whole life being a brand of the same kind! But he has been simply a man faithful to conviction, faithful to religion, faithful to the example of his Master, and gone through the perils, of a stormy period till he saw already the twilight of the coming dawn. The night is far spent, and the day of his land, his native land, is at hand, and his eternal day nearer than he thought. The sickness which has terminated his mortal career he thought not to be unto death, and he struggled against it with fervor and courage, believing that his Master had work for him to do here still; and he had. "Though dead, he yet speaketh." Do you believe that there is a young man bred on the prairies of Illinois, or in all her counties, that is susceptible to heroism and nobleness, who will not be inspired by the example and words of Owen Lovejoy! He has not half done his work yet. He will go on working from year to year, as every noble nature does that is faithful in his day and generation. He sows then the seed which comes up chiefly after he is gone.

RESPONSIBILITY OF SUBORINATES.
In the Liberator of April 1st, there is statement by Mr. J. W. Pratt, of sufferings he endured for refusing on Christian grounds, to enter military service, for which he was drafted-a statement-of truth as grieves and deserving of sympathy as the fiction of "Uncle Tom." But I refer to it, not for the purpose of exciting such sympathy, but for the discussion of a principle involved in it.
In the same paper-in another page-there is an editorial comment on this statement, which, though generally favorable and kind to Mr. Pratt, contains the following passage, which I read with amazement:-
"We think (aside from the profanity that was used, and the bad temper exhibited) there was nothing specially blame worthy on the part of the officers who caused his arrest and punishment, because they were bound, by all the obligations of their position, to see that no duty was shirked or neglected. They did but faithfully execute the military code, having no authority to recognize any peculiar conscientious scruples against war, on the part of any under their command.”
I cannot believe that any of those who, several years ago, formed the Non-Resistance Society, would have then advanced such a doctrine as this; or that Abolitionists would now approve it, if applied to the severe punishment or cruel treatment of a slave by an over-seer, who should plead the order of his employer or the law of his State; for where war has not perverted the judgment, it is seen to be erroneous and unprincipled. If admitted, it may be made to justify the must enormous crimes, if only committed in conformity to the dictates of some fallible human authority. In the present instance, it is brought to justify the criminal compulsion of a person to enter an anti-Christian, murderous service, by authority, if only done in a moderate and polite manner.
Our truly Christian, and formerly (I hope yet) peace poet, J. R. Lowell, says in one of his admirable humorous poems, on enlisting,-
"Ef you take a sword, and dror it,
And should stick a feller through,
Gov'ment aint to answer for it-
God will send the bill to you.”
As there was then no war on hand, no intelligent person wished to contradict this common sense declaration; certainly, no religious man ventured to asset, that a national government, the mere spawn of political contests, was authorized to set aside the Divine laws, and command their dependants to violated them; and yet, governments everywhere assume the power of life and death-that is , of judicial and martial murder-and the iniquitous doctrine prevails, among all classes, that citizens or subjects are under a moral obligation to obey all such sanguinary behests-a doctrine not only false in the eye of reason and religion, but which has been productive of the greatest part of the wars, tyrannies, slaveries, cruelties and miseries that have ever afflicted mankind.
I am aware that it is said, such authority and such obedience to it are necessary for the maintenance of justice and safety in a community; and that necessary supersedes all moral law. But if necessity is thus a paramount law, it can only be so when the necessity is absolute, unavoidable, undeniable. A mere allegation of necessity, by as party doing wrong, denied by another party, is not a justification; the necessity of slaughtering our fellow men by war or otherwise has never been proved in any age, and is confidently denied by many persons perfectly competent to the investigation and the judgment. J. P. B.
REMARKS. Our venerable correspondent raises of false issue. In referring to the treatment of Mr. Pratt for contumacy in refusing to bear arms on account of his non-resistance views, we were not discoursing any abstract principles,-neither peace nor war-but simply dealing with FACTS. Does "J. P. R." mean to say, that Mr. Pratt was treated with special severity, according to the military code! It not then he agrees with us. Or does he mean to say that, thus the officers who ordered his arrest had any dispensing power in such a case, or could have allowed him to do as he pleased without being false to their oath, not rendering themselves liable to punishment! If not then he agrees with us. We said no more, and means to imply no more than this; and we did so as one whom the doctrine of non-resistance is as dear as it is to our correspondent. We expressly commended Mr. Pratt for the fidelity with which he adhered his conscientious scruples, through much suffering and humiliation: it was in the true martyr spirit While, however, it is not to be expected that the government will, in the present state of things, act those scruples, we may reasonably ask it to treat such case with all possible leniency; and to allow the upon non resistant, if conscripted, to minister to the <illegible> in the hospitals, rather than to attempt to coerce is conscience by the infliction of severe punishment.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
RETURN OF THE REV. J. SELLA MARTIN TO THE UNITED STATES.
The missions of the great apostles of liberty are like those of Christianity in its primitive ages-itinerant as well as local. It is not given to them to be as the "angels" of the Asiatic churches, stationary; but their office is rather akin to that of the celestial beings who we are told are "sent forth to minister to such as shall be heirs of salvation." Ordinary spirits are not privileged, because not qualified, to flit to and fro in the earth on God's errands. Our state church order of apostles, manufactured according to statute and common law, are of a diametrically opposite character; they are like the first Adam, "of the earth earthy," and their natural tendency is to gravitate to the soil from whence they sprang; and, consequently, their normal condition is that of immobility. Grossness is a grace, just as in some countries a woman's beauty is estimated in proportion to the degree of her obesity. You have, perhaps, seen a number of proslavery utterances delivered lately in our country districts; they have almost invariably proceeded from the squirearchy under the charge of our blind leaders of the blind, who have proved themselves most zealous copperhead allies. Immobility is classed among clerical virtues, except when a better living is to be got by moving. Reverend gentlemen actually claim as a merit the fact that they have vegetated in one spot for half a century; and people generally are disposed to place to the credit side of their accounts the further fact, that beyond the narrow circle of their parishes no ray of their parishes no ray of their mediaeval candle has ever penetrated the surrounding gloom. There is a Pale-ontological argument to be drawn from the mental organisms of these pastors and peoples. One cannot but admire the wisdom of the Providential adaptation of their feeble lights to the intellectual visions of the animals to whom they minister—the conformity of the parson's spirituelle to those of the bucolic.
“Gentlemen of England who lire at home at ease," who never itinerate except to the neighboring market town or venture upon utterances, save at a such agricultural dinners as those which have of late been reported, where warmly, and perhaps naturally, they express their copperhead sympathies with the powers of darkness in the Southern States. Dr. Johnson said that it was possible for a man to be too well-read for his auditors; but no such disparity of understanding exists between the parochial incumbents and their flocks.
Some two months since, the British champion of liberty, George Thompson, left our shores. In a few weeks we are to sustain another loss, and you to acquire another gain, by the departure of the African advocate of negro freedom, J. Sella Martin. He is one of those great apostles who have been called to labor in two hemispheres. Notwithstanding his European visits have been comparatively short, it is not too much to say that he was won for himself a worldwide reputation. I believe that his departure from our shores will be regarded by his English friends with feelings similar to my own—a struggle between a conviction of duty and personal attachment. I feel that be should go; and yet I would fain that he staid. Personal considerations must, of course, give way to duty. Wherever the balance of good to be done inclines, there the true reformer must go. But there are times when I cannot help doubting the propriety of such men leaving us, at least until the possibility of danger here is past. The apostacy of our upper classes on the slavery question has been so terrible, and relatively so extensive, that my faith in them is utterly shaken, and I fear to trust them, even when they seem, as they do now, like him from whom the legion of devils was expelled—clothed, and in their right minds. The friends may appear to be safely incarnated in the swine; but they may, at any favorable moment, escape from their prisons, and resume their former habitation, and again rend our body politic and compel us to resort to another laborious and expensive process of exorcism, like that which we have just completed. My apprehensions of such a calamity may almost amount to a morbid feeling; but they arise from a deep consciousness of the peril we have escaped—I hope forever.
I have no doubt that Sella Martin’s American friends are generally aware of the extent and value of his labors in this country. He has visited it twice; first, to discharge a brotherly duty, and also to perform an anti-slavery work. He then succeeded in accomplishing his object of mercy, and also in sowing broadcast seeds of anti-slavery truth, which subsequently produced an abundant harvest. His return in January, 1863 was most opportune, not to say Providential. We were in the crisis of a great battle with the pro-slavery minions when the victory seemed to incline to their side, and when the timid amongst us almost feared that God was about to be deposed from the government of the universe. Sella Martin came into the field with peculiar qualifications for the contest. His eloquence and extensive knowledge of American affairs constituted him a warrior, a giant clad in impenetrable mail; but his intimate knowledge of the enemy's tactics made him a general whose services were invaluable during the campaign. As a member of the Executive Committee of the London Emancipation Society, I can bear testimony that his labors have been untiring and most effective. To him is due, next to George Thompson, the largest amount of the credit of revolutionizing public opinion, and of reclaiming men from that criminal depravity into which they were sunk on the slavery question. The plan of the London and Manchester Societies was to send deputations wherever the pro-slavery virus prevailed most malignantly. Into sixty of the worst localities, Sella Martin went, and coped single-handed with Southern emissaries; and in upwards of a hundred more places he has formed one of deputations for similar purposes. Not only did he never sustain a reverse, but his triumphs were always complete, signal, and at times overwhelming. As. with the spear of Ithuriel he touched the seeming angle of light, and made it resume before the public gaze its native hideousness. He scattered to the winds the plausible pro-slavery fallacies and popular misapprehensions by which the minds of men had been seduced. The effect of his anti-slavery preach judiced against the North, went home to pray for her against South. His public labors have been most invaluable both to America and England.
But Sella Martin had an important private as well as public mission; with the elite of the aristocracy as well as with the masses; in drawing rooms and saloons, as well as in the crowded hall with the bone and sinew of the nation, its democracy. These gatherings were unsought by him. He was invited to parties at the mansions of such eminent personages as the Earl of Gainsborough, Sir Stephen Lushington, Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Lady Buxton, the Hon. Arthur Kinnaird, M.P., Samuel Gurney, M. P., Mr. Beran, the banker, and others, where opportunities were afforded him to remove from the minds of his auditories a mass of prejudice, to transfer sympathy from the wrong to the right side, and to quicken apathy for the slave into zeal side, and to quicken apathy for the slave into zeal in his behalf. No one can estimate the value of such services but those who have mixed much in English society during the last three years. The depth of pro-slavery degradation of classes here was in proportion to their ascent in the social scale; and the depth of ignorance of American affairs according to the height of education, in the conventional sense of that vague word. No doubt the prejudice against the United States was, in a great degree, the result of political bias, which no statement of the truth could remove. For example: Mrs. Stowe was especially feted by Lord Shaftesbury, who avowed himself a strong anti-slavery man; but as soon as the Southern rebellion began, he dwindled into a wretched copperhead. The prospect of the blow which democracy would receive by the destruction of the United States aroused history hopes, and utterly swamped his philanthropy and his Christianity. That his error did not arise from any want of knowledge is evidenced by his refusal to meet Sella Martin at
<c02>
one of those fashionable gatherings. The indifference of well-intentioned people of small intellect, and still smaller knowledge of American history, has been the greatest difficulty which the abolitionists here have had to contend with. The existence of slavery in the South is a fact so patent that its friends could not get over it, with all their unscrupulous mendacity; and their fertility in lying is one of the greatest marvels which the war has developed. With true Machiavellian policy, they endeavored to get over the fixed fact by the plea of the equal complicity of the North in the sin, and there is no doubt that they have thereby succeeded in destroying a large amount of sympathy which would otherwise have been given to the North. To the question, "How can you support a slave republic?” the reply was, "North and South are arcades ambo—blackguards both. Let the South get her independence if she can." For this mission amongst our upper classes, Sella Martin was eminently qualified constitutionally. His happy combination of the suaviter in modo with the fortiter in replaced him on a footing of individual equality, if not of conventional standing, with his hosts and their distinguished guests. These peculiar qualifications was a matter of the greatest importance in the position in which we were placed. One great failing of men who rise from the humbler classes is an affectation of contempt for the amenities of life. Their notion seems to be—once a rough, always a rough. There is, indeed, great confusion in men's minds concerning the constituent elements of a man and a gentleman. With some, the beau ideal of the former is a mere two-legged brute; with others, the notion of the latter is a soulless courtier, who is prepared to play Polonius to anybody's Hamlet. With some, the man is the very antithesis of the gentleman, and with others, the gentleman extinguishes every particle of the man. Sella Martin was preeminently the man and the gentleman. I fear that sometimes colored men in this country have been invited to parties simply as fashionable playthings, without any respect for the great principle of humanity of which they were the representatives; as a singular animal, who, being a fine specimen of his genus, was to be lionized and patronized, without any recognition of his dignity as a human being. It was, however, impossible to treat Sella Martin in this snobbish way. With him there was no coarseness of manner to be endured in consideration of the morbid amusement to be derived from him. He was fortified against such treatment both by nature, and by his self-education. His auditors saw at a glance that he realized Moore's description of native worth—
"Not bred in courts, though formed in courts to shine,
A diamond polished ere it leaves the mine." 
His anti-slavery victories were won by the might of his gentleness, as much as by the power of his eloquence, the cogency of his arguments, and the invincible array of his facts. It is no disparagement to any colored man to say, that coming amongst us as Sella Martin did, with such rare endowments, and at such a critical period, he has rendered more valuable service to the anti-slavery cause, and to that of the Union, with which he was always careful to associate it, than any other man who has visited Great Britain. This opinion, I am satisfied, will be endorsed by one who has, perhaps, even a better opportunity of forming a judgment upon the subject than I have-Mr. George Thompson. 
Another valuable end which Sella Martin's visit to England has subserved, has been a vindication of the right of his right to a position of perfect equality with the rest of the progeny of Adam. The pro-slavery men, with their characteristic impudence, have revived the oft-exploded theory of African inferiority. Every tallow-faced Copperhead you converse with, although perhaps himself intellectually but the lowest link connecting man with the brute, prated with the dogmatism of a Southerner about the incapacity of colored people for self-government; but the slanderers were compelled to stand abashed in the presence of such persons as Sella Martin and William and Ellen Craft.
As Mr. Martin is gifted with extraordinary pulpit as well as platform talent, a small religious community assembling at Bramley-by-Bow, one of the Eastern suburbs of the Metropolis, invited him to become the pastor of their newly-formed church; an offer which; he accepted. The district has a remarkable history. Naturally it was one of the wildest and most uninviting localities about London, the suburbs of which generally may vie for beauty with those of any city in the kingdom. Its spiritual condition was as destitute as its natural. The state of the Laodicean church was to be envied in comparison with it. The cure of souls, as it is legally phrased, in many of these districts is in the hands of a lethargic incumbent, whose notion of duty is comprised in the Sunday reading of the liturgy and a homily, and marryings and christenings as a part of the ecclesiastical trading and profit on other days of the week. With many of our clergy, the notion of the relationship subsisting between them and their "people," as they presumptuously call the whole of the inhabitants to whatever denomination belonging, is that of the Popish author who described the energy as "the mountain," and the city as the "beast that cannot travel it, lest they be consumed." Under such spiritual culture, the parish became like the ground of the sluggard of which Watts said—
"I passed by his garden, and saw the wild briar,
The thorn and the thistle grew higher and higher."
On this spot, on account of its commercial and manufacturing eligibilities, Mr. Harper Twelvetrees erected his chemical works, employing some hundreds of hands, almost every one of whom represents a family. He has founded what may fairly be regarded as a new colony, in which he has shown how powerfully one man of energetic character can influence for good those by whom he is surrounded. In a short time, he succeeded in reclaiming a large portion of this barren waste, and converting it morally and religiously, if not physically, into a garden. In this good work he has been assisted by a body of gentlemen in his employ, who are animated by a similar spirit to his own, prominent amongst whom is one with whose name, if not his person, you are familiar, Mr. Joseph A. Horner, for many years the Honorary Secretary of the Leeds Young Men’s Anti-Slavery Society. Mr. Twelvetrees was not content to minister to the material prosperity of those who may, almost in a patriarchal sense of the phrase be called "his people,” by finding them constant remunerative employment, but he labored. assiduously for their intellectual, moral and spiritual elevation. His first step was to establish a literary institution, in connection with which he built a lecture hall, which was opened with great eclat some years back by the sheriffs of London, and some of the most eminent men in the kingdom. As he held that the proper position of science is as the hand maid of religion, he opened the hall as a place of worship on the Sunday. A congregation chiefly composed of working people was collected, from whom a church was formed upon the most unsectarian basis, and of whom Sella Martin was unanimously chosen-pastor. In that capacity he has labored for some fifteen months, with such success that it was found necessary to build a new and much larger place, to accommodate the multitudes who desired to attend his ministry; the hall, which held about five hundred, being wholly inadequate for the accommodation of the crowds who sought to gain admission every Sunday. Unhappily, he is now compelled to resign his interesting charge, and to leave others to reap what he has sown. The separations of ministers and flocks frequently occur from very different reasons from those which are publicly assigned, and sometimes from causes of a sinister nature, such as a higher stipend offered in another quarter, which men who secretly regard the ministry only a as means of living cannot be expected to resist the temptation of—at other times they proceed from alienated feeling between minister and congregation—from autocratical rule on his part, or an anarchical tendency on theirs; or, which is not unfrequently the case, from the overbearing domination of that imperio churches, deacondom.
<c03>
Sella Martin’s resignation proceeds from none of these causes. He has a congregation devotedly attached to him, who give him (for them) the liberal salary of £200 ($1000) a year—a thriving and rapidly increasing church, the office-bearers of which are his best and truest friends. His sole motive for leaving is the state of his health, the benefit of which, you will remember, was one reason for his return to England. For this purpose, Bromley was certainly not well chosen. It is a low-lying district, adjoining the Plaistow marshes, which extend about ten miles. It is surrounded by works in which sanitary considerations are sacrificed to -manufacturing necessity. It is not, therefore, surprising that he failed in this part of his mission. Reciprocating the love of his people with all the intensity of his nature, he struggled as long as possible against the unhealthy atmosphere by which he was surrounded; but in vain. His resignation has plunged both pastor and people into profound sorrow. He has resolved upon a twelve months' rest from ministerial labor. This sacrifice his congregation would have willingly made, rather than part with one for whom they have so much esteem and affection; but there was a further consideration which weighed powerfully on his mind. He feels strongly that, in the present crisis, his proper sphere of duty is his native land, amongst his struggling and suffering people emerging from slavery. Having mixed with them in bondage, he knows their habits of thought; their constitutional failings as well as their inherent virtues; and he desires to endeavor to repress the one, and to develop the other. The experience he has had in passing through the fire in his own refining process will qualify him to guide them onward and upward, no doubt, better than any white man could possibly be expected to do. Strongly as I feel the importance of the presence in England of such men as he, to assist in preventing us from being dragged into an unnatural war by the bloody-minded and deceitful men in the legislature and high places of our country, who, though noble by conventional position, are really mean, ignoble, and a disgrace to humanity; yet I must admit the cogency of the reasons Mr. Martin assigns for the step he has taken. Whilst parting from him with the most sincere regret, we shall thank him heartily for the past, and bid him God-speed in the future. W. FARMER.
London, (England,) March 18, 1864.

A COLORED FEMALE LECTURER.
MISS DEBOIS'S LECTURE. A novel and instructive entertainment was given to a large and very respectable audience on last Monday evening in Citizens' Hall, where a colored lady, Miss Oneda DeBois, born a slave in Alabama, delivered an admirable lecture, mainly devoted to her early experiences in the house of bondage, and the manners and customs of her adopted country, the Island of Hayti, West Indies. Her laudable object in lecturing is to acquire the means for establishing a school for girls in Gonaives, Hayti, and to disabuse the public mind of some of the prevailing prejudices that the African race is incapable of any high degree of cultivation. Certainly her own lady-like demeanor, and the proofs of high mental culture afforded by her lecture, are the very best, and indeed to every candid mind an almost irresistible evidence that the poor, despised and downtrodden people to whom she belongs are susceptible of great elevation. Her able vindication of this people, her proud disdain of the contumely so heaped upon them, her defence of their soldierly qualities, and a well-deserved panegyric pronounced by her upon the famous Haytien revolution, were exceedingly touching, and even eloquent. Altogether, we were much pleased with her, notwithstanding her address was not entirely free from blemishes, and heartily commend her to those to whom she may yet come, as a modest young woman endowed with fine natural powers successfully cultivated. Her lectures, judging from what we have heard, can only subserve the cause of truth, justice, and genuine progress.—The Moravian, Bethlehem, Pa.
A FREEDWOMAN'S ADDRESS. The Centre Church lecture-room was comfortably filled, last evening, with an intelligent audience, who listened with marked attention to the entertaining orator, Oneda DeBois, a French zambo, formerly a slave in Southern Alabama. She is an eloquent speaker, well read in history, and her command of language is remarkable. Her theme was the elevation of her race. She gave some graphic accounts of negro heroism, and showed that the blacks could govern themselves if they had the opportunity. She concluded her address with a quotation from Wendell Phillips's celebrated speech on Touissaint L’Ouverture, which was received with demonstrations of applause.—Hartford Post.
LECTURE. On Monday evening last, we were permitted to enjoy a very interesting and instructive lecture, delivered by Miss Oneda DeBois of Hayti, W. I. The meeting was held in the lecture room of the Presbyterian church, which, notwithstanding the inclement weather, was crowded with interested hearers. Miss DeBois is a lady of color; she was born a slave in Alabama—escaped from bondage—reached Ohio, and was admitted into Oberlin College, where she received a thorough education. Her object in travelling is to raise funds to aid in sustaining a school under her charge in Hayti.
We hope she may succeed in her laudable enterprise.—Allentown (Pa.) Register.
A SLAVE WOMAN. Oneda E. DeBois, a colored woman, who was born a slave in Southern Alabama, and escaped from the "sacred" institution, delivered a lecture in the Centre Church lecture room, last evening, before a large audience. In her hegira from servitude, she walked eleven hundred miles to reach the Ohio border. She is intelligent and quick-witted, and would shame many a Southern planter before a crowd of intellectual people, in the discussion of any subject. The fact is, these "chattels," when you give them an opportunity, have rights which are bound to be respected, notwithstanding the Etonian idea that they are “bloodthirsty," and will make a luncheon of white folks when their appetites crave substantial food.—Hartford Courant.
We have had the pleasure of an interview with Miss DeBois, and find her to be highly intelligent and of pleasing address. Our readers will, no doubt, have their curiosity awakened on leaning that she will give a public lecture in Zion Church, (Rev. Mr. Butler’s,) Anderson Street, on Friday (this) evening; and another in Rev. Mr. Grimes's church, Southac Street, on Monday evening next. If due notice be given, she will have crowded audiences.
Miss DeBois intends making a lecturing tour in Maine shortly, and will carry with her those testimonials which will be sure to interest the friends of the colored race to facilitate her getting a hearing.—[Ed. Lib.
A BEAUTIFUL PICTURE. H. W. Horton, photographer, 5 Summer Street, Boston, has admirably executed photographic copies of an original and very beautiful drawing of the goddess "LIBERTY," with the broken fetters suspended from her shoulders. Price of large size, $1.00; small size, 25 cents. The latter should find a place in every album; the former makes a fine appearance framed. The times demand a good reception of “LIBERTY” in every quarter. N. B. No copper head is expected to patronize her.
The proceedings of the Worcester (South) Anti-Slavery Society, held at Worcester on the 27th ult., will appear next week.
Our people were favored, last Saturday evening, with a rare entertainment from Mrs. Louise De Mortie, a talented lady, who gave some fine "Readings" from some of our best writers, Whittier and others, at the Free Church. Mrs. De Mortie has just enough of the blood of the despised negro to be perceptible, and yet good judges would; pronounce her a very interesting, accomplished and highly cultivated lady; whose charms of person, as well as of mind and manners, are far above mediocrity. She is a native of the “sunny South," though never a slave. She affords an example of the practical workings of "Miscegenation," concerning which our Copperhead friends a have been so much exercised, of late, as French, German, Scotch and African blood are in her veins commingled. We believe, however, there is none of the Copperhead variety, so that the doctrine has not a full illustration.—Peterboro' corr. of Hamilton Co., N. Y., Democrat.
Perley Vallandigham, a nephew of the great Ohio martyr, is married to and lives with a negro woman in Muscatine, Iowa, according to the Journal of that place. His brother, living on the opposite side of the river, is also married to a negress.
<c04>
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION. 
The First Draft—Mr. Blair's and Mr. Seward’s Objections to it—the Last Sentence Supplied by Mr. Chase.
A recent allusion in the Independent to the fact that Mr. Secretary Chase's pen supplied the concluding sentence of the Emancipation Proclamation has been received with a surprise indicating a less general knowledge on the subject than might have been expected. When the final draft of the Proclamation was presented by the President to the Cabinet, it closed with a paragraph stating that the slaves, if liberated, would be received into the armed service of the United States. Mr. Chase objected to the appearance of a document of such momentous importance without one word beyond the dry phrases necessary to convey its meaning, and finally proposed that there be added to the President's draft the following sentence:—
"And upon this act, sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution, I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God."
Mr. Lincoln adopted the sentence as Mr. Chase “wrote it, only interlining after the word “Constitution,” the words "upon military necessity," and in that form the Proclamation went to the world, and history. The President originally resolved upon the policy of issuing this Proclamation in the summer of 1862. As he has expressed it himself, everything was going wrong; we seemed to have put forth about our utmost effort; and he really did not know what more to do, unless he did this. Accordingly, he prepared the preliminary proclamation, nearly in the form in which it subsequently appeared, called the Cabinet together, and read it to them.
Mr. Montgomery Blair was startled. "If you issue that Proclamation, Mr. President," he exclaimed, "you will lose every one of the fall elections.”
Mr. Seward, on the other hand, said: "I approve of it, Mr. President, just as it stands. I approve of it in principle, and I approve the policy of issuing it. I only object to the time. Send it out now, on the heels of our late disasters, and it will be construed as the convulsive struggle of a drowning man. To give it proper weight, you should reserve it all till after some victory." 
The President assented to Mr. Seward's view, and it was withheld till the fall, when it was issued almost precisely as originally prepared. The one to which Mr. Chase applied the concluding sentence was the final Proclamation issued on the subsequent 1st of January.
BRUTAL REBEL OUTRAGE.
The rebels become more and more fiendish in their treatment of Union prisoners, and seem to take delight in murdering them in cold blood. We have some fresh instances to record.
On the 2d of March, B. Arthur, L Bouris, and John K. Morris, residents of Clermont county, members of the 5th Ohio Cavalry, went outside of the Federal pickets near Huntsville, Alabama, to visit some friends. They were pounced upon by guerillas in the evening, who immediately threw the young men into a well, and covered them up with several feet of earth. After two days' absence, a force went in search of the missing soldiers, and found the well partially filled with fresh earth. They dug down, found the bodies, and learned the facts of the murder from a neighbor. The ruffians robbed the young men of $135 before brutally burying them alive!
At a recent skirmish near Sparta, Tennessee, a portion of the 5th Tennessee Cavalry were attacked by overwhelming numbers by the rebels under Ferguson. Seven of the 5th cavalry were killed, and fourteen taken prisoners. The Nashville Union states on the authority of Lieut. Carter, that the fiendish Ferguson took the prisoners to a place about two miles from the battle-round, and there ordered them all murdered, and his orders were executed to the letter! The Union calls for retaliation for these villanous outrages at once.
Two members of the 13th Pennsylvania Cavalry were inhumanly murdered by a band of guerillas a short time ago. A party of the 13th, at Gen. Crawford's headquarters, were out on a scout, when several fell into the hands of the enemy. It was decided by the inhuman wretches that two of the prisoners should suffer death. The doomed men were chosen by lot, and their throats cut from ear to ear. The murderers even compelled the other prisoners to hold their Comrades while the knife was applied! Three of the assassins have been taken, and sent to the headquarters bf the army.
MORE OF THE CHIVALRY. From Florida, dates are to the 22d from Jacksonville. The rebels have made a raid upon Magnolia, and burned two large hotels, which were soon to have been taken by our side for hospitals. Two negroes who had run away from their owners more than a year since were finally caught, brought to Pilatka, and, without trial of any kind, elevated by the necks to a branch of a tree—an admiring crowd of chivalry looking on while they were choking to death. One of the black, nigger, slave, chattel rascals did not die soon enough to please the delicate ladies who had come forth to see the black fool, who loved freedom, kick and squirm; so some of the chivalry took the pertinacious rogue down, had a pit dug, put him in, buried him up to the neck, so that every one of the "born aristocracy" could see that there was a real, live "nigger" in the hole; and then finished the entertainment by scrunching his infernal wooly head with the butts of their muskets, scattering his brains (for, strange and foolish as the ways of God may seem, even "niggers" have brains,) all over the consecrated ground. Then the chivalrous owner wiped the brains off his musket with his lady-love's perfumed handkerchief, ordered his boss nigger to make out a bill against the county for the loss of a slave destroyed in case of absolute necessity, and the crowd departed, to drink eternal prosperity to the "patriarchal relation."—N. Y. Tribune.
NORTHERN CITIES TO BE BURNED. The malignant and fiendish spirit which animates the rebels is strikingly illustrated in a recent proposition of the Richmond Whig, which, confessing that the ordinary modes of civilized warfare are insufficient to accomplish the ruin of the North, advocates the burning of Northern cities by hired incendiaries. Here is the diabolical proposition:—
"We may not, it is true, be able to send a raiding party to dash into Philadelphia or New York to do the work; nor have we artillery that will carry Greek fire far enough to reach them—but we have that which will go further than horsemen can ride, and can penetrate what the mightiest artillery would make no impression on—we have money. A million of dollars would lay in ashes New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburg, Washington, and all their chief cities. If it should be thought unsafe to use them, there are daring men in Canada, of Morgan's and other commands, who have escaped from Yankee dungeons, and who would rejoice at an opportunity of doing something that would make all Yankeedom how! with anguish and consternation.
That what we are saying may be given a still more practical turn, we will add, that we know and have talked with a man—a well-known officer in the army, and every way competent and fit—who is ready and anxious to proceed to Canada at once on this business." 
The Whig further says, that if the rebel government declines to adopt the scheme, it "can as well be executed by private enterprise as by the direction or countenance of the authorities.”
THE BATTLE AT PADUCAH, KY.—Further Particulars. A correspondent of the Chicago Tribune writes from Springfield, III., on the 28th ult., as follows:—
"In the fort there were about 250 recruits for a United States colored regiment, a portion of the 16th Kentucky cavalry, without arms, and two companies of the 122d Illinois infantry, in all about five hundred men.
It was the negro regulars that fought so well. They handled the artillery with great skill, and their bravery is on the tongues of all loyal men. One of the regiments in the attack on the fort was the 3d Kentucky, Col. Thompson, who commanded a brigade. This regiment was raised in Paducah, three years ago, by, Col. Tilghman, afterward Brigadier General, and Col. Thompson, who was at the time Prosecuting Attorney for the Paducah circuit.
Col. Thompson was a man of great influence, and did more than any one else in recruiting the regiment from the chivalry. This was its first visit home. Before the attack was made, threats were freely made in the streets that they would capture the fort, and kill every nigger in it.
In the attack, this regiment was in the advance, and suffered the most. Colonel Thompson was literally torn in pieces by a shot from a siege gun handled by colored men. These colored men were native Kentuckians, and seven of them have offered up their lives for their country. Is there not a stern justice in the fact that many of these rebels paid the penalty of their treason at their own door-posts by the hands of the despised native Kentuckians of African descent?
To Hon. Lucien Anderson of that district, the credit is due of getting permission to raise a regiment of blacks, which was done against the opposition of the State authorities.
To Colonel Hicks, a noble War Democrat, and all the troops under his command, great credit is due to their obstinate and successful defence.
The gunboats fired 600 rounds; they had three wounded. The Captain of the Paw received a scratch from a minie ball on the right cheek, and a ball went through his pantaloons. The troops in the fort had 14 killed and 46 wounded. Forrest took about 40 convalescents in the hospital prisoners. The enemy had 800 killed and 1000 wounded. The latter were taken to Mayfield by rail; the former lie about the fort unburied. 
Mrs. Grimes and several other women were killed during the engagement.”
<c05>
GEORGE THOMPSON'S LECTURE. The handsome reception given to George Thompson, last evening, by the citizens of Lowell, most have been gratifying to him., as it was creditable to them. Every part of Huntington Hall was filled by the audience which had gathered, even in advance of the hour named for the opening of the meeting. Upon the platform were some twenty gentlemen, most of whom were residents here at the time of Mr. Thompson's first visit, twenty-nine years ago. Hon. John A. Knowles, one of this number, presided, and gracefully introduced Mr. Thompson, happily alluding to his services in behalf of humanity, and his cooperation with the philanthropists of England and America.
After the meeting at Huntington Hall, a large number of our citizens paid their respects to Mr. Thompson at the residence of Dr. J. C. Ayer, and a very pleasant interchange was enjoyed until about eleven o'clock, when a sumptuous and elegant repast was served, and the company, numbering perhaps fifty or sixty in all, separated, those who could be convened in that manner taking a horse car specially detailed for their accommodation.—Lowell Citizen of Mar. 25th.
PHILADELPHIA, April 4. George Thompson, the English Abolitionist, spoke to-night at the Academy of Music before a large audience. He was followed by Messrs. Keller, Brewster and others. Horace Binney, Jr. presided.
WASHINGTON, April 5. Mr. George Thompson arrived here this morning. He will attend the President's reception this evening.
JOHN PIERPONT. This venerable man, now nearly seventy-nine years of age, is said to be in very good health and in full mental vigor. In November, 1861, he began, and in March, 1864, he finished a Digest of the Decisions and Instructions of the Treasury Department to Collectors of Customs, contained in fifty-four folio volumes, which he has reduced to one. This task has been performed so admirably as to elicit a highly complimentary letter from Secretary Chase, in which he says:—
"I regard this labor of yours as a monument of talent and industry, and of inestimable value in conducting the correspondence of the department.
You will please accept the assurances of my high appreciation of the genius and learning which have placed your name among the most eminent of American authors, and also for your life-long, earnest and fearless advocacy of the cause of liberty and the claims of humanity.
It will be my pleasure to contribute to your well-being, and ever to recognize your claims to my highest consideration for all you have done and are now doing.
As a very inadequate manifestation of my appreciation of your services, I have this day promoted you to a third-class clerkship”.
GEN. LANE'S SPEECH AT NEW YORK. The New York papers contain a report of the speech of Gen. Lane, Senator from Kansas, given in that city before a Union Association.
The speaker said it was the right of Lincoln to have four years of peaceful reign, as he had four years on the rack. Our victory over the South is not complete until they are compelled to bow their proud heads beneath the yoke of Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) In Kansas the people say, when they see a man who is determined, "his eyes are sot." (Laughter.) So the eyes of the people are sot on Lincoln. He thought the South deserved the retribution of a second term of Lincoln—to compel the wretches to live under his administration.
He referred to the charge against Mr. Lincoln, that he did not issue the emancipation proclamation soon enough. Why, said Mr. Lane, we lost the elections of Ohio and Indiana, and came nigh losing the balance of power in Congress, because that proclamation was issued too soon—do you know that? The public sentiment of the North had to be agitated up to the point of preparation before that proclamation could be issued.
OUR COLORED SOLDIERS. The position in which the black men place themselves is at once a position of danger and heroism. They incur more in entering the army than do other men. They know how the fiendish cruelties of their former masters will be wreaked out upon them, if they are captured.
Now, bear in mind, no colored prisoners, taken with arms in their hands, have, been exchanged by the rebel authorities, and this notwithstanding the efforts of the Government to secure such a result.
How many white men, knowing what a fate awaited them, either of cruel torturing death, or long and weary imprisonment, would show even the same devotion to the cause of liberty, which is exhibited by these men. Already over 60,000 negro soldiers-are enlisted and organized under the flag of the Republic. These men, during the coming campaign, are to perform an important part in the work of crushing out this atrocious rebellion. Having thus done their work for freedom, who will deny them citizenship on this continent? Who will dare to say, Return back again to the degradation of the slave? Who will not rather say, Be a citizen and a man?
EFFECTS OF COPPERHEAD SYMPATHY WITH THE REBELLION. A Southern gentleman, writing over his own signature to the Baltimore American, says:—
"I have been a resident of the State of Mississippi for more than twenty years, was there at the breaking out of the rebellion, and till long after the fall of Vicksburg, and I know something about the pernicious influence of the speeches of the pretended peace party of the North on the rebels of the South. They have done more, by their clamor for peace to prolong this bloody struggle than any other single cause touching the war. And by their false pretensions of horror at the great slaughter of human life in this war, they have indirectly been the cause of the untimely death of tens of thousands of their fellow-citizens. If I have any prejudices in this matter, my early education and all my associations through life would predispose me to side with the South. But I see no redeeming features in this unholy rebellion.”
This is important testimony to the well-established fact, that, but for the treasonable sympathy of the Northern Copperheads with their "Southern friends," the rebels, the bloody struggle would long since have terminated in the complete overthrow of the rebellion, and the complete re-establishment of the supremacy of the Constitution and the Union over every inch of our nation's soil. The hope of a "divided North" has always been, and is still, the main prop of the rebellion.
THE MESSAGE TO PEACE MEN. The Richmond Dispatch sends greeting the following message to Northern peace men:—
"If, instead of devoting to death our civil and military officers, he (Mr. Lincoln) had proposed to make Jeff. Davis his successor, Lee Commander-in-Chief of the Yankee armies, and our domestic institutions recognized not only at home, but re-adopted in the free States, provided the South would once more enter the Yankee Union, there is not a man, woman or child in the Confederacy who would not spit upon the proposition. We desire no companionship upon any terms with a nation of robbers and murderers. The miscreants whose atrocities in this war have caused the whole civilized world to shudder, must keep henceforth their distance. They shall not be our masters, and we would not have them for our slaves”
SOME OF THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES. The Universe, a leading Catholic paper, published in Philadelphia, and hitherto decidedly "Democratic" and Anti-Administration, has been converted, and now goes for the abolition of slavery, as necessary to the peace of the Republic. It declares that "the national current in favor of abolition grows steadily stronger, and has become irresistible, and that it would be absurd to attempt to oppose it." It therefore gives to the Irish Democrats the sensible advice to "accept cheerfully what they are unable to undo." The Cincinnati Telegraph, Archbishop Purcell's organ, has long taken even stronger emancipation ground, and now urges the necessity of abolishing slavery throughout the United States.
TERRIBLE DISASTER. The great reservoir of the Sheffield water works, covering an area of nearly a hundred acres, suddenly burst its confines on the night of March 11th, and carried devastation and dismay over many miles in extent, sweeping away houses, mills, and machine shops, destroying fields and gardens, and sending hundreds of human beings to their long home. At a rough estimate, two hundred and fifty lives were lost, and over two million; of property destroyed by the fearful disaster, which competent engineering skill in the construction of the reservoir might have prevented.
Bishop Timon, of Buffalo, announces officially in his organ, the Western New York Catholic, that the "Fenian Brothers" cannot march in procession with Catholic Societies, nor take part in Catholic rites and holy sacrifices.
County conventions to elect delegates to a Union State Convention were held in Oregon on the 12th ult. As far as heard from the people sustain the policy of the Administration, and go for the renomination of President Lincoln.
ST. LOUS, March 27. The circulation of the New York Metropolitan Record has been suppressed in this Department by order of Gen Rosecrans.
HARTFORD, April 5. Buckingham will have 5600 majority in this State. Connecticut has voted overwhelmingly for sustaining the Government in efforts to put down the rebellion.
<c06>
UNION AND EMANCIPATION.—WILLIAM A. JACKSON, (late Jeff Davis's coachman,) will speak on the above subject at the following places in the State of Maine:
Calais, Saturday, April 9.
Eastport, Monday, April 11.
Lubee, Tuesday April 12.
Pembroke, Thursday April 14.
Millbridge, Saturday April 16.
Cherryfield, Sunday April 17.
Blue Hill, Tuesday April 19.
Castine, Wesdnesday April 20.
Rockland, Friday April 22.
Thomaston, Saturday, April 23.
West Thomaston, Sunday, April 24.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Marlborough, on Sunday evening next, 10th inst.: and in Portsmouth, N. H., on Sunday evening, the 17th at half-past 7 o'clock. Subject: The Mystery of the War.

MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost— $85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for then is (still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday .-Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before 'been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c,: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country,. have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 
WAREROOMS, 7 Mercer Street , New York
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26—6m
JAMES REDPATH, Boston, has now ready:
I. THE MORALS OF EPICTETUS. A Poetical Translation By Ellis Walker, M. A. 25c.
II. SPIRITUAL TORRENTS. By Madame Guyon. 50c.; cloth, 75c.
III. THE ROSE FAMILY: a FAIRY TALE. By L. M. Alcott Illustrated. 25c.
IV. BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE—"The Negro Napoleon," "The greatest military genius whom the New World has produced up to the present time," "a man whose career was more marvellous than any romance," With portrait, autograph and map. $1.25.
V. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips. $1.
VI. CROQUET. By Capt. Mayne Reid. 50c.
VII. BOOKS FOR THE CAMP FIRES. No. 1. On Picket Duty and Other Tales. By L. M. Alcott. No. 2. Clotelle: a Tale of the South. By a Kentuckian. (Five fine Illustrations.) No. 3. The Vendetta. By Balsac. No. 4. Gulliver's Travels. Voyage to Lilliput. (Illustrate.) No. 5. Victor Hugo's Battle of Waterloo. No. 6. Hospital Sketches. By L. M. Alcott. Each of these books contains at least 96 pages, well printed and neatly bound; each is complete in itself, and unabridged. Price, Ten cents each! They are the cheapest books of value published. "Just the books to read to the soldiers." "Equally adapted to home fires." 
Mailed on receipt of price by JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, Boston. 
Terms to the Trade, News Dealers and peddlers—For the 10c. books, $6.50 for 100;; $60 per 1000; for the others,. one-fourth discount from retail price for one dozen copies; one-third for 25 copies; 40 per cent., discount for 100 copies, nett, cash with order.
March 25.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM. 
Dec. 1. ly New York.
SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of "Woman's Labor," "Woman under the Law," &c. 16mo; paper, 35 cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR. BARTOL'S SERMON COMMEMORATION OF REV. T. STARR KING. 15 cents.
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER. A Rational Method of Teaching Reading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By, Rev. J. C. ZACHOS. 38 cents.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
BOSTON.
April 8—lw
THEODORE PARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY 
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
BOARDING.
MRS. R. A. SMITH would inform her friends and the public generally, that she has taken house No. 42, Grove Street, Boston; where Board, transient and permanents may be obtained on reasonable terms. A share of the public patronage is respectfully solicited.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
MR. EDITOR-The following lines were written for and spoken at an Exhibition of the Peter’s High School in Southboro’, recently. They are at your disposal.
D. S.WHITNEY.
FATHER ABRAHAM TO HIS BOYS.
I.
On! boys, on to victory!
The country by our fathers won,
The fairest land beneath the sun,
Is threatened by the vilest foe
That ever aimed a deadly blow:
Their treason’s causeless, rank and high;
Their only choice to flee or die.
II.
On! boys, on to victory!
'Tis not our country’s cause alone, 
But Freedom’s cause in every zone,
That nerves your arms to strike the blow
Which lays the haughty rebels low;
The old world tyrants wail and quake
At every gallant charge you make.
III.
On! boys, on to victory!
Ye are the chosen instrument
Ordained of Heaven, raised up and sent
To break the bondman’s heavy chain,
The equal rights of all maintain:-
Long has God’s justice been delayed, 
But now no longer can be stayed.
IV.
On! boys, on to victory!
The mother’s and the lover’s heart
May break-we know they’ll bear their part;
And sisters weep their holy tears-
All give their prayers, they have no fears;
While tender youth and feeble sires
Are all aglow with patriot fires.
V.
On! boys, on to victory! 
We’ll bear the pain, bow to the woe:-
March on! and vanquish every foe
That threatens our dear native land,
Till not a reb. or slave shall stand
Upon the soil our fathers trod-
Redeemed to Liberty and God!

TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION TO THE LATE REV. THOMAS STARR KING.
BY WILLIAM M. FERNALD.
Star of the West! thy rising and thy setting,
Like a fair planet in the evening sky-
How brief the space! but, ah! how non-forgetting-
The glory of that passing brilliancy!
Sweet soul of love! I’ve watched thy early dawning
E’en from thy childhood’s pilgrimage and play,
When first the glow and beauty of life’s morning
Gave promise of the glory of the day.
Fair day to us! a time of cheerful gladness,
Continual summer and a genial sky;
Oh, could some genius, without shade or sadness,
View but thy nature with thy practised eye!
What scenes of flowing and of radiant beauty,
Fair fields of verdure, silver rolling streams,
Mountains of grandeur, stern and grand as duty,
O’er which the sunlight of the spirit gleams;-
An inner world-a world of pure emotion,
With fruit and foliage, rich with golden store,
And broad expanse of sky and air and ocean,
With waves still breaking on that mystic shore!
Ah! ‘twas such nature, genial friend and brother,
That from thy spirit looked so truly out
In rapt responses to behold another,
To lift the soul, and banish every doubt.
But thou art risen!-gone to be transfigured
In that high world where angels hold their seat,
And where diviner scenes, to souls delivered,
Thy wondering vision shall in glory greet.
Farewell, farewell! But not as gone forever
E’en from the earth thou so delightedst in;
For nought can such an intimacy sever,
With the sweet soul of all things so akin.
And long as nature wears her wondrous beauty,
Long as the mountains tower in heights sublime,
Or, in the higher walks of Christian duty,
Great Heaven hath need of earnestness like thine;
While patriot Truth may wake a slumbering nation,
And gaunt Rebellion strike fair Freedom’s form,
So long thine influence, like a sweet oblation,
Shall blend with ours, and face the threatening storm.
Not gone from us! for, like the trembling wire 
That flashed afar the tidings of thy death, 
So thy quick spirit hath but to desire,
And thou art here-we feel thy quickening breath!
And thus, dear Starr, forever shall we cherish
Thyself, thy virtues, all thy kindling love;
Passed from our sight, but nevermore to perish,
Rising and shining in new light above.
-Boston Transcript.

THOMAS STARR KING.
BY. JOHN G. WHITTER
The great work laid upon his two-score years
Is done, and well done. If we drop our tears
Who loved him as few men were ever loved,
We mourn no blighted hope nor broken plan
With him whose life stands rounded and approved
In the full growth and stature of a man.
Mingle, O bells, along the Western slope,
With your deep toll a sound of faith and hope!
Wave cheerily still, O banner, half-way down,
From thousand-masted bay and steepled town!
Let the strong organ, with its loftiest swell,
Lift the proud sorrow of the land, and tell
That the brave sower saw his ripened grain.
O East and West, O morn and sunset twain,
No more forever has he lived in vain,
Who, priest of Freedom, made you one, and told
Your bridal service from his lips of gold!
-N. Y. Independent.

OWEN LOVEJOY.
BY GEORGE W. BUNGAY.
LOVEJOY is dead: he could afford
To die, as few men can;
He honored and obeyed the Lord
By doing good to man-
His magic sword
Flashed like the lightning in the van.
The bleeding slave in chains was dumb,-
He bravely spoke for him;
With faith he saw God’s kingdom come,
Through the vast distance dim-
The battle’s hum
Is music set to Freedom’s hymn.
His record now is history,
Writ in a troublous time;
The champion of liberty
Is crowned with deeds sublime;
And golden rhyme 
Will hail him hero of the free.
His noble task was nobly done,
And he has gone to rest
Where windows of the setting sun
Swing open for the blest,
As, one by one,
The angels smile upon their guest.
With the slain brother, by whose side
He knelt in tears and prayer,
When the infuriate mob defied
God, the great witness there,
He will abide,
Unharmed by foes, unvexed by care.
New York, March 29, 1864. -Ibid.
<c02>
The Liberator.
ABSTRACT OF A DISCOURSE,
DELIVERED BY REV. DAVID A. WASSON,
Before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston, Sunday, March 27, 1864.
THE RELATION OF THEODORE PARKER TO HUME, VOLTAIRE, AND THE SCEPTICS OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.
Many critics of Theodore Parker have honestly thought him a rejector of Christianity. This, however, is a very great mistake. The new and old schools of Christian Theology teach very different ideas, and this difference must continue and increase. But the new school is a school of belief, not of unbelief. It has no sympathy with Voltaire and the French deists.
To deny, no doubt, is part of the work of this new school. But there are two kinds of denying and destroying. One is pathological, the other physiological. One destroys for the sake of destroying; the other is one of the processes of growth, as the chick destroys the egg.
The new school of belief affirms something larger and more generous than any former age. It affirms more than it denies. It destroys only by vital advance, and under the necessities of that advance.
With the Voltaire men it was otherwise. They denied for the sake of denying. They fought, it is true, against injurious and deadly errors, but cared not to put better things in their place. There is a great difference between sewerage and agriculture, between amputation and exercise. The new school of the 18th century was negative, moved chiefly by moral disgust; the new school of the 19th century is affirmative, moved by a great creative faith.
Theodore Parker was one of the most energetic religious believers that modern times have known. He was a religious Hercules, bent upon cleansing the Augean stables of his time. He cried to an oppressive generation to do justly, to love mercy, to help the needy instead of hindering them, to cease from binding heavy hardens, material and spiritual, upon the shoulders of the weak. Stalwart, sinewy, believing, he went down into the contest of the world, and fought as a foot-soldier the great battle of religious principle.
Heroic, herculean believer, he could not take his belief from without, but always from within. He was moral, practical, in an exalted sense utilitarian, but also thoroughly saturated with religious belief.
With Hume, Voltaire and their associates, the case was different. Though morally as well as intellectually superior to the average churchmen of their time, they were still only half-men. They lacked the spiritual, the religious element. The misery of that period was, that men could believe in the doctrines popularly called Christianity only with their eyes shut. With their eyes open, men possessing intelligence, but destitute of a strong religious impulse, could only scoff. The piety of that time was not merely blind, it chose not to see. It was blind of will, not of necessity.
Every great theological system includes many errors. These do comparatively little harm as long as they are unperceived; but the tragedy begins later, when the form of the system has superseded the spirit, and it is held merely as a form, with some consciousness of its defects and errors. It is a sad sight, pious persistence in the endeavor to pump water out of a dry well!
The church of the 18th century was not sincerely religious. The church of the 19th century is not very unlike it.
A member of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, travelling in Germany, found, to his surprise, that the leaders of the party called "Evangelical" all favored absolutism, taking the side of the despotic government against the people. On asking them the reason, he was told-All the infidels and rationalists are in favor of popular rights; by opposing them alike in religion and politics, we gain the favor and assistance of the Government.
When a historical form of religion is sedulously kept up in spite of the fact that its spirit is dead or dying, it necessarily becomes offensive to thinking men. But to disregard the spirit of religion on account of the perversion of its forms is a fault of the gravest character.
Hume’s History has certain great merits, but I cannot agree with the general commendation which Mr. Emerson bestows upon it. The soul of history is left out of it. Hume missed of being a great man. He failed to recognize the believing heart of humanity. He could not understand it, so he laughed at it. He confounded Puritanism with Hebraism. He confounded the thing with its limitations and excrescences. He confounded Christianity with the limitations of Paul. He shut his eyes to the divine spontaneity of the human spirit. The Orthodoxy of the present time does the same thing. Its cultivators pull up weeds, but plant no corn. Nay, they call corn itself a weed.
Hume and Voltaire believed in a God. But this admitted Great First Cause was to them no near, living, warming reality, but a mere logical necessity.
Next, they ignored religion as a great living power in human society, and thought it only superstition.
Thirdly, all notion of inspiration was foreign to their thought.
In all these things Theodore Parker was not only different from them, but opposite to them.
1. He believed and taught that God, the universal Father and Friend, is present and active everywhere, in matter, mind and soul.
2. He believed and taught that religion is one of the highest and noblest working forces. In the confident assurance that the religious sentiment is a part of man’s nature, he is farther from Voltaire and Hume than the popular ecclesiasticism is.
3. Instead of discarding the Biblical idea that Heaven has a voice upon earth, Theodore Parker constantly maintained this as one of the greatest and most practical truths. He taught not only that God is, but that he works and speaks now, just as much as in any former age of the world. An idle and dumb God is not divine, and therefore is no God. Many of the old religionists held this great idea, but held it modified by the ignorance of their age. Not only they lacked innumerable special knowledges which we now possess, but they knew not that idea of Law which is now revolutionizing all our thoughts and modes of action. In their theology, the fact of God’s communication with man received a limited and intensely dogmatical form, which put the idea of revelation outside the idea of law.
Inspiration is perpetual, but the existing recognition of its form in any particular age is likely to be imperfect, and therefore temporary. The old religionists reverenced both alike, and tried to perpetuate the form with the substance. Against this state of things two classes of opposers arose. Historical criticism attacked the forms devised by the popular theology, and materialism attacked the substance of religion. The advocates of the old system accuse and oppose both these alike, and thus betray to the dispassionate observer their own defects and limitations. However revivalism now flourishes, its seeming triumph conceals the approach of a terrible defeat. It is lowering its own standard, cultivating constantly more of the form and less of the substance. Outward conformity is the main thing demanded by its advocates.
When the Biblical idea (the idea that God now and evermore offers to all men as constant and direct communication as he ever gave to saints and prophets of old) is exiled from the kingdom of the universe as we know it, from natural order and law, these three things happen:-religious thinkers necessarily criticise and dissent, men of strong heads but little faith tend towards materialism, and churchmen, opposing both, cultivate form more and more. The necessary progress of thought brings defeat alike to two parties; Paley and the churchmen, Voltaire and the material-
<c03>
ists. The religious philosopher must say-Poor believers, poor disbelievers!
The Deists have great faults, and Theodore Parker did much in the work of exposing and refuting those faults; but there are worse and more dangerous men than they. Was there ever a government more practically atheistic than that which ruled in this country before the present war?
The Bible is not the source of religion, but religion is the source of the Bible. The natural and the supernatural are not mutually exclusive, but mutually inclusive. The Biblical idea in religion corresponds with the Copernican idea in astronomy. It presents the relations between God and man as holding an orderly, normal, permanent and beneficent course.
Theodore Parker constantly affirms revelation, and denies only the limitations put upon it by the obsolete forms taught in a darker age; and the fact is, as he asserted, that Inspiration is implied in the great believing spontaneities of the soul of man.-C. K. W.

THE SABBATICAL QUESTION.
"THE OLD AND NEW COVENANT. The Jewish and Christian Sabbath."
This little tract of twenty-four pages contains a controversial correspondence between Deacon C. S. Whitmore more and Mr. Timothy Davis, both of Framingham, on the teaching of Scripture in regard to Sabbatical observance. The farmer seems to have the advantage of the deacon, alike in good temper, in acquaintance with the language and meaning of the separate passages of Scripture concerned, in correct appreciation of the difference between the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures, and between Judaism and Christianity, and, lastly, in the ability and disposition to make a candid summary of the matters in question.
The Baptist deacon takes for granted that the Sabbatical precepts given to the Jews in the book of Exodus are binding upon Christians as well as Jews. Whereupon the farmer makes these appropriate queries and comments:-
"Do you keep the seventh day as the Lord commanded the children of Israel to keep it? do you abide in your place, and not go out of your place on the seventh day? do you "kindle no fire throughout your habitation upon the seventh day"? Ex. 35:3. The consecration of the first day of the week for a literal Sabbath day is baseless as the fabric of a vision; it is without a shadow of foundation in the old or new covenant. It stands on the same foundation that infant sprinkling does, and the refraining from eating meat on Friday."
Most members of the churches called "evangelical" continue to make these two enormous blunders. First, the blunder of supposing Christians to be bound at all by the fourth commandment of the Hebrew decalogue; next, the still greater blunder of thinking that a precept which requires of Jews nothing but abstinence from labor on Saturday, the seventh day of the week, at the same moment and by the same words requires of Christians the celebration of public worship on Sunday, the first day of the week. The orthodox clergy dishonestly confirm them in these delusions; and they seem to have little chance of escape from, them except by conversation with some person out of the church, not bound by the traditions of its elders, and not pledged to maintain its falsehoods against all truth from other sources.-C. K. W.

THE TURKISH OR ROMAN BATH.
FRIEND GARRISON,-Allow me a word in your paper, with reference to the new and much esteemed practice of the Turkish or Roman bath. Having experienced its restorative influence on my own system, I believe it a duty to make known to others so simple and yet so effective a process in the treatment of disease. For all "the ills that flesh is heir to," I believe this will take precedence in its operation on the human system. The process is no more artificial than the disease. At any rate, the object attained is perfectly in accordance with Nature's own method in "opening the pores," and enabling them to perform the office for which they were designed. The importance of this object is readily perceived from the fact that the whole outward surface of the body is one complete breathing apparatus, analogous to that of the lungs; and the exhaling process, if not so obvious in its effects to sustain life, yet when suspended, will tend not only to the derangement of the internal system, but ultimately to destroy the organization on which the vital energies depend. No less than seven millions of those little agencies have been formed as the outlets of all the effete matter that is taken from the blood, and pressing its way through the epidermis. Perspiration is the only bath that thoroughly cleanses the system, and prepares it, in return, to receive by inhalation or absorption the vital agencies of air and water, to reoxygenate the blood in the capillaries before it returns to the veins. "The loosened epidermis starts from every part of the body beneath your hand," and thus the imprisoned pores resume their action. This agreeable mode of perspiration can be resorted to without racking the whole system, as practised by drugs.
Much has been said with regard to the "balm of a thousand flowers," whether literal or figurative in their uses. I think the same would prove true with reference to the Turkish bath. Certain it is, that thereby the sallow are rendered fair by this chemical process in the combined influence of air and water, and the whole body relieved from those impurities to give place to the life-giving energies of health, and consequent glow and freshness to the original design of the "face divine." Moreover, the Turkish or Roman bath, in its nationality, may be considered among the "lost arts," preserved only by the Turks and Pagans; but in its application it is worthy of a "fair trial."
The Hygeinic Institution of this city, under the supervision of CHARLES ESTERBROOK, M. D., including the Turkish Baths, may be found at No. 353 Shawmut Avenue, (No. 6, Waverly Terrace,) Boston.
PRO BONO PUBLICO.

THE NON-RESISTANCE QUESTION.
MR. GARRISON-In an article headed "Non-Resistance," in the Liberator of March 11th, A. BROOKE, of Ohio, says:
"I love and venerate the character of the Divinely Inspired Teacher of Christian Non Resistance. I reverence, and, in my intercourse with my fellows, endeavor to live faithfully by the principle itself."
With a high appreciation of the love and faithfulness of my worthy and noble-hearted brother, and with all due respect to his heroic devotion to principle, I would say, I, too, love and venerate the character of the Divinely Inspired Teacher. I reverence the principles he advocated; not only the principle of Non-Resistance, but also the principle of Resistance as well. What! Did the Divinely Inspired Teacher teach the doctrine of Non-Resistance and the doctrine of Resistance too? Most certainly he did. He taught not only the love of enemies and the forgiveness of all trespasses, but also the fulfilling of the law to the letter, and to the fullest extent "I came not," he said, "to destroy the law, but to fulfill." Again-"Not one jot or tittle of the law shall fail till all be fulfilled." What then? Are both right? Certainly. How? They belong, in their application, to different planes in the development or unfoldment of man.
I will illustrate. The children of Israel could never have been brought out of Egypt, through the Red Sea and wilderness, by the principles of Non. Resistance. There was work to be done-obstacles to be overcome-enemies to be put down-principles to be established-the educating of the people, &c., which could not be consummated without a government of force, or penal government. But when this work shall have been accomplished, all obstacles removed, all enemies put down, the people trained up to the higher plane-then sheath the sword. Then, indeed, shall the principles of Non-Resistance be proclaimed and applied, and the joyful anthem rise, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace."
<c04>
Having premised thus much, I proceed to give my view of the source from which men derive the right to form a penal government, and the conditions and limitations of that right, in view of the admitted fact "that all men are created equal," and possessed of certain inalienable rights.
The necessity for penal government is found in the fact, that men on the lower plane will not respect these rights. The Non-Resistant may proclaim them to the end of life, and from generation to generation; but what care they for that proclamation, while it is not enforced? It is only by its enforcement that these rights can be secured. But that can be accomplished only by penal or force government. Hence the necessity of such a government in the elevation of man from the lower to the higher plane.
All men being created equal, and possessed of certain inalienable rights, it follows that the true republic is composed of individual members; and, consequently, the conditions and limitations of the right to form such a government are, equal and exact justice to all, with the security, protection and defence of the rights of every individual member by the government. If one member suffers, the whole body suffers with it. The infringement of the rights of any one individual is, to that extent, a war on the Republic, to be repelled, if need be, by the force of the whole body; for the principle is the same, whether the act be committed against one member, or any number of members-whether it be committed by one individual, or any number of individuals.
Yours, respectfully, WM. S. FLANDERS.
Cornville, (Maine,) March 16, 1864.

QUERIES ABOUT THE AMNESTY.
MR. EDITOR,-I am not one of those who can see far into the future, or even comprehend much of the present, in regard to national affairs. But I have a few queries to propound, which perplex me not a little, and which I wish you or some of your correspondents to answer.
First. If the President’s Proclamation of Amnesty is carried out, and one, two, three, or all the rebel States should avail themselves of it-or, in other words, one-tenth of all the legal voters-what is to become of " three-fifths of all other persons"? Is this one-tenth to send twenty-five or thirty representatives to Washington, extra, on account of "all other persons," to join the Copperheads, and undo all that has been done in favor of humanity and justice to all? And if the other nine-tenths should take it into their heads, by and by, that they are the majority, and nullify all that the one-tenth had done, and, with the aid of the Copperheads, restore "the Union as it was," what is the remedy? And if the Republicans, then in the minority, should demur, and the former throw "State Rights" into the scale,-which the latter concede in everything except the right to "secede"-even to reenslave whom they will, is there any remedy short of another civil war? And if so, what is it?
What is to become of these three or four millions of Proclamation-Freemen, with the power and conceded right (for the proclamation makes no reserve) of these satanic rebels to strip every one of them as naked as he was born?
Will these enemies of all righteousness, embittered as they are against the North,-as perhaps no other people ever were against another,-be very likely to show any pity for the black man when free, or any respect for the white man who has conquered them, when again restored to power?
I await your reply, Mr. Editor, or that some of your correspondents; and in case I find none, I shall, in a future number, attempt an answer myself.
Springfield, Vt. JESSE STEDMAN.

THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE.
Let him be nominated directly by THE PEOPLE. Why not? Let the Republicans of every ward and township throughout the United States assemble at the usual places for holding elections, and after appointing their judges and secretaries, proceed then and there to vote, or otherwise viva voce, for Presidential and also for Vice Presidential nominee. Why not? Will anybody, will any politicians, save and except those who "seek to misdirect the popular mind," undertake to say WHY NOT?
Of course, it will be the duty of the judges, in this Nominating Election, to decide in case of doubt, whether the vote offered smells of copper, or is good and genuine; and also to see that every man signs the following pledge before his vote is received:-
I hereby pledge my honor as a gentleman and a patriot, that I will vote for those candidates for President and Vice President of the United States, who shall receive a majority of votes as nominees for those offices at the hands of the people in this Nominating Election. Or if no candidate shall have a majority of all the votes cast, as nominee for either office, then that the highest on the list of candidates for the Presidency and Vice Presidency respectively, shall receive my votes for those offices.
If this proposed election is to be held, it ought to be before the people are committed to any candidate-consequently before the meeting of any delegated convention. It is evident, therefore, if the plan of a Nominating Election shall meet the approval of the Republican press, that no time should be lost in issuing a general call for such election, as soon as concert of action in the matter can be secured.
ONE OF THE VOTERS.

THE PRESIDENCY.
SOUTHBORO’, March 27, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-It is a long time since I offered any thing for the Liberator. Not that I have lost one jot of interest in the editor, the paper, or the cause; but simply from a feeling that your many and excellent friends were saying what need be said much better than I could say it. I have literally stood still, and beheld the salvation of God. How wonderfully glorious has been the onward march of truth, justice and liberty! The wrath of man has indeed been made to praise Him.
I want to say that I fully agree with yon in what you say of the next President of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, with all his faults, is the man for the place and hour. There are scores, perhaps hundreds of noble men in the country, who would fill with honor the high office. The country is richer in noble men than in any other material of greatness, rich as it is in everything. Yet who, among them all, has claims upon the confidence of the whole nation, the enfranchised and those born free, that will for a moment stand a comparison with his? I believe that he is the right man for the next four years; and I believe farther, that the people will take care that no harm or detriment shall come to the country by a change of men at this critical period of our national affairs.
Yours, for our struggling and bleeding country,
D. S. WHITNEY.
Extract of a letter from JAMAICA, dated March 4:
"The truly West India looking town of Montego Bay has recently been the scene of an extraordinary gathering of the peasantry within its vicinity, attracted thither by the commemoration of the landing fifty years back, of the great Missionary and Abolitionist, Knibb. The appearance of the masses carried conviction to the mind, that the black people of Jamaica are advancing with rapid strides to that position which will place them on a par in intellect and mental culture-class for class-with any nation in the world. There was nothing but the color of that great gathering of 10,000 persons which betrayed their slavish origin-that once they were only cared for as their muscular ability enabled them to sweat in the corn-field for their quondam taskmasters. There they were, assembled to do honor to that great religion, by which alone their freedom was secured. It is significant of the great moral restraint our humble religionists are under, that not a single police case has resulted from his mammoth and memorable demonstration."
<c05>
MR. PHILLIPS AND GEN. BANKS.
Very few people have taken the trouble to make themselves acquainted with the exact status of the Free Labor System in Louisiana. We are too apt to judge of it by the rules which apply to Port Royal, and to those portions of States on the Mississippi which have been captured from the enemy. In these latter places, the experiment which has for an end a self-supporting negro-community has free, full scope. There is no hindrance in the way. The land has been fought for and won; the slaves on it have been freed not only by the proclamation of the President, but by the tread of our victorious forces. There were no legal snarls in the work to be done. There were no lines to be carefully drawn, with a long row of war democrats,-negrophobes, who want the rebellion crushed by white men, and who are as sensitive about the black man as though they were their own poor relations,-drawn up on either side to hamper every philanthropic effort. It was all an open plan, and whatsoever generous-hearted men wanted to do for the slave, they could attempt, with the benediction of government.
Not so in Louisiana. All the blacks in those parts of the State over which our jurisdiction extended were legally slaves, their status not changed in the slighest degree by the Proclamation. Only one point of difference marked their position during the war as being other than it had been during the twenty years previous, viz.: the act of Congress forbidding the forcible return of a slave to his plantation. This was the only advance in the fortunes of the Louisiana slaves. Now it is easily seen that it was no easy matter to unravel this snarl in local political economy, and so to arrange matters that the Union men should not be losers. Add to this the fact that a vast number of men in the army, to whom all this machinery must be entrusted, were not equal to the issues of the hour, were not abolitionized as they have been since by the very pressure of events, and the task set the Commanding General was ungracious and unenviable. No General in the country has been in an equal predicament. It seemed impossible to act without either ignoring the Proclamation, or doing injustice to men who were believed to be in favor of the government.
Add to this the further fact that thousands, and even tens of thousands, of blacks were hangers on to the camps, or filling New Orleans with a pauper population, and the necessity for some labor system will be discovered. The inauguration must be immediate. The condition of the army, as well as the condition of the blacks, demanded it.
What wages? Here is where Northern critics use their satire, and hurl their rhetorical thunderbolts. Why not give the hands at least soldiers’ pay? Why not give them white men’s pay? Why offer them the miserable pittance of seven or eight dollars a month? It is a foul injustice, and he who does this, and yet pretends to stand on the republican platform, is a "hypocrite," and a man who is willing to "bend the pregnant hinges of the knee" to slave-owners, if by doing so he can make a bid for political preferment. Far be it from us to excuse any man, who by his public acts shows that he cannot grapple with the noble philanthropies which the day thrusts upon him. We will cry shame as loud as any against general or civilian who is unwilling to throw his influence into the scale for the negro. But at the same time we have great faith in Banks, and do not believe that any of these charges can be fairly brought against him.
There are two very cogent reasons, then, why the wages of the negro in the Gulf Department have been so low. First, the crops to be raised were not cotton, but sugar. Had the country been a cotton-growing region, a full crop might have been reckoned on, and in the autumn the sale of it would warrant a higher rate of wages. But the sugar crop would be very light, and in many instances it hardly paid, even at the low rate of wages above mentioned, to run the plantation. There was no seed cane saved from the old crop, for every planter feared that by another year his hands would all be taken from him, and so ground up every stalk of cane on his grounds. The crop of ’64 will, in the great majority of cases, come from one, two and three year old roots or ratoons: Louisiana, plantations will not raise this year more than from one-third to one-half their usual amount of sugar. Now it is preposterous to suppose that here, when the confusion of constant change exists, when the exigencies of the hour may at any moment sweep away every able-bodied man from every plantation between Baton Rouge and Fort Jackson, the rate of wages should be as high as they would be under other circumstances. At Port Royal, the most valuable cotton, the long staple, is raised; there are none of the drawbacks which exist and hamper the operation of the labor system everywhere else.
Secondly, it must not be forgotten that the hands, who are working these depleted sugar plantations, are mostly women, and second and third-rate men. We have seen a working force composed mostly of women and children. The brightest men, the stalwart, broad-chested negroes are, thank God, in blue pantaloons, rubbing their muskets bright for the coming fray.
Now we believe that Banks did as well as the circumstances allowed. He is not to be regarded as a radical abolitionist, and probably will always be too conservative to win the applause of the most ultra of the noble body of reformers in the North. He is by nature an anti-slavery man, standing on the republican platform as understood by the great majority of the party known by that great name; and though we could wish that a little more of the radical element could be infused through his nature, we yet believe that in his treatment of the vast question of negro labor, he has nobly grappled with all difficulties, and sought to do the fair thing by the black man.
This is amply proved by the last report of Col. Hanks, who is well known as an Ohio abolitionist, and who, as Lieut. Hanks, has had charge of several "colonies" of negroes at the Parapet for two years. He does not use any carefully drawn words to conceal defects-withal. He does not dodge the great point, but comes up plainly to the mark when he says, "The system of labor in this department is a decided success." We have great faith that this whole matter will be decided in the right way. Gen. Banks knows his duty to the negro, and is sagacious enough to read from the signs of the times the fact that he is to be the great man of America, who shall tell us how we may best strengthen our community and enlarge the already ample domain of constitutional liberty by receiving into our midst four millions of slaves, and teaching them to be freemen and citizens of a great republic. 
We have great admiration for Mr. Phillips. We believe him to be one of those gifted, noble men, who were made to lash the people by the whips and stings of his logic and rhetoric into that unrest which is always the prelude and accompaniment of reform. But we wish he could be persuaded to spend a few weeks at Norfolk, in Port Royal, and Louisiana, that he might see with his own eyes the practical working of this system. We cannot but feel that he would come back sorry to have used the word "hypocrite," and saying, "The work has been well, aye, nobly begun: let us all help to carry it on."-Boston Christian Register.

WENDELL PHILLIPS IN VERMONT.
This most popular orator has during the last week lectured in Middlebury, Burlington, and Montpelier; in each of the places to very large audiences. It was my privilege to hear him in Montpelier. It would be superfluous to speak of the grace of his manner, the music of his voice, his perfect diction, his matchless oratory. The universal voice has long accorded to him these possessions. And it is much to be able to assemble multitudes, awaken their interest, command their attention, and receive their applause. It is more to be unfaltering in duty, faithful to holiest convictions, the advocate of the oppressed and down-trodden, the lover and upholder of justice everywhere. Mr. Phillips is as truly the one as the other. 
With as profound a belief in the ultimate triumph of truth as any man can have, and as firm a conviction that slavery has received its death-blow, he yet sees so much danger from measures adopted, discussed and proposed, that his mission is still to speak words of warning. 
His subject was "Reconstruction," and he made his reasons very plain to the audience for desiring to post pone rather than hasten a reunion of the States. Mr. Phillips has been accused of too freely indulging in a spirit of censure and criticism, as though actuated by personal and selfish motives. But his whole history proves him to be too magnanimous for such a course. 
If he sees a man doing his duty to-day, no matter what censure he may have heaped upon him, and
<c06>
the abolitionists generally, heretofore, he gives him due credit, maintaining a generous silence of bygones; while, on the other hand, he does not fail to warn against him whose course he sees to be dangerous, though his previous professions were as radically anti-slavery as his own. He thinks we cannot afford to love or hate, when the indulgence of these passions may affect the welfare of the nation. His judgment may not be infallible, his motives are pure.
But the terrible, bloody conflict through which we are passing is fast demonstrating to all, that slavery is no less a monster than has been represented by the abolitionists for the last thirty years, and their words of warning and predictions of disaster are now felt to have been uttered with clear and far-seeing vision. They occupy a "tower of observance," to which their love of justice and moral courage have elevated them, and they can look above policy and expediency, and see in the future an end more desirable than self-promotion. Happily, we have many men not formerly identified with Abolitionists who have attained this high position. It cannot be unprofitable in these perilous times to look at our condition in all its bearings. There is and must be trouble enough, if all that is possible to a pure patriotism is averted. To act wisely, we must understand fully. We have but to look to the doings of our present Congress to realize that prejudice is not yet extinct, and that equal justice cannot be meted out irrespective of color. Can we afford to have the influence of Sumner, Wilson and the many other good and true, further counteracted at present by half converted Southern Representatives? There are enough to present the hopeful side; let Wendell Phillips continue to criticise and warn; we need him, and multitudes more, as fearless and just. A. H.
-Aurora of the Valley.

THE CRUSADE AGAINST COLOR.
The public are already familiar with the disastrous upshot of the President’s attempt to colonize colored Americans in a foreign isle. Reduced by pestilence and famine; the colonists return, after a year of untold suffering, one-eighth fewer than they went out. Viewed from the side of sympathy with these unhappy victims, the experiment deserves to be denounced in unsparing terms for all the evil it has caused-the fond anticipations blighted, the scanty fortunes consumed, the modes of industry unsettled, the useful lives destroyed. An outlay by the Government of thirty thousand dollars accomplishes the decimation of an humble band of adventurers, and impoverishes their original destitution! Nor has this resulted from mismanagement alone, but from violation of the engagements made by the authorities with the deluded emigrants. If here is not food for righteous indignation, then seldom is there. Upon whom should it fall? Upon the action, so far as it consented to the trial of expatriating our fellow-countrymen; upon the Executive chiefly, who conceived the idea, and who took the lead in urging its execution.
We subscribe to the general opinion that the colonization of Avache is the beginning and the end of the effort to rid ourselves of the colored population in our land. Slow as Mr. Lincoln is in comprehending the logic of events, we fancy that he has at last learned a lesson from the failure of his cherished undertaking, and that he will never renew the folly with which his name stands linked to-day. At any rate, the nation will make no further appropriation of means to indulge a prejudice which was born in Kentucky, and fostered in Illinois, and which is at once irrational, undemocratic, unchristian, and inhuman. For, after all, the consolation we derive from the hapless fate of the Haytian colonists is, that henceforth we are to compose ourselves in the conviction that God has made our country for the home of the human race, without regard to derivation; and that, in casting the horoscope of the Republic, we can as little omit ourselves as the negro. He is to dwell with us, no by prescription but by right. If he leaves us, it is of his own free choice, dictated by personal considerations. While he tarries, and constitutes a part of the people, he will be subject to the laws, which, sooner or later, he must have a share in framing. He will work with them that labor; his thought will contribute to the general intelligence; as a citizen he will obey; and as a ruler he will govern. The liberty which we mean to establish, and whose other name is competition, will provide for the development of that perfectibility which belongs to the negro as a man, but which is denied to the brute creation.
These truths are unpalatable now, but the time of their realization is not far distant. We have naturalized the African against his will, through bloody torment and oppression; and God, in a broad sense, has attached him to the soil, from which we cannot drive him. In the reign of slavery it was said, and the lie still echoes about us, The two races cannot live side by side on conditions of equality. To-day, we must reconcile our minds to the contrary; and the problem simply is, how to make the best terms with the future. We may continue to deny the black man justice, to refuse him the protection of the ballot, to leave him, as between slavery and freedom, like one stranded from shipwreck at the base of a precipice; and all because he is black. This is only to postpone the inevitable. On the other hand, it is easy to calculate how much we gain by such a course. The plainest deduction from our national experience is, that the wrong which we inflict upon others is retorted more heavily upon ourselves, and that the master’s fate is worse than the slave’s. From the line of impartial justice and equal rights we have been taught, to our cost, not to deviate. What we have taken from the negro has been so much, and more, subtracted from ourselves-not added: such is the divine mathematics. We cease to be free when we cease to make free, and the measure of our self-enslavement is the measure of the negro’s repression in our civil and political society.
Prejudice against color is slavery’s last legacy to our afflicted country, and the most baneful. Not the meek forgiveness of the long suffering race; not their devotion to the cause of the Union; not their fiery valor at Port Hudson or Wagner; not their simple piety and trust in God amid the greatest of social convulsions; not their gratitude for deliverance from bondage; not their prayers for our success when our hearts contemplate no acknowledgement of their humanity; not these nor all their virtues melt or shame us into justice, make us forget their swarthy integuments, and cover them with the broad shield of the Declaration and the Constitution. We cast away our experience as if it were dross; presently we shall forget the warning which the corpse of colonization conveys at the present hour. Or shall we, rather, give it solemn heed, counting it cheap at the price of a few lives and a little money, so we resolve to banish the thought of complexion in determining the rights of man?-N. Y. Independent.

WHO ARE ABOLITIONISTS?
The St. Paul Press quotes from our article of last week, in which we claimed that the Garrison and Phillips school of abolitionists were the original, the moral power, and only efficient abolition party; while the Republicans were a party of recent date, and who, until the war, were explicitly pledged to maintain slavery in the States where it existed. This is true; and we will add, that in their Chicago platform they bound themselves merely to prohibit its extension into new territory. There was no abolition principle in this, nor was it ever pretended there was. The Press knows this, of course; but, for political effect, or some other foolish purpose, the editor of that paper says:-
"The Republican party is, in fact, the only abolition party, in the positive sense of the word, as an active and operative agency. The disciples of Garrison, on the other hand, are not, or at least were not, abolitionists-but anti-slavery men; their attitude towards slavery having been the wholly negative one of passive protest and disapprobation; while that of the Republican party was one of active, aggressive, militant, organized opposition."
The Press is good at hifalutin and obfuscation-not to say falsification. But we will not quarrel with it. We are glad, of course, if the men of the North have at last got the spirit of abolition whipped in to them so thoroughly that they will whip slavery out of the land. But let them be modest and truthful as to the facts of history. Let no party claim laurels that do not belong to them, nor deny that the Government has been a slaveholding and a compromising one, which every man should be heartily ashamed of and sorry for, and fully determined that it shall never be so again.-Anoka Star.
The returns from all the towns in New Hampshire gave Gillman 37,055 votes, Harrington, 31,315.
